ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-07-0.u8208	The Honorable Chairman, MPs and MPs, after being announced in Official Messenger No. 17/21 published in 26.2.2021, the High Council of the Court of Justice, held on 3.6.2021 for the President of the Court of Appeal in Kragujevac, has proposed former acting Judge Alexander Blanuš, as President of the Higher Court in Panchev, former acting as President of the Court of Justice Milic Gavrančić and as President of the Chamber of Commerce in Belgrade, formerly acting as the official of the office of Jovan Jovanovic. The High Judicial Council has made an insight into the work programmes of all three candidates, their personal and working biographies, conducted talks with candidates, made an insight into the results of the evaluation of the work of the judges and the opinion of the candidates and found that all three candidates were assessed with the evaluations "most notably to stand out". The work programmes are assessed with an estimate of five (5). The impression on the interview was five (5). We suggest that you choose candidates for the presidents of the courts, because the impression that they have left both their personal and working biographies that have been attached to you, which therefore I will not read to you, points out to the High Council of the judiciary that they will safely and responsibly perform their functions and that they will make sure that the programmes they have proposed are realized. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-07-0.u8209	Thank you. Does the word want a report from the committee responsible? The word is Gjorge Dabic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-07-0.u8210	I thank you, Chairman. Dear People's MPs, ladies and gentlemen, the honourable members of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, the Justice Committee, the State Administration and local self-government have accepted the report and we will support both points on the agenda in the day of voting. Soon, the National Assembly will no longer decide on the choice of judges in the first term. We have defined this by the constitutional reforms that were ahead of us and that have received the support of the National Assembly, so we expect that we will soon come to this concrete solution to see exactly what it means and what exactly will be the constitutional amendments that will definitely be in front of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Citizens will be entitled to a referendum to give their position finally on whether constitutional reforms are as proposed by the government of the Republic of Serbia. I am sure we will get great support from the citizens of Serbia because we have managed their interests. Six public hearings, when it comes to constitutional reforms, were organised by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law. Absolutely all sectors that are most important here at the moment are respected. We have found, therefore, that there is a need to change the Constitution in the case of the judiciary. So far, the situation has been that the provisions on justice are, as they say, scattered throughout the Constitution, now it will be systematicized in one place. We will certainly try to give these reforms, or amendments, even greater independence to our judges. So, as far as the Government of the Republic of Serbia has defined the strategy for the development of our judiciary by 2025, i.e. from 2020 to 2025, and here we have defined the need to change the Constitution, and the Venice Commission has given its positive position on everything that we have talked to them about. I think we need to make sure that when we bring this legal framework to the citizens who are predicting changes to the Constitution that we clearly determine the role of parliament in the way members of the High Council of the judiciary are elected. I am sure that, although we will no longer directly choose the judge here, we will have to find one mechanism that in an indirect way, parliament has its own role, which is defined by the Constitution, simply, and which is by all European standards. So in every European state, parliament plays a very large role in the choice of judges and judicial bodies. There is a danger if we let the judges choose themselves completely to create a judiciary in Serbia and to create a problem that we will never be able to correct again. Of course we must make sure that, although Parliament is simply an expression of the political will of Serbian citizens, we must therefore create a framework that will lead to judges still having to lay the right to the people who chose them. Simply, they judge on behalf of the people and of course the people must have certain mechanisms through their elected representatives to influence the control of all these decisions. We have to say that we can't let someone on the side be asked here, and we know ourselves that certain judges who judge Serbia, before going to work, first go to the foreign embassy, and then go to work. We can't let that happen, and I'm sure those amendments too, which will be before us, will define the way we're going to control these phenomena. If in France where the president of the state sets up judges, it is not political pressure, if in Germany where judges are elected from the order of trustees, in which representatives of political parties sit, it is not a pressure on the judiciary. In America where the Senate plays a role in the choice of judges or in Switzerland, where directly political parties propose judges, don't force us to be more Catholics than the Pope and that we are doing some solutions here that are absolutely out of place in the world today. We don't have to go that far. We have a chance to see, I must point out, that it went through Northern Macedonia when she left the public prosecutor's office completely into the hands of strangers. Then they promised it would be one prosecution, we remember in 2015, when it was formed, which would completely eradicate corruption in Macedonia, so what did we experience? You have seen exactly how the biggest source of corruption has been concentrated in this Public Prosecutor's Office and I am just saying, by various international factors that have thus managed through this prosecution to, in the end, change power in Macedonia. We're not afraid of any investigations, of course. Today, Serbia's judiciary is doing absolutely free will. You see, today it's normal for the president of the state to lose his case in court. We are proud to have brought about such conditions in Serbia. So there is absolutely no talk of any control, nor of our desire to control the judiciary, but we must not simply allow ourselves to be controlled by someone else by our judiciary, our judges, because it is obvious that the state is at a difficult moment and that we still have to bear in mind all these circumstances do not allow us to completely leave one branch of power to ourselves. So, I am sure that the constitutional reforms that are ahead of us will all be well served, that the government of the Republic of Serbia will come up with one real solution that will, above all, be in the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-07-0.u8211	I would like to thank the Committee's representative. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Jahja Fehratović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-07-0.u8212	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Members of the People, the honourable representatives of the motion, the judiciary is one of the pillars of the state. The quality of the courts, judges, depends on the quality of the total rights of all citizens of the Serbian state. That's why it's very important to watch who we choose for the bearers of such responsible functions. Judges must have, in addition to having an unfettered knowledge of the legal provisions and something called conscience, something called honesty and something that represents a character that is undeniable and that should be special in society in every sense. Of course, these are the criteria to which we have been guided, as we have heard from the proposing representatives, and this body, when it has proposed to the Judges responsible for the motion in the MPs of the Justice and Reconciliation Party, will support these proposals. However, we must look to the judiciary at the moment we live, because unfortunately, we are living the consequences of some bad solutions from previous periods, where all these criteria that I mentioned were not respected until the end, and in this regard we have situations where unfortunately because of certain parts of the judiciary and the prosecution are encouraged crime, particularly organised crime, and when it is freely active, especially in those areas where the attention of the state authorities in this regard is slightly different from the attention given in the centre of the state, i.e. the capital. Here, first of all, I'm talking about the area where I come from, about New Market and the surrounding places, because we've elaborated here a lot of times, we've talked about the traffic between certain parts of the judiciary, the prosecution and organised crime. Unfortunately, what has been done in quality by members of the internal affairs is offended by certain agreements between certain corrupt prosecutors and judges with organised crime, and later encourages the perpetrators and multiple returnees to commit crime to continue to work with their lives by jeopardizing the lives of their fellow citizens, to deal with various crimes and, of course, no one from the judiciary, from the prosecution, has ever been responsible for this coup, which is devastating and sends a terrible message to everyone, that simply whoever has his judge, whoever has his prosecutor, can behave as he wills and he is above the law. He is not judged by anything he does in his criminal life and by one who respects the law, who strives to direct his life according to the principles of morality, according to the principles of law and constitution, etc. at the end of the payday. For the reason that we have spoken very much here, we have also received very often messages and confirmations from people who have survived such a kind of event with certain prosecutors, judges and me is a phone, as well as all our other MPs, full of such examples where there is concrete evidence of the prevention of certain members of the prosecution, certain judges with certain people from the criminal mileage. To prove it, I'm only going to mention here one example from 2018, when multiple returnees in committing crimes came across a face that was in a car with five children. After a brief traffic debate, they hit him with a knife and inflicted a life-threatening injury on him so that the public prosecutor would characterise it after the first... The assassinations in an attempt, later in connection with the people of the criminal mile as violent behaviour, are brought here by a whole set of different participants in the process who are trying to prove it, so that, after a three-year trial of the surgeon, a child surgeon who has no need to be there for the reason that he is in neighbouring and friendly relations with those perpetrators of criminal acts, so that, after a three-year game of prosecutors, this act is transferred from the primary court to the senior court, including the appeal court in Kragujevac, which orders that the prosecutor return it to a higher court of appeals, and yet again he disobeys that provision of the Court of Appeal, so it returns it to the basic court that instead of several years these people would be sentenced to minor sentences of four or ten months in prison, and again the Court of Appeal of Kragujevac does not accept such a decision, and this process continues to continue. So this is just one example of the coup between the people involved in the crime of the holder of responsible functions in the judiciary and the prosecution, and that in this condemning process it was not taken into account that the people who committed the crime at that time were under probation. Citizens face these things on a daily basis, and it is high time for us to really choose these responsible functions for people with honor, who, besides knowing the legal frameworks, have the character and conscience that these roles assigned to them by this society, and as MPs, the representatives of citizens verify it, act in the spirit of what is meant by law, and not to seek different types of failures of legal solutions to facilitate these perpetrators of criminal acts simply to be less punished or not to be prosecuted at all and punished for what they have done. We are very important to the Court of Appeal in Kragujevac because it is responsible for many cases of this kind coming from the Sandzak region and as such has a role of mediator and is trying to balance everything that is badly done on various processes and on how these prosecutors have done, how these judges have done very often in connection with the holders of criminal actions in order to reduce the penalties for those acts that are legally guaranteed as multiple punishments and with prison sentences for several years of detention and imprisonment. So this sends terrible messages especially to young people, especially generations to come, but also to those who strive to direct their lives and their children's lives towards respecting the law, the legal provisions, towards respecting the judges and the judiciary as someone who is a serious participant in establishing the rule of law. And if we don't have enough prudence to place on these positions exclusively people who are impeccable biographies, who are impeccable moral credibility, this practice will continue, and the people of the criminal mileage will rule our societies. Of course, this is not always the case, and this is the case only for certain bodies and parts of the prosecution and the judiciary, is evidence of many major affairs that occur at the state level, for example, which have shown that no one is stronger than the state, that no one is stronger than the public order and peace authorities, and that the judiciary and the prosecution, when it comes to the right hands of judges with dignity with honor and integrity behaves their functions, knows that it is the decision that is in accordance with the law and that will lead such perpetrators to isolation from the rest of society for a very long period of time. This is what we need to relive in the entire country's space. This is what we need to live in every body of the state administration and that we could simply feel this security anywhere that, unfortunately, we cannot feel today in certain parts of this country. Why? Because these criminals feel protected from the prosecution and the judiciary, and then they act very arrogantly. Then they know that they stop a man who has five children in his car at that time, to inflict serious injuries on him, to try to kill him, and to pass with a fine of four to eight months in prison, even though they are multiple returnees in committing crimes and thus continue to live on and to bring fear into the bones of anyone who doesn't belong to this world and that kind of life. On the other hand, what we also often insist on as representatives of minority nations, and what we need this time and we want to underline, is that both the judiciary and the prosecution bodies must respect constitutional provisions on reciprocal employment by the percentage representation of members of national communities and minorities in these bodies, at all levels in the Republic of Serbia, and that the right to use official language and letters must be respected. We had cases, let's say, in some courts, we also talked about it, that judges are self-initiative, arrogantly refusing to respect the constitutional right of citizens to be guided in their native language, such as the case with the courts in Sjenica, where judges do not allow or try not to allow clients, or those who are in the process of using the right to their native language and thereby violate the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, thereby violating many other legal provisions, trying to make it known that they are the ones who took absolute power in their own hands and that they can do what they want, as they will and that they will never have to answer to any authority. Now, that is something that must be stopped, which must be cut down and it must be made clear that no one must be above the Constitution, no one must be above the legal provisions and that judges and prosecutors and they and all others who have entrusted these very responsible functions in this society must also be responsible in that they act solely in accordance with constitutional solutions, in accordance with the legal provisions and that, in the end, if they do not have to do so, they must bear certain consequences. These consequences, unfortunately, have not been so far, and that's why these prosecutors and those judges who are in contact with criminals are acting as they are, because they simply feel protected. So far, we have not had any serious cases that, although there is evidence of this and of the prosecutors, such functions have been resolved precisely because of this conflict with certain parts of crime or that he has suffered certain disciplinary or other measures. That's why they behave, and that's why today, in the eyes of an ordinary citizen, it's the prosecutor or judge who symbolizes the dark side of our society, and that superior power, because they've given themselves too much the right to be above the law, to be above the responsibility and to have this function, which this body has entrusted to them, actually act in such a way as to represent themselves to the absolute holders of that sovereignty that doesn't belong to them. It is very important that, in the future, we do not leave behind these consequences for other generations to come, but that we as a responsible community, as responsible people, face these facts and simply leave behind a much more favourable picture when it comes to the prosecution, when it comes to the judiciary, that those people we choose are an example of honor, dignity, honesty and security work, that we do not have to speak again for 10 years or that someone else points to us with the finger, saying that we have chosen these people to do these functions and that we are partly responsible and guilty of any of their crimes under the law, that is, for every abuse of constitutional and legal provisions. With that in mind, I'll finally say that we're also interested that if the representatives of these bodies don't have this information, I know that they have, we deliver, so, what these people who are directly damaged by the prosecutors are giving us, by the judges, to finally launch some really concrete moves that all these people who are in contact with criminals leave these basic functions and that the rule of law governs this area and that it is equal to everyone and anyone who enjoys such rights as the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-07-0.u8213	Thank you. Dear Members of the People, pursuant to Articles 27 and 87, pages 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that today we will be working after 1800 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to bring the acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. We're expecting a vote around 6:00 p.m. The word has been authorised by Parliament's representative Sanja Jefic Brankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-07-0.u8214	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Vice-President of the High Council of the judiciary with co-worker, co-worker and fellow Members, today I will deal exclusively with the topic of the agenda, because I think that this is the only way we can now develop a debate that is constructive and which is meaningful, and thus gives appropriate answers to questions. The High Judiciary Council delivered a proposal for a decision on the election of the President of the Court of Appeal in Kragujevac, the High Court in Panchev and the Court of Commerce in Belgrade. So today we are considering a decision to elect the president of courts of different rank and jurisdiction, but they all have one common goal, which is that in the best possible way, in accordance with their knowledge and experience, they show one impartiality, innovation and creativity, so that the courts in whose direction they will be truly and well functioning. The role of courts and judges by citizens is very often perceived in a simple way, in the simplest possible sense. This means that the judge manages the trial, the oral and the public debate, in the presence of parties, witnesses, pronouns, and after the debate makes a certain decision on a matter. The verdict is the crown of every court case, but it is not the only job that judges are doing daily, and especially not the presidents of courts who, in front of them, have a really large number of obligations in their day of work, but also the responsibilities that lie ahead of them. When they enter into office of each judge, they shall first assign certain cases in which they will act, i.e. the legal area in which they will act, as well as the type of judicial work they will deal with, to a certain number of cases, in such a way as to achieve, as far as possible, a level playing field among judges. In addition, during one year, it is not a rare case, especially in small courts, that one judge should be in charge of a particular type of case, and that in the course of the year these cases are extended to, say, litigious, criminal and many other areas, which additionally burdens every judge, if we ignore the fact that there are also cases that are already engaged and its speciality. In addition, judges are on duty or are very often on alert and in the days when the courts do not work, and individual judges have additional responsibilities relating to coordination, delivery to the office, archive, training and control of the work of the judicial assistants, contact with the public, etc. So it's about a wide range of affairs that the judge and the presidents of the courts are dealing with, and in that sense, I think it's important that we understand what they're doing, to understand the results of their work, that is, the absence of the same. Regardless of all these parameters, judges have one main and primary objective in their actions, which is that they have one legal and ethical obligation to act with the same diligence in all those cases they are assigned and for which they are in charge. It is one, let me say, responsibility more that stands in every judge's job description. What is the connection between the stories of my previous, or introductory exposure to what we're talking about today? I would start with the professional public, I can say, for the last decade very often warning of the unequal burden of the courts in Serbia, although this unequal burden of the courts is not only a problem in Belgrade courts. We must not ignore the fact that courts in Belgrade resolve between 60% and 70% of all cases in the Serbian judiciary. You will agree with me that this is not something we must boast, especially if we consider that one judge, a litigator, has about 600 cases in the case, say at the First Basic Court in Belgrade, and even more than 1,600 in the Third Basic Court in Belgrade. So, only mentioned two Belgrade basic courts solve over 36% of the cases of all basic courts in Serbia, and there are 66. It is indisputable that judges cannot influence the number of lawsuits the citizens will file, or parties. However, the judge is always responsible for what he does, not for what was not possible. If we set things up like that, it will make it more clear to us why it is important not only to be quantum, but the quality of the judgment decisions is actually the essence of their work. Like all other citizens, and we also often neglect judges and court presidents also have the right to have an eight-hour working day, on Sunday, daily vacation, sick leave, and they take their children to kindergarten, to school, to cook lunch, to take care of their old parents, to have their hobbies. So, very often we view judges and presidents of courts as someone who decides exclusively and only on human fates, neglecting that they have their own private lives and that they should understand the way they function. The work of a judge doesn't stop even when the day of work is over, but just as no one expects a doctor to examine and operate as quickly as possible, we shouldn't expect judges and judges to solve cases at high speed, while neglecting the quality of decision-making. For this reason, in contrast to the said right of each party, the obligation of the state to regulate its judicial system so that every citizen can have equal access to the court and the right to a fair trial within a reasonable period of time, and yet this means that judges in each court, in each city, should have approximately equal working conditions, which in this case is not a practice in Serbia. Starting with a desire to establish mechanisms for monitoring the situation in the judiciary by the civil sector, the initial report on the monitoring of the situation in the judiciary for 2020 and the general state of affairs was drawn up. Analyzing this report, it is satisfactory. An estimate of one to five was given a rating of three, namely three in large areas of the area covered by this report, and that is really not a bad thing. The activities, monitoring, data analysis in this report were carried out under the project "The Open Door of Justice", which was supported by the US Development Assistance Agency. Finally, I will especially point out that it is necessary for judges to contribute to the preservation of reputation and dignity, and all through the promotion of the work of courts. I get the impression that every time I present myself to the judges, I insist that the judges must be who will take care of the preservation of the reputation and dignity of the institutions in which they work. The court's work is public, but very often courts are seen as an institution that is closed to the public. On the one hand, we are witnessing the fact that public figures often comment on cases in public information that have not yet received their epilogue in court, and on the other hand, the judges expect that they will actually point out their opinion on the case in an explanation of a decision that is not enough to fully explain this case to the general public. I think the question should be asked – would a more open view of the judiciary really contribute to greater trust and respect for the judges? I think you would. Improving transparency is not a foreign topic I'm talking about today. For this reason, as far as I know, the Communication Strategy for the period 2018-2022 was adopted. So she's still in effect. I think its application will really bring about better communication with citizens, but also understanding the same for all the problems that judges and judges face. As long as they judge by the quality of their personality, by their conduct outside the court, with respect, by treating citizens, by the parties and by personal example, they gain authority and respect, so long as the institution they represent truly has their integrity. You'll agree with me, in the end, that the judges are not the image of the courts, but they are his mirror. The Social Democratic Party of Serbia will support your proposals for the election of the president of these courts, given that they will indeed make all their efforts and efforts to improve the reputation, integrity and trust of the institution whose presidents they will be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-07-0.u8215	Thank you. The word has the mandated representative of the SPS parliamentary group, Tom Fila.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-07-0.u8216	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and fellow MPs, we have three elections on the agenda for the president and the departure of President of the Criminal Court in Zrenjanin for retirement. I think on behalf of the entire assembly we wish her happy retirement days, because she deserved to get it. I think we should end up dealing with a future pensioner. As for the three presidents, I'm glad he won't be in V.D. anymore. status, because this status bothers me and many in the country of Serbia, even Europe is in the way. They've been holding these V.D. statuses for too long. The only solution would be to bring some regulation in this sense that one who is a certain time in status v.d. that his time is being counted in these four years which he will be president, plus four more years, which he can do. I see there's two of them since January and they've been presidents for half a year. Plus four, which means they can be V.D. after that. And so it's playing the rules. Instead of being two times four years, he's ten years old. That's why I think it should be included in the mandate. I think it's a good thing that all of us, when we talk about the presidents of the courts, remind ourselves of exactly what is in the law, what are the obligations of the President of the Court under Article 52. Court-order law, which is the duty of the President of the Court. Therefore, the President of the Court provides for the legality, work, order and accuracy of the court, requires the removal of irregularities and prevents delays in work, I mention this, and because of a large number of cases, determines defenders by their official duty in the alphabetical order of the list of lawyers delivered by the Bar of Lawyers, takes care of maintaining the independence of judges and the reputation of the court and performs other tasks by law and rules of procedure which are less important. As you can see, it doesn't appear anywhere that the president can influence the independence of the judge in the trial, in making decisions, and that we have often witnessed that individual judges have been changed because they have tried in one way or another. That can't be done anymore, because it's ruining the court's reputation. Now something that will be interesting, because of my personal attitude. It is very important to know that the Assembly is the place where the law is passed, and the court is the place where they are interpreted. That's the rule we've been studying on, law school, and we've been doing it for years. That's how it was and that's how it's supposed to stay. We pass the law, the courts interpret it. It's a legal state. It is then not interfering with the judicial authority, which is why we have implemented constitutional changes, because it is the beginning and will be completed during the term of office of this Assembly. The objective of this change, to guarantee the independence of the judiciary from the executive authority and somewhat and from the legislative one, although I remain on the grounds that judges should be elected here, for the first time, not after. I hope this is the last time we choose a president. This Assembly has the right to give authentic interpretations. So that's not the right thing to do, I don't mean to limit it, or end it. But when does he have the right to do that? The congregation has the right to authentic interpretations, the law that this congregation has passed. That's my opinion, and I'm not saying it's an SPS position, it's a personal opinion of Tom File. In my opinion, the laws that have been passed in SFRY cannot, and which have been passed under a certain procedure, where the Greater People were, etc., how can we interpret the will of those who passed the law 20 and a few years ago? I'm talking about the Law of Bond Relations. But the right of the Assembly to have an authentic opinion, it stands and in my opinion should be very rarely used, because otherwise we will be in a position for judges to judge by the Constitution, the law and the authentic opinion of the Assembly. Can't authentic opinions change the law and be a source of law. He rarely has to. One time, a colleague, Martinovic, proposed an authentic interpretation. We accepted it. I voted for him because it was good. This other one wasn't good. We can pretend we're not aware of what's been going on for the last three days. I've been reading the lawyer's spit for three days. Of all those who could say something, from Chad, etc. I want to tell you something, that we need to consider the problem that has arisen with the Committee on Constitutional Affairs whose member I am. I'm proud that we're being led by a colleague from Nis, Jelena, but those suggestions that were made, six suggestions, I don't think that's good, so I sided with the bar and we did what we did. Three days is debated through the media and in all ways about it. I'm not saying I'm right, especially I don't intend to be a minority partner with a salty mind here. So I don't think anyone spoke for the banking lobby. That would be unworthy of any of us. The opinion was and was given in an attempt to resolve the issue of conflict between citizens and bankers. This is one attempt that wasn't good, but it's an honest attempt, and I'm sure of it. It wasn't even an IMF order, as some said we had to do because the IMF ordered us to. That's not true either. But the question arises – what is the right path? I think he needs to talk about this seriously, because the conflict between banks and citizens, thousands of lawsuits have been brought. That's impossible. One of the best attempts is for the authority to return to the place of the person who filed the suit, so that Belgrade is relieved of the amount of these lawsuits that cannot be handled. It's one of the proposals that's good for me. We must seriously argue and find a solution to this issue, so we are in the congregation. Is this some kind of Lex special, if we're going to propose and initiate negotiations between citizens and banks, but we need to talk about it. It's not an insult to a lawyer that's the way to go. I saw two articles in politics today. They both spit on lawyers, threaten Chad, I don't know these, they're all my friends, by the way. I can't accept that because it's simply a public service lawyer and part of a judiciary. I can't even accept that a lawyer with the judiciary is negotiating a kind of verdict. That's not true either. I want to tell you something. Walter said -- if he wasn't a writer, he'd be a lawyer, because it's the most beautiful profession in the world. I'm a Walterian in that regard. He also said that human rights end with the top of their noses, and from there they start another man's rights. Lawyership was never flowers, nor will it ever be. Look at what the people think of the fiscals, the lawyers. I was happy to see in the West that it was the same opinion about lawyers. But I don't think they are, there are a dozen lawyers here, not even one of them. We have a weed. The weed must be resolved by the Bar Association to clean up those lawyers who abuse the situation in which they are citizens, so they write 12 lawsuits instead of one. We need to find a solution to that. In the chamber to be punished and here to legally disable it, but how do I not know? If I knew, I'd say, but I don't know. They may need the MUP to deal with this issue, because it's abuse of rights. Like if you were to claim that a lawyer with the judiciary is negotiating a kind of verdict, it's a felony. These people have to go to jail, both of them. The lawyer never made it, and I was the president of the chamber, and we never got clean. At the time of communism, we had an attack on pensioners and state security officers who were caught in beating people, arresting illegal, etc., and then passed a law in that communist assembly, in this same building, to recognize them as a judicial exam and let's all go to the bar. We didn't always get college personnel. I'm proud, about 70 interns were at my office and my office. I have no intention of using it for 20 minutes, it's too much. So I suggest that the institutions of the system have to address this issue of abuse of a lawyer. But it's not a solution to the relationship between a citizen and a bank, because I'm going to charge you with a lawyer that she's guilty, that the lawyers didn't strike because of the citizens, but because of themselves. Well, the lawyers didn't suggest these interpretations, so they'd be responsible. I can understand that it's a big problem and it's a huge problem, a much bigger problem than we're discussing the retirement of a judge for a crime in Zrenjanin, because, in my opinion, in the future I guess the law will make it up, that we're saying it at all. But let's not let the barrage be a place to do business, that when no one has anything, then they'll get rid of a rock that was scratched by a pig. Well, we can't be stone lawyers, so everybody's got a scratch on us, which is why I'm not giving it up. But I repeat, there are bad people among us, there are wicked people, there are them everywhere, but it's not the solution by accusing us of everything, the whole lawyerry. I don't feel dishonest, I don't feel bad because I'm a lawyer, I'm proud of doing my job for half a century, and I've never had a problem with anyone in my life, I don't need protection, I don't need security, I don't have anything else, I've read in the paper that I'm a thief or I'm a fraud, and I've defended, you know who I've been defending everything. Therefore, a lawyer can't be a means of subscribing, because it's obvious that the conflict is citizens and banks and let's find us together, because many are smarter, I'm old, there's a lot of young brains that will come up with a way and a solution. Not shooting the papers, not insulting the lawyer. There's an interest. Well, the notaries took half of the lawyer's income, especially small lawyers in smaller places. But we didn't object, that's all. It's just that that's how civilization is, and that's how it has to be. I repeat, we must once sit down and find a solution to the citizen-bank, not to the lawyerry, not to the court, not to the judiciary, but to find a relationship, whether to sit down, to pass the law, for example, to return only the money they have unauthorizedly taken, or, as I understand the ruling of the Supreme Court of Cassation – you have interest, in that interest include all your expenses. Because I said, and now I repeat, I can't take the party and tell him -- give me 100 euros for the lawsuit, and then ask him for another 100 euros, the coffee I had, the depreciation of the chair I was sitting on, the computer that costs, etc. Then it's hidden from me and I take 200 euros instead of 100. That's what banks do. They don't need protection here, they need protection from banks that give false low interest, and they want to rob people. That's why the Supreme Cassation Court's decision is correct. Put all the costs and the end of the story on interest. Here, that's my suggestion. Thank you very much. I've cut short, I hope, a little bit. Bon appétit.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-07-0.u8217	The word has Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-07-0.u8218	I thank you, Mr. Orlic. Ladies and gentlemen, as president of the parliamentary group, I feel the need to in some way protect my colleagues from the parliamentary group "Alexander Vukic – For our children" Jelena Zaric Kovacevic, Dejan Kesar and Veroljub Arsic because several days already people have been placed on a pillar of shame by individual media, mainly the Gilasovs, by individual lawyers, by individual judicial and prosecutorial associations, as if the world's greatest villains had submitted three proposals for authentic interpretation. One refers to the interpretation of the Law on Bond Relations, the other to the Law on the Rights of Consumers of Financial Services and the third to the Consumer Rights Act. And it takes days against all these MPs, and then a hack against the entire SNS parliamentary group, and in the end, of course, cannot end up with the President of the Republic of Aleksandr Vukic, who was exposed to brutal attacks by the president of the Serbian Bar of Justice, Mr. Gostilac. Now I want to ask publicly all those who attack SNS MPs - and what have we done so badly and who have we done harm by submitting, according to the Constitution, by law, by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, three proposals for authentic interpretation of the law? It is the legitimate right of the MP to do, as is his legitimate right to withdraw from the procedure, if he considers it necessary, the proposals he has made, and we have done so. So this is where you ask a whole series of questions. First, who gives the right to individual judges, individual prosecutors, individual lawyers to attack MPs because they apply their rights to them under the Constitution, the law and the Rules of Procedure? Who gives the president of Serbia's Bar Association the right to insult SNS and the president of the Republic most brutally? Is self-government in Serbia, in the sense that the sovereign right of the National Assembly is abolished to pass laws, and authentic interpretation has the power of law, therefore, has the power of law? Why do I say that self-government is coming back? So does this mean that now the MPs won't be allowed to pass any laws in any area unless the bill doesn't agree with either judges or prosecutors, or lawyers, or doctors, or bakers, butchers? Ask God who all the law can apply to. We're slowly coming back, I'm afraid of it, we're one democratic state, multiparty, with a market economy, we seem, slowly, crawling steps, we're going back to a self-management system where we're going to have to ask professional associations, otherwise, between them, there's a war going on, so there's a part of the bar against each other, so the judges and prosecutors are at war against each other, but the MPs are guilty. And now we're going to have to ask all of them if we can do something as MPs or not. It's said here -- everyone's looking at the bar or the lawyers. No, I think that everyone here is looking at the SNS parliamentary group -- a little judicial association, a little prosecutors, a little Gilas media, a little MPs who are neither there nor here, a little MPs, a little lawyers, so they're a little uninformed, so ask God what's wrong. This has gone beyond measure. It's said there is, I'm not defending anyone, it's not for applause. I'm not defending anyone, there's a banking lobby, I agree, but there's also a judge's lobby and a prosecutor's lobby, there's a lawyer's lobby, and don't tell me that these lobbys don't exist. I am now publicly asking, since it is constantly calling for this position of the Supreme Cassation Court regarding the relationship between the bank and the client, how is it possible that the Supreme Cassation Court's position to be applied by regular courts, I mean the courts that judge classical litigation and not applied by economic courts? How is that possible? How is it possible, in the same case, essentially in the legal sense, that in the same case, in the same legal sense, the same case, the Court of Appeal, for example in Belgrade, acts in one way, the Court of Appeal in Novi Sad in another way, the Court of Appeal in Nis in a third way? Where's the legal security of the citizens? It is not as simple as some now try to imagine that there are some evil corrupt SNS Arsic MPs, Jelena Zaric Kovacevic and Dejan Kesar in the service of the banks wanted to harm the citizens. Please don't. That's one story that's extremely rude, which is extremely unfounded, that insults the dignity of the National Assembly. What are SNS MPs for here? Like a simple voting machine, like people with no brains who have no right to use their rights and on whom anyone can spit, one day a judge, another day a prosecutor, the third day there some lawyer, the fourth day someone from the banking sector, etc. This is the National Assembly, we are the highest state body in the Republic of Serbia. Turns out, as these young bicycle bins, trash cans, whoever has nowhere else to deliver their garbage, he's handing it over to the MP's head, and that's exclusively the SNS MP. I've been reading for days, I can't come to my senses, I can't come from the sheik that's being led against us, so we're like this, so let's measure our assets a little bit, so let's see who's richer, whether the MPs or, say, lawyers. Let's see the lawyer's fleet for a little while, and a little MP's fleet. I haven't seen a single lawyer driving in a stable in the south and in an audio 20-year-old. Let it go, if we're going to ask if lawyers from their clients are charging services exclusively in the bar or in any of their tariffs. Is there anything in Serbia's Bar Association? That one prescribed price of services, and that, according to certain, particularly large offices, services are charged at three higher prices, and ultimately, it comes down to three SNS MPs and the chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, who dared to send three proposals for authentic interpretations to the assembly procedure. Who did we do the damage to? Who? Here's the SNS, and that's what I'm trying to say to President Vukic, the MPs who have proposed these authentic interpretations, I apologize for time over time, refuse it from the time of the parliamentary group, we are honored to defend the banking lobby and defend the interests of foreign banks. Now I'm asking - did Alexander Vukic lift all domestic banks and our banking system and bring foreign banks to Serbia or did someone else do it? Why was it silent back 20 and 30 years when domestic banks were destroyed and foreign banks were brought in? No one said a single word. So now who's to blame? The guilty three SNS MPs. It's Alexander Wolfie's fault. Well, it's not like that. That's one lie. That's one nonsense. As it is, with all the respect I have for Mr. Fila, but you, Mr. Fila, must define yourself either as an MP of the SPS or as an MP of the Bar Association of Lawyers and whether you represent the political views of the SPS here or represent the views of the Serbian Bar Association or the Bar of Belgrade, or I don't even know whose positions are in the bar. I represent the political attitudes of the SNS, and I find it hard when SNS MPs are attacked for no reason and no reason at all. And whoever comes to mind, he hears us in the ears and in the head, like, whatever you are there, who has given you the right to interpret. I don't know what your explanation is now that the Serbian Parliament, this now, or current assembly of the Serbian Parliament, can only interpret the laws it has passed. Well, the law on bond relations is, Mr. Phila did it in 1978. What am I supposed to do? To resurrect Joseph Broz Tito, who was alive at the time, is that so, that he would interpret the Law on Bond Relations, after the law passed in 1978. (Toma Phila: The court to interpret. The court to interpret, so why not interpret? Well, I ask you, why is it not interpreted? What you lawyers don't interpret as a legal tariff all the same, but the lawsuit with one lawyer is 100 euros, with the other is 500 euros, with the one there is a thousand euros. Is there a banking lobby? There is. Is there a legal lobby? Is there a judge's lobby? Is there a prosecutor's lobby? Well, how come these wrapped criminals, here I am now, may be criticized by my party, how that wrapped criminals, people who are charged with murder are released from custody, and let's say one of the presidents of the municipality, maybe guilty, maybe not guilty, and maybe he's guilty of what he's being charged with, I mean the former president of the Palilul Municipality, Alexander Jovicic, a man is being held in custody even though all witnesses have been heard, there's no danger of putting pressure on anyone, a man is in custody just because he's a member of the SNS. And do you remember that Cosmian case? When we, I mean, when did the state give all the evidence against him and who let him go? He was released by some prosecutors, some judges who said there wasn't enough evidence against him, and the evidence was hilly, a bunch of evidence. So I want to tell you, don't oversimplify things and banalize them, and now it's turned out here that three SNS deputies are on the side of the banking lobby and that we are in the service of the banks that need to skin the people and that our function is to be their spokespersons in the National Assembly. Not so, in our legal system, and part of the legal system are both banks, and lawyers, and judges, and prosecutors, and so are we MPs, who through the Constitution and laws create a legal system, I have many problems, but I have the impression that someone wants to put all the problems under the carpet and say – e, the biggest problem is MPs who have submitted three proposals for authentic interpretation. No, where luck is our biggest problem, all the problems here would be solved. Here, we pulled those three proposals and there's no problem anymore. And there are problems, there are a lot of them in courts, and in prosecutors, and in lawyers, as there are in banks. It is not true that these people who have submitted these authentic interpretations are villains who would like to peel the skin of the people. So, Mr. Orlic, here I was in need of intervention and I will intervene every time without a foundation and unjust attack by SNS deputies. We have our integrity. We feel that we are very correct in co-operation here in parliament. I also think that our ministers are correct in the Serbian government, but it is not correct to burden us with something that absolutely does not stand and has absolutely nothing to do with reality and common sense.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-07-0.u8219	Thank you, colleague Martinovic. So, out of these thirteen and a half minutes, two minutes are straight to the replica, and the time remains for the parliamentary group. Mr. Phila, you want a replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-07-0.u8220	Just to say something, I didn't recognize my discussion in this, and I didn't make a statement of criticism at the expense of the SNS. I am an MP for the SPS, and as such I share this fate, this coalition, and I always vote as a member of the coalition. I never said anything ugly about motion resolutions, this attitude requirement, I just thought it was a wrong move. I think we can all talk about it. I specifically said that it's not true that the banking lobby works through the Constitutional Affairs Committee because I would know that because I'm there. I highly appreciate both the president and the colleague who said that, only I disagreed, and I don't think that's the right way, but it's the right way to sit down and see the citizens and the banks how to solve this issue. That's the way, by me. That's the only thing. Secondly, you don't have to defend SNS MPs from me, I'm sure you don't. Well, that's all I could tell you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-07-0.u8221	Okay, do any of the other authorised representatives want a word? Authorised representative of the parliamentary group Aleksandar Vukic – For our children, Jelena Žarić Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-07-0.u8222	Thank you, Chairman. Dear representatives of the High Council of the judiciary, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I first reported to Orlic about the replica, since I was mentioned twice by name and last name, and I will use it to answer some of the allegations at the beginning. I reported to the replica because I was mentioned to keep my mouth shut and never when I'm mentioned to be silent, I don't keep my mouth shut, but I say stronger attitudes, above all SNS attitudes, which have been attacking so much over the past few days. I want to say what happened on the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives because of the citizens of Serbia, because of the public. I want to say for myself and for my colleagues and for everyone who has submitted authentic interpretation but also for all colleagues who sit here and share the fate of the parliamentary group, Aleksandar Vukic – for our children. On the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, there was an abuse when a colleague who mentioned me earlier presented documentation from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and gave it to the president of the Law Chamber of Serbia, followed by saliva and threats, and at the expense of my colleagues who submitted authentic interpretations to me, both at the expense of the SNS and at the expense of Alexander Vukic, who eventually said that authentic interpretations had been withdrawn and that this had been put in place ad act. I know whose representative I am here, I'm a representative of the Serbian citizens, I've been delegated here by the SNS, I've been delegated here by Aleksandar Vukic, and all of us sitting here in the Legislative Group Alexander Vukic – For our children. I was not delegated by the Bar Association of Nisa, nor by the Law Chamber of Serbia, and even if it had delegated me, I would probably argue with other colleagues as they do in all the working groups, so it is not possible for the lawyers to finally make a proposal for a legal solution. Because, on the one hand, lawyers who want to take over these bar seats need to know that they will not be able to put pressure on the MPs, and on the other hand, lawyers who hold their chairs so tightly must know that they are in those chairs, so that the function gives them the opportunity to fight for the interests of lawyers and not to fight to remain in those chairs. That, ladies and gentlemen, is the problem here, which is not how lawyers can finally agree between each other what to do and how to do. Now I can move on to what I wanted to talk about today. Today, we have a proposal for a decision on the election of the President of the Court who has submitted the High Council of the judiciary and a proposal for a decision on the termination of the office of President of the Criminal Court in Zrenjanin, who was submitted by the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government. What I wanted to start my presentation today, and I certainly didn't want to start the way I felt about doing it, is that I can safely say that Serbia today is a different country than in 2012, certainly more advanced than in 2014 and 2016. Today we are more advanced and more developed than we were yesterday, because every day we can say we see the work and the results of that work. Every day it negotiates with investors, every day it is working to improve citizens' living standards, strengthen economy and economy, strengthen Serbia's political position. Every day it is about strengthening, strengthening Serbia, above all as a leader in the region, but of course we want to be a leader in the development of all areas in Europe, as well as in the world. The fundamental change in our country, above all, required will, required vision and determination, courage and love for Serbia, which was always the first to show Alexander Vukic, especially after 2014, when he became Prime Minister and took responsibility for leading the unconstitutional advances. He then made it clear that he would always put the interests and citizens of Serbia, above all, and thus remain until today. We started working, we all started to enjoy the results of work, new roads, hospitals, schools, better education and justice systems and services provided by state authorities. We did all this together with the citizens, who in the elections at different levels gave us support and legitimacy to fight for tomorrow. Yesterday we were talking about foreign direct investment, actually increasing foreign direct investment by 19% in the first six months, GDP growth, highway construction, gas pipeline, the completion of many major projects, the creation of factories and jobs. Equal and regional development is what Aleksandar Vucic has promised and the promise he has fulfilled sees all citizens who are still a little bit more than Belgrade and who have a need for architectural roads and for the need to create some other conditions so that they can live in smaller municipalities, in cities or villages. We can say that there are serious developments in the development of all parts of our country. If we recall what Serbia looked like when the government took over the SNS, we can unfortunately remember that we were on the verge of bankruptcy with a growing public debt, with an enormous deficit in the budget. Without domestic or foreign investments, without capital projects, with high inflation and a unstable dinar and with an unemployment rate of around 26%, with a weakened military and police force, with an unstable health system, with no open chapters, no negotiating chapters with the EU, with unstable salaries and pensions, with job cuts, and on the rule of law not to talk, about the shifts of lawyers from the famous judicial reform in 2009, on judges' shifts with the famous 2009 judicial reform, not to mention. It seems the lawyers forgot how they helped their friends and judges pack boxes and take them out of their courtrooms where they worked yesterday because DS said so. What Alexander Vucci first did when he became Prime Minister in 2014, was to set goals, whose fulfillment meant great work, denials and citizens and members of the government and enormous responsibility, which government and Alexander Vukic, carried on their backs, knowing that they were carrying out measures that were not popular in the people, but were only possible and good for Serbian citizens, to create new jobs, to reduce the unemployment rate below 10%, to make the conditions for attracting investment, to implement reforms in all areas and to create the foundations on which our country would be built. What I would consider to be good is the fact that we certainly had continuity or the Government of Continuity, i.e. that from year to year we ended the new projects and construction of infrastructure and faced problems and solved them, showed what kind of benefits Serbian citizens will be able to see and feel in the near future and continue economic and political continuity, take care of the stability of finance and fight for faster economic growth. I spoke earlier about six objectives put ahead of all of us -- concern about the health of citizens, strengthening health, fighting the crown of the virus, taking care of our people's interests in KIM, fighting organised crime and corruption, preserving Serbia's independence and independence, the rule of law and implementing reforms that will mean that these reforms will produce results in Serbia so that our judiciary will be more independent, more independent, more efficient, but it will also mean that Serbia may become a full member of the EU faster and, certainly, further economic strengthening of Serbia. What we have shown so far is that we certainly have capacities, that we are able to work at the same time to achieve all the six goals that we have set before us, of course with a good organization each in their own area and within the competences that they all belong to. I want to look also at the area of the rule of law which is fundamental to the functioning of our country, to establish high standards on which our judicial system will be based, as well as reforms that I say will contribute to Serbia's faster membership in the EU. Full Serbia's EU membership is our goal, our foreign policy priority, not only in terms of the civilization, cultural or economic membership of that community, or progress, but also formal membership in the European community, and we are ready to stand by the side with the many most developed countries of Europe now. The reasons for such a pursuit are in reaching a more developed, fairer, safer society, building a modern and modern state that will offer its citizens or better living conditions. The reforms we are conducting in the area of justice years ago and the efforts we are making to create an effective, independent judiciary show our willingness to repair the situation in the judiciary and raise it to a higher level, but also the willingness to carry out our commitments as a state in the EU accession process. From the proposal for a law that comes to us by the government, from all the proposals on which we are constantly working, which on the assembly committees, as well as on the tide, we can see that we are on a good path to Serbia's EU accession and that, apart from signing certain international agreements, we are thus taking over certain obligations on ourselves, we are working in the National Assembly, together with the Government of Serbia, on the adoption of certain documents that we either bring new or agree with the rules that apply to the EU. Certainly, it is of great importance to the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, which gives Serbia the status of an EU-member country. It was then confirmed that the importance of harmonising our legislation with EU legislation is high and that we will focus first and foremost on the fundamental elements of legal fluids on justice. As priority areas, the rule of law and strengthening institutions, strengthening the independence of the judiciary and improving its efficiency have been set up. Accordingly, there are also amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia that we started in this mandate of the National Assembly a few months ago, but which have actually started long ago, because only negotiations between the Ministry of Justice and the Venice Commission, i.e. these consultation meetings lasted 14 months, after which the Venice Commission gave its agreement, i.e. a positive opinion on so-called. Amendments to which the Constitution should be amended. We are working on this now not only to become a full member of the EU and not only to satisfy the requirements of the Venice Commission for a certain essential but also some changes in the organisational nature or technical nature, but also to show that we are ready to move forward, to show that we are a country that will be at the beginning of a column of all these EU countries, to show that we can bear the pressures on the one hand, but on the other hand to meet all the requirements, to meet all the needs of our citizens, but also the needs of the EU. The 2016 Action Plan for Chapter 23, which was revised in 2020, envisions concrete moves in line with the European Commission's recommendations in the report on screening for the negotiating chapter 23. Therefore, the existing provisions of the Constitution should first be analysed, proposing amendments to our needs, but also in line with the European standards and proposals of the Venice Commission. We will soon have, after we have formed the Working Group on the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, and online rallying, I hope, with representatives of the Venice Commission, to present to us how far we have arrived and what we have done, but with whom we will also talk and hope to respect some of their opinions and views so that we can best conclude these constitutional changes. We are aware of the fact that this process requires fundamental and fundamental changes in the judicial system, as well as in the areas of the fight against corruption and the protection of fundamental rights, both on some normative plan and on a later implementation plan. In this regard, when creating reform steps under Chapter 23, we were primarily in charge of the EU's legal assets. The Serbian government is working daily to strengthen a democratic society in which all citizens have equal rights and opportunities to participate in all segments of political, economic, cultural and social life in general. In this regard, we are also fighting discrimination, prejudice and we are trying to be individuals, but we are also institutionally strengthening the protection of human and minority rights. From all I have stated, we are showing willingness and consistency in carrying out the obligations we have made in the process that will mean full membership for Serbia in the EU, but also a much better judicial system that will mean, above all, legal certainty for the state and citizens, but also efficiency in the work of the judicial authorities. The fight against corruption and all forms of crime is certainly one of the government's priorities. We remember that Aleksandar Vukic was the first to openly go into the fight against crime and the mafia in an unequivocal way and urged the competent state authorities to act in accordance with the law to bring criminals to justice. We need to be aware that organized criminal groups want to penetrate the economy, sports, politics, media, the judiciary. They want the money they have to invest to make themselves more money, to make illegal property benefits, by committing crimes, but thus endangering the lives of citizens. Alexander Vukic stood up against the mob and therefore experienced the criminalization of himself, his family. No one could have expected it to go so far, that even through the media and through various political parties that belong to so-called. The opposition, they place lies and misinformation on the President of the Republic and his family, and then move on to threats that directly referred to children with the most disgusting insults both on social networks and in the media to influence the public, to try to weaken the position of Aleksandr Vukic and his desire to fight further for Serbia. The creation of an affair was supposed to rock citizens' confidence in the highest state-level holders in the country itself, so criminals could deal with their criminal activities without a problem. However, the state reacted, found crimes in good time, perpetrators, clans, mob groups, and each time struck them with blows that show that crime is not, nor will it ever be stronger than the state, nor will Alexander Vukic be the one who will bow down under the pressures that he receives daily. One of the key conditions for respecting the rule of law is the functional judiciary that follows basic principles and values, such as legal certainty, equality with other branches of government, and thus we will help economic progress, protection against the influence of other branches of government or private interests, as well as the expertise of judges and prosecutors who will make decisions in accordance with the law. The representatives of the judiciary should know that they are with the president of the state, with the Prime Minister and with the members of the government, with all of us here, the MPs, on a joint mission, and this is the first fight against crime and corruption, so that we know that we will be able to keep this society from going down. As we strive to follow Alexander Vukic in the fight against crime and the mafia, we must at the same time witness the most terrible campaign against him, in the dirtiest way, through children, who are being led against all of us. As we strive to postulate democracy, we bring it to a high level, as it should be, we suffer attacks from all sides. It is expected that no one in the SNS has the right to defend himself or to have at least the right to speak his mind, so quietly, that they do not immediately criticize and crucify him in various tycoon media, in various statements calling political parties, call the opposition that is depicted both in Dragan Gilas and in Vuk Jeremic and in all other politicians who may in fact only be able to call themselves politicians, but according to what they did for Serbian citizens, they certainly do not. The border of decency in political struggle has certainly been crossed, and on the other hand we have those who should not have been in politics, who deal with their affairs or perform some independent functions, and use the political struggle to gain some personal or professional statistics. It's all a lie, ladies and gentlemen. What's not a lie, it's the new roads we're driving as we pass new hospitals, clinical centres, besides renovated schools. They're not a lie, they're not new jobs, they're not bigger salaries and pensions, they're not investments and they're not business development. It is acceptable that it hurts because others did not want it enough to succeed, and that pain of political failure does not justify the dirty means of fighting those who want, who can and can, and that is us, the Serbian Progressive Party, headed by Aleksandra Vukic. Long live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-07-0.u8223	Thank you. Are any of the other authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups answering for a word? If it does not appear, we are moving to the list of elected Members. The first is Milija Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-07-0.u8224	I thank you, Dr. Orlic. Dear representatives of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, citizens of Serbia, fellow MPs, I am Milija Miletic, coming from Svrljig, the most beautiful municipality in Serbia, located near the town of Nis, which is the most beautiful city in Serbia. Otherwise I was selected from the list "Alexander Vukic - For Our Children" and here in the Assembly I represent the United Peasants' Party. As a man and as a Orthodox, I would take the opportunity to congratulate the glory of St. John or John's day, as it is said with us, to all citizens and to wish them much health, happiness and success, that this year be born and noble, both in the field and at home, the harvest began. I would take the opportunity to congratulate the citizens of Prepolje and my colleague Samir and all the citizens of Prepolje on the Day of the Municipality of Prepolje, that the municipality goes forward, that it will be better with them and everywhere in Serbia. As I said earlier when I started, I am as an MP and president of the United Peasant Party on the SNS list - Alexander Vukic, because in everything I support our Serbian President Alexander Vukic, where he has proved himself now, as the man who runs this country, thinks about every citizen, he lived in Svrlig, the White Palanca, Prepolje, Subotica. President Vukic has now asked and withdrawn this bill of authentic interpretation, which is good and that is why I will always support our President Aleksandr Vukic, because he really thinks about all people and citizens in Serbia. As for today's session, I think these proposals are in place. One of the important things is, as far as these small environments are concerned, I've always talked about it and now I'm going to talk about it, and you see, if you have a chance, to change some things for citizens who live in small communities, who don't have their own courts, and we've had our own courts, where we have no judicial units, where we don't even have our own days and we've had our own days. Citizens who come from these small environments, such as Svrlig, such as Bela Palanka, such as Gajin Han, such as Babusnica, such as Bolec and a large number of such municipalities in Serbia, have no opportunity to exercise their rights and that, if there are any problems before the law or have some problem to solve, they have to solve all this in larger centres. That's where they cost themselves, that's where they cause themselves trouble, and when they get to those bigger places, that object is delayed, so they come back again and so on and so on. It would be necessary, and I've always said that, and I'll say as long as I'm here, to ensure in small areas the same conditions that all citizens, whether they live in Srlig or the White Palace, live in Gage Han or Bolovac or Meroshini, or in any part of our community where they don't have a court, that they can make sure that they can exercise their rights tomorrow. Once again, I, as an MP and president of the USS, will support all these proposals. Once again, if you have the opportunity, together with the Secretary-General, to ensure that conditions are secured in the small environments, even in the light of days, that our citizens do not cost you and that they can exercise all their rights under the Constitution and by law.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-07-0.u8225	Thank you. We were a little surprised, Milia, that you'd left time. You haven't used it all the time. Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Dr. Muamer Bacevac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-07-0.u8226	Dear colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament and MPs, distinguished guests, the VSS submitted a proposal for a decision on the election of the President of the Court of Appeal in Kragujevac, the Greater Court in Panchev and the Business Court in Belgrade. We are today considering a decision on the election of the president of courts of different rank and jurisdiction, but with one common goal. I would like to repeat what was lower than my predecessor's speech from my parliamentary group, Mrs Jefic, indeed of integrity, of the ability and activity of the president of the courts depends on the image of a court. I always, like my MP group, look forward to having a chance to propose to these positions people who are both worthy and professional. Because the president of one court has a really big responsibility. First of all, he makes programs, distributes objects, communicates with both non-judicial elements, and, once again, his quality and quality of his work depend on both the quality of work and the image of a court. Since this power, and I mean our coalition of SPDS, SNS and associated other parties, we have indeed found one condition that has been, I can say, extremely bad in all areas. I can't accept criticism on our account. Of course, I am self-critical and we are all self-critical and of course we can do much better, but we have to agree that we have done a lot in all areas to restore the integrity and respect of our institutions, the state institutions and continue to do so. Of course we'd like it to go a lot better, but we've come across a lot of problems. I just want to remind you that the SDPS participates actively in inter-party dialogue and that we want in every way to raise the importance and respect of all our institutions. In this case, we're talking about the judiciary and our justice. But I think that the central place has an increase in the integrity and respect of this particular place here, respect for the parliament of the Republic of Serbia, because we live in a system that we call parliamentary democracy and the place of parliament is not to be a mere talkative, but to seriously create policies and not only to carry out legislative, or to delegate laws, but also to perform a supervisory role. Parliament in parliamentary democracy has a central place. Therefore, you know, under the applicable law today that the choice of MPs, citizens don't practically know, they only know about parties who vote, they don't know about individual candidates, they can know about some or assume they know some, but they don't know directly who they're voting for, because they are parties that delegates who will enter the Assembly itself. You've seen that our proposal is very correct, it's written by experts from political sciences, assistants and teachers, and that's a really good solution. We hope there will be hearing about such a system. Today's electoral system is proportional, with closed lists. We also advocate a proportionate way of choosing, but with partially open lists, that voters simply determine 70% of the candidates from the list, in their opinion, according to their opinion, by the results they have made, which will represent them in the Assembly itself. That's very correct. It is left to 30% that the parties themselves delegate, thus alarming their membership, motivate their membership, motivate young people who have not had a chance to show themselves, motivate and establish that degree of gender equality of 40% of the less represented gender, etc. This is the center of our proposal, and I think it is a very high-quality proposal, which, of course, will, with a step-by-step proposal of censorship and some other proposals that we have in our general proposal to amend the electoral system, will indeed contribute to the fact that we have authentic representatives of voters in the Assembly and, of course, raise our integrity. There's been a lot more public talk about parliament when it comes to prices in the assembly. That doesn't make any sense, it doesn't have any value. If we give birth to the institution of Parliament and its importance in this country, we will give birth to all the institutions in this country. So, what are we gonna talk about then? Of course, I'm saying that we are absolutely open to any suggestion, but we think that thinking in this direction in which our proposal is going is extremely useful to our country and our political system that we are currently living in. In any case, we look forward to naming the presidents of the courts and supporting this proposal of yours in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-07-0.u8227	I thank the People's Messenger, Dr. Muamer Bacec. The word has a People's Messenger, Deep King. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-07-0.u8228	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the distinguished Mrs. Delibasic, representative of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, I would first say that I believe that the diversity of opinions and a whole range of views are necessary for finding the best solutions, and therefore I believe that the discussion initiated by my colleague, Phila, was extremely constructive and I think it will be encouraging to resolve the problem that exists in relation to a large number of disputes between banks and citizens. The necessary intermediaries are lawyers, but certainly they are neither a key factor nor should be a dominant factor in finding that solution. In my view, I have no doubt that together with the SNS and the SPS, or two presidents of the two largest parties, President of the Republic of Serbia Aleksandar Vukic and President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia Ivica Dacic, will find solutions that will benefit all citizens of Serbia, which is certainly imperative, of course, and here we are in the National Assembly. At the beginning of my presentation, I would like to pay my respects to the judges, because somewhere I believe that they are given the most sensitive role in the distribution of state authorities. In fact, we here in the National Assembly, both abstract and general, are making general rules, and we expect the courts to apply them specifically to individual cases, which in not so few cases means that they will define human fate. As a result, the holders of judicial functions are rarely at the heart of public interest, especially since citizens very often do not perceive that law and justice are the same, i.e. they see certain discrepancies and therefore I feel it is necessary to strengthen citizens' confidence in our judiciary. I think that a very important role in this task can play a professional, dedicated, independent, impartial, decent and dignified president of the court, and therefore I believe that today's agenda points are important, but still somewhere now in the context of constitutional changes already mentioned today, the procedure has been initiated, yet I am at the point that the Assembly should not choose the presidents of the courts, not because their function is not important. On the contrary, I think it is, as I said, and I'll explain it further. I think that the colleagues that the judges worked with are better acquainted with their abilities, their proclivities, theiraffinities, and, if you will, ambitions and that they could better assess who the most poor candidate for the president of the court is. In that sense, I believe that the SPS parliamentary group will support the candidates that you have proposed, without expressing any doubt about the recommendations you have made. Yesterday on the Justice Committee, you said your impressions of talking to the candidates. You introduced us to the fact that all the candidates achieved the highest marks during the evaluation, the performance of the judge's office, and that the interview with the candidates themselves was considered exceptional. In that sense, I will repeat, the SPS parliamentary group will support the election of the president of the courts. I agree with Mr. Phil in the part where he said it was a good thing that these candidates today, who have been performers of duty, will finally and officially take office as president of the court, because I believe that, for the sake of legal certainty, it is in the interest of the court to simply have someone who will be known to be there for at least four years. Now I would also point out what is somewhere my basic message for candidates, which I would not personally comment on, since I do not know the candidates, but I would give them a message and what is certainly a basic message for every president of the court, independent of these concrete proposals, is that in no case should they be part of a channel that influences the court in making decisions, but rather be a dam, to be the support of every judge of his court in defense of any unauthorised influence or pressure. In that I see the most important task of the President of the Court. Of course, the important task given to the presidents of the courts by the Code of Criminal and the Law on Prosecution is to decide on an exemption, and I believe that such decisions will be made objectively and will in an impartial manner ensure an impartial trial, which is certainly the right of citizens. What is also the responsibility of the president of the court is to adjudicate, i.e. to ensure the timely work of the court, which is not at all, we will agree, an easy task in the conditions of such a burden on the judiciary, especially when it comes to Belgrade courts. Somewhere we all know that you are filing a lawsuit before certain courts today, and the preparatory hearing is scheduled for next year, which is so rather demotive for the citizens when they hear how long the proceedings are going on, sometimes they give up and from established claims that they won't be burdened so long by the fact that they're part of some trial. It is a problem to work on, where a very dedicated one must seek a solution, not only because the excess of a reasonable deadline costs the state, but because it prevents citizens from exercising their rights in good time. In that sense, it is certainly a message for the presidents of the courts to encourage their colleagues to use the procedural powers given to them in terms of ensuring procedural discipline, because somewhere we are all aware of the fact that the unsuspecting parties are deliberately delaying the procedure, of course in order to avoid liability. This must be handled by other participants in the process that obstructs the procedure for its long duration, or for the purpose of the existence of obsolescence. I would like to highlight one of the obligations of the President of the Courts, which, if so, is placed in the jurisdiction of the Rules of Procedure, which is to communicate with the public, i.e. informing the public about the course of the proceedings and their outcome. Somewhere, another message that the President of the Court is simply not running away from that duty, from that role. I think it is important for the public to be adequately informed of the work of the courts. At the very beginning, I pointed out how important it is for citizens to have confidence in their own judiciary. In this regard, it would be useful to improve communication between the President of the Court, or a person authorised by the President, which would be responsible for providing official information on judicial proceedings, of course not jeopardising the privacy of the participants. But, I mean, I mean. I don't like it when the media, on the basis of some gossip, reports of court proceedings. Somewhere, I think it would be better for citizens to give official information by officials. I wouldn't be much longer today, in any case, the expectations of the judiciary are really high, and citizens, often point their eyes at the holders of judicial functions. Somewhere, and the fact is that courts are, in fact, the most important link of the rule of law, which is that they play the strongest role in building a rule of law. Again, that role should also be played by the presidents of the courts, who hope to be elected today. As a young colleague, I wish them success in performing this function and of course, without any doubt, that will be the case. As for the President of the Criminal Court in Zrenjanin, who retires, I would only finally congratulate her on the completion of the working century, and as her fellow citizen from Zrenjanin, I would like her to have a good time at her disposal. That would be all of me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-07-0.u8229	I thank the People's Messenger, Deep King. The word has a folk emissary, Milica Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-07-0.u8230	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear fellow MPs, distinguished representatives of the Supreme Council of the Judiciary, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, are on the agenda today, there are two proposals for decisions, a proposal for a decision on the election of the President of the Court of Justice and a motion for a decision on the termination of the office of President of the Criminal Court in Zrenjanin. In Article 52. The law on the election of judges, it also states, is that the President of the Court is a court, is in charge of the judicial administration, of taking care of the timely and proper work of the court. Then, the same member of the law also states that the President of the Court is obliged to maintain the legality, to take care of the elimination of irregularities, and to prevent delays in work. Also, what may be most significant is that the President's duty is to care for maintaining the independence of the judges, but also to see the court. When it comes to maintaining the independence of the judges, I think that's our job here, above all because of the citizens we represent. Since the arrival of SNS in power, it has been insisting on changes that will boost judicial independence, but fulfil obligations in the EU accession process. In addition, I am referring to the proposal to amend the Constitution in the case of the judiciary, but also to a series of laws that have been passed in previous years, where the state shows that it is fundamentally accessible to empowering the judicial system. I cannot mention significant investments in judicial infrastructure in previous years more than 6000 square meters of newly built buildings. More than 80,000 square metres has been reconstructed, and more than 100,000 square meters of renovated and adapted facilities. More than a billion dinars have been invested in modern IT equipment. The electronic justice system has made it significantly easier for citizens, created savings and replaced the departures to several state authorities' counters. Such significant investments in infrastructure are not only in the judicial system, such significant investments are in each segment that was most brutally neglected by 2012. It's schools, it's hospitals, roads, ecology, etc. Since I come from Požega, I really can't help but mention Milos the Great's highway. Milos Velika highway will create a place for new investments from Požega and surrounding municipalities, which will create new jobs. It will strengthen the tourist potential of Požega and the surrounding municipalities, but will also connect these municipalities with the rest of the region. By building the highway from Požega to Montenegro and to Kotoman, it will connect Serbia and the region. What I can't help but mention is the construction of a bypass around Požega towards Koseric, which is now being done with project-technical documentation, whose value is estimated to be around four million euros. But what I have to point out is, there's been a lot of waiting for construction and bypasses and this highway. In addition, I have to mention another project, which is the construction of a dam and accumulation in Svrckov, whose value is estimated by carrying out the works at 100m euros. A lake will be created to supply both Požega and Arile and Lucana and Cačak and Gornji Milanovac. Also, this project will have significance in defending against floods. I note this because this project has been waiting for about half a century. It's just an indication that the projects that were necessary to complete earlier today are being completed today, but no government had any sense of hearing or feeling. At least the hearing and feelings and responsibilities and responsibilities towards the citizens had power until 2012. She somehow had the most hearing and feelings to fill her pockets. She wasn't interested in judicial independence. The government was interested by 2012, as many factories as possible to shut down the country, and as many bank accounts as possible to open abroad. Then one of them picks up and says that Vukic is opening factories because of voters. The wolf opens up factories so people have a place to work and the state goes forward. I wish they had opened one factory for any reason. I believe that our country will continue to work in order to strengthen the judicial system in terms of independence and efficiency, and I will accept the proposed decisions with my colleagues from the Legislative Group Aleksandar Vukic – For our children in the day of voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-07-0.u8231	Thank you. The word has a national MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-07-0.u8232	Thank you, Chairman. Dear representatives of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, fellow MPs and MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, are present today on the agenda of two decisions concerning the presidents of the courts, as well as one decision concerning a resolution from the judge's post on retirement. First of all, I would like to say that the judges that this National Assembly will appoint as presidents of the courts, we expect, in accordance with the law, to perform their duties and interests in accordance with the Constitution, for courts in which they are presidents to act as quick, efficient and high-quality, and all in the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, who also fulfil some of their requirements concerning justice and justice to seek before the competent courts. We also expect the Presidents of the Courts in co-operation with the High Council of the judiciary and with other senior judicial posts to work on the unification of judicial practice so that in the same case, that is, in the same legal case, courts of different jurisdiction or courts of the same jurisdiction from different cities do not bring different judgments. This certainly does not affect the security of our citizens, and it certainly does not affect the rule of law that the SNS has drawn since it came to power in 2012, led by Alexander Vukić. I would like to point out that the rule of law is the foundation of every organised democratic state, and the Republic of Serbia certainly seeks to make the rule of law one of its foundations and certainly is and tends to be a regulated democratic country. In line with this strategic commitment of the Republic of Serbia, it is an EU membership, it is the harmonisation of our legislation with EU legislation, but not only because of the EU, but mainly because of our citizens, because of our economy, so that the judiciary is effective, so that the judiciary can make its judgments in a faster and better way, and that the judgment, which sometimes hurts the citizens and the economy the most, will be completed within a reasonable period of time, i.e. for citizens to reach judgments within a reasonable time. Also, I want to point out that the government, I have to make a comparison by 2012 and since 2012 when the SNS came to power, and it concerns the rule of law. What I must point out is that by 2012 by the words and reports of the EU, but also by reports from the Anti-Corruption Agency, or reports by Verica Barac, corruption in Serbia was systemically and encouraged by the ruling furniture, i.e. the yellow tycoon company Dragan Gilas, Vuk Jeremic, Boris Tadic. They did not do anything to make corruption stand in the way, but in their inaction they encouraged it to happen. I must point out that by 2012, laws were passed not according to the size of citizens, but the yellow tycoons passed the laws according to the tycoon. Also, the IMF has marked the Republic of Serbia as a country of corruption, as a country of corruption, which represents the black spot of Europe, and the IMF has gone to Serbia with its head in 2011 to return, of course, to Serbia by taking over from 2012 when the SNS assumed power and responsibility for policymaking, i.e. for leading the Republic of Serbia. What I must also point out is that by 2012, a yellow tycoon company with regard to judicial reform has implemented one judicial reform concerning the massacre of judges and prosecutors, all those who did not respond and were not sympathisers or members of the yellow tycoon enterprise, or members of the Democratic Party. I must point out that in one day thousands of judges and prosecutors at the time of the authorities of Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic, Boris Tadic, were left out of work with a solution that had almost no explanation, which directly insulted their dignity, their judicial dignity, their morality. The reasons for these solutions were copied -- the copies-paisys, they were uniform, and that led only to thousands of people out of work in one day. Of course, such anti-constitutional behaviour of the yellow tycoon company, the Constitutional Court has put aside its strength, but what is important to note is that, during all this time, judges and prosecutors have suffered great material damage, but also immaterial damage and, of course, the state of Serbia had to compensate for these costs and about 11 billion dinars were reimbursed to judges and prosecutors who were without any explanation, only because they did not support the policy of the yellow tycoon enterprise, were re-elected as judges at the expense of the natural payment of compensation by the state of Serbia. Also, apart from the massacre of judges and prosecutors, otherwise I have to point out that they are only for judges and prosecutors, except for the sympathisers of their Democratic Party, set up in Pozega, for example, set up a dead judge for a judge even though they knew that the judge was not among the living, and they simply had to know because the man was paid funeral expenses for death, or family. Of course they didn't have any criteria when the judges and prosecutors were out of work. The only criterion was political membership, sympathy for the yellow tycoon enterprise and, of course, obedience to the party that then ruled, i.e. Boris Tadic, Vuk Jeremic, Dragan Gilas. I must also point out that the decisive fight against crime and corruption began only with the arrival of Alexander Vukic, first as prime minister and then as president of the Republic. I must point out that the yellow tycoon company at the time of its administration of 138 basic courts, located in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, has reduced the courts to 34. What did that mean? This meant that judges from one place had to go to work elsewhere that was often at least 40 kilometers away. But other than the fact that judges and prosecutors went to other places, what may be even worse than that, it is that in that way citizens were denied the speedy and effective availability of justice, because the courts in some situations were 120 kilometers away. The example is, for example, a court that has been abolished, i.e. removed from Priboj to Prepolje. In order to go to Prijepolje for the court hearing, citizens had to go in both directions, the journey was 60km, and to go to trial in Užice that trip was 160km. Therefore, the yellow tycoon company and when it comes to the network of courts did nothing that was in the interest of both judicial holders and, of course, nothing that is in the citizens' interest. Of course, by coming to power, we have corrected the network of courts, formed a number of basic courts and thus made the availability of justice to citizens faster and more efficient, and of course made the work and working conditions more convenient and more efficient for judges. I must also point out that in the action "Sabbe", carried out by the yellow tycoon company after the death, or the death of the prime minister, that they arrested and detained more than 10,000 citizens in the action "Sabbe". They were taking it in as they thought. Since they were incarcerated as they were thinking, a large number of these citizens were asked for damages due to unlawful and illegal detention in prison. Compensation from whom? From the state of Serbia. Of course, since it was not about the pockets or Dragan Gilas, nor the yellow other tycoons and the yellow octopus, they were not interested in it, either, but the state of Serbia had to pay millions of compensation for illegally holding a person in custody who had been detained during the "Sabbe" action. Of course, since 2012, a network of courts has been returned, judges, prosecutors, to their posts, as ordered by the Constitutional Court. Also, there has been a further strategy to fight crime and corruption, because crime and corruption as a cancer eats every society and this has shown power until 2012, the government of a yellow tycoon company in which corruption flourished. I must point out that the National Assembly has passed a large number of anti-corruption laws. One of the latter is, for example, the Law on the Origin of Assets, where it is possible for the competent state authorities to establish any disproportionateness between the acquired income and the assets they have acquired will have to prove the origin of that property. I hope that the competent state authorities, in accordance with the Law on the Origin of Assets, will work and will examine how Dragan Gilas, at the time of his government's exercise, managed to gain disproportionate wealth of his income, which is only in apartments of about 35 apartments and these apartments are not measured in square meters, but in hectares. Also, we expect the competent state authorities to examine how it is possible for someone to gain a 619m-euro income during the exercise of political power and how it is possible for someone to have millions of accounts at the time of the government, such as Dragan Gilas, in various world destinations around the world. I must point out that in the fight against crime and corruption, law has been passed, strike groups have been formed to fight corruption, crime and terrorism in senior public prosecutors. The groups work in full capacity, have one multidisciplinary approach, i.e. the police are connected, the prosecution is connected, courts are connected. What's important to say is that there are no protecteds, no privileged ones, no relative to function, no relation to wealth, they're all equal now. I must point out that one of the plans of the "Serbia 2020-2025" programme is a decisive fight against the mafia and crime. It shows that the Republic of Serbia is determined to show that no one is stronger than the state and that in the Republic of Serbia there is no place for mobsters, for criminals, for those who are dealing with drugs killing our children. They must all be brought to justice and, of course, sanctioned under the law. What is significant for the SNS and the parliamentary group of Aleksandar Vucic, it is, again, that all citizens are equally equal before the law and that no party book or party membership will and can protect anyone. We encourage all state authorities, and this certainly includes the judicial system, that according to the law, and only in accordance with the law, they carry out their actions, and that they only make their judgments in the name of the people. The justice system, yes, is one of the pillars of every state. Its efficiency also means better quality of life and greater legal certainty for every citizen of the Republic of Serbia, but also greater legal certainty for the economy in Serbia, because we have witnessed that since coming to the power of the SNS and the large day-to-day engagement of the President of the Republic of Aleksandr Vukic, new investments, new investors, also require legal certainty, whether they are foreign or domestic. In that sense, Serbia is on its way, and that, when it comes to the judiciary, it becomes completely independent, in this sense constitutional changes have also been made. So constitutional changes refer exclusively to the area of justice, do not touch the preamble of the Constitution and do not concern the status of the AP of Kosovo and Metohija. This is what is important to know about the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, because Aleksandar Vucic is a guarantee of peace, guarantee of stability, guarantee of territorial integrity and integrity of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-07-0.u8233	Thank you. The word has been made by the People's Messenger Dejan Kesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-07-0.u8234	Thank you, Chairman. The President-in-Office, respected representatives of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, is today ahead of us with a proposal for a decision by the Supreme Council of the judiciary on the election of the President of the Court of Justice, the Court of Appeal in Kragujevac, the Supreme Court in Panchev, as well as the Court of Commerce in Belgrade. The High Council of the Court of Justice found in the legal procedure that the proposed candidates were primarily professional, qualified, worthy of performing such a responsible function. I am pleased that we, as MPs, and that Parliament, as the most legislative body, continue to conduct good practice, which is that in a very responsible and transparent way we choose the bearers and the judicial functions, as well as the presidents of the courts. I am also glad that we MPs did not turn this parliament into so-called Parliament again. The flow boiler, as it was before 2009, when representatives of the ruling regime at the time only nominated what representatives of the Supreme Council of the judiciary sent to them and what today about every proposal sent by the High Council of the judiciary we debate, debate and present our proposals, present our objections, resulting in the best solutions. In addition, the fact that a few sessions ago we even rejected the proposal to elect almost 20 judges, which is why we clearly demonstrate Parliament's intention as the highest legislative body, to choose the best, the most capable and the most frequent. And when we return to the beginning of my presentation, the High Council of the Judiciary found, in the procedure he conducted, in accordance with the Law on Judges and in accordance with the Law on the High Council of the Judiciary, that the proposed candidates were primarily professional, qualified and worthy. The term "worthyness" was very often used in a very negative way in late 2009 and early 2010. You know, as representatives of the High Council of the judiciary today, after ten years, you have a very high burden on yourself, and this is a great burden on you to show to the public that you are not as representatives of the High Council of the Court of Justice of 2009 and 2010 and you have a very large responsibility, each member of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, starting with the minister, to each individual member of the High Council of the Judiciary. You know, when you make someone unworthy, it's not just a defeat of his professional career, it's a defeat of him as a man in a social community. My colleague Milanka Vukojicic said that in 2009 and the general public knows that we met with one of the most discreet judicial reforms in Serbia's modern history. We have never seen such a pelzer of judicial reform, but the reform of the judiciary has not resulted in the problems we had in 2009 and 2010. These problems started already in 2005, when we were obliged to bring in the new Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. You know, you have certain professional associations, you have a civil and non-civil sector that comes to public hearings and makes its remarks that the judiciary should continue its work and that it should be reformed in the future in the best way, to protect citizens' interests. At that time, when the new Constitution was adopted, you had certain objections, civil and non-civil sectors, how to improve the judiciary. Some of the objections have been incorporated, but some objections have not been incorporated, and they are not included in the most significant ones, which refer to the Supreme Council of the judiciary, which refers to the State Major Prosecutors, which refers to the judge's election process itself. Already, in 2006, the Venice Commission, you know, I'm sorry, I'll be back. It is very embarrassing that you are jeopardizing your personal and party interests, the interest of the Republic of Serbia and the reputation of the Republic of Serbia in international institutions. The Venice Commission, already in 2006, says it expresses serious doubts about the independence of the judiciary, voices serious concern over the possible influence of the legislative executive authority in electing judges. In 2006 following these comments, a strategy for the development of the judiciary is adopted in the coming years, and no one takes note at that time of the problems facing it, because of criticism from the Venice Commission of our judiciary and continues to work on it. It goes through that system, we delay the problem for once, we won't solve those problems, someone will solve after us and we'll get there by 2009. You have then completely in the state one completely scattered. Health care is the last place in the field of health care, 500,000 citizens in one piece, due to the lack of urgency of the courts remain on the street, administrative procedures, labour disputes are being conducted for two, three, four, five years, people cannot return to work, they cannot feed their children. They see the former regime's representatives being air-conditioned and they know very well what they were doing, not only in 2009 and 2010, but since 2000. They know that there are some controversial privatisations, they know that there are some transfers of money to foreign accounts, so let's do this, to prevent us from answering it, let's reform the judiciary the way that suits us. We can't do anything right. The Serbian Progressive Party today wishes to do what is right to it, so we would choose all the judges the High Council of the Judiciary suggests to us. That's not how we do it. We get a proposal, we read the biographies very carefully. I have read the proposals today, or biographies of the proposed candidates. We are not a flow water heater and we will never be a flow water heater and we are doing all things only in the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. My colleagues and I have been transferred through the media for the past three days, we have been drawn a target at the helm, because we wanted to do something that is in the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, because we have applied for authentic interpretations. And what a punishment it is for us to go through the media for three days. I thank this occasion, Mr. Martinovic, for explaining what it was about. You have today's Bar Association, which my colleagues and I have been attacked unfounded for all three days. You know what, nobody asked the question -- people, let's wait for Monday or Tuesday, let's read what they wrote. That's how it was done in 2009, because this assembly adopted what they sent her from Crown Street. They then submitted requests for authentic interpretation, so they could take millions out of the country. What are my colleagues' faults here? Who are we to blame? We are guilty because we are in the Legislative Group Aleksandar Vukic – for our children. How is it that the Bar of Lawyers never alarmed in 2009, to say – our thousands of colleagues remain on the street? How is it that today our colleague Biljana Pantic Pilja has not appeared on the front page of the press that is being printed in Croatia? No, only when their interests are at stake. Well, they don't talk to each other to see which way they're going to go and reform that bar. You suffered Vladimir Gajic, the man arrested in the Geneks affair. You suffered from Gajic, who was also arrested in the Geneks affair and who falsely represented himself as the president of the Bar of Lawyers. What you did not go out on the streets in 2009 and say – 1600 of our colleagues remained on the street. Well, you didn't, because it wasn't then, and I, from this pay phone, defend these same lawyers and say that they were in an invisible situation in 2010 because they couldn't do their job because of the judicial blockade for a year. Let me continue now. I hope my colleagues from the Bar Association will behave differently in the next period because, you know, one of the highest principles is the presumption of innocence. We're not talking about assuming innocence here, because we haven't done anything wrong here, but the assumption of innocence has to exist in the media as well. No one, dear representatives of the High Council of the judiciary, wanted to say – let's leave Monday or Tuesday and read their proposed solutions. But, as President Aleksandar Vukic said, we put an ad act there, and I hope we no longer go through what my colleagues and I have been going through in these three days. When we get back to judicial reform, we have one thing, and first I'm going to make my observations about the judicial reform process itself, and then the courts' networks. You know, in 2009, because you knew you didn't have political support, you wanted to reform the judiciary and appoint your judges. And you know why I say, set up your judges? Because those data were not used by the courts' administrations, which should be delivered to the High Council of the judiciary in order to be able to see in one transparent way how many judges have abolished decisions, how many unconfirmed decisions, how many complaints they have, how many confirmed within 30, 60 days and so on, but the data and counterfeited data they had then answered were used. You advertise, then Minister Snezana Malovic, Nata Mesarovic, Homen, Dejan Điric, do not go to the Ministry to talk about judicial reform but to go to Krunska Street. Yes, and Dusan Petrovic. They're going to Crown Street. Is the Crown Street an institution? The DS's representation and they do this and they say -- now we're going to get a list of judges from our municipal boards, so we're going to see what the municipal committees say, but we're going to see somewhere where we're fit to read their data. Then they say, for one judge they call a good man, but he's not close to the DS. For another, they say, expert, likes to drink, but doesn't make decisions in favor of DS. And so it goes, the DS then at the peak of power, they have a municipal board everywhere in every place, now they don't have it, because they don't even have the support and their team gathers up in Crown Street on the first floor and say, let's see what we get. We got all the data, and now we're gonna delete the list. Well, it can't be. You will delete the list and who are you to delete the judge's lists. You'll wipe someone's biographies after 20 years. You have five municipal courts then. Here, we'll take the Fifth District Court, for example. Let's get the Fifth District Court, I hope you know how the Fifth District Court worked. Leader's territory. Who had the need to make two basic courts, then one basic court in 2009 and bury three million pending cases, to bury the justice system at the time? Who'd that suit? Why, for example, did the Fifth Municipal Court or the Fourth Court or the Third Municipal Court need to be a punishment for judicial reform and then place all judges in one basic court in order to centralisedly influence them in order to bring judgments in the way that suits you? And then these same people, who are lawyers today, are attacking me and my colleagues, so don't, you're attacking us for wanting to solve one problem, which includes all the relevant factors, and none of you are going to get into any media, says people we were wrong to reform the judiciary like that. Well, people because of you people were dying, because you couldn't get out on the street, because they said you were unworthy when you told someone he was unworthy, that means someone stole it, that someone killed someone, that someone damaged someone. What does that mean? Your one unwritten rule was that if you had two students in the same house that they had to divorce marriage so they wouldn't have to, or to continue to perform their duties and have these examples, you have from the Belgrade Court of Justice, you have judges of the Court of Appeal. Imagine, that monstrosity that you are divorcing, that you are going towards divorcing the marriage of two men, that someone is performing a judicial function, so maybe one of those 800 judges, I know most of those 800 judges, so people have been giving 40 years in prison according to the law, of course, and then someone who hasn't set foot in court comes to them, Snowžana Malovic afterwards says we're going to be in labor disputes to end within six months, in litigation within a year. Well, here, you tell us, you representatives of the High Council of the judiciary what time it is to solve a case, it's nowhere near it, and it won't be anywhere near it. Forty-four million euros cost us that reform, cost me too, costs both Mr. Martinovic and you, and representatives of the High Council of the judiciary, that's our money, because we should have paid judges on the basis of material and immaterial damage 44m euros because someone wanted the judiciary to form in accordance with their needs. Well, wasn't it enough for them in parliament that they had a majority, had a majority in Germany among the ministers, wanted the people of their judiciary to form that way every day in the media, they constantly run the hunt against us MPs 10 years later when we talk about justice, lead against me, leads against Bilje Pantic Pilje, leads against Mr Martinovic, against all of us. What's our fault? We who have now launched an initiative here in this House, to change the Constitution in the work of the judiciary, in order to clearly demonstrate our intention and will that we will not allow the influence of the legislative and executive authorities in the election of judges. Well, then since that doesn't suit them, then they make up that we're touching the preamble. What preamble are we touching? We don't touch anything that has to do with any part of the Constitution, except in the Justice Department. So that I don't take time away from my colleagues, in further debate, I hope that the VSS will remove the time the public thinks it has on its shoulders, because of the people who did the first and second VSS at the time. I have to tell you the same thing, I'm sorry, I forgot this. You have the first VSS meeting where Dejan Ćirić, Snezana Malović and Nata Mesarovic, and then they're scared when they realize what they did, then they change it faster, they form another VSS that talks with judges, only to wash their conscience and make no decision, and then the Constitutional Court in 2012 when it is released from the political ballast, makes a decision that these people return to their jobs. Their, by law guaranteed by the Constitution, right, it is a right to work and then those experts who do not have two entrys into one court in their biography, who have no verdict and no appeal, then talk about how these judges are returned because they are members of the SNS. I'd rather ask, how many of the judges are left, has a DS membership card, have their close family friends and relatives who were then in the DS. So you're continuing today to consult these same people, under the pretext that they have SNS membership cards. Finally, the SNS is a party that, above all, respects and loves its people. He respects and loves each individual and works exclusively in the interests of the citizens, and I hope that we will continue to work for better, better and safer Serbia with similar decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-07-0.u8235	Thank you. The word has the People's MP, Ugljesa Mrdić.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-07-0.u8236	I thank the chairman. Dear Mrs. Kovac, honourable representatives of the VSS, I would like first of all to say that I absolutely agree with everything he said today at the meeting of the parliamentary group president Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic and I agree with everything our dear colleague, President of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, Mrs. Jelena Žarić Kovacevic, and with everything my dear colleague Dejan Kesar said. Why do I agree with them? Because we in the SNS, unlike DS and the former regime, advocate that Serbia be what it is today, a country of rule of law. Today Serbia is a serious modern, democratic state, decorated from year to year, thanks to the excellent policy led by Aleksandar Vukic. Aleksandar Vucic, in addition to being Serbia's president, who is well-run, is also the SNS president, who, as the elections have shown, is the strongest political party, not only in Serbia, but also in the Balkans. That's why I can't let anyone think of it, whenever they don't know anything, whenever it's critical of a situation in Serbia, attack President Alexander Vukic and the MPs. Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic explained nicely today what the Serbian Parliament is. It is a legislative body, it is the highest state body in the Republic of Serbia. We here MPs, like them, my fellow lawyers need to respect the Constitution primarily, but what happened again is that part of the judge, part of the prosecutor, part of the lawyer and all sorts of lobbys, both legal, judicial, prosecutorial and various lobbies, banking and so on, whenever they don't understand anything, who to attack? Strike the Messengers of the people. We're not SNS's people's messengers so they can hit us whoever gets here. Of course, here I mean the part of the judges and the part of the prosecutors and the part of the lawyer, the good part of the judges, prosecutors and lawyers, doing their job honestly and professionally in accordance with the Constitution, but some of them using the Gilas media and through co-operation with individual political organisations with Dragan Djilas and Jeremic are using every opportunity to attack. How are they not ashamed to attack Mrs. Žarić Kovacevic? Now, these are the lawyers from Gilas and Jeremic's options, these are the heroes, they are not allowed to attack a man, but to live on a woman, a lawyer, my colleague and MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic. For two days, I've been listening to the media and reading blogs and websites, scarred monster attacks on a SNS MP. Why is she guilty? It is the same as Dejan Kesar, Veroljub Arsic and Biljana Pantic Pilja. Because they're SNS MPs. They don't attack us because of authentic interpretations, they just use the occasion, we get these interpretations, I'm the same member of the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee, it's supposed to be at the session, it's determined after the analysis that in certain segments it's not good, it's withdrawn from the procedure and my God. Let's move on. We are waiting to get this amended, better, better arranged, in the interest of all citizens of Serbia. Then capture part of the opposition, part of the attorneys, judges and prosecutors to live up to the MPs, because they are members of the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee and have dared to read the material. That's why they're attacking us. We showed, and what could not have happened during the former regime and the rule of the DS and its satellites, to pull something after the public reaction. Without any vanity, we pulled it back. So what, that's what's going on. Who works, he's wrong. Is that why part of the opposition and Gilas' media is being relived over the MPs? What disrespect is this for the MPs of the people? I'd also like to hear professional associations and judges and prosecutors and lawyers. Go ahead. Whenever someone attacks a judge, prosecutor and lawyer, we first, MPs of the SNS, stand in defense of the constitutional order and justice system of the Republic of Serbia. If someone looks at a judge, we defend him, but when it comes to living over SNS MPs - it's allowed, it's Vucic's MPs, it's SNS, hit them, hit them almost in all the media. We do not allow it because we are proud and because we try every day to do something for the Republic of Serbia. We do our job honestly and honestly. All MPs from the Legislative Group Aleksandar Vukic – For our children and I as a People's MP and member of the SNS, I do not allow such an experience and will always stand in the defense of my colleagues, regardless of the consequences and regardless of any reactions, threats, attacks. So, what? I don't care, let them hit. Let them hit me without touching Elena if they're such heroes. Secondly, as for the banking sector, who brought these foreign banks to Serbia? Who destroyed state banks during and after October 5th? Who? The Democratic Opposition of Serbia. They raided with machines at the National Bank, Beobank, in Jugobank. I can't even remember all the banks they've destroyed anymore. (Alexander Martinovic: At the National Bank, Customs Administration. ) Fire into the National Bank, fire into customs, engage with automatic weapons, as if it were their prey. You've seen American movies, "The Godfather," etc., about crime, and then let's apply it to the political scene. Who was responsible for that? Nobody. Who saved the banking sector? She saved the power of Alexander Vukic. When is the dollar the most stable? It's the most stable since 2012, until today. We've had a stable dinar for nine years. Mrs. Jorvanka Tabakovic is an excellent governor of the National Bank of Serbia, and that should be said publicly, and I will always commend that SNS official who does his job well. We today have not the best financial policy in Serbia's history, but also the best financial and economic policy in all of Europe. Yes, in all of Europe, I am responsible for that, and it is now seen in the time of this difficult fight against the crown of the virus. Who was destroying the banks? Serbia's Democratic Opposition, DS, former regime. They destroyed by 2012. The rest seems to me, from state banks, the Post Office, the Serbian Bank, and I mean none more. When are the best loans for citizens, since we from the SNS and all MPs are fighting for the interests of Serbian citizens? The best loans in Serbia's newest history, the most favourable loans made possible by the state of Serbia under agreement with banks and the banking sector is today. Look at how many young people, see how many people my middle age take credit? Malten doesn't have a family that hasn't taken any credit. And who protects this citizen when he takes credit? Protect the state, because Serbia today is a state, the state is a state. The state stands behind every citizen. When something is not clear to a citizen, whether he's a farmer, whether he's a lawyer, whether he's a judge, whether he's a construction worker or a molar, the state stands behind him, but when attacks by MPs, most of the media, part of the opposition, part of the attorneys, judges and prosecutors go on live. Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic is right when he says some things about certain lawyers from various professional law associations – do not drag us MPs into your wars. You can't make a deal with each other. We have several currents in Serbia's Bar and Belgrade's Bar Association and who knows how much power in other law offices. Secondly, what is very important for citizens to see that they can rely on the state, that they can rely on you judges? Courts must be even about certain decisions, which we are talking about today. Don't let one court make one kind of decision, another court makes another kind of decision, a third court, that's a court case, and the judge interprets it in one third way, and there's chaos and then the citizens get confused and then the citizens hire lawyers -- this is not clear to me, my neighbors have one way to judge, to us in another way. Now, when that happens, neither the MP nor the SNS nor Alexander Vukic are to blame, there are those who have interpreted these decisions as such. As we People's MPs, the Serbian Progressive Party led by Aleksandra Vukic, we stand behind our decisions and behind our work and we answer for all the good and bad things we do, so should every judge in the Republic of Serbia be behind its decision and interpret it properly, in accordance with the Constitution and the law, without talking about any other topic, which Dr Aleksandar Martinovic once again spoke of perfectly. I'm not praising him because our president is a group of MPs, but because he spoke well. It is a law professor, my fellow lawyer, who has stopped, as each head of the parliamentary group should stand behind his MPs, and it concerns individual decisions and competent prosecutors and competent courts in matters of organised crime. In Serbia, we had a situation in previous years that someone would be charged with the most serious crimes, for murder, for kidnapping, drug trafficking, would be released to defend himself from freedom, without the danger of affecting witnesses. Not only can it affect witnesses, but it can liquidate witnesses, but certain judges and prosecutors say -- a lawyer came in, not to talk about the relations of individual lawyers, individual judges and individual prosecutors, and this kind of lobby of an interesting, semi-criminal one, but I do still have to say that most judges, prosecutors and lawyers do their job fairly and honestly, and I'm a lawyer, but then it can't happen that when someone, whoever, a member of the SNS, is arrested, whatever function he's doing now or done earlier, is held in custody for a long time just because he's a member of the SNS. Those judges who were elected on a proposal by individual municipal and district boards of the DS have been released to defend themselves from freedom those DS ministers who stole from citizens until 2012 and who were arrested afterwards. It's a small number of them. Not small because most of them are innocent, but because the prosecution authorities and part of the police have not done their job properly. So, in the end, I have a few appeals. The first appeal is to respect this institution, respect the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and respect each MP, and especially to be complex and unique when sharp and sick attacks on members of the fairer sex, on our dear colleagues. As for Jelena Zaric Kovacevic, so tomorrow and if someone attacks you, Mrs Elvira Kovac or any other MP from any political organisation in the Serbian Parliament, we MPs must be solid because in Serbia we must respect the Serbian Parliament and have, after all, that one moral code, that we do not allow attacks on the ladies, regardless of political, party, religious or national membership. My second appeal is that those judges who will be elected presidents of the courts do their job professionally. It's not a phrase, it's a essence. Do your job professionally and condemn criminals. Don't let criminals out of custody if you have enough elements to keep them in custody, but on the other hand, don't hold people back until they're in custody. You know what a prison is and you know what a prison is. You know what it is when someone's a suspect, you know when they're accused and what it is when they're convicted. My third appeal is to all judicial institutions that in this difficult time and fight against the crown of the virus and the fight against the mafia to show unity and full support to all those institutions and to all those decent police officers, especially from the criminal police and support prosecutors, courts to work professionally their jobs and to be a partner of the state of Serbia, the government of Serbia and the Serbian Parliament in the fight against the mafia, because there are no results for us in terms of the economy, or in terms of the judiciary, or in terms of fighting the mafia if we are not unique here. So, of course, I will always support my colleagues and once again I want to say that Serbia is stable and strong today, stronger all year round just thanks to the excellent policy of our President Alexander Vukic. Long live Serbia!
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-07-0.u8237	I thank the Messenger of the people. The word has a folk letter from Ljiljana Malusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-07-0.u8238	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Representatives of the High Council of the judiciary, today we are talking about a motion for a decision on the election of the President of the Court, of course, on the proposal of the High Council of the judiciary. I always stress that this is a proposal from the High Council of the Judiciary, that citizens of the Republic of Serbia know that we, as Parliament, as the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, are not proposing, but proposing candidates to the High Council of Justice. Very important, because we often have criticism on our account, nothing caused. Here, we've just heard that she's been led by a hack and that there's still a hack on SNS MPs, just because they're SNS MPs, and they're top lawyers, lawyers, Mr. Martinovic, president of the SNS parliamentary group, doctor of science. So if he says something, he should listen, he should appreciate it, because he's the best. There's been a lot of attacks just because we're representatives of the SNS. Well, that's, folks, illusory, that's sick. The arguments, yes, but if there's no arguments, why are you doing it? Probably because you don't have a program. You make a program, you deal with yourself, here, there goes next year's election, so show me what you know. Leave more of us from the SNS. If we do something wrong, yes, of course, criticism, I'm always for constructive criticism, because that's how society goes forward. But don't muddle something that has nothing to do with the brain. Just remember what they were doing to our president, Mr. Alexander Vukic, as a cartoon, a sniper on his chest. They bulldoze, spit on his family, his children. How long and why? That's what everybody's supposed to say, let's see why. Let's take it in a row. Serbian Prime Minister Ana Brnabic said in the Serbian Parliament that the issue of rule of law is extremely important for the government and that it is therefore determined to implement a change in the constitution to make the judiciary more independent, more responsible and efficient. The judiciary is independent and 95% of judges honorably do their job. But there's always someone who's, like, a rover, who's party-determined. That can't happen. The law applies to everything. I apologize to these lovely ladies, simply, it has nothing to do with you, I speak in general, 95% of people and judges and prosecutors do their job well, but there's always a weed. That should be eliminated. Because, people, when elections come, the citizens of the Republic of Serbia show it. That's why the SNS, we ourselves had in certain municipalities and 78% of voters. We'll still have it, because we clean up everything that's wrong with our ranks. About how the Democratic Party of Serbia worked best tells the 2008 example when 1,000 judges were out of work, imagine, please, just because they were not currently responding to the authorities. A thousand professionals, so it must never happen again. Of course, in 2012, when the SNS came to power, later, in a year, two days, we had to refund costs, and losses to those people. There was a reform that was fatal. So 40m euros was then set aside by the government of the Republic of Serbia to pay these people for being released. How can someone give, based on what, how? Did he commit any violations, didn't he do a good job? Oh, no, well, we all know, just because they didn't answer to the government back then. You can't do that. That's why I urge that when the President of the Court is elected, it must be an honorable man, because it depends on him how the entire court works. It depends on him how his judges work. We must strengthen the rule of law in Serbia, primarily because of wages and pensions, among other things. As we do so, the best example of 2012 was the average salary of 320 euros, today 700 euros in Belgrade, 550 euros in Serbia. The average pension – 29,400 today will be in 2025, in the programme "Serbia 2020-2025" 440 euros. The average salary will be 900 euros. That's what SNS is after, not rematchism. That's how it works. Our Prime Minister, Mrs. Brnabic, believes that a membership card can never serve anyone as a cover, and all of us here. Now, that's why the president of the King's Criminal Court was arrested and brought in, so no one was spared, too, the president of the municipality, not just one, but more, regardless of political membership, no one would be protected. We have zero tolerance to corruption and crime. Mrs. Brnabic also said that changes to the constitution were conducted and that there was a broad public debate, and then moved on to criticism by former authorities and judicial reform, which I was just talking about. So no one can be protected. No one can be fired. That's why the ladies are here. That's why the VSS is here. You should never be sure of anyone. If anyone's better than me, they should be in front of me. I have to learn what's good about him, and I'm not maybe a science doctor or someone who has a lot of knowledge, who has a reputation, but someone doesn't like me, I'll do the right thing. Well, of course, it's the right thing to do, for the sake of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, we all work for them. My example, I've been judging since 2007. The courts were so slow, I was tried for 20 years. Is that it? No, that's not it. Because of property-legal relations. In 2012, a completely different story. The dishes are networked, so much faster. Thank God, I got that verdict, and not just me. People are much more content. But there's still a weed. There's a lot of work to be done in a much better way. About how they were doing, the yellow company, and what they did wrong, says that in 2008, when a thousand judges were fired, but also 400,000 people. So much for their concern for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. They didn't care about the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, because there were 27% of the unemployed, but about filling their pockets. So we have the main tycoon, we know who's thinking about who, who's got 619 million today, 35 bills all over the world, and who knows what, 35 real estate, and these people are out of a job. And they tell us today – Serbia is empty. Well, it's not empty today. Today, 90,000 young people have returned to Serbia, as we have allocated 500m euros for employment projects. That's why they came back. But they left in 2008, 2009 and 2010. It's not just 400,000 people, it's a million and 200 people. Let each have two family members, so calculate. That's not how it works. As far as we're concerned, there's a factory open yesterday, so every day it opens up for some factory. Yesterday the factory "MTU" opened in Nova Paz, a German corporation opened the factory, a cornerstone was laid. The factory will open, 500 people will be employed, and 2,000 more people in the second phase, which means Nova Paz will have 2% of the unemployed. That's the point of this story and the rule of law. To go back to something that's been holding me back for a long time, and whenever I can, I'm talking about it. It's an appeal court verdict, a violation of the rights of the Roma national minority. Namely, the Roma Inclusion Office reacted to the acquittal of a man who had promised a 13-year-old girl. We know which judge is the Court of Appeal, we won't give him his name anymore, I won't give him any more popularity, because he didn't deserve, of course, a negative connotation. The judge's decision that he was in a second-degree procedure to release a person who was convicted of the promise of a 13-year-old girl, because, as he explained the verdict, it is the usual behavior of members of Roma nationality. Please, rape, promise is not folklore. Shame on him, him and anyone who thinks so! The judge's acquittal and scandalous explanation were also announced by Milos Nikolic, director of the Roma Inclusion Office, an institution dealing with Roma community issues in the territory of the AP Vojvodina. And not just him, but the mass of NGOs, because it's a scavenger to say that folklore is to rape a 13-year-old girl. It's terrible! What was that Code of Criminals? The Court of Appeal's shameful verdict freed a man who had promised a 13-year-old girl, because, as the judge said, it was normal in his ethnic community. It's not normal, it's a judge, I don't want to say his condition is psychological. This serious crime has been assessed by the court as a normal phenomenon among members of the Roma community and in one part of the court's verdict is said – as part of the socio-cultural nature of the Roma community, as regards the pattern of marital and family relations which, among other things, refer to the early entry into sexual relations and early foundation of the community of life, so on, it gives the impression that the accused does not know that the very degree of sexual relations with the damaged has committed a criminal act and that the accused has acted culturally, as most of his community does. When someone is 13 years old, it's a child, it's not finished psycho-social development, physical development, it's not known to anyone from 24 years of age. What is recognizable in Roma tradition is respect for diversity and tolerance. It's a wonderful people who are very tolerated to all other nations, nationalities, cheerful, dear. It's impossible that someone 24 years old didn't know what he was doing, and it's impossible for a judge who, unfortunately, didn't judge how he didn't know about it. The question arises as to why the Roma community is recognizable. And let's remind them -- they're recognized by the bright spirit, by the incredible talent for music and dancing, by the enormous tolerance of everything. That's why we need to protect them, not do something wrong. According to these outbursts of authority, those who need to take care of citizens without any prejudice can't be tolerated and we won't be as silent as we've been. We have had a great insult, Roma representatives say. I'd end up here. When someone has a 13-year-old and then someone tells him it's normal, so he should probably go to bed in one of our facilities. The Roma Inclusion Office hopes that the competent institutions, primarily the High Council of the judiciary, the Ministry of Justice, the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office, the Trustee for the Protection of Equality, the Protector of Citizens, will react. It was and it didn't happen again. We also hope that the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office will apply for the protection of legality, as well as that the Ministry of Justice will pass a new Law on Judicial Experts, which will allow the launch of disciplinary proceedings against witches for violations of the law, discriminatory behaviour towards the Roma community and will be deleted from the list of artists. I agree with this. As a conclusion, once again I ask all these people who don't have their own program, and then they're keen, and they're coming at us like SNS eagles, to commit themselves to their program, to the elections, and I want them to go out to the elections, so they don't want to do it again, because they don't like it. All the conditions we have sought have been met by minding their own business and letting us work for the benefit of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, which are: to build, work hard and to assess who and how, whether someone will stay or go where he belongs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-07-0.u8239	I thank the MP Ljiljana Malusic. The word has the People's MP Ilija Matejic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-07-0.u8240	Thank you, esteemed chairman. Honored, above all, ladies and then gentlemen of the People's Parliament, representatives of the Supreme Council of the judiciary and what always is most important to me of the peoples of the Republic of Serbia, today there is one task that we as the National Assembly will soon no longer carry out, and that is the choice of judges, in this case, of the President of the courts in Kragujevac, Belgrade and Panchev. First of all, a few words about candidates. All three proposed candidates are very good, all three candidates have graduated from the state college, which I certainly welcome, and shortly after they passed the judicial exam, which is one of the biggest pains for anyone who wants to do this job, i.e. to be right. All three candidates have very great experience in the judiciary, so far they have performed their functions in a very safe and professional manner, and I have no doubt that this role of the President of the Court will be perfect and I wish them much happiness in further work, especially to Judge Milic Gavrancic, who will be the President of the Higher Court in Panchev, who is closest to me personally. Every time we talk about our judiciary, we have to say that there is a great dissatisfaction of the citizens because of the long duration of the case, but citizens have to understand that there is a constriction of our courts that is amazing, because our courts now have three times as many cases as, say, ten years ago. I sent a lawsuit to the Third Basic Court in Belgrade this year myself. I sent it on February 20th. So, just 50 days since we got into the new year. I didn't get any calls for a hearing, I called, I asked the office what was going on, and I received information that just 50 days before my lawsuit, more than 23.5 thousand lawsuits arrived in the Third Basic Court in Belgrade. What court, not in Serbia, but in the world, can solve 23,000 lawsuits in 50 days? So that tightness of the courts is something we must certainly pay attention to in future in our work. I'd like to see some amendments to the Law on Prosecution on this matter, but I'd also like to see some changes to the Criminal Code, especially in the matter of self-defense. Namely, now that you, God forbid, come into a situation where some thief falls into your house or steals something, turns out to be maltenes, it's not like that, but you can't even curse him so a thief won't sue you for an insult, let alone attack him, hurt him, because his body and life are considered more valuable than that material thing he wants to steal from you, which is total nonsense, and we need to protect our citizens and in this regard. As for these authentic interpretations of the law, first of all I want to give strong support to my colleagues who have been baselessly attacked by various media days ago, and anyone who understands politics knows that they have been unfounded, but I am also glad that these authentic interpretations have been withdrawn from the assembly procedure. We must continue to protect that poorest layer of citizens whose banks have indeed irrevocably charged and the cost of processing credits, and the monitoring of loans, and the insurance of loans, etc. I'm aware that there is a sealing of the courts, and for that, I am absolutely aware, but we must find another solution, we must fight. I personally don't understand why banks simply don't recognise the claim, why they don't make an out-of-court settlement or court settlement, and it all ends well at one hearing. This would also reduce the number of cases in courts, be satisfied and lawyers would be satisfied and citizens and banks would reduce their costs. I'll leave them on the grade why they don't. So, I mentioned that this is one of the last times that we choose judges. As the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, we held a series of public hearings on which everyone could address us. So whoever agrees, and whoever disagrees, we have heard criticism, we have heard suggestions, we have also heard commendations, and it has made it much easier for us as a committee to do further work. Whenever we talk about the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, I like to mention the 1835 Sretenjski Constitution written by Dimitrije Davidovic, our learned Serb from Austria. Why? Dear peoples, when someone tells you that Serbs are a trailing people or that Serbs are not a modern people, just tell them that the Serbs just had one of the first democratic constitutions on the ground of Europe, which was already 185 years ago declaring the principle of power-sharing, which is woven into all modern constitutions today. So, the goal of these constitutional changes is to depolitize the judiciary. I have to say my own personal position, which is that I refuse to believe that Serbian judges are politicized because they are chosen by the National Assembly and are not objective in their work, although every grain has a weed in it, I cannot say that for each individual judge. But how independent the Serbian judiciary is and objectively tells us one fact that everyone has already forgotten, which is that this year the verdict was passed, no less than against the president of the Republic of Serbia. I have not heard of any country in the world, let alone in Europe, that it has reached a verdict against its president, which says how much independence of the judiciary in the Republic of Serbia is indeed. When we talk about changing the Constitution, we must always note that there is no change in the preamble of the RS Constitution that KIM will remain an integral part of the Republic of Serbia, and that our people in all our territory, especially in KIM, do not have to worry. Besides, our people know who's fighting and how much they're fighting for them, and that's why they vote for SNS over 85%. When we talk about changing the Constitution, we must also always say that we will not make a new, catastrophic reform of the judiciary, as we had in 2009. My colleagues have said a lot so far about judicial reform and I don't know what to add, but I would like to explain one situation where I faced this judicial reform while I was still a college student. So we had one exam where we could choose whether we wanted to talk about judicial reform or to choose another topic and I chose reform. We've been responding to more than three professors. I learn it solidly, I come out to answer. I didn't know about 10, but I knew very well, and this bigger, like, give him 6 or 7, which I didn't accept because I didn't want to let anyone humiliate me. Next time I learn from "a" to "sh" everything, I go out in front of the same bigger one, I tell them everything, and they -- let's give him six, maybe seven, in the end, it must have been about eight, and I've seen me fight the windmills, accepted that eight, came out, and it wasn't clear to me why teachers give me eight if I know everything? Until last year, when I saw those same professors sign some petition against the SNS, against Vukic, and then I realized that actually the Democrats were questioning me about the DS error and that they couldn't accept what it was like and they even attacked the students for it. That's when I realized something that day and day makes me fight them, which is that it's not a problem with our democratic friends that they don't know they're wrong, and they want to come to power, the problem with them is that they know they're wrong and they want to come to power, so they don't keep robbing and stealing. But they will not be allowed not by the SNS, but by the people of this beautiful country. Long live Serbia!
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-07-0.u8241	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-07-0.u8242	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I join MPs and colleagues Martinovic who presented a problem where lawyers and judges want to discipline the National Assembly. This tendency is obvious. Judges, honor of exceptions, 80%, 20% of judges who think they're independent of this authority but not of the former one, that they can do to the current legislative and executive authority whatever they want. Those 20% judges are used to lawyers working with them ordering a verdict, which is sometimes faster delivered than when you order pizza. In fact, 20% of judges are proof that the constitutional changes that follow will not be very beneficial for justice and for the implementation of that justice to determine the truth in court. Mr. Martinovic, I'm afraid that what you said confirms my thesis that when constitutional changes take effect in 20% of cases we'll get in place of the judicial authorities of the courts, we'll get STR - independent trades. And I am afraid that this CEPRIS run by Judge Majic will be a shopping centre for all independent trades or justice, in the part in which it is independent of this authority but depending on the former and that persecution of MPs in the National Assembly, persecution of executive and legislative authorities, will be by those 20%, and I believe that there are more, will be general. That's why I'm saying, be careful that by changing the Constitution, we don't get independent trades in courts without CEPRIS and this Majic becoming something that will bring all of this together, so it's some shopping mall consisting of several independent trades that will trade in justice, and will jointly be an attack on the current ruling coalition in the National Assembly and an attack on the executive power, especially part of the executive authority carried by the President of the Republic. It will be a general orchestrated attack, and don't be surprised at the strange judgments that will follow. Imagine CEPRIS, Judge Majic, a collection of lawyers, prosecutors and judges, which is an independent trade shop, crossed, where they are all together. And I can tell you how they can, right now, influence the judgments that have been made. Often in that CEPRIS are prosecutors and lawyers and judges from the same case, they often match. And now I ask you, where is the independent judiciary? The moment the judge enters the political show, Olje Beckovic or another, without the court's chief's permission, on a political show, he immediately spit and disrupted the independence of the judiciary. It can't be an independent judiciary if the judge deals with politics. If Judge Majic and similar criticise the work of the MPs in the preparation of the law, in the proposal, and seek appropriate solutions, they want to order the law, as some lawyers through the CEPRIS order judgments, and it can often seem, I say - it may seem, as much as you place on the goddess of justice, so much to you on that side of the scale of justice or injustice, depending on what is required. I have this judge, and you didn't mention, when I proposed a law on amendments to the Law on Electronic Media, it was considered a new demonstration of haughtiness in the Assembly. He says, with one blow, shut down N1 and Nova S and discipline everyone in the REM Council. Look, that's what Judge Majic says and he's still calling for some of his employees at CEPRIS or I don't know if they're judges, lawyers, etc. So the People's MP has been challenged to propose a law, neither of us has been challenged from the judge's verdict. I still haven't found a judge who said that during this new government and the ruling coalition that any of the politicians, and Mr Martinovic, I've brought as many judges as I have, I thought that only 5% of the ministers influence the judiciary, haven't said the evidence yet, but I haven't found any judge complaining about the politician who ordered the verdict, but here's the intensity that Judge Majic, who released the pedophile, 11 terrorists, here's his intensities to order the law. He says being arrogant is what I've proposed the law. I've never heard of the haughtiness of a judge, for instance, to have reached a verdict. I don't think that's arrogant. I think it's in line with his authority. Whether the verdict is ordered or not, that's something else. Whether or not it's broken down, it's something else, but I haven't seen anyone accuse the court in the way he accuses the National Assembly. If I can't propose laws, if I can't defend them, interpret them, submit amendments, then I'm not doing my function assigned to me by the Constitution. He says there is a danger of the law being passed. Be careful, the danger of the law being passed. It was proposed by the MP in the National Assembly, without much pomp, but he says it is very dangerous, a great danger to be adopted. In doing so, since I have put up with it, to monitor the abuse of alleged re-emission, that United Media with 30 channels claims to broadcast a programme in Luxembourg that is being re-emissioned at the same time. What does the Convention on Cross-border Television say, I got here, can I read? The convention says it is also the takeover of unchanged media services. So, it's like a relapsing. There is no revaccination without vaccination. There's no re-emissioning here without being broadcast in Luxembourg. They claim to re-emitting it from Luxembourg, and here they pay nothing. They don't broadcast a program in Luxembourg, they don't pay anything there either. They're virtual, pirated programs that are tolerated because of their noise from two of these information channels, and the biggest revenues are from sports, for fun. There are "Grand", 13 "Sport clubs", etc., there is their biggest income. And these megaphones that complain about freedom of the media are of a political nature, and that's why they want to hide that the program doesn't re-emitting at all. It's pirate channels, official. The Luxembourg regulator says they don't broadcast the program there, and here they claim to re-emission it from Luxembourg. Imagine their claim when they say, and the judiciary should act because it is a violation of the law, abuse of the official position of REM members who allow it, because REM should regulate it, they asked the opposition in that rebellion to get five REM members to continue to do it against the law, imagine when they say – Nikola Radisic, a correspondent of one television, do not speak the name, this loudest, correspondent from Luxembourg. They say -- a correspondent from Luxembourg TV, not to mention the United Media, which actually broadcasts the program here and does not re-emission it. How is the Luxembourg correspondent a journalist of Luxembourg TV? They themselves admit to stealing us and not re-emitting us and thus paying nothing to SOKOJ, REM, RATEL, all obligations have been avoided and the money from subscribers is paid for a fictitious re-emission service that does not exist. They pay two euros each, up to three euros for each user in Serbia. They pay these televisions for an alleged re-emission that doesn't exist. Ma'am, from the judiciary, if any of us pay for a fictitious service to a foreigner that's not done, throws out the money, it's called a tax offense and money laundering. Apparently, our judiciary thanks to such a Majic who immediately says that we want to destroy, behold, the wonders of these very televisions, that he is happily seen by a political guest there. If I wrote this to prevent abuses of cross-border television re-emissioning the programme, then this also applies to “CNN”, to “Sky”, to “BBS”, to Russian television, Italian television, “RAI Uno”. It's cross-border television, classics that re-emission the program here, the original program that it is. How can they not complain? How did Judge Majic identify himself on these channels, and I only asked REM to monitor whether this programme is really re-emissioned, whether it's a re-emission or a fraud that is expensively paid, money from subscribers and money from commercials being hijacked by domestic media? Article 27. The advertising law says that televisions re-emissioning the program can't broadcast commercials, except for those that are part of the original program that's being broadcast abroad, and they broadcast, these are witnesses, broadcast a bunch of ads, broadcast 200,000 seconds a day. So they take a piece of the advertising market and bread to domestic channels that pay for everything. They pay all the contributions, pay all the taxes, they pay nothing, and because they re-emission the program, they can't advertise so they don't take the bread to those domestic channels that operate in accordance with the law. That happens, 200,000 seconds only two euros each, and look at what's at "sport clubs" the price of advertising, so we'll fall into a coma when we know that price. Let's just make it two euros, that's 400,000 a day, times 365 days, how much money is that? That's 150m euros. They began to cross over the "Cas Media", which is also a member of United Media, and they began to end real cross-border channels, and the judiciary was silent, the prosecution was silent. Take "Fox flies". In one film from 900 to 1,000 seconds of advertising, they have over 10 films from afternoon to evening. How much money is that? On the American channel, they end commercials, they put in Serbians. Don't tell me that there's a "Jen Beer" commercial going on in America, so there's a commercial like that or a "Diamanta" here, etc. It's a lie, a fraud, where huge money is poured into the pockets of Dragan Solak, Dragan Gilas, who, with that money, employs political opponents of this government, which I have no objection to, employs to God for party work. We don't have a problem with the opposition, we have a problem with the School's business and Gilas's company. They're funded by this money. They're funded by this money. They will finance all activities, not only against authorities, but against the Serbian state to bring down one patriotic authority that does not give Kosovo, to bring in some Vuk Jeremic, etc., who will sign Kosovo's independence. It is necessary to bring down this power first and bring down this opposition that is now in the Assembly, to bring them down no matter how many, in order to achieve the goal of the international community whose part has bombed this Serbia and wants someone to recognise Kosovo and to justify their alleged humanitarian intervention by bombing, destroying civilian targets. NATO did not wage a war against the Serbian Army, the SRJ Army, only fought for the first few days. The war turned into a war against civilians earlier in Republika Srpska, and after 1999 in the Republic of Serbia. Don't tell me that some army that I think was criminal, that wasn't, that the army would be shooting bridges, trains, buses, civilian Alexine, Nis, etc.? What army would shoot down a transpo station? What army would shoot bridges in the New Sad? Unless it was the intention of harming civilians and killing a number of civilians to give in to Serbia's authorities. That is why they aim at and this money in a certain way at subscribers of the television programme, subscribers, funding through the financing of United Media, SBB, Totala, Eona, are funding activities against this Serbian state because money through the "Cas Media" and payments of the alleged re-emission of the programme is being pumped somewhere in Luxembourg and from there is being referred to by various political representatives who, behold, are all employees of Gilas's company. That's why I'm saying we don't have a problem with the opposition that's partly here, and I'm part opposition, and neither with authority, we have no problem with the insubordination of the ruling, nor with the opposition MPs. We have a problem as a state with Sollac's business and Gilas's company. That's not what I'm saying right now, I've been telling my colleague Martinovic for three years, and I keep performing. The prosecution that hears all this, the judicial authorities who hear all this don't act and don't check if this REM, and you remember a year and a half ago there was a general cry - give us REM. When they got five new ones and the ones they had, suddenly the opposition doesn't look for REM anymore. Apparently, Solak has enough members in REM to control the behavior of electronic media. The Assembly can discuss it, the government can discuss it, but REM, the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media, manages and see whether the Law on Electronic Media and the Convention on Cross-border Television is respected. Judge Majic accuses me because I want to prevent abuses, i.e. to determine which channels are really re-emitting the program, which are being falsified and who are cheating. What is it against the state of Serbia? What is haughtiness in the National Assembly? That's Judge Majic, that's the second time I've said this, he hasn't found an answer for me. I therefore argue that certain parts of the judiciary, following constitutional changes, will be literally independent trades where verdicts will be ordered, but even worse, will be ordered in that part of activities against the state of Serbia, of course, through activities against political representatives who, for patriotic reasons, do not want to sign and write off part of their territory. In doing so, these other media will call us traitors, who are going to do it once, only for a purpose. Imagine that Gilas godfather and his co-owner in the company, he goes to Serbia and he talks about treason. He was a adviser to President Tadic at a time when Kosovo and Metohija were declared independent by Kosovo Albanians, where they agreed to do so only after the second round, when Tadic was elected president of the Republic of Serbia, which happened. On 14 February 2008, Tadic takes an oath and thus becomes president of the Republic of Serbia for the second time, unfortunately, and Albanians on 17th, three days later, respecting the US Embassy and DS requirements, Boris Tadic, Borko Stefanovic and Vuk Jeremic, three days later, Albanians declare independence. Everyone is pretending dead and Vuk Jeremic is looking for a non-binding opinion, to solidify that independence, and in doing so they have not moved. Councilman Mladjan Djordjevic, he was a adviser to Kosovo and Metohija at the time, he says he doesn't care, he is now a betrayal, and he forgot that he committed an act of treason on the 17th when they failed to react because they fled to Romania, and Albanians declared independence. If this government were then, never Albanians, the Albanians should never declare independence and if they tried, it would be prevented. One more thing to say, if this government were Montenegro, it would never be separated from Serbia. At the time she was taken away, Boris Tadic was Serbia's president, the president of the community was Marovic, Montenegro's president, not a Serb from Serbia, but a Djukanovic. So the three of them run two states and a community and they separate themselves from themselves. Because that's what they agreed. Therefore, in order to harm Serbs and Russians, by order of the outside, they separate Montenegro, to prevent the possible exit of once Russians, who went out to the sea, because the oligarchs bought some property there, but to, behold, prevent it from coming out, that Serbia has as some way out to the sea, etc. Not to mention Montenegro, which joined the Kingdom of Montenegro in 1918, not the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenians, not before that to the state of Serbs, Croats and Slovenians in Zagreb, but to join in the decision of all these national councils in Grblja, finally, after all, declared that it was uniting with the Kingdom of Serbia, and that coast was from Sutomor to Herceg Novi. This is the shore that joined the Kingdom of Serbia. And Montenegrins say -- they do not admit, they do not recognise the Podgorica Assembly. If they do not confess, it goes back to the old ones, then their shores from Ulcilj to Sutomor, and the rest should have belonged to Serbia when the differences occurred, because they, like Srem and the Grand Assembly of Baranja, Banat, Baka, joined in their decision, the first Serbian shirt, and the Yugoslav coat, joined Serbia. We in Serbia, because of this brotherly love, respect the April 1945 decision of Blaz Jovanovic in Kotor, when the topic was to supply citizens with food supplies. The second point was different. Under the point Various, the leather coat and gun, communist Blažo Jovanovic joined Boka, allegedly justly, Montenegro. We admitted it. And they say today that we occupied Montenegro, which was previously occupied by Austro-Hungarians. Then we reoccupied her. We occupied it by bringing them the Adriatic coast from Sutomor to Herceg Novi. That's why they're accusing us. That's the policy. As far as Majic is concerned, he is living proof of what our part of the judiciary will turn into after constitutional changes and how much political pressure on our country will grow, and money will come from these illegal businesses, the illegal affairs of Šolak's business and Gilas's company. Speaking of which, last night, some of you, and I, were watching the semifinals of the European Championship. Right? Those who watched it were watching on television that belonged to School and Gilas. Right? Is that legal? Let's see if it's legal. There's a law on electronic media. Article 64 says the most important events of interest for all Serbian citizens can be transmitted exclusively by media service providers, these are televisions that cover the entire territory of Serbia and have free access. That means that apart from the cable, you can go to the antenna, that all citizens, that's what it says here, out of interest to all citizens, can watch it. The list of most important events draws up REM. Now let's see how they put it together. It's only so that the prosecution can react, if it is, of course, willing to, and if the judiciary wills to do so. The list of most important events was drawn up by REM and included in that list the finals and semifinals of the European Championship, believe it or not. In the list of most important events referred to in Article 64. REM also included 2018 and 2021 senior team in the semifinals and finals of the European Championship. Last night, you had a semifinal Italian-Spanish game. The transfer of this event is of interest to all citizens. Only the right to transfer has media service providers who transfer it to the entire territory of Serbia and have free access. That didn't happen. How many commercials have brought in halftime and before the game, I can't know that, but I know that the Law on Electronic Media, Article 64, and the list of most important events put together by REM. The Regulatory Body for Electronic Media has done nothing, today I have not seen any news, because the law and the list they have drawn up themselves, which means, Mr Martinovic, that members of the REM Council and REM officials, there some secretaries and executive directors, committed a criminal act of abuse of office. Will the D.A.'s office move a little finger? According to what I have seen Judge Majic write here, I believe that no one will move with a small finger in the prosecution, because Judge Majic becomes the leader of all those 20-odd judges who violate the laws of the militia, and as far as I can see, Judge Majic is particularly interested in the United Group media, where he is happy to see a guest in political shows, which is another violation of judicial independence. What I want the judges to do, and these presidents of the courts, is to determine the truth and to enforce justice, not injustice, that all legal entities and all natural persons are equal before the law, that they no longer happen to protect the guilty, and that they punish the innocent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-07-0.u8243	Thank you, Mr. Risticevic. Serbia's radio-television has informed us that we are still on the air for a few minutes, up to 14.00 hours later, and a tennis match is being played at the Wimbledon tournament. The word is Snow White Paunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-07-0.u8244	Thank you, Vice President Orlic. Dear representatives of the High Court, respected colleagues, citizens of Serbia, to take advantage of those few minutes, as far as we're concerned. I'm kidding, of course, it's not the primary motive. Today we choose the presidents of certain courts and that's always important. I'm mostly talking about it from one position and from one angle, looking at the importance of choosing these people. I'm about to make a good connection to what my colleague Risticevic said. What did he actually say and what did he point to? To the damage we suffer as a system as soon as there is a choice of irresponsible people or people who have no awareness of what they have been given confidence. I fully agree that none of us are almighty, nor overly aware that he could predict in which direction any man would go under the circumstances that man is unfortunately a corrupt slave. But what reminds us of the weather behind us in today's day, I'd say something special, that's exactly what happens when we maybe even pass judgments, and then from a position in a particular case of politics for some rotten compromise, we decide to let the convicted terrorists go free. I'm not someone who could even try, let alone convince anyone to believe or not to believe in a carrot on a stick, but what is the relapse of the release of an Alybin Kurti today, bringing a resolution on the genocide in Srebrenica to so-called. The So - called Assembly of the so - called “Communication. ” Kosovo. There is one part that makes me happy today's nonsense in Pristina, which is because it happened directly and a few days after the same resolution in Podgorica. The paradox is in the fact that the brotherly state of Montenegro, I exclude from this discussion the entire people of Montenegro and I am talking about representatives, who are unwarrantedly giving themselves the right to have a personal position, a personal debt, a personal interest presented in parliament as something that is generally good. It is not prohibited, but it can bring great damage and it is not that the Serbian parliament or any parliament in the world is immune to such a situation, it happens everywhere. There are MPs who have no awareness of having a historical responsibility. There are people's MPs who have no awareness of the fact that buildings like people's congregations remember every word spoken here. There are MPs who have not yet realized that thanks to some stenograms and some of the writings, we had an accurate insight and that it was voted in 1974 on the amendment to the Constitution that was very bad for Serbia. There are also people's MPs who have the awareness that every spoken word here has a weight and that it leaves us the opportunity to be criticized or praised in ten years without making a difference whether we will welcome it or be ashamed of us or be proud of our generations. Why do I say he doesn't care? Because we are exposed to the fact that, and again, I am relying on that discussion by my colleague Risticevic, that Brother Montenegro is stepping out in a way that will show despite the fact that I would have said a majority percentage of the people of Montenegro precisely – no, one policy that was subservient, one policy that was well-obedient, expecting to allow themselves the luxury of having the right to think with their own head, and not the head that will sit anywhere in Europe or somewhere in America or in the end if you want somewhere in Russia, they have tried to regain their right to think. Unfortunately, they no longer have that right, they had the right to think of the heads of certain people who allowed themselves the luxury of adopting a resolution on genocide in Srebrenica and today over their stupidity, got nothing less than from Pristina. Now, this is the part that brings me joy from the position of a MP whose origin from northern Montenegro today, because it has made a clear line between what people, representatives of the people, MPs and what listeners are for old debts or some future promises or promised functions can make no difference between what they want and can. Now I sound like who knows how far away I've gone from the subject, but I'm not, just because he's the prime minister of that so-called. The state of Kosovo is someone whom we have not made a political decision by court, and I must stress this, released from Serbian prisons and made the biggest mistake. When we discuss here and even today we had a discussion in the first part or in hours when we started what any of us thinks, we certainly differ. Surely each of us, first of all, in our area of expertise, has some visions that mostly do not match with people from other areas. Surely my attitude and the attitude of any of the doctors in this room wouldn't be anywhere near, let alone the same, because I can't think the way they do it because they're educated. So in that sense, we came to a discussion that may have acted as an attack, and I know that the hard words were spoken about authentic interpretation. I feel first and foremost with every representative of this people in this House who is only because of the fact that a public figure is exposed to a link without any argument on the subject. I firmly believe that colleagues who have submitted authentic interpretation are also exposed and I had the opportunity in the end to hear what insults, which are really not above all, or should be, the public discourse of Serbia, but the chance to repair Serbia's public discourse, we seem to have long lost, so as such, we are all a bit of a victim. On the other hand, I also fully understand the esteemed fellow Phil who tried to explain how he saw it from the point of view of a lawyer. In doing so, I have to point out, and it's really my respect, not because he belongs to the Socialists, but because it's Tom File's name that it's a parasexual lawyer, so maybe he's a little misunderstood. I'm not trying to interpret Tom Phil here, nor do I think that now I have to defend him, nor define him, I believe that my colleagues understood what his ambition was and what he wanted to point to, but I'm consciously going back to it so that we don't get out of this like people who have an evil intention, some ambition that doesn't usually stand. So we need to pay attention and figure out who the people we're going to trust at this stage are, and some future phase, again, you, because one percent of you from the High Council of Justice, because the fate of our citizens depends on the decision of these people. I don't think she's always under any influence, so eventually, if you want that human. Everyone has the right to sometimes say that judges don't have the right to an emotional reaction, but they can steal a mistake. Small errors are not fatal to the system, but major mistakes can truly be an insurmountable mistake that leaves consequences for future generations. So I firmly believe that everything we do, first of all in this assembly as responsible people, knowing now to a good extent all the people sitting in this room, we will not have a reason like we don't have until now, to possibly be ashamed of some of our decisions. We are absolutely determined that on this path that Serbia has chosen, and this is the way to a better life for citizens of the Republic of Serbia without distinction from which religion, nationality, people belong, to make it easier, to bring in acts that will contribute to all of this, and that even if we come to some petty disagreements on that road, they are not constructive, they are not anyone's tendency to potentially destroy what would be better for all of us tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-07-0.u8245	Thank you. Now I'm setting a regular break. We'll continue at 15.05 hours. The first on the list is MP Bratislav Jugovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-07-0.u8246	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Parliament, since the conditions have been met, I propose that we establish the confirmation of the mandate, the MP of the National Assembly for the vacant seat, in order to enable his participation in the work. You have been given the decision of the Republic Election Commission, on the assignment of the MP's mandate, to complete the vacant parliamentary seat in the National Assembly. Also, you have been presented with a report by the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly, which has established that the conditions for confirming the mandate of the People's Parliament have been met, with a proposal that the National Assembly, in accordance with Article 27(5). The Law on the Selection of People's MPs finds confirmation of the mandate of MP Dusan Maric, elected from the election list Aleksandar Vukic – "For Our Children". On the basis of the decision of the RIK and the report and the proposal of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly, and in accordance with Article 27(5) thereof. The law on the election of Members of the People's Parliament, I find confirmation of the mandate of MP Dusan Maric. I congratulate the People's MP on his election and ask that he prepare himself to take an oath. Dear People's MP, please agree to Article 17. The Law on the National Assembly, let us approach the oath. (The President reads the text of the oath, and the MP repeats it. ) "I swear to defend the duty of the civil servant in a committed, fair, conscientious and faithful constitution, to defend human and mankind rights and civil freedoms and by my best knowledge and to serve the citizens of Serbia, truth and justice." I ask the MP to sign the text of the oath. Allow me to congratulate you, on behalf of the National Assembly and on my behalf, on your election as MP and wish you successful joint work in the current term of office. We're continuing our work. The word has a National MP, Bratislava Jugovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-07-0.u8247	The Honorable Chairman, respected representatives of the VSS, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Our list is called Aleksandar Vukic – for our children, so I will have this short exposure to start with my child. As my child, or my daughter, was in kindergarten, she asked me, what are left-handed dads and what are right-handed people? Since the child was in kindergarten, too little, I had to simplify that answer, so I told her, left-wing politicians are the ones who advocate that teachers, doctors have better salaries, be better and better kindergartens, and the right-wing politicians are the ones who are trying to have a bigger and stronger army and have more police. So in these simplified explanations, in our society, we have all these segments that we can easily present to children, but we do not have the word “justice. ” Justice doesn't exist, not in any of that explanation, and it's invaluable, and it goes without saying. It is understood that every household has water, and it would indeed be scandalous to have a waterless household in the 21st century, as it is understood that every citizen of the Republic of Serbia can consume justice. The fact is that in the 21st century not every citizen of Serbia consumes justice. While I'm at this banal explanation about left-wings and right-wings, here's my esteemed colleague, Marijan Risticevic, if he had found himself in the company of my daughter and me, he would have told my daughter, they are left-handed, son of those who are baptized with their left hand, but even if I didn't like Mr. Risticevic's explanation, he has the right to consume justice. He, as the MP who chooses judges here, did not consume justice. Why can't we consume justice? It's no longer a question for kindergarten kids, it's a question for all of us here. Because the judge is cheap. Because the judge receives a thousand-euro salary. Justice is invaluable, and the judge has a small salary. Justice is invaluable, but the dealer of justice has a small salary. A dealer of justice, on the Vracar, can't buy a decent apartment on Vracar, just to separate his salary from his entire working life. Since the price of squares is over 2,000 euros, so it can buy one square in two months or six squares in a year. So, he's about 15 years away from the whole salary, so he doesn't pay for the water we talked about earlier, to pay off that apartment, to have a decent life. I went further into this subject, so I did one analysis. I talked to ten respected lawyers, I had two criteria. The first criterion is that half of those ten lawyers do not support this authority and that the other half supports this power. And others, a very important criterion is that they earn more than 30,000 euros per year, so they have good incomes. I asked them a question, would you agree to be judges? Every single one of them said no. I went further into the analysis, I asked them, and why not, the judge, so that's the authority, that's the reputation, that's the dealer of justice, I guess every law school student wants to be a judge tomorrow, and they say, so the judge has a small salary. Now, I'm supposed to vote for your proposal, and I'm going to vote for your proposal, because I want to believe that these are the best possible solutions, and that doesn't mean that I absolutely trust you. I just want to believe you. Why do I want to believe you? So, if these people you're proposing today agreed to perform such an important function for this salary, to remind the citizens, that salary is great for ordinary citizens, but this is about someone who plays a very important role in society, so he shares something that is invaluable and that we all need to consume, without exception. I've never heard of you, not from the VSS, not from your defense that you've rebelled, which means that some of you are good at that salary, and then we come to the conclusion, maybe judges are corrupt. I still want to believe they didn't, but enough is enough that 5% or 10% of them are corrupt, so we already have a problem, we have that cancer wound in the judiciary. Speaking of these lawyers, there is one man in the judiciary, Mladen Nenadic, whom we all swear today, when we talk about fighting crime and corruption, he is a Cachanin, my Cachanin and works in the prosecution. And he was expelled from the D.A.'s office because he did his job honestly and honestly. He went to law school, where he made this money that I was talking about being a respected and good lawyer making money. He returned to the prosecution, not because of money, but out of love for Serbia, for the purpose of making Serbia a regulated country, a country where crime and corruption do not flourish. I, from this pay phone, want to thank you for the results so far against crime and against criminal clans, who have been harassing the Balkans, or have been harassing the Balkans, do not even have a foothold in some media. To be precise, in media close tycoon Dragan Gilas and tycoon Dragan Solak, somehow this crime always goes with the tycoons and it seems that in some times alone they have had the right to consume justice. So don't let the lawyer fight for the judge's standard, but you judges should be the first to participate. Don't let a professor of physical education, and I'm a professor of physical education, fight for the status of a judge, because if we don't have the right to consume justice, even though we're thirsty for justice in the 21st century, then I won't know my child when he grows up, I could simplify my explanations, explain the division of roles in society. Long live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-07-0.u8248	Thank you. The word is Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-07-0.u8249	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we are discussing the selection of several presidents of the courts, a very important function for the justice system, primarily the presidents of the courts, the internal work of the courts, the care of the work of the judicial administration, the care of which the time limits of each judge in that court are resolved by certain litigation and disputes, the ruling of the President's exemption and not to list all the powers of the President of the Court. Certainly, above all, it is necessary for the President of the Court, except for these qualifications as lawyers, as judges, as morals, that it is above all fair, it is also necessary to have certain integrity that each judge should have, and in particular the President of the Court, and certainly it is important. I was surprised by something that happened on Monday, first of all by this lawyer strike in Belgrade. I looked into the Assembly of the National Assembly for a session that started yesterday, and I thought maybe it was the Law on Lawyerry, and I saw that there was no law on the agenda of the National Assembly. I remember one law on attorneys that they proposed at the time was the government, but it was formal, the Law on Lawyerry proposed by Bosko Ristic, then the MP of the Democratic Party of the former regime, MP Nenad Konstantinovic, it seems to me that he was the chairman of the Administrative Committee, Slobodan Homen, who was then the State Secretary or Assistant Minister in the Ministry of Justice and I can say that it was a law that was privately written, the Law on Lawyerry. Under that private law, you had to be a specialised lawyer, and that meant the following: if you're a litigator, you could only conduct litigation proceedings, no guilt, no administrative procedure, and if you were a criminal, if you were an administrative lawyer, you couldn't have these other two and so on, so I don't get all of that. The goal was to eliminate that self-defense practice completely, that it could only be done through law offices, where those three thugs would be the owners of these law offices. Other lawyers would work for them in this section, and they would, of course, just count the money, and just the SNS MPs then, the opposition parties chose not to have these crazy provisions in the law. I was sorry at the time that we, as MPs representing, first of all, the interests of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, including lawyers, were not supported by that same bar of lawyers. There was no "s" from the strike either. We were on our own in this room. Or, let's just say, I thought maybe I was changing the Law of Prosecution, where again, the three thugs made a law by which only the Attorney's Office could represent the citizens. This was not even possible for lawyers who worked in businesses, who had passed a judicial exam, or they met all the conditions to be lawyers again to earn money, and lawyers worked for them. And then there was no support for those same lawyers to their colleagues who worked in businesses the same job. I thought it wasn't the fiscalisation law on the agenda because under the Fiscalisation Act, lawyers are almost the only ones in the fiscal system of the Republic of Serbia who are not subject to value added tax, almost unique. If it weren't for some register, the database led by the Ministry of Justice, and in favour of the Republic Tax Administration, to establish actual incomes and that each lawyer, in accordance with his knowledge, pays taxes to his incomes, not that he who comes from a small community pays the same as someone who works in the capital, where disputes and the number of disputes are much higher. There wasn't that question either. I thought it might not be that in the earlier past, let's say business banks could lend loans to one of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and the economy, on the second course citizens and businesses returned loans to these same business banks. No one from law practice objected to that. It was during the government of the former regime who did indeed work in favour of banks. There were no legal regulations, there were no protests, there were no delays in work, so I ask if it was then during the rule of Dragan Djilas, Boris Tadic, Home, Bosko Ristic, or now and no one was objecting and representing citizens' interests. Is that possible today? It's not. The credit only returns on that course it was given. No more extra profits, foreign exchange business with the currency clause, so you count one course when you place a loan, and you calculate another when you need to get back to you. Is it a variable interest rate held by business banks during the former regime? You know, it's a provision in a contract that reads as follows: at the time of the conclusion of this contract, the interest rate is 20% on an annual basis, and it can be changed according to the bank's business policy. Who then worked in the interest of the banks? It's that former regime again. The banks had extra and profit first due to high interest rates due to co-operation with the former regime, the second due to a variable interest, the third due to exchange rate differences, a different calculation. What did we have as a consequence? Well, we had a consequence that they were bringing that extra profit out of the country, buying foreign exchanges and destroying the euro against the euro, and no one was objecting, except for the opposition at the time where the SNS was, primarily, the SNS, where we were trying to make amendments, first of all, defend and defend the interest of lawyers, that there were no law offices and that lawyers could deal with both litigation and guilt and administrative proceedings and family relations, which they didn't give them. Let's move on. One of the MPs, I am sorry to hear that, says the National Assembly must not give authentic interpretation if it is contrary to the view of the courts. First, that's not true. Neither, nor is it true, especially that the National Assembly must not give authentic interpretation of the law that was passed 30, 40, or 50 years ago. So let's not apply that law, if there's no one to do that, except lawyers, I guess, authentic interpretation, not to apply that law, or they're the only ones who have that right. The second thing, the other thing that's been told here is that the Supreme Cassation Court has also taken a stand on this matter and that it is illegal to account for the costs of processing the credit. First, that's not true. The Supreme Cassation Court has taken its stand, but contrary to what is said here and the opposite of what the Bar is telling Serbian citizens. I will read from a to a. Bank has the right, beware, the position of the Supreme Cassation Court, not my private position or personal opinion, the bank has the right to charge the costs and compensation of banking services under an approved credit agreement where the creditor is obliged to pay the bank's credit costs is not void if the bank's offer contained clear unequivocal data on credit costs. It is further said - the costs of processing credit and the release of credit into the exchange rate, as well as the other costs that the bank accounts for to the user when granting the credit or which are known on the day of the account and which the bank accounts for the user during the realisation of the loan contract, could be shown in a percentage amount and charged only through the calculation of effective interest rates. That's the position of the Supreme Cassation Court. What's wrong with this attitude? For not being applied by lower courts and courts of general jurisdiction. And here we come to the part my colleague Martinovic is talking about, that there's a legal lobby, that there's a judicial lobby, that there's a prosecutor's lobby. And what is he looking at? It's looking at the next one. In the course of a single loan, three laws are applied - the Law on Liabilities, the Consumer Protection Act and the Law on the Protection of Consumers of Financial Services. I do not dispute anyone's right to seek protection in accordance with these laws, but you know how you will do a small number of lawyers in Serbia. Fortunately, the vast majority are honest lawyers, safe and responsible people, but one minority who is noisy will three times according to the same contract, one lawsuit will go to the Bond Relations Act, the Consumer Protection Act will go to another suit and the Consumer Protection Act will go to a third suit. What do we have as a consequence? As a consequence, we have that minority lawyer three times will charge for writing a lawsuit, three times. That's the thing that the presidents of the courts have to take a little account of, and the courts, because if the same legal act is the case, then the court should put the list together, run as one procedure, and the court will determine the costs of the proceedings, both the legal and the republican administrative fees and put it to the attention -- you have three suits in the same contract, one written to you, and one will pay you the party who loses the dispute, and not three times. The second consequence we have. Just 20, 25 days ago, Belgrade's first basic court received 10,000 litigation proceedings per three pleas per contract. Look, whoever wins the dispute will get a few thousand dinars in the process, no more. I do not dispute that right if the court assesses it to be carried out, but 10,000 proceedings. In that court, there are lawsuits and lawsuits where people have sought the protection of the law before the court because they want to solve some vital issues of life and can't go from a mangoons to a minority of lawyers. They can't get in line. They can't be delivered in writing. They can't get a complaint, they can't get an answer to a complaint, they can't do anything, because the office is buried, by a minority of corrupt lawyers. Why don't the courts put the files together? This is where we come into this problem and come up with a problem where our citizens are really seriously threatened. This withdrawn authentic interpretation was no different from that of the Supreme Cassation Court, not in any letter, and it was not in favour of the banks. However, there was neither for the benefit of an unfair minority between lawyers and unfair judges, who reached judgments in agreement with them. We will have a procedure to end some first-degree verdict that is contrary to the position of the Supreme Cassation Court. We will have a second-degree verdict, which will also end with an attitude contrary to the position of the Supreme Cassation Court. What's going on? The party she sued gets its two, three thousand dinars for what she sued for. The bank will pay some administrative costs, in terms of the tax of the Republic, etc. They'll pay off the bank at that point and the lawyer, and it'll be through the prosecutor's account, so it'll be a citizen. The citizen will pay the lawyer his fee. Does anyone think the bank will forgive anything? He won't. Be assured that they will not, for every penny they consider to be theirs, for it is in their soul and heart. It will launch emergency legal medicines and will require the Supreme Cassation Court to respect its position, annul second-degree rulings and return to first-degree courts with a measure of how a verdict should be reached. You think the Supreme Court of Cassation is going to step down from its position that he has announced? That almost never happens. He won't. Now we have a reverse process. The bank doesn't want to wait for the outcome of the second procedure, but what it paid with that second-degree ruling that's no longer in the legal system, it wants to pay back. They're gonna charge that prosecutor, that citizen we all represent, and we're all defending, court fees. They're going to pay back the money they thought the damage the bank suffered and they're going to have to pay the bar fees he already paid that lawyer, they're going to have to pay back the bank. That's where Dara overstepped. They lead citizens astray that they will exercise some right for two, three thousand dinars, and at the end of the day, citizens can be in debt to another few hundred thousand dinars because some corrupt lawyer drags them, says the minority, drags them by the sleeve – sues the bank, sues the bank. So after that same bank, he's gonna raise a new loan to pay for his lawyer. That's what it looks like when we have judges and prosecutors who are former regimes, because they do, named in that famous judicial reform, because this could have been resolved in 2010. Why didn't the Supreme Cassation Court with Nata Mesarevic solve it then? They weren't allowed, they weren't independent, they weren't independent. It was a real dictatorship back then. Only a little democracy was here in this room, but a little. I remember when all the parliamentary groups were kicked out of here, that the MPs who were not at the session that day were expelled, and the only pressure, the ten, the fifteen people who attacked the regime at the time, pressured them to do at least a little for the public, out of the fear of those political procedures, at least a little for the benefit of those citizens. Even those judges who were honest and good and survived the reform, taught by the experience of their fellow non-reelected colleagues, were not allowed to write, let alone judge by law. It's the same with the prosecutors. And now someone will say that SNS and Aleksandar Vukic are working against Serbian citizens. Was it a variable course in their time when the loans came back? Yes, it is. In their time, did the dinar lose value? Yes, it is. Was there a variable interest rate in their time? So, how does the bank cut you off, no matter what you sign? Yes, it is. Did anyone sue those banks then? It's not. And if he sued, he couldn't win, because there was no independence and independence of the courts, and now we're gonna block the entire justice system. I don't care if I'm cursed by the media by Gilas and by lawyers who aren't fair. I have a very nice opinion of them, but the problem is that they're going to block the judicial system and that those who really need judicial protection can't accomplish it. So it is not an easy task that the presidents of the courts now have, nor will the future presidents of the courts have, because the courts as courts share the fate of their people and are expected to judge and judge in favour of the citizens, the law, above all, that each citizen has the same judicial protection in the Serbian judicial system, that appeals in Belgrade cannot happen differently than appeals in Novi Sad, that appeals in Novi Sad are different from appeals in Kragujevac, that appeals in Nis can think differently from all of them, so there is a National Assembly. They all have the right to the same legal protection, they're all equal to the laws, and they need judges and lawyers who don't apply that rule to be a disgrace, because they carry public powers and the lawyer is a constitutional category, and they are the holders of public powers. What makes them immoral is that by misinformation they drag citizens into court proceedings that they are not sure what the ultimate outcome will be, and their only desire is that, besides those two, three thousand, how much their party will get represented, profits from 500 to 800 euros in the process itself, even if the party eventually loses the dispute, the party will again pay for it, and never that unfair lawyer who dragged him into the story.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-07-0.u8250	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. The word is Biljana Pantić Pija.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-07-0.u8251	Thank you, Chairman. Dear fellow Members of the People, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, respected representatives of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, I will support the motion for a decision as we have said on the Justice Committee because I think you know best who will be handling the court well. I will refer to something that I expect citizens to know for the sake of the truth, for the sake of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and I may have expected the President of a court to react, the President of the Bar of Lawyers to react, but it didn't happen, so I'm going to have to react. There is one note from Dragan Gilas, the Croatian one newspaper, which comes out in Serbia, I don't have a copy, I really don't want to fill the pockets of Dragan Gilas, I think he filled them up enough and filled them while he was in power, so I'm not buying them, but I've had a chance to read today one of the texts that came from being so-called. A journalist held a conversation with one of the lawyers, where it is mentioned that a lawyer cannot also be a MP, that he has a double salary and that he is mentioned to be in this way to influence the resolution of court disputes. For this reason, I expected the court to react, to say that this cannot happen, that judges are independent, that no one can influence them. We've been denied it. It was strange to me that someone who was a lawyer was having such a conversation with a journalist, so-called. Journalist, I found it odd that he didn't recognize matter, that he didn't know the law and that he didn't know that the MP could be a lawyer. Some colleagues here mentioned that we had lawyers in 2010 at the head of the Justice Committee, we have MPs now, and then it became clear to me because when he read it, he wrote a request for an answer, I don't know if the tycoon Gilas newspaper, which is being printed in Croatia, will publish, but I will read it to you, where he tells you that the incorrectly and incompletely published information quoted in the text is saying that his statement will request that his reply be published urgently: "I never gave a statement for the print release of the media "New", so neither has a statement that was transmitted in the printed edition of this media since 7 July 2021. With the text author, I held a brief discussion in December last year where I did not mention the possibility that the MP and representative of the government could directly influence disputes, nor did I declare any conflict of interest, but I referred the author to the Anti-Corruption Agency, which is responsible for these issues," seal and signature. I hope they publish it, though I don't believe it. You know how, it's understandable that whoever's on Dragan Gilas' payroll is lying because that's what Gilas pays him for. I didn't hear you say so. journalists have asked Marinika Tepic how much her salary is with Dragan Dilas, is it true how much money she received from a drug dealer, I have not heard those journalists in a large interview with the number of these tycoon newspapers to ask the issue of Marinika Tepic why she thinks Serbs are a genocide people or how much money she embezzled as a provincial minister. I read a bunch of lies today, and I saw that there are people who are going to issue a statement and ask for something like this to be published, so we're going to see if they're going to publish it, and I'm still calling on the same media to write about me and write about SNS, because then that means we're just doing a good job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-07-0.u8252	Thank you. The word has a representative of Proposer Djordje Dabic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-07-0.u8253	Thank you, Chairman. Today, fellow MPs have talked a lot about this issue and, above all, the president of the parliamentary group, Dr Martinovic, has absolutely explained everything we have been talking about in the last few days, and it concerns an unwarranted chase against three of our MPs. I, on this occasion in front of the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government and in my personal name, want to give absolute support to Jelena Zaric Kovacevic, Dejan Kesar and Mr Veroljub Arsic, who are the subject of brutal Satanisation only because they did what the Constitution intended them to do, which is that as MPs seek certain interpretations when there is a particular problem in the cases themselves in front of the courts. Dr. Martinovic talked about it. Representatives of the High Council of the judiciary well know that often appeals courts make completely contradictory judgments about the same things and, of course, in these cases, the National Assembly as the highest legislative body, although many forget, so the role of the National Assembly often comes down, you know, to the public in recent years and months, it is absolutely necessary for the National Assembly to do what is our original authority, which is to interpret the laws we adopt and thus to give a good example and to courts in which they should simply pay attention to certain things, things that appear in the disputes themselves. What I want to point out in particular is that today Dusan Nikezic, adviser to Mirko Cvetkovic, the state secretary who teaches us today, attacks directly of course President Aleksandr Vukic, which is most normal for today's opposition when there is nothing else to say and, as the president of the parliamentary group said, to go with A attacks personally on MPs, and then to the parliamentary group, in the end, of course, it is all guilty in this country, we all know that, Alexander Vukic, who says that Vukić is a lobbyist of foreign banks. Be careful, this is what a man whose father was arrested just as he was in power, while Dusan Nikezic performed six functions and, watch out, the chairman of the EPS Supervisory Board, during his time as he was State Secretary, the chairman of the EPS Supervisory Board of the Energy Project, a member of the KS Business Society Assembly, a member of the Telecom Group of Serbia, a member of the Commission for Public Procurement of Management Advisory Services, and here we come to the essence. While he was, therefore, a member of the public procurement group, his father led, was the owner of the CES Mekon consulting house, which was the main house that was doing privatisations when, we know for a fact, Serbia was brutally robbed by the same people who today plebe to return to power. When we talk about these things, we can't help but respond to these people, therefore, and that it's simple for us and for the role and task of showing people who are people today who want to return to power. The man who performed six functions during his time as secretary of state tells us today that the situation was better in 2012 and tells us about some figures that are only known to him, that back then in 2012, when we took power, everything was great in Serbia, how it flourished, honey and milk, as Serbia today says, was over-indebted. Look, when you talk about real numbers, you can't help but see that people absolutely don't tell the truth, that they deceive the public. Public debt was 79%, i.e. participation in GDP, when we assumed power. It's below 60% today at masticht level. At that time, you had a 3% GDP drop, today in this second quarter, the president brought out the data, we have 15% GDP growth. So, people are talking about absolute lies that in every way try to dissuade both the National Assembly and our efforts here to solve certain problems. We must react to the brutal lies and lies that are given daily. Of course, MPs will ask for authentic interpretation of the law when there are certain problems. You know you have today, and that's what my colleagues, lawyers, are talking about, and you have incredible pressure on the courts themselves. We've got to change the litigation somewhere. We've got to change the law on litigation. We can't have a citizen coming to the third basic court, making an appointment in 2023, that doesn't make any sense. Minister Maja Popovic talked about it. We have a lot of money that we're giving right here when citizens are suing for the baseless long conduct of court proceedings and we need to find a way and moderation to cut those costs, because eventually everything is going to reflect on GDP growth, which is good at the moment, excellent. That is the essence of supporting the government of the Republic of Serbia in efforts to further develop the country. When you have GDP growth, you have the opportunity to build roads, build hospitals, raise salaries and pensions. So, basically, it all comes down to us today having to look as a responsible authority for ways to cut costs for the state, so that we can continue to grow this big. That's exactly what bothers people who plan to come to power today. I say, the same ones and Marinika Tepic, who today publishes a run for office in the very newspapers that are being printed in Croatia, announces the candidacy for the president of Serbia. I don't know if she can be a candidate for some political party, except for a possible "Multicom" group, since she is employed in the "Multicom" group and that she is a presidential candidate for the "Multicom" group for Serbia's president. Today, these same people who have robbed the country, who are hungry like Dusan Nikezic, such as Marinika Tepic, such as Vuk Jeremic and many others, are trying to return to power and we must at any time present to the citizens of Serbia what is important today, to instruct citizens of Serbia to and how they think about when elections come, for whom they will give confidence because we must never allow Serbia to be on its knees like it was in 2012. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-07-0.u8254	Thank you. We'll continue with the list of declared word. The word is by Prof. Dr. Ljubisa Stojmirović.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-07-0.u8255	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I have said countless times in this room that I don't understand myself rightly, that the law was never clear to me and that I can't understand that something can happen anyway. Today, when we have a choice of individual judges, it would be our turn to congratulate these people on the achievement that I will achieve today as a simple little professor, as a citizen of this country, to think about what it is that is such a big problem in the judiciary, in the prosecution, and in this legal profession where it is said about these evil lawyers, I don't know what to say, in a group of smaller or larger ones. It doesn't matter. As an ordinary man, I would give all these lawyers, judges and others one piece of advice free of charge. I think their work would be much nicer, better, better quality if they were to judge by that people's -- neither grandmother nor uncles, but by the justice of God alone, if they were to judge fair and by law. Now, what's the problem with judging like that? I don't know. They have to do it in their profession. About this problem, about the citizens, about the banks and all the miracles that are happening to us, and when I mentioned to the citizens, then again, who knows which time comes to mind the text of this oath that we MPs take here in the Assembly. Today, a colleague took it upon himself and told all of us that he would act in the best arts, serve the citizens of Serbia, the truth and justice. What is the problem, then, that everything else in Serbia is right and right, if we do the same? I don't see any reason not to. However, we cannot be honest and say that these banks are good, quality, that they want good to Serbia and the citizens of Serbia. They're a long way from that. If I were to characterise them, I'd say they're bank robbers. They look at every possible way to skin the citizens, the committees, and then they come to you and give you that report, or I don't know what it says -- 300, 500, 800 dinars, it doesn't matter how much, keeping the account. What are they holding? Do they damage his valves, change his oil, dichtung, what do they do? So they find any way to get as much money as they can. We don't have a social bookkeeping service that was really a phenomenal organization that controlled all of this very well and well. So we left that payment traffic to the banks, and the banks are all working in the interest of destroying our economy. There is no development, we have no development bank, we don't have someone who will really follow these entrepreneurs, these companies follow monetaryally, financially, but they are trying to destroy this Serbia and our economy in every way possible. They're looking to cut our roots, to crush us, but they're wrong to think we have roots in the ground. We're upside down, we're rooting in the sky, these are the words of the Igumani of the Ivana Archemandrit of Michael Bikovic. I think he's absolutely right. A complete European, Western system is trying to slow down in every way possible, destroy our economy, Serbia's development, and no matter how hard we try to put this Serbia on its feet, there are always opponents. What's the saddest thing? The saddest thing is that some of ours show up on that side, not to say some senseless expression, Serbian citizens, some who pretend to be intellectuals, and think they're intellectuals just because they're homosexuals. No, they're wrong. An intellectual is first one who loves and respects his country. That it's lucky that we're all unique, that we're all on one front in Serbia's defense. We argue and argue and do only harm to Serbia. As long as it goes, I don't know, but I call on everyone to be well-intentioned, to make sure that Serbia, our country, helps our country be what it is, a decent, honest, prosperous country. We are a people who have not received anything on a gift, we have achieved everything we have achieved, in the blood and sweat of our ancestors, and so we must act and continue to act. We must not let others make fate for us and that fate be bad for us and for our people. I hope that from now on, in future and courts and prosecutors and us here in the Assembly, all institutions will do as I said at the beginning, in the best interests and in the interests and interests of the citizens of Serbia. To not look at it, it's ugly when someone says, I have a lot of friends who are lawyers, who are lawyers, professors, doctors, it's ugly when you hear about someone being a thief, that they're corrupt, that they're like this, and we're all the same tree fruit, we're all children of Serbia. Let us come to our senses and that once truly Serbia is a normal, fair and fair country as it is. I'm sorry if I've been rash and boring. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-07-0.u8256	Thank you. The remaining time of the parliamentary group is 58 minutes. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-07-0.u8257	Thank you, Reverend Vice President Orlic. Dear guests, ladies and gentlemen, I think that today's SNS MPs led by Dr Aleksandr Martinovic have just responded to everything that represents insinuations and all that is written in the tycoon media these days, and about the special activity of the three MPs of our party in the previous few days and proposed authentic interpretations. You know, it's very hard to fight misinformation and false news. I think my colleagues from the SNS have also shown that they are fighting it, so they are fighting with knowledge, they are fighting with the truth and they are fighting the facts that they have shown during this session on a number of occasions, of course. Of course, I use the opportunity to support both Jelena Zaric Kovacevic and Veroljub Arsic and Biljana Pantic Pilju on the rights given to them by the Constitution of this country to propose everything they believe is in favour of the citizens and for the benefit of the Republic of Serbia whose representatives are in this high and respected House, therefore in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I believe that when it comes to these authentic interpretations that we should simply tell the citizens of the Republic of Serbia what this is about and in fact what colleagues wanted to achieve through these proposals of authentic interpretations, since I primarily want to clarify one thing, which is that Serbia is one capitalist country, a country of open market economy. All that we have achieved in the past few years, and it is about political, geopolitical results and successes, successes on the social policy plan, the promotion of cultural policy and all that represents Serbia today, that is, the result of successfully implemented economic reforms and successfully created and created market economy thanks to President Aleksandr Vukic, who, of course, has promoted competition policy all this time, the promotion of politics that the SNS and our majority in parliament have successfully supported to provide such an ambience that would mean equal chances for all those who participate in the single free market that we have managed to create over the past few years. I don't and I don't want to belong to the work of the particular minority, those people who have no political idea, who have no political initiative whatsoever. My colleague Dabic spoke and mentioned this Dusan Nikezic. I don't think an ordinary man, or we here in the O.R., could remember the number of his functions and everything he did or didn't do during his term in office in the Government of the Republic of Serbia. He came here today to lecture the SNS about being SNS, and especially our president is some kind of lobbyist of banks or any other institution, which, of course, is absolutely not true. Alexander Vukic and SNS are exclusively lobbyists of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and lobbyists of the Republic of Serbia and we work directly in the interests of our citizens and this country. Do we have anything against banks? You know how, the easiest thing to say - banks are bad, their intentions are bad, they are not good for citizens of the Republic of Serbia and, of course, it would be good to be demagogues, as did the yellow regime in the period 2000-2012, but no. We are real politicians, and we are based our policy on, in fact, the most important aspects of today's modern market economy, which means equal chances for all those in that competition. Both for ordinary citizens and for companies and for all those who want to invest and work on the market of the Republic of Serbia. What is the biggest result of Alexander Vukic's policy in this domain is that everyone has an equal chance, whether they come from abroad, whether they are domestic businessmen, whether they are foreign or domestic banks absolutely not important. The important thing is that they all have equal chances and have equal rights on this market. I absolutely don't belong to that part of people who'll go ahead and condemn any bad or evil intentions of any company or any economic entity, including banks. Why? Because we need banks, of course. Because banks definitely represent the blood flow of a country's financial system and definitely that without them and support both domestic, foreign and international institutions and banks, and the international financial system Serbia today would not be as financially and economically strong as it is today. But it's to be expected, ladies and gentlemen, that we get this kind of incomparable criticism and these kind of accusations when we can say today, let's say, "Nikola Tesla" airport is the fastest-running airport, which quickly returned to a state before Kovid 19 in all of Europe. Today we are talking about Serbia for which the World Bank has projected GDP growth over 6%. So, in many aspects today, Serbia is the first in Europe, and it is clear that those who want to destroy Serbia's reputation, that those who do not want good Serbia, of course are trying to bring down the very reputation that we have gained in the past few years by investing together with our President Alexander Vukic with enormous energy, enormous knowledge and great time so that Serbia today can be an independent state, so that Serbia is what it is today, which is the economic leader of this region, the economic hub of this region in which everyone, on any side of the world, wants to invest. counterpart Veroljub Arsic said a very interesting sentence when he heard certain turmoils and certain attempts to mark these authentic interpretations by professional associations, especially law associations, as those directed against citizens of the Republic of Serbia. He said that, I thought it might be the fiscalization law. We as a party and as people who are seriously leading politics and are seriously leading this country, we determine to everyone who invests in this country, who works in this country, by how much taxes they pay to this country, by whether they are capable and whether they are willing to pay this country taxes and to pay obligations to this country. It's something that we define ourselves as the highest value, because in the most part and the highest percentage, it affects how our citizens will live. This should be clear to them, we need to explain to them here in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, because of how much taxes are paid by economic operators, companies, whether these are banks, whether they are factories, whether they are production plants, whether they are companies from the IT sector, the automotive industry absolutely does not matter. But it should be said that all of them are involved in this together and in this result that we can build highways today, that we are able to build railways today, that we today are able to have three airports in our country and that we are capable of being a modern European state, but a country that is ready and possible to do so, and that is what President Vukic has shown, to preserve its integrity and to preserve its vital and of course national interests. Serbia during those who today accuse Vukic of being someone's lobbyist was one of the most common prelates. It's a state that was facing an economic collapse. It's a country where only those close to the government received loans during those people, without any guarantee, without any tax confirmation. They came today to give a lecture to Vukic, who today has an economic growth of 6%, which has 3.5 billion euros in foreign direct investment, which has ensured that investors from Japan, South Korea, are coming here via Emirates, Saudi Arabia, European Union countries. They came to give us a lecture on how to run the state, accusing us of being lobbyists of some business cartel or some professional association or some part of our business. These people were just and exclusively the economy and the economic system of this country looking through how they would fill their pockets. Their bosses instead of attracting investment, they set up municipal committees of their party by exotic destinations around the world and opened accounts in countries for which 90% of our population would not even know where they were. And they came to give a lecture on how to lead this country wisely, wisely, and honestly. Now, that's a real example of how they behave, how they're structured and what their organization is, how one cartel means and how one cartel is organized. A tycoon headed by a political party, it is a precedent in political history, I think, Mr. Martinovic, across Europe, where the entire leadership of one party works for the same tycoon and gets paid by the same tycoon. Do they think that Serbian citizens are illiterate, that Serbian citizens cannot understand what their main interest is and that their main interest is only particular, to reach the tills, to reach the budget of the Republic of Serbia and to do again what they did from 2000 to 2012, when they dragged us into this problem that we have with Kosovo and Metohija, when they dragged us into many problems. This is the result of their rule, 300,000 jobs lost, mostly in the private sector. That's the result, that's their scoreboard, and that's what they're trying to do now to convince the citizens of the Republic of Serbia that they forget it, to change into new suits, into their fancy suits, into their fancy cars, and to say – well, you know what, turkey, dots don't apply, is now the Wolf lobbyist of some banks, or anyone else. They're absolute lies. The people and citizens of the Republic of Serbia are as well recognized and therefore give huge support to Alexander Vukic and the SNS, and we here as advances will advocate that each of the MPs, every one, whether he is a member of our party or not, has the right to submit authentic interpretation. He has the right to submit something and ask to discuss some subject he thinks is important and of general social, political, economic or any other importance. Because we are a democratic party and because we have made this country a modern state in which it has the rule of law, in which we will support that all state institutions be strengthened, that all people working in the state administration have enough capacity and knowledge to manage the state and be good, good servants and citizens and businesses. That's not where we demagogue the citizens and the economy. We care about business. The businessmen are our heroes. They pay taxes to this country. From their taxes, these highways are built, their taxes have built up and raised their heads over the past few years. Thanks to them, whether they come from abroad or are domestic businessmen here, our people, our citizens have an average salary today of 630 euros. In Belgrade, the average salary is 702 euros. We've increased the minimum profit by 100% in just the past few years. Now, it's patriotism, it's Serbia, and no one is going to stop us in this process of attracting investment, developing an economy, creating an even better and even more favourable environment, because we love this people and we love this country and in doing so we will warmly support our president, Alexander Vukic, and we will follow SNS policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-07-0.u8258	Thank you. The word is Gjorge Milicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-07-0.u8259	Thank you, Honorable Chairman, Mr. Orlic. Dear representatives of the High Council of the judiciary, two points are on the agenda today. The motion for a decision on the election of the President of the Courts, I will immediately say that the SPS parliamentary group, of course, wants to support this proposal in the voting day, because we believe that the High Council of the Court is competent to make an adequate and right decision and to choose those who are best to perform this responsible and serious function, to perform it primarily committed and in the best interests of the Serbian citizens. The second decision is a proposal for a decision on the termination of the office of President of the Criminal Court in Zrenjanin, which was submitted by the Committee on Justice, State Administration and local self-government. You know how, the SPS parliamentary group is part of the ruling coalition, so we share values and responsibilities. If the Committee has made a decision, it is understood that the decision will also be supported by the SPS parliamentary group, as part of the ruling coalition, I repeat, as someone who shares values and responsibilities in the work of the ruling coalition. I'm going to use my exposure today, because we simply don't have another chance to talk about it, and I think it's important and it's about the judiciary. It is related to something very often respected by Serbia on the path of European integration, which is very often contained mainly in a negative context on the path of European integration to Serbia, although things are not and are not, and that is the rule of law. We simply have no other space and way to talk about the rule of law, except when you are present here as a relevant, as representatives of the High Council of the judiciary or when we talk about issues that are from the field of justice. What I want to say first is that the justice system and the rule of law certainly are the foundations of every legally regulated democratic state, as Serbia today is. Serbia is seriously working on the rule of law. We have achieved the observed results in the area of rule of law, on gender equality, freedom of the media, violence in the family and all kinds and all forms of discrimination. No country has done more than Serbia has done in the area of the rule of law in the past few months, only fully convinced. When I say no country, I mean countries and countries that claim to be members of the European Union, to become full members of the European Union. We passed laws, as I said, on gender equality, the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination was passed, and the Government's proposal on amending the Constitution was adopted. So the strategic interest and the main foreign policy objective of Serbia is Serbia's full membership in the European Union. Serbia shows, the government of the Republic of Serbia also shows the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the president of the state, so we all show together determination and determination on the path of European integration. However, this is a mutual process. You know, when Serbia and whether Serbia will become a full member of the European Union depends not only on Serbia and does not depend on what the institutions in Serbia will do specifically and when we talk about the rule of law, it depends on Brussels, depending on the other member states of the European Union. Besides, I have to say we're witnesses and day-to-day attacks. In 2020 alone, 63 ethnically motivated attacks on Serbs were recorded, a large number of robberies were observed, now I'm talking about Kosovo and Metohija, destruction of property, attacks on cultural monuments, religious sites, religious officials, even the Serbian cemetery. Why am I saying this? I said it a few days ago, and I'm going to do it again today, and it seems to me that somehow since 1389, all things have somehow been directed towards Serbia, allegedly by those who directed them towards Serbia, and Serbia has been guilty of everything. Serbia was also to blame in 1389 for choosing the heavenly kingdom instead of this earthly life. Serbia was also to blame for the First Balkan War. Serbia also looks guilty of World War I, World War II. Serbia appears to be guilty by the UN court's assessment, which I will say a little later on, and for everything that happened in advance, it was guilty of everything that was happening in the premises of the former SFRY. Serbia is also guilty of ethnic cleansing because more than 250,000 Serbs and non-Albanians were expelled from the KIM area, which is 437 ethnically cleaned out of 312. I would like to remind you that in Prizren, which was the medieval Serbian capital where 10,000 Serbs lived in 1991 that today there were barely 23 Serbs, that there were about 40,000 Serbs in Pristina, and there are not even a hundred of them today. Serbia is also to blame for a yellow house that never seemed to exist, as neither is mentioned in any of the UN tribunal indictments. We are also guilty of Storm, we are also guilty of the fact that there were 380,000 Serbs in Croatia today. We are also to blame for Jasenovac's appearance, for the monstrous crimes committed in Jasenovac against Serbs, against Roma, against Jews, which Jasenovac was the only camp in which they tortured children. We are also to blame for the fact that 150 thousand Serbs once lived in Sarajevo, and today, I hardly think about 10,000. We are also to blame for the fact that 15 tons of poor uranium being thrown at Serbia, that we do not know what we eat or what we eat, or what we eat or how much we eat and how much we have in it is the poor uranium. I hope that the commission we formed will give relevant information, give relevant facts, because we really believe that it will do its part of the job in a responsible, serious and committed way. We are also guilty of years ago, as a state and as someone who stands for the president of the country, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and all of us here together in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia are in favour of peace and stability because we believe that it is easy to speak to the wartime Hague rhetoric. It's easy to break something down, but it's hard to keep peace and stability. Why am I saying this? Well, we're guilty of never counting our Serbian national victims from the Balkan wars until today. Why didn't we do that? Well, so as not to hurt the national emotions of other countries in the region and not to sharpen conflicts and to avoid deepening conflicts. And were the others so correct towards us? Were others so honest with us? Now, all of this I've come to realize again just to ask a question – is it the rule of law? Is this the rule of law on which the European Commission report speaks? It just seems to me that since 1878 and the 1878 congress, someone simply doesn't respond to strong Serbia. I was just talking about the provocations of Pristina. I mentioned this above in order to speak and give myself space and the opportunity to say something about the Brussels Agreement, the dialogue between Belgrade and Pristina, and to identify in this context the rule of law. So Belgrade is committed to dialogue. Belgrade and Serbia and the president also said this during the report's submission at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia very clearly, the only way to reach a compromise and fair solution is through dialogue. Serbia is doing nothing, absolutely nothing, and has respected everything defined by the Brussels Agreement and respects both the Brussels Agreement and the Washington Agreement. The only thing he insists on is forming a community of Serb municipalities and the only thing he insists on is missing persons. Are there any reactions from international organisations in all of this? European organisations? EU? There isn't. Well, is that the rule of law? I know it's hard for you to answer these questions, and I don't expect you to answer these questions, but we simply don't have another chance to talk about these issues in the context of the rule of law, and very often they honor us that we are someone who isn't working in the right way in this Chapter 23 when it comes to the rule of law, and I repeat, Serbia has done a lot in field 23, and I will say it specifically, I will say it specifically in the below. Today you have one of the statements that says, Pristina's alleged prime minister of temporary institutions, Albin Kurti, said today, that political summit in Serbia needs to be pressured to admit crimes. Political leadership of Serbia must be pressured unconstitutional from all sides until it recognises and acknowledges that it has committed crimes in Bosnia, Kosovo, and Croatia, to seek forgiveness and to begin the process of punishing criminals. He told Kurti about the adoption of the Srebrenica resolution, Kosovo online. Just another kind of pressure on Serbia. This is one designed pressure strategy for Serbia that should go in about four directions. The first direction is through the states, i.e. to put pressure on countries that have so far failed to accept and have not recognised Kosovo and Metohija's unilaterally declared independence. The other way is to criminalise the family of the president of the state in every way, as someone who is a factor in political stability, someone who has united the region. The third direction, is that in exactly this way and precisely these resolutions, Serbia declares a genocide state, and that we are all a genocide people, and this will be neither the second nor the last resolution of the like type to be adopted in the parliaments of the region as the first to be British. It'll all be the same you'll see. The fourth kind of pressure is the internal pressure, which we have experienced here unfortunately in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, that our distinguished colleagues, sitting here with us, who took an oath, who signed that oath, will respect the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, together with all of us 250, I have nothing against their identity, but I have against their actions that are contrary to the national and state interests of Serbia and the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, because it is a shameful proposal for a resolution they have submitted. That, ladies and gentlemen, is the fourth-in-a-kind of pressure that will be carried out over Serbia in the next period of time. Of course, at least we expect it to be the president of the state who, in their opinion, will be responsible for everything. Here, Spain is already like Greece, it is a painful and difficult topic for us, because Spain and Greece have in some way established direct communications with Pristina. We don't want to say that they're under pressure, but it's just that, unfortunately, it's a state of fact. As I said, therefore, full membership in the EU is our strategic goal, and on this road, the judiciary is one of Serbia's priorities. Following remarks, including criticism from the European Commission, which is shown in the annual report on Serbia's progress, the Serbian government adopted a new national strategy for the development of justice for the period from 2020 to 2025, and the Action Plan for the Negotiating Chapter 23 was revised. The new strategy has been built exactly in line with the needs of further strengthening the state administration, better availability of justice and greater real security, while at the same time it is proof that Serbia is ready to continue implementing European legislation in our legislation. Therefore, harmonisation of European legislation, Serbian legislation with European legislation. Also last month, we adopted a proposal by the government of the Republic of Serbia to change the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia to improve and strengthen the independence of the Serbian judiciary. To repeat once again for the work of the public, it is not the essence of changing the Constitution in the preamble or preamble, the topic is how to strengthen the independence of the Serbian judiciary and to have an even more effective judicial system of Serbia. Now that we're talking about the rule of law, Mr. Orlic, if I'm out of time, I'm sorry, maybe not, here if you'll allow us a few more sentences and I'm done. When we talk about the rule of law, I'm going to refer to something that is the most painful subject for us, which is this famous Hague tribunal. We simply believe that the UN Security Council did not meet expectations, which is why it was formed, because as far as memory serves, its task was reconciliation. Well, did he contribute to reconciliation in the region? Not only has he not contributed to reconciliation, he has further broken down relations, deepened conflicts and sharpened relations in the region. And in all of this, the Serbs went through the worst, and when we talk about the years to which those who were imprisoned in The Hague tribunal were sentenced, and when we speak, unfortunately about those who died and did not wait for the process to end. So law and justice are not something the UN tribunal has been handling. International law, again I look at Mr. Martinovic, because I respect his legal knowledge, international law, Mr. Martinovic, correct me if I'm wrong, can't be selective and can't be for someone less and for someone more. We have a situation here that in advance Serbia has been characterised and defined, as someone responsible for all the bad things that happened in the SFRY space. In short, it is not by chance, which is precisely November 8th, on the day when the UN Security Council session was scheduled to be held, because it is no longer a matter of work, he has finished his job, to file complaints, because Serbia allegedly does not co-operate with The Hague tribunal, because he allegedly did not deliver two citizens, and the Supreme Court in Belgrade has made it very clear, according to our laws, that the conditions are not met, that these persons are not being delivered to The Hague tribunal. And there is one fundamental question, why has there never been a yellow house in any of the UN tribunal's indictments, an integral part of the UN tribunal's indictment? Well, was there a "yellow house" or was there no "yellow house"? Well, do we have clear and visible evidence of Dick Marty or not? No, but now some lawyer, Gasic, from Pristina, is going to file a complaint against Dick Marty, who was illegally staying in some space, a man who was never even in that space, who was witnessed by a statement by Mr Vukcevic, a former war crimes prosecutor, who clearly says that Dick Marty was never in that space, and that he himself was not allowed to look at that area, where victims were suspected. Why was never a "yellow house" part of the indictment, someone from Pristina, a KLA member of the UNK, when it comes to The Hague tribunal? So Serbia has shown its willingness to co-operate, but Serbia expects one thing, and that is truth and justice and nothing else. In the context of this, I ask the question, is all of this correct, if we look at Serbia, is that, in fact, in the right sense, the rule of law? I thank and apologize, Mr. Orlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-07-0.u8260	Thank you. The word is Alexandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-07-0.u8261	Dear Chairman, honourable representatives of the VSS, fellow MPs. Today's election of judges and presidents has never been a problem in this House, because SNS MPs have confidence in institutions, after all, and in the very process of proposing judges, which are the subject of our dialogue here. This is what I think we are all in common today, that we will support the choice and what the proposal is both yours and at the end of the Justice Committee, but today we have had the opportunity to open up many of the topics that we all have different views on here, and that is what represents for us today as the most important topic, because we want to explain to the citizens of Serbia what has been going on all this week, and I think that as representatives of the VSS, you have a secure opinion and what is only an interpretation of the Casation Court, which applies to the issue of paying for the processing of loans in general, with citizens who have received their own judicial epilogue, and there are 200 thousand of them, somewhere the topic and politicisation, many political entities in society, which can't get the support of citizens in political life, so they've resorted to taking over certain topics in the focus to defending one or the interests of citizens's interests. Why am I saying this? Because the charge, when we talk at all about the cost of the loan until 2012, while Mr. Gilas ruled, could not be the subject of any court dispute at all. So they're not even going to have this kind of litigation, let alone the judges get into a situation to talk about it. From the moment the lawyers spoke to the judges that it was simply not possible, until the moment the banks supported exclusively the contractors who worked, the Adi bridge, who were doing the reconstruction of the Bulevar King Alexander, who supported 27 companies where the co-owner was Dragan Gilas. So we're talking about the period until 2012, when this wasn't a subject in the courts at all, when there were no court proceedings, and we're talking about that you couldn't even talk to banks this way as citizens talk today. They speak simply in a way that folds the tabak and seeks justice and justice in a court of law. It is the lawyers who represent your right and then comes to a hearing, which now needs to protect the rights of citizens so that they can charge certain costs of a bank that they have never been able to do before. It's facts and it's the facts and it's the facts and the problem of paying for the cost of the loan, it's not something we haven't talked about so far. On the Finance Committee, we had the opportunity to talk to both the NBS and the MPs about how the bank simply charges certain costs, but for the first time since the arrival and taking responsibility for the exercise of SNS, the governor of the NBS, managed to deal with the banks, that at the end of each year, you, as a committee of a particular bank, receive in writing how much the bank charges you every service, how much it charges for any, processing, not just credits, but the services of those who are called transactions, for the part called cost, margins, and the part called compensation. In particular, independent of the fees are the costs of the loan. What every citizen and every company, in contact with the bank, has a contract to withdraw the loan. The contract states exactly what these costs are and how much a certain loan will cost you. Every citizen has a special and personal responsibility for why he takes the credit and every legal person has legal responsibility for taking a certain credit. When you take credit, you know exactly how much it will cost you and knowingly enter into that arrangement, and on the other hand, the problem of the loans themselves in how much it will cost you is, of course, the duration of that loan and, of course, the ambience of the business that you have when you take that loan. I will remind you that when certain citizens took loans in Swiss, they paid loans that cost fabulously and that their wars from 2005 to 2019, they almost doubled and they came to a figure in the double amount themselves. What happened? One Aleksandar Vucic was supposed to come in to solve the problems of the backlog of 2005, when that Mr. Nikezic cheered and dressed on Serbia's financial market, when no one was allowed to say "A" when it came to loans and when it came to changing the currency clause or changing the interest rate, where you simply entered into that arrangement with the bank and entered a vicious circle where many people were left without their health and life, because they were taking such loans. Don't forget that the state from the April 2019 budget allocated over 100m euros to solve the problem of 16.800 people who wanted to simply change only the Swiss into euro and continue to pay for housing loans. I will remind you that at that time all citizens took the obligation to resolve the issues that those who today care about so-called citizens for the cost of the loan paid for the processing of the costs of the loan 5%. So whoever took a 100,000-euro loan paid 5,000 euros to the bank the cost of processing the loan. Therefore, do not honor us today, nor do you, Mr Gilas, nor do the gentlemen of the bar act, who simply wants to woo the team of Djilas, Jeremic, Marinika Tepic, to talk about how we do not defend the interests of Serbian citizens. We defend citizens' interests when we talk about banks having to define what credit costs are, but also to say that these loans, i.e. the costs that the bank has to pay, are not 100m euros, but are 50m euros. The other 50% charge lawyers and charge the courts as their expenses. Therefore, you need to be realistic about it. Banks, as you can see, in the last two weeks simply connect because there is a small interest rate on the capital market. There's not as much money in the bank as it used to be. They need to redefine their business in the capital market. They connect because they can't function on their own. Secondly, they are complaining to the National Bank of Serbia that the deposits they make, which are mandatory for work, are falling from 10m euros to them. By doing so, they are in danger of their business being simply compromised here on the market in Serbia. What's going on? Once that deposit falls between the mandatory insurance it gives when it starts to work, it could put those banks at risk, and then all these loans that the citizens have would be required to take over. Well, do we want all Serbian citizens to pay expenses to lawyers and simply loans to citizens who are in charge of banks? Of course not. Of course we want a stable system, of course we want the banks and courts to sit at the table and the citizens to sit at the table and together try to solve this problem, not to put their own problems to the Serbian citizens' budget and threaten macroeconomic stability. It's not just a case with us, let me tell you. That's what happened in Italy. You'll remember that three governments fell because of bank problems, because banks always charge. In any case, whether in one or another move of litigation by banks to collect their expenses, they always find ways to collect their claims. Therefore, we must be wise in this case. We, as a state, have also protected President Vukic's interests of Serbian citizens, those 200,000 who have received court proceedings, but we must simply say to the bar that this motive they had, which is exclusively their own personal profit, must now stand in the interest of the Serbian citizens. The authentic interpretation of three colleagues here was an attempt to simply support the Cassation Court in their decision in a certain way, while trying to stop new court disputes that would bring profits to lawyers exclusively, and endangering simply not only the citizens of Serbia in that part of the collection of their credit costs, but to pour problems into potential problems for the budget of the Republic of Serbia and that was the motive of my colleagues who wanted to simply try to solve this problem. Of course, by solving this problem, I think that judges should now simply take their responsibility in that part when it comes to the initiation of these proceedings, i.e. the trial of these proceedings because the untimely simple decision-making, as we have seen, is also making problems that can seal our fate in this financial sense, and this political part that they have tried, Dragan Gilas, to politicise this topic, so that they attack not only our MPs, but at the very end of the distance, their goal is to attack Aleksandar Vukic, for not to think of Serbian citizens and I am now asking the question – why did the 2014 strike take place five months? Because this assembly wanted to introduce that simple lawyers who are tax collectors are in a certain way equal to all these companies, which is to enter the VAT system for those who exceed a certain limit of eight million dinars of traffic, to be those who will use fiscal cash registers. In the end, they give the APR report every year about how much money has passed. Do not forget that until today it is up to the day that lawyers who pay the same tax according to the flat-rate solution, as the hairdressers pay, as the bakers pay, as the cobblers pay, and as you see here, in their way of working, they obviously make far more income and far more trouble when it comes to protecting the interests of Serbian citizens in many cases, because they use many so-called. Legal voids or someone would say holes in the law so they could just make a lot more money than they belong to. I'll tell you there's another law where they use those gaps. This is, for example, the Law on the Protection of Information from Public Meaning, where they, for example, represent certain citizens, who are asking for information from some public officials – how much they spent on a phone that is officially owned, for example, certain officials who do not give such information within the time limit that they are listed have to pay certain fees of between 50,000 and 100,000 and then charge through it, and there are known some lawyers from Novi Sad, costs and lawyers and courts who are three times more than they should pay, or give that information. So, there are many gaps that are being abused and politicized to attack not only SNS MPs, but in general people who want to initiate in this country many procedures concerning economic growth and development in society, and therefore they are trying to rock certain institutions, which is why they would like to simulate in this society how there is a general dissatisfaction. Their dissatisfaction is because they are not in a position to simply rule this country in the way they ruled until 2012, with the help of certain tycoons, and they are only restocks in the authorities who now want to show that those with their institutions, such as the bar, rule simply as one dam without which this system cannot function and therefore simply want Serbian citizens to put aside as some dissatisfied representatives. I will tell you, 200 thousand people who received a court epilogue and received solutions on the reimbursement of the costs paid by the bank from them, may ask whether they received all the money or took most of that money by lawyers, and whether the interest of the citizens was then in protecting this Parliament and Alexander Vukic, who Decidantly said that the citizens of Serbia should be protected in these proceedings, or whether the lawyers wanted to, together with certain tycoons, politicise and put aside for the sake of the new strikes they are announcing. I think that in all of this, the judges have a great role to play in explaining both to citizens and ultimately to these law offices, that it is truly the interest of citizens to be protected by the decisions they make, and that banks will, in a certain way, define exactly what costs they charge and will not have a problem and I think that consensus in society is necessary for all of us. Therefore, these three MPs who have submitted authentic interpretation should not end up on a pillar of shame, because they only wanted to show the citizens that they really wanted to protect not the banks, but those citizens who were simply damaged by those lawyers themselves. I thank you and I think I've been clear enough when it comes to the role of each of us in this process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-07-0.u8262	Thank you. The word is Alexander Mirkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-07-0.u8263	Dear Chairman, the honourable representatives of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, the esteemed fellow Members of the People's Parliament and fellow Members of Parliament, I would like to point out that at the very beginning of my presentation I think the colourfulness of the presentation of fellow Members of Parliament today has been complete. I think you've been able to hear from what point of view the MP is watching all of this today, but you also need to know that you understand that all these people today who have been discussing, but also those who haven't been able to discuss today, represent the citizens and that all you've heard today are problems or something that bothers the citizens, and that we're in direct contact with. Believe that very often we hear about some examples or some things in direct communication with the citizens and that these things are being brought out here in parliament in plenary, because we represent them and they, thanks to them, we are here today. Justice and everything you could hear today is a very sensitive thing. I don't need it especially for you to emphasize who you're dealing with, but I think that when we talk about some very important things, but also when it comes to some minor ones, it's necessary to always look back at something that was in the previous period or something that left a deep trail, most often negative. Today, one of the fellow MPs discussed and mentioned this reform of the judiciary that is repeated frequently in the exhibitions, but from my point of view not enough. What was done in 2009 remains a precedent, not only in Europe, but in the whole world, to a large extent the consequences are still felt today. You know, that year in 2009, nearly 1,000 people wiped their tires. So, one move left nearly 1,000 people on the street, with no explanation whatsoever, or, if there was an explanation, it wasn't appropriate. What's creepy is the fact that these people, you'll correct me if I'm wrong, but I think it was just December 18th, show up for work and realize that they won't work anymore. So, December 16th, a small mistake, but the essence is the same. So they just came to work and realized they weren't working anymore. Something like that is unimaginable, and I think something like this has never, I'm sure, ever happened before, but I'm even more sure it's never going to happen again anywhere, and what happened in our country then, the people who led Serbia in that period, did not attempt to defend themselves, because there was no common sense that could accept it, and the damage that was done later, which was estimated to the euro, was calculated 44,484.839 euros, therefore, on the balance of pay and everything that had to be paid. This is the kind of damage done by people who just wanted someone else like them to come to a place that would decide or matter. These same people today, who represent, above all, Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic, Boris Tadic, are the strongest critics of everything that happens or excuses in this tide. The president of our parliamentary group, Aleksandar Martinovic, defined it best in his presentation. So, the MP here literally, as they would have wanted it, has no right to plead anything, trying to hide it under some kind of charge with political inexplicables. It's absolutely not about one second, nor does it have anything to do with that. The MP has the right to discuss everything concerning the citizens of Serbia, as well as the judiciary. These days we've been able to hear that everything that's going on in the National Assembly is not legitimate, so one day they're going to come to power, all these laws and decisions to undo it. And that's very worrying, because you realize that you're dealing with people who, while they were in power, were also acting the same way, in translation, everything that was appropriate to them, was in accordance with the law, and everything that didn't suit them, they were looking to find a hole in the law or change it to suit them. There were specific examples here. I'm always concerned about the judiciary in that part that justice is not equal for everyone, and most often that injustice is felt by us who belong to the SNS. Here is my colleague Risticevic, who, by chance today, I saw the locket of his car, when he was attacked outside this house, so the status of the damaged and the victim made an atmosphere that he would have attacked someone. Ten people tried to lynch him. They used the video that was pulled, where he kept the key chains, just held them in his hand, to make him an attacker, they commented that it was a knife. And for days, it's been a hack. It's this pendant. You've got a situation where someone who's been the object of trying to get the key to become an attacker. Unfortunately, he talked about it, but he does not want to discuss it extensively. You also have a chance that in these processes, it turns out he attacked someone. Then you wonder if a man who supports President Alexander Vukic's policy has absolutely any rights? When I talk about this, I'm sorry that I was right when I spoke some time ago that it would be normal for the violence and threats that survive people who are part of the SNS or just to support President Alexander Vukic's policy to be normal. Today it must have been over 30 MPs. No one, but literally none of the MPs remembered that last year, on the day before the House of National Assembly, a festival of violence began, so in July of last year, protests took place here, violent demonstrations of a certain extreme group that was motivated and led by Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic, who were here in front of this house, in an attempt to set him on fire, injured more than 100 police officers, dozens of them suffered serious physical injuries. For days they've been trying to portray it as some kind of protestor that has no more patience, but I don't know what for. One officer survived the fracture of both legs. They were thrown at stones that weighed over five kilos. They were trying to portray it as a disturbance of public order and peace. If you throw on a rock that weighs more than five kilos, isn't that an attempted murder? It's been a year. I don't know if anyone got any punishment for what he was doing. I see that today some people who participated in these demonstrations, imagine that hypocrisy, complain and complain that 30 are being led by some processes. Well, wait, do you really think it's normal for cops to break their legs, break their heads, throw stones, torches, bottles, and tomorrow you wonder why someone's running any process against you? It is also interesting that news has surfaced today, again hypocritically, in one part of the media that is directly controlled by Dragan Gilas, who of the man, from a proven bully who was once convicted of jail time, though, then for embezzlement, and in the case of the New Sad Boulevard Europe, it is about Boris Novakovic, a man of hips which, I don't know what now, convicted or what happened, who blames Alexander Vukic. On Twitter, on his Twitter warrant, he published, the first - Aleksandar Vukic's retribution for going to the presidency has arrived, sentenced to six months in prison, two years probationary for preventing a serving person from doing the official shop, Vukic must fall to victory. Dear citizens of Serbia, MPs, I just want to remind you that three years ago, in an attempt to defend some kind of garden, some cafe, because there was a solution in the Vrbas municipality, because taxes were not paid for 11 months ago, debts amounted to 135 thousand dinars, the lease was not paid for 11 months, there was a solution where the garden was to be removed. The police who assisted there were exposed to an attack that lasted more than half an hour. He was led by a man who represented himself and boasted there as a member of the People's Party, the same Bora Novakovic, and now, after three years, he said he had arrived for retaliation because he fell into Serbia's presidency. Let's not ask that question what would happen in another country if you got into the presidency like that. This isn't worrying, these threats are expected of him and they've been going back for a long time. However, what I am particularly interested in and concerned about, and this is also a question for all of us, and also for those of you who are in the judiciary, whether someone will react and whether someone will consider what the president of that party said – cowards want to put in jail the vice president of the People's Party, can, but then you will have to take us all together, I wonder how you will do it. Here, I'm asking all of you now -- what is this supposed to mean, how can this be interpreted? How can this open threat be interpreted and what message is sent to people who judge judges? So, is it now Vuk Jeremic, Dragan Gilas, any of this team representing the former DS regime, which today claims to return to power, that anyone may more indicate that they are wrong or in an even worse situation whether this sends a message that if you condemn one of them for breaking the law, you will immediately get some sort of rematch, lustration or you will be persecuted? For months and years back, we have been listening to Alexander Vukic, the MPs, the ministers, any representative of the SNS put pressure on the judges, the judiciary or whatever. I'm just asking you-- what would happen if any SNS official physically attacked officers in their official duties? Criminal code, I mean, 323. What would happen if someone did that to a SNS official? It doesn't even have to be a functioner, an activist, and we're not talking about the president of our party or any member of our party being a high, prominent official, a member of the presidency saying and threatening the judges or those who need to implement that sentence. I point out this to you for the simple reason that you've been creating an atmosphere too long that you can only do whatever you want if you're against SNS and President Alexander Vukic and you won't suffer the consequences and you can threaten, you can attack, you can call the worst names, you can endanger life in that way, but it turns out it's only legitimate because you're against Alexander Vukic. I think it's not good and certainly, I end up, I'm not asking for the opposite or political insolents to be treated the same way, but for the law to be the same for everyone and for the law to be treated equally, but only from these examples could you see how often the people representing the SNS are the damaged side and for us somehow there's always no justice. Don't think of this as anyone who complains or complains. No, it will neither destabilise us nor kill our morals to fight harder and even better for our Serbia. I'm just suggesting, but above all, Serbian citizens, that they see in essence and practice how things are actually standing, and the only thing I have to say is that I am convinced that judges will continue to guard our country, to keep the law and to enforce it, but I also ask them never to succumb to any pressures that both Đilas and Jeremic and Tadic and all those people who again want to get their hands on the authorities for personal interest, because such pressures will be even more important in the coming period. I just ask them to always act by law, by justice, because we don't have a spare country, Serbia is our only house, our only home, and that's why we all have to work together to preserve them. Thank you and live Serbia!
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-07-0.u8264	Thank you. The word is Zoran Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-07-0.u8265	Thank you, Honorable Chairman, Mr. Orlic. Dear fellow Members and fellow Members of the People, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, you have just had the opportunity to hear today an open discussion of my fellow Members of Parliaments who are the real representatives of citizens, and this is a real example of what the tide is for, and this is precisely the problem that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia face openly, that we are discussing it and that we are working here to solve these problems. You had no opportunity to hear such a discussion before 2012 because the yellow regime at the time was absolutely Serbian citizens. What they are interested in is to fill their deep pockets, to satisfy their own interest, they considered themselves sufficient, and that citizens of the Republic of Serbia were only sheep for haircuts to serve to go to the elections and simply round them again and give them new four years to continue their robbery. In 2012, the citizens of Serbia made it clear -- not to rob and destroy Serbia and give confidence to SNS and Aleksandr Vukic's policy, which they confirm from year to year by opening new factories, by working on reforms that yield results, and we can clearly see the difference when we look at both macroeconomic indicators and when they look at citizens of the Republic of Serbia in their wallets that, unlike the period of 2012, when they were empty, today they are full and every day their salaries and pensions are growing. As Serbia's 2025 plan says, by 2025, the average earnings in Serbia will be 900 euros, the average pension will be 440 euros, and with the statistics we monitor, we see clearly that this trend shows a great direction and that we have taken a swing in meeting it. We are not surprised that the opposition is making the most of both social media and its own to attack all that is good in Serbia. You can clearly see that in no way do you try to get the results and successes that the state has on its international and domestic agenda to show to the few people who are following their media, and believe that from day to day they are all less and less, regardless of what they may have in their possession the largest cable operator, who imposes their channels and their programs, to be in the first place less and less follow them. So we're not surprised by the attacks they've had and the distinguished colleague, Member Pilyu. It's something they do every day, they recycle, so they just change the names of distinguished fellow Members of Parliament where they try to say that if they're not MPs that everyone else in this assembly is not, they're not doing the job, that only they know they're doing the work of the MP. They don't actually know. As I said, by 2012, they showed that Serbian citizens were not interested, after they turned to the opposition, they again showed that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia were not even interested in their voters, and this also shows today when they are an out-of-parliament opposition. Instead of putting their finger on their foreheads and wondering why the extraparliamentary opposition is, they're not even doing it, they're trying to do it without a choice, without supporting the citizens back into the bench, to run this country again, and in fact they'd just continue their robbery and that the money they didn't manage to steal, steal and put on their private accounts. As we have seen today, a colleague of Pilja has made it clear that the industry of Dragan Gilas has not stopped, it is in fact just getting excited and that they are excellently manipulating and conversing, that to God's supposed professional journalists are asking questions not in the way they want, but in the way they want and in the way that it suits them. So, we'll see that their professionalism is whether this letter sent by their conversationalist will be published or not, and the citizens of the Republic of Serbia today had clear evidence to see, in fact, how their media is dealing with this journalism and what they're doing. What is particularly interesting is that the persistent Dragan Djilas, the persistent Vuk Jeremic and other these micro-leaders avoid testing themselves, and even in their own research to run for certain functions and then serve some manipulations, try to gather the grandmothers and frogs to show how, to God, they have, I don't know, more support than President Aleksandar Vukic has, how, therefore, their time is coming, Alexander Vukic's time ends, but they fail to do so. Then, in their media, they don't even manage to run themselves as listholders or responsible officials, but they put their listeners, their employees, specifically here I'm talking about Marinika Tepic, who is clearly employed by all of us by Dragan Gilas in his "Multicom", where they don't bother to show their property map, but therefore they know the property map of each of us MPs, and that property card is, believe it or not, what we have times 10, times 100, depending on how they want to show our readers. Then it turned out that Marinika Tepic is not only the best of all officials, of all the employees of Dragan Dilas, in this company for the bearer of the list, but also better than Dragan Dilas himself, because according to what we could read here, and what they have out of support, they support just for all the functions that this country can have, from the bearer of the parliamentary list, from the seat of the MP to the president of the Republic, and finally even to the mayor of Belgrade. Now that we're talking about the courts, what I and my esteemed colleagues of lawyers could hear, which is, of course, the procedure when you come to the judge that you're thinking that you actually prove that it's you, well, it would be nice for Marinika Tepic to show her passport and show her her ID card to determine whether she meets the conditions for all these functions she can perform. Does he have only Serbian citizenship or maybe Romanian? Whether it has a place of residence in Panchev, Novi Sad or perhaps even Belgrade, as we did not know there were conditions, that it could also run for mayoral office in Belgrade. What she should probably pay attention to, and in many cases we could see, is the great vanity that exists with these micro-leaders, here, we heard from fellow Alexander about the vanity of Vuk Jeremic who, of course, everything that doesn't suit him and whenever he turns his attention to what he's doing, threatens with some rematch, threatens to do lustration, I don't know what he doesn't already want to think about, so I'm afraid, for God's sake, that Marinika Tepic will get in trouble with his boss, Gilas, because what their plan is for the day after, which they don't talk about openly, and we all know it is that Dragan Gilas said to them this way – Belgrade is my prey, do not accidentally touch Belgrade, and the rest of Serbia will agree. And you know how they'll share Serbia? By throwing those crumbs at them like chickens and turkeys on a farm, if they come back to power again, to throw them crumbs to feed them, and everything else he takes for himself. Okay, with the fact that marines are often pictured instead of chicken drugs and drug dealers, I'm not surprised, in fact, that Gilas's boss treats her, but also his associates this way. This is Serbia we certainly don't want. We do not want to go back to that Serbia when they made this shameful and terrible reform of the judicial system where they clearly wanted to put that branch of government under their control, where it was clear who could come to justice and who could not. I say again, nothing has been done in the interests of the citizens, and, as the esteemed colleague said, we have experienced the situation that people in the judiciary wake up the next day and only see, in fact, that they are no longer employed, that they are no longer doing their job for which they were both educated and perfected. It was not, unfortunately, a practice only in the judiciary, it was a practice everywhere in the entire economy, because what they were interested in was their own capital, filling their own pockets, and not the citizens of Serbia, so we had situations and scenes where we saw over half a million citizens who were also out of work overnight, where their companies that had been doing their jobs successfully for decades and for what they were fighting and trying to do were trapped and left without perspective. As SNS and Alexander Vukic arrive, this perspective changes, today we have never a lower unemployment rate, today we have never higher salaries and pensions. What's proud of is that young people return to the state of Serbia, see the perspective. We build factories, build and improve education systems, build science and technology parks. Again, I am proud that industrial and technological parks will be built in Kruševec, which will be a great perspective for the whole region. We raise the infrastructure, we raise the conditions for bringing foreign investors, and just the members of this Freedom and Justice Party, where justice doesn't even have a P, they say that, lo and behold, investors don't want to come to Serbia because nothing has been promoted. Everything is improved and the judicial system has been improved, because the judiciary is very important for attracting investors, and statistics and the number of investments, their value here clearly says that trust in both our citizens and our businessmen is growing, because we continue these reforms, we continue in the direction in which we should go, which is that life for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia is getting better and better. So, in any case, we will not bow down first, we will not let them intimidate us, scare us, we will continue to be the voice of the people. We'll try to get what the citizens have told us as problems here to work together to solve them. In the voting day, we will support the proposals of the president of the judges who will certainly have a difficult task ahead of them, to continue to carry out this reform successfully. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-07-0.u8266	Thank you. The People's Messenger, Nebojsa Bakarec, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-07-0.u8267	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, MPs and MPs, honored by our guests from the VSS, Mrs Delibasic and Mrs Pavlovic, respected citizens, on these judicial points, I would first point out to you two certain suggestions and suggestions, and I will support that in my speech with facts. I would say that the judiciary and the prosecution are failing to co-operate with each other and with the MUP, however, the MUP is not an obstacle to this co-operation. The judiciary and the prosecution are also failing to co-operate with anti-corruption regulators, and they have all snuck up somewhere in their restrictively understood responsibilities. I don't think there's any active co-operation in the fight against corruption. I propose active, direct cooperation between all individuals and authorities, so all these individuals in all of these organs have to make their own personal contribution, to engage personally, and not only to take their job on a restrictive basis, like I'm just a judge, I'm not in charge of this, and I'm just a prosecutor and I can't, I'm just a member of the tax administration, so I can't, and then everyone doesn't cooperate. That's not how it works. Col. Mirkovic pointed out, of course, we were independently writing his speeches, pointing to one important thing and I think it is important, to remind the two of you, that exactly one year ago a coup was attempted in this country, that the Assembly was attacked, and that the attack lasted seven days, and that the employers and organisers Gilas, Nogo, Mladjan Djordjevic and also the foreign factor. I'd like to remind you that 140 officers were injured, a great amount of material damage has been done, and to remind you that a year ago and today, the judiciary has been silent about these crimes. Shut up today. It was only the M.O.P. at the time. But what's frantic is that for this attack on the Assembly and these are really crimes, no one answered today, and that's why I'm talking about it, because we have to choose three presidents of the court. That's why it's important what I said and it's silent on the next crime scene. The opposition parties, two, first of all, the People's Party Vuk Jeremic and the SSP Gilas, as an important part of its programme and it would be interesting if the judiciary would ever report on this, some prosecutor by chance to say whether it is illegal, I say it is. So, as part of their programme, this party cites open rematchism and lustration against members of the current government and SNS official President Vukic and members of his family. When you look at the statements of Gilas, Marinika Zhivac Ciyoban, known as Tepic and Jeremic, you can see that those under rematchism and lustration mean revenge, open revenge and revenge, and speak clearly about it. Let's say "Djjce Vele" is one hundred percent fond of Gilasovites, Jeremics, here's 23.6. You have the text on "Djce Vele" that says – condemns this and says – insisting on such a rhetoric of rematch and lustration, there are many negative connotations, and that term sounds more like a threat of revenge than part of a legitimate political struggle, says "Djce Vele". And about that bloodthirsty and the desire to avenge the witness and the next statement that you don't think I'm telling empty stories. The president of the People's Party, Jeremic, 25.4., said of rematchism, "A change in the system is not possible without a rematch that must be implemented, beware, ruthless. If the People's Party wonders about October 6th, and the announcement of October 6th, I'd like to tell you right away is the announcement of blood and violence, because that's what the unwitting 6th of October 2000 predicted. I continue, says Jeremic – if there is no rematch, public-scene bandits, the bastard from the Assembly, it is directed to us, it will survive and continue to pollute public space, it must not happen" the end of the quote. And in this context, Jeremic openly mentioned the new UNO and leather coats and terror, quoting it "Retaliation against all who think differently, lynch mob and non-selective revenge". Jeremic also said on 19.6., "Revansism means that until the change of government will be permanent after the change of government, the work of the SPS and all SRS derivatives, including the SNS, will be permanently banned. The rematch says Jeremic is also a permanent ban on TV "Pink", rematchism is to keep Ana Brnabic and Aleksandar Vulin incarcerated," near the quote. That's what Jeremic said. Kovačević Sinisha said the same thing. He even explicitly mentioned, the rematch, Kovacevic Sinisa said, will be not only according to the current president of Serbia and SNS Alexander Vukic, but to all the people who have tarnished their cheeks. And now who will evaluate it, probably only Sinisa Kovacevic. On that trail, tycoon Gilas, 26.5. said the following threats on TV "New S". When asked about the question of a leader who made his answer clear, he was asked by a nice leader – you say lustration, from the People's Party they call it rematchism, how is it done, and who judge who these people are? Oligarch Gilas openly says to whom he will shine – we are illustrating people who have engaged in some public action above all, which means that he refers to politicians, but also to people who used the media to spread hate. As part of the whole story, this will apply to all people like Dragan Vučićevic, but also to people who are working on "Pinka" and "Hepija", here I will take an example of Mr Bakarec, these are the people who attack others, they are MPs. That hatred they're spreading, those attacks they're making, so someone has to answer for it, Gilas says. So, everyone will answer, someone has to put an end to those politicians. So, Gilas wants to put an end to all of us. My question is, how's that dot gonna make us? Is he going to make that point with a bullet in our forehead? That's what we're gonna ask Gilas. That's how Marnica, the original name, Zhivci Ciyoban, was pronounced, on July 5th, the other day, on Monday, gave a scandalous interview for Gilas and Šolak's tycoon media "New S". She again called on violence and how she plans to violently take over power, she said nicely, says Marinika Zhivac Ciyobanu – I don't know what the peaceful surrender of power means, that's out of the question. My generation remained obliged to finish what started on the fifth, and it didn't end on October 6th. He's calling for blood again. Let me get this straight again. The Marine Ciobanu does not insinuate anything here, does not say anything indirectly, she says nicely that the peaceful handover of the authorities is not in question, but only violent kidnapping of power in the blood. That is what Gilas' candidate for president of Serbia says, and its basic point of the programme is the violent change of government in blood and nothing else, she says, is out of the question. Look, this statement would disqualify any other candidate, and I say nicely – gentlemen prosecutors wake up. All these people I've listed, including other officials of the People's Party and the SAA, have committed these several crimes. First, they threaten the editors of the media, threaten all journalists and threaten all employees at Pink and Hepija, threaten the authorities, threaten all politicians, threaten lawmakers. What are they threatening with? They threaten rematchism, lustration, in fact, by retaliatoryly threatening to take away national frequencies, threatening to ban political parties, gentlemen. Do you know what that was called in the fourth decade of the last century? It was called Nazism and fascism. Everything now announced by Djilas, Jeremic, the Marine Ciobanu Zhivac, Kovacevic, Gajic and others, all done by the Nazis in Germany, fascists in Italy when I said so. And Marinika Cioban, the Serb people, in addition to this, declares genocide and proposes a resolution on the Srebrenica genocide, and one of its resolutions was adopted today in the Kosovo fake state parliament in Pristina. They gladly took her text and adopted it there, as it was adopted in Montenegro. Marinika Tepic Ciobanu, deputy president of the Djilas SAA, as a member of the Romanian minority, and every honour to Romanians, has never condemned crimes against Serbs in the 1990s, never condemned genocide against Serbs, Jews and Roma who took place in the Ustasha NDH, never condemned the crimes of Nazi Romania in World War II, in Romania itself when more than 400,000 Jews and Roma and Marines were killed, and they were in Serbia. What Đilas, Jeremic next, he openly, as we can see, represents rematchism and retribution, and with Gilas he connects only one thing, and that is the robbing profile of a person. I will remind you, Jeremic has received seven and a half million dollars of alleged donations from criminals from abroad for up to 17 years, while the minister was suspected of damaging the state by six million euros, and Gilas on the other hand, that he really wants revenge here in the form of lustration, also testifys to his violent and robbing psychological profile. Let's remember his threats that the cops, directly threatened them multiple times, would be out of a job. Let's remember his public cursing and insult. Let us remember his attack at a pay phone in the City Assembly, on our current envoy, Alexander Mirkovic. Let's remember Gilas' threats to the President of the Republic on 3 May 2020, he said - a sick coward, you'll pay when you do. We remember Gilas' family violence for an extended period of time where he referred death threats to his ex-wife when the victims were her parents' pensioners. We remember the capital amount of tycoon Gilas over 10 years for three political functions he robbed 619m euros through abuse of official position and trade in influence. But apparently, the overpriced marines weren't sanded, you know, against robbery and violence. I'll give you the next one. She owns a series of properties in Novi Sad and Panchev for which she cannot offer an overexplain of origin. The property was acquired while the province's youth secretary and sports secretary, the first apartment in Novi Sad of 123 square squares in a strict centre, worth over 250 000 euros. How could a modest secretary get that? Then we have an apartment in Novi Sad on Balzak Street, then an apartment in Novi Sad on Boška Buhe Street, then apartments in Pancheva. What about violence? The reputable Marinika has been working with the criminal for a decade and has funded the criminal, his friend Novak Filipovic, whom she also asked for, in the name of the Nazis, to violently move Filipovic out of Pančev's journalist Milakov. Let us remember, dear lady, from the Supreme Council of the Judiciary, that for three years, we have been preparing the ground for the assassination of President Vukic and that nothing has been done on this matter except for the arrest of the mob clan Belivuk. Let's remember the testimony of Chabeder's arrested hitman being offered to kill President Vukic. Let's remember the weapon found in the Eggs. Let's remember the attempted murder of President Vukic in Srebrenica. Let's remember the sniper cover. Let's remember to target the president in the Jilassian media. We remember years of dehumanization and death threats to all members of President Vukic's family. Let us remember that Gilas and the brothers have been preparing the ground for the removal of Vukić since the beginning of 2018. Let's remember the threats of the Jilassovs, the public figures, the so-called. false elites, during these three years that have been calling for a violent change of government in the blood, on the street, and the key evidence of all this has surfaced following the arrest of the Belivuk mob clan. In their hideouts, a vast arsenal of weapons was found suitable for the execution of terrorism and assassination. We are ashamed that UN chief Bogdan Pusic, in the context of the arrest of the Belivuk mafia clan, said that on the day of the monument's discovery, Stefan Nemanja was scheduled for the execution of the assassination of Serbia's president. Dear ladies of the Supreme Judiciary Council, at least I have a clear connection between the armed and political wings of the mafia and terror. It is clear that Gilas and Jeremic are the heads of the political wing of the terror mafia, while the SAA and the People's Party are the political wing of the mafia. If that were the case, let's just remember the links between Djilas and Marinika Tepic to Cijoban Zhivac with criminals, the Japanese government, Novak Filipovic, Milutin Bakic, Milan Dabovic. We remember the crimes of Djilas, Jeremic, Gajic, Novakovic, Aleksic, who committed while they were in power. Let's also remember Jeremic's ties with international criminals, Hoa, Gadjia, Djindjic and Lozoi, who donated him, I mentioned seven and a half million euros already. For what? Both the Gilasovites and the Armenians have been preparing the ground for the assassination that was to be carried out by the Belivuk mob clan, the armed wing of the political wing for three years. Finally, to paraphrase the great poet Dis, who just as if he had spoken of Gilas and Jeremic and wrote in the cult song "Our Days". He says, "They have stolen all the temples and the living life, mocked all the virtues and the honesty, humiliated all the graves and the lives, dirtyed both the iron and the baptism, stole all the temples and the living. At the time of the authorities of Djilas and Jeremic, everything was at a humiliating level, and in the humiliation of the institutions of Đilas, Jeremic and Tadic were farthest away when the judiciary was humiliated. Something my colleagues said about that. Their regime humiliated all Serbian citizens. Serbia was not a decent society at the time, it is now. A decent society is one whose institutions do not humiliate people, and civilised society is one whose members do not humiliate one another, and every decent and civilized society is also a just society. Serbia is now both decent and civilized and just society. Long live Serbia! Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-07-0.u8268	Thank you, Mr. Copper. We're running out of time to discuss this. Before the conclusion, I ask – does he want to exercise his right to someone who has not done so, in accordance with Article 96. Rules of Procedure? Is it possible that the motionary's representative would like to address himself at the very end? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-07-0.u8269	Thank you, I want to. Dear President, MPs and MPs, I have listened carefully to your discussion and rejoiced that four things could be good for the judiciary to notice. The first thing is that you've noticed that the judiciary is in big trouble, that it's overloaded by disputes, that this problem has to be resolved urgently in order for the Belgrade judiciary to choke. I thank my colleague who is not present in the hall right now, here, enters, this very gentleman MP, thanking him for drawing attention to the material position of the judiciary, that the referents and dactylographs work in the judiciary for 300 euros, that the judicial assistants who are graduates with a passed judicial exam and ten-year working experience work for 600 euros, and that the largest number of judges work for a salary of 1,000 euros, which is far lower than the salary in some other state bodies, do not count on legislative and executive power. I also want to thank you for pointing out that the decisions of the Supreme Cassation Court, whose judge I am, must be respected for the equal right to an equal trial and the exercise of the right to access to justice and justice. Finally, I want to thank you for hearing here in this house, as the citizens of Serbia have heard, that between 80 and 95 percent of judges are professional, decent and safe and that they do their job fairly. Thank you for your hospitality.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-07-0.u8270	Thank you for your participation. According to Article 98(4), Rules of Procedure, I conclude a joint single search on the motions for decisions set out in points 10 and 11 of the agenda. According to Article 87(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby set Wednesday, July 7th 2021, starting at 6 p.m., as the Day of Vote on the agenda of the 7th Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 12th Assembly. Thank you, everyone.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-07-0.u8271	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before we move to a decision on the agenda points, we need to determine the quorum. According to Article 88(5), The Rules of Procedure of the Quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the voting day exist if a majority of the total number of MPs are present at the National Assembly session. I ask the Members to insert the cards into the MPs' units. Thank you. I find that an electronic voting system has been applied and that 166 MPs are present in the hall at this time, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and therefore there are conditions for decision-making. We're moving on to a decision. Before moving to a decision, I remind you that from the agenda of this session the first point is withdrawn – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Nature Protection Act. Since we are now moving to a decision on the proposals for the law on the approval of international contracts, i.e. the agreement (points 2 to 9 of the agenda), I remind you that on the basis of Article 105(3), paragraphs 4 and 6. The Constitution of Serbia, the National Assembly, decides on laws governing public borrowing and the conclusion and validation of international contracts, by a majority of the votes of all MPs. Given that, we're moving on to a decision. Second item of the agenda – I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Partnership, Trade and Co-operation Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, the Joint Declaration concerning a trilateral approach, rules of origin and a joint declaration on the relationship between the Protocol on Ireland, Northern Ireland and the Partnership, Trade and Co-operation Agreement, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: total – 170, for – 169, not one vote. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. Third item of the agenda - I put to the vote Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Loan Treaty No. CRS 1020 01 Y between France's Development Agency and the Republic of Serbia for the implementation of the climate-resistant urban environment programme in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: total – 170, for – 169, not one vote. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. Fourth item of the agenda – I put to the vote the draft law on the confirmation of the Loan Treaty No. CRS 1015 02 D between the French Agency for Development and the Republic of Serbia for the Modernisation of the Railway Sector in Serbia Phase 1 in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I am stopping the vote: total – 170, for – 169, not one vote. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. The fifth item of the agenda – I am putting to the vote the draft law on the confirmation of the Loan Agreement (Programme loan for development policies for the efficiency of the public sector and green recovery) between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: total – 170, for – 168, did not vote two. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. The sixth item of the agenda - I am putting to the vote the draft law on the confirmation of the Loan Agreement (Project of integrated development of the Sava and Drina corridors by applying a multi-phase programme approach) between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: total – 170, for – 169, not one vote. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. The seventh item of the agenda – I am putting to the vote the draft law on the confirmation of the Loan Agreement (Project of Modernisation of the Railway Sector in Serbia by applying a multi-phase programme approach) between the Republic of Serbia and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: total – 170, for – 169, not one vote. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. The eighth item of the agenda - I am putting to the vote the draft law on the confirmation of the Financial Contract Gas Interconnector Nis - Dimitrovgrad - Bulgaria (border) between the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: 170 in total, for – 169, not one vote. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. Point 9 - I put to the vote Proposal for a law on the confirmation of the Treaty on credit arrangement No. 0020008959 relating to an unsecured loan of 431,685,732,79 euros, with the UKEF guarantee to finance certain construction services by Bechtel Enka UK Limited, which operates in Serbia via Bechtel Enka UK Limited Branch of Belgrade for the purposes of the business company "Corridori Serbia" d.o.o. With regard to the construction of the infrastructure corridor of the E-761 section of Pojate-Preljina (Moravski Corridor) between the Republic of Serbia represented by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, acting through the Ministry of Finance as a loanee and J.P. MORGAN AG as an agent and JPMORGAN Chase BANK, N.A., LONDON BRANCH as an agent and as an original lender, in general. This agenda item refers to the Moravia Corridor. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: a total of 170, for – 168, did not vote two. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. Since the National Assembly has conducted a joint single search and before moving to a decision, I remind you that according to Article 105 paragraph 2. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, by a majority vote of all MPs, elects the presidents of the courts and decides on the termination of their post. Given that, we're moving on to a decision. The tenth item of the agenda – I put to the vote The motion for a decision on the election of the President of the Courts, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: 170 in total, for – 169, not one vote. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by a majority of the votes of all MPs. Let me congratulate on behalf of the MPs and on my own behalf the elected functionholders of the election and wish them a lot of success in their work. The 11th item of the agenda – I put to the vote The motion for a decision on the termination of the position of President of the Criminal Court in Zrenjanin. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: 170 in total, for – 169, not one vote. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by a majority of the votes of all MPs. Before I close the session, I just want to let you know that you've been given the agenda for the eighth extraordinary session, which I called for July 13th, with seven agenda points. The first item is to amend and supplement the Nature Protection Act, then amend and supplement the Water Act, several international agreements and replace board members. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and decision on them, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby conclude the session of the 7th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 12th Assembly. Thank you.
