ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-27-0.u10014	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fourth Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2021. Please, first of all, give a minute of silence to the late president of the PUPS Group "Tri P", MP Djuri Peric. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 80 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 97 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that she has been prevented from attending the session of the People's MP Justin Pupin Koscal. Dear People's MPs, we continue our work and move on to a joint principled search on the drafts of the law in points 2 and 3 of the agenda. According to Article 90(1), I would like to inform you that the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly have been invited to attend: Marija Obradović, Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government Maja Madžic Puzic, State Secretary at the Ministry of State Administration and Local Self-Government and Milan Culjkovic from the Ministry of State Administration and Local Self-Government. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. According to Article 157(2), I am opening the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly a common principle search on: a proposal for a Law on the Protector of Citizens, which was submitted by the Government and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on free access to information of public importance, which was submitted by the Government. We'll wait just one minute for the minister to enter. I welcome the Honorable Minister Maria Obradovic. Minister, do you want a word? Yeah. Here you go. Minister Marija Obradovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-27-0.u10015	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, dear citizens and citizens, every arrival in the National Assembly for me as a member of the Government is an extraordinary honor, and as a former national MP and a special pleasure. However, I consider this opportunity special because I have been able to introduce you today to two extremely important legislative proposals on which the Ministry of State Administration and the local self-government, whose head I am, worked intensively, dedicated, with special attention for nine months. Before I continue to talk about these two laws, today I want to wish everyone who marks St. Friday happy glory, of course, especially to the members of the SNS who are today marking it in all the city, municipal and local committees of the party, wishing indeed all the style, good health and unity. These are the values we need at all times, especially today when a lot has rested on our backs. Let's go back to the reason we're here today. The U.S. citizens' institution and the trustees' institutions for free access to information of public importance and protection of personal data, each individual, represent one of the few most important pillars on which our society and state rest. That is why our ministry, knowingly invaluable of the importance of these two institutions, has joined, or continued to work on the draft law, whose primary aim is to improve their functioning, i.e. to achieve the social roles they are entrusted with. The State Department and local self-government, starting their work on these laws, did not, therefore, start from empty paper. The work on them was initiated in 2016 in accordance with the then applicable Action Plan for the Negotiating Chapter 23, in the context of the process of accession of the Republic of Serbia to the European Union, so that exactly one year ago we found and took over the significant starting points which were a useful guideline in further work on the adoption of these two laws. It is indisputable that solutions in these laws will significantly affect the life and exercise of rights practically all of our citizens. That is why the ministry has made every effort to take into account as many opinions and views as possible both citizens and interested civil society organisations. I am taking this opportunity to sincerely thank all those who have made proposals to improve the situation in areas where these laws have influence. I am particularly grateful to the citizens' and trustees' institutions themselves, and above all their managers, Mr Marinović and Mr Pasalić, for having responded to our call and actively engaged in the work on making legal texts that have really contributed to the quality of the proposed legal solutions. I would also like to point out in particular that in the preparation of the legislative acts that have been reached today before you, close co-operation with SIGMA experts who gave a positive assessment of the legal acts prepared, and pointed out that this is how the draft laws are designed to meet international standards on the regulation of the position of independent state bodies with ombudsman elements. In this place, I would especially like to point out that certain proposals are not only taken into account, but are fully incorporated into the legal text, such as the issue of regulating the position of Deputy Citizens' Protectors or the relationship of the Citizens' Protectors and the National Assembly when they are submitted, i.e. the adoption of a general act on internal organisation and the systematization of jobs in the professional service of the Citizens' Protectors. In addition to this, a provision on the ban on making statements of a political nature, introduced in the current legal text by amendments and additions to the laws of far away 2007 has been deleted. And also, I want to point out that when we were making the legal acts that were before you today, and that's really important, so-called. Venice's principles of protection and promotion of the Manchester institution, as well as the Convention of the Council of Europe on Access to Official Documents, known as the Tromso Convention, signed by the Republic of Serbia. Of course, it was the principles of the public administration of the European Commission that we managed by writing this document. After these opening remarks, I also want to introduce you to the key aspects of the proposed laws. With regard to the new Law on the Protector of Citizens, I would like to give a brief historical review of the legislative activity related to this institution. In 2005, the Republic of Serbia defined itself as the establishment of ombudsman institutions of general type, i.e. for an institution that controls the work of the administration in all administrative areas, and not for the establishment of so-called Specialized ombudsman. The Law on the Protector of Citizens was adopted on 16 September 2005 to find its place in the current Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, after which changes and additions of small volume and scope were made in the law in the next 2007 period. In the next period of another 2011 legal intervention, the Republic of Serbia has ordered the institution of the Citizens' Protectors to carry out the tasks of the national torture prevention mechanism. Meanwhile, over the past ten years, the need to improve the legal framework that regulates the position of the citizens' protectors and powers, the Ombudsman himself said in his regular annual reports to the National Assembly, representatives of civil society, as well as the European Commission in its annual progress reports on the Republic of Serbia. In preparation and this law, we certainly had in mind all the objections and proposals that could have been heard in previous practice, and as I have already mentioned, starting with existing, or earlier, normative initiatives to improve the legal framework of the Citizens' Protectors, which my ministry has taken over, and considering best comparative legal practice and, of course, moving within the personality of our constitutional and political system, we have indeed sought to introduce the best possible and most acceptable solutions at this time. Believe me, it hasn't been an easy job in nine months. I believe that the key papers in relation to the existing law should be observed through three aspects. The first aspect is a new law entrusted with the powers of the Protectors of citizens. The second aspect refers to improving the status of functional and financial and budget independence of the Citizens' Protector. The third aspect concerns improving the efficiency and effectiveness of the work of the Protector of Citizens. As far as new powers are concerned, I would like to point out that the proposal for a Law on the Protection of Citizens is entrusted to the work of a national, independent monitoring and implementation mechanism for the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, as well as the work of a national rapporteur in the area of human trafficking. In addition, the law practically takes over an existing 2011 solution on the performance of the national torture prevention mechanism by the Citizens' Protectors. Also, with regard to the regulation of new powers of the Guardians of Citizens, I would like to point out one important difference in the solution to the existing law. The proposed Law of the Protector of Citizens authorises the Authority of the Administration, or the Authority whose work is controlled to submit an initiative to amend or supplement laws and other regulations and general acts, if it considers that infringements of the rights of citizens are due to this lack of rights in the regulations, as well as to initiate the adoption of new laws, other regulations and general acts when it is considered to be relevant for the exercise and protection of the rights of citizens. In addition, the Consumer of Citizens has been authorised to give an opinion to the Authority of the Administration in the preparation process, so that the body whose work controls the draft laws and other rules should they be governed by issues which are relevant to the protection of citizens' rights. Unlike the one mentioned in the current law, such authority was given exclusively to the National Assembly and the Government by the Guardian of Citizens. As for improving the independence of the Civil Protection Institution, this aspect would be looked at from several angles. First, the independence of the Citizens' Protector has been improved by achieving a higher degree of transparency, as well as public participation in the process of electing the Citizens' Protectors. The difference between the legal solution so far, the new law stipulates that the president of the National Assembly announces a public invitation to all interested persons who meet the law of the prescribed conditions to apply for candidate status for the Protector of Citizens. The same principle is also proposed when it comes to the Commissioner for Public Information and Personal Data Protection. The parliamentary groups will continue to be empowered to propose a potential candidate for the Protector of Citizens, which is a solution proposed for the first time for the selection of the Commissioners, with the proposals of both laws introducing the obligation of the parliamentary group to propose, as a candidate for the Protector of Citizens, or the Trustee, only the person on the list of candidates previously declared and announced by the committee of the National Assembly. The obligation of the competent assembly committee is prescribed to hold talks with the candidates before setting out a proposal for the selection of the Guardians of Citizens and Trustees and to allow them to make their views known on the role and way of achieving the functions of these institutions. The draft legislation explicitly stipulates that talks with candidates must be public, guaranteeing a greater level of public control compared to existing solutions. Secondly, the independence of the Citizens' Protector is enhanced by the regulation of a much longer term than the existing solution. Instead of a five-year term and the right to re-election, the mandate of the Citizens' Protector is scheduled to be eight years, but without the possibility of a re-election. The proposed solution shall be in accordance with point 10. Venice's principles on the protection and promotion of the Manchester institution, which states that the mandate of the Ombudsman should be longer than the mandate of the elected body, that the ombudsman's post should be limited to one term, and that one term of office should not be less than seven years. As you can see, we were trying to move fully within the given guidelines of the Venice Principles. I would especially like to emphasise that the significant length of the term of office of the Protector of Citizens in relation to the mandates of other state bodies, and above all the National Assembly and Government, without the possibility of re-election, creates conditions for a higher level of functional independence of the Citizens' Protector. Third, the independence of the Protector is also enhanced by the regulation that the National Assembly is exclusively informed of the adoption of a general act on the organisation and systematisation of professional services of the Citizens' Protectors, while the consent of the National Assembly to that act will no longer be required. In relation to the existing law, the proposed solution prevents any kind of obstruction, such as preventing, for example, the adoption of this for the work and functioning of the Citizens' Protectors of an extremely important general act. Fourthly, the budgetary and financial independence of the Citizens' Protector has been improved and prescribed that the annual funds for the work of the Citizens' Protector should be sufficient to enable its effective and effective implementation of the function, as well as that they cannot be reduced unless the reduction of labour resources is applied to other beneficiaries of the budget. In this way, in addition to the existing legal principle, the sufficient budgetary resources for the effective and effective achievement of the function of the Protector, as opposed to the existing law, are introduced and the principle of banning budget cuts, unless other budgetary users are also reduced. In this place, I would like to point out that, when the legal provisions governing the selection process of the Citizens' and Trustees for information of public importance and the protection of personality data, we have managed the need for a uniform regulation of the selection procedure of these state bodies, which are designated as independent state bodies in parliamentary-business terminology, within the meaning of Article 238a. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. For this reason, uniform rules are proposed for selecting the Protectors of Citizens and Trustees. I would especially like to point out in this place that, in the preparation of the proposal for this law, certain authorities of the state administration have proposed to exempt individual authorities, in particular the security and tax administration, from the control of the Protector. In addition to the fact that any exemption from certain authorities of the state administration would be unconstitutional, I believe that this tendency to exempt individual authorities from the scope of ombudsman control cannot represent an example of good administration and rule of law, which is a priority during my term as Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government. On this occasion, I would like to refer to one objection, or point of view, which is highlighted by individual representatives of the interested public, including individual authorities of the state administration, regarding the authority of the parliamentary groups to propose candidates to the committees responsible for the Protector of Citizens, or the Trustee. The essential feature of this stance concerns the problem of the fact that parliamentary groups are educated on the basis of party membership, and the emphasis that the Citizens' Protector puts himself in an independent position in relation to political parties. Without the intention of opening any controversy on this matter, I would like to point out that the Constitution is guaranteeing and recognising the role of political parties in the democratic formation of the political will of citizens, that according to the existing electoral regulations, election lists are authorised, alongside other political parties and coalitions of political parties, as well as that under the Law on the National Assembly in the National Assembly, parliamentary groups from the order of MPs are being educated. Therefore, any dissatisfaction with the existing political and electoral system, since these objections are essentially related to this, cannot be solved by the Law on the Protector of Citizens. With regard to the third aspect, i.e. to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of the work of the Citizens' Protector, I would like to point out that during the preparation of this law, we have adopted the Citizens' Protector's initiative to edit the process before the Citizens' Protector on the complaints of citizens, in order to create conditions for its more efficient and effective management. The bill introduces a shortened and test procedure and prescribes deadlines for the handling of the Protector of Citizens. In this place, I would like to stress in particular that, despite the fact that the procedural and legal terminology and the institutes of the bill are fit in the procedural and legal terminology and the institutions of the general administrative procedure, the control procedure carried out by the Citizens' Protector remains specific, the law prescribed procedure, so on. Irregular control of the administration. The proposed procedural terminology and innovated provisions on the procedure do not constitute the establishment of any specific administrative procedure, nor will the proposed procedural rules lead to a subsidiary change in the general administrative procedure rules. Therefore, the Citizens' Protector does not resolve the rights of the citizens' obligations, but determines the actual situation by appeal or by his own initiative, proposes measures and makes recommendations to the authority of the administration. The protection of citizens does not initiate any legal proceedings, such as the procedure to resolve public officials or disciplinary proceedings, but he submits initiatives, points out recommendations, warns, points to illegalities and irregularities in the work and conduct of the administration's authority. Therefore, our solution is no different from other comparable legal solutions, our Citizens' Protector is a typical Manchester institution, and as such is authorized to address the National Assembly, which has chosen him and who is responsible for its work. It is authorised to address the Government, which oversees the work of the state administration, to address other supervisory authorities, as the public and to warn and point to the misdemeanour of the authority of the administration with its authority and personal reputation. These procedural interventions and the deadlines laid down by law are designed to provide greater procedural predictability for citizens' protection, in individual cases, to benefit the protector himself, but also to ensure a greater level of procedural predictability for citizens when they appeal to the Citizens' Protector. And as a final note, on the proposal for a Law on the Protector of Citizens, I would like to point out the following. I believe that the new law has really created legal conditions for improving the independence and efficiency of the work of the Citizens' Protectors, which is the general objective, set in the Action Plan for Chapter 23 and which is also formulated in this way in the annual reports of the European Commission, on the progress of the Republic of Serbia. I'll talk about the second bill. With regard to the Proposal on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Free Access to Information of Public Meaning, it is important to point out that, at the time of its adoption in 2004, the Law on Free Access to Public Information is considered to be one of the most advanced laws in Europe that regulates the issue of transparency and openness of the work of the public authorities, which confirms the highest position on the list of the Information Rights Organization, which assesses the freedom of information laws around the world. However, although it was changed in 2007 in the meantime. In 2009 and 2010, the amendments were aimed at improving the enforcement of trustees' decisions and harmonising with the Constitution, only today's proposal for a law is made necessary to comply with the laws that have been made in the meantime, and they are important to achieve the right of the public to know, such as the Data Privacy Act and the Personal Data Protection Act, as well as compliance with international standards, transparency of public administration, as well as the proactive publication of information of public importance, which becomes a standard within the EU. Now I would ask you to listen carefully to these key newspapers, which really cover four aspects when the Commissioner of Information is of public importance. The papers we've brought I see through these four aspects, and I hope it will be a focus in our debate. First of all, in the part of the proactive publication of information by the authorities on their web presentations through the improvement of transparency and an increased number of information that is about to contain a work informant. Another thing, through the expansion of the circle of subjects to which the law applies. Third, improving the status and functional independence of the Commissioner for Public Information. And as a fourth, no less important aspect, it is to prevent the abuse of the right of information seekers to initiate misdemeanor proceedings for violations provided for by law without a prior complaint to the Commissioner. So, the key message I want to send from this place, when we talk about the Trustee, about amending the Public Information Trustee Act, is that it is a message to all public authorities that respecting the principle of proactive transparency, they are not waiting for requests for access to information, but that they are publicising as much information as possible about their work in advance. The other important thing is that they don't ignore the public's demands because we realized that so-called. The silence of the administration is one of the key shortcomings in the application of the applicable laws. By empowering the Commissioner to issue infringement orders for non-compliance with the requirements, he will lead, as we expect, to the elimination of this negative and unwanted practice by a large number of public authorities. By improving, therefore, the legal framework, which regulates access to information of public importance, we increase the transparency of the work of the authorities in the Republic of Serbia, and I will do so again, a large number of times during the day, because somehow, proactive transparency is a symbol of the amendment of this Law on the Trustee. Therefore, the transparency of the work of the authorities in the Republic of Serbia is increased by regulating the publication of information on the work of the authorities, i.e. the promotion of the provision of access to information on a proactive basis. In the applicable law, the prescribed content of the informer does not fully correspond to the types of information in respect of which there is the highest public interest. New amendments to the law will fully address these issues in a way that achieves the greatest efficiency and transparency in the process and proposes an update obligation within 30 days of the moment of the change in the information contained in the informant. An information-making obligation is introduced in electronic, machine-readable form, which should allow for an easy search of the necessary information. It is proposed to establish a single information system that would lead and maintain the Trustee and through which all informers would be published. The establishment of such a system for which, according to the Annual Report of the Trustees for 2020 already created the relevant conditions, should lead to a greater degree of transparency and easier monitoring of the implementation of the Authority's legal obligation to produce information about their work. The draft amending and supplementing the law extends the circle of entities which determine the status of authorities which are obliged to act under the laws and include certain categories of natural persons with public authority such as public notebooks and public enforcement bodies, then public undertakings, institutions, organisations and other legal persons established by the regulation or decision of the authorities of the Republic of Serbia, autonomous province or local self-government and newspapers including local municipalities, then companies in majority state ownership, companies that are owned or controlled by the companies mentioned, as well as other authorities that have not been subject to the law so far. The current definition of the authorities for the purposes of applying the law on free access to information of public importance is relatively broad. There was a need to comply with international requirements, primarily the Tromso Convention, which promotes the transparency of the state institution as a key feature of good governance extends the circle of entities to the definition of authorities, starting from a real situation that exists or some new categories of entities have been established. In addition, the current text of the law when determining the circle of a person considered to be a body of authority makes two categories of such bodies, one of which sets out a number of obligations, such as the making of an informer and the submission of a report to the Trustee. This difference has been shown to be unwarranted in many cases and should be removed because it narrows the scope of the exercise of rights. The bill further provides that authorities with units of local self-government, such as municipalities, cities and the city of Belgrade, and the authorities of urban municipalities, given the importance and scope of the information they have in order to deploy central city administrations and to speed up the process of obtaining information on submitted requirements. In particular, the current definition of a legal person established or financed in general, i.e. in the predominantly part of the state body, by stating that public undertakings, institutions, organisations and other legal entities established by the regulation or decision of the authorities of the Republic of Serbia, an autonomous province or a unit of local self-government, including that, I repeat again city municipalities. Therefore, the law provides that the circle of the authorities includes companies, in majority state ownership, under which the majority ownership of any of the authorities referred to above is assumed, individually or in the collection. However, an important newspaper in relation to the current law is the extension of the circle of the law-holders to the so-called daughters of the firm, i.e. companies that are mostly owned by the companies mentioned by the authorities, as well as other legal entities established by all those companies. In addition, the bill also specifies the amount of information to be provided, i.e. they should be provided by those legal persons who carry out certain activities of general interest, have public authority or which are financed by the authorities. Such legal entities which have the property of the authorities and the reporting obligations in relation to information relating to the conduct of public work or financing from a public source, but not for any information that is in their possession, shall also be provided. As I have already stated, speaking of new solutions to the Law on the Protector of Citizens, the position of the Trustee is in the same way improved by achieving a greater degree of transparency, public participation in the process of his election, by formulating the provisions in the same way by calling the President of the National Assembly, as well as through the obligation of the competent assembly committee to hold public talks with candidates before setting out a proposal for the choice of the Commissioner, to give them their views in the role and manner of fulfilling the role of the Commissioner. The proposal to extend the trustee's term from the current seven to eight years, as well as to limit itself to one term, is based on the same solutions proposed on the term of office of the Protector of Citizens, all of which, in accordance with the Venice principles, aim to prevent the so-called. professionalizing the duties of the Commissioner. Also, according to the trustees' annual reports in the application of the law in the context of the exercise of trustee's competence, difficulties in the administrative executions of its solutions have been observed, as well as difficulties in implementing its powers. The new legal solution gives more operational authority to the trustee to impose penalties for not executing his or her decisions, depending on who is in the place of the Trustee. On the other hand, the current application of the law has also pointed to the possibility of abuse of rights by information seekers who have rarely initiated misdemeanours due to violations provided for by law without prior complaints to the trustee. In view of the above, the important newspapers are contained in the proposed new member of the law concerning the obligation to execute the trustee's solution. Therefore, for the first time, the trustee is empowered to apply for infringement proceedings when it is assessed in the appeal proceedings that an infringement has been committed by law. This solution is also linked to a provision which provides that the application to initiate a misdemeanour procedure by the applicant is subject to the prior submission of the complaint to the Trustee, i.e. the initiation of a administrative dispute before the Administrative Court when the complaint to the Trustee is not permitted. In this way, we want to remove the possibility of abuse of the right currently in force by the law which has been applied for the initiation of infringement proceedings separated from the appeal procedure, which in practice leads to a large number of these requests submitted by the information seekers and through lawyers without a previously declared remedy against the decision, i.e. the conduct of the authorities. Such behaviour, i.e. not making an appeal to the Commissioner, with the application to initiate the infringement procedure, gives the grounds for concluding that this application for access to information was not intended for the purpose of obtaining information, but that it was merely a means aimed at exercising the right to compensation for legal services in the proceedings before the Criminal Court, which constitutes a classic example of abuse of law. There is no doubt that the path towards obtaining the requested information, i.e. the necessary information in the event where the Authority refuses to grant access, leads to proceedings before the Trustee, i.e. the Administrative Court, and not through misdemeanour proceedings. These are therefore proposed a solution to wait until appropriate second-degree procedures are completed with the initiation of a misdemeanour procedure. Following more compliance with the requests made by the European Commission in written remarks submitted by Sigma, as well as at meetings held by representatives of the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government with experts from this organisation in the previous nine months and were extremely important to us, I would like to point out that the proposals concerning the improvement of labour transparency, particularly in the formulation of mandatory data to be contained by the government authority's work informer, were largely adopted, which was also commended in the latest report of the European Commission delivered on 5 October this year, which received positive comments on changes and additions to the Law on free access to information of public importance. The adoption of the proposed amendments, i.e. complementarity, transparency in the work of the authorities has been promoted as the main and primary form of security of information rights through, I repeat, the projective publication of all relevant information on the work of the authorities and, of course, the effective and responsible conduct of the authorities under the requirements of the applicants in accordance with the law. The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, was indeed pleased to present in the House today these two extremely important legislative proposals, which I can responsibly argue are essential to the principle of good administration, the administration that should become a service of citizens and businesses, and less regulators, in which citizens have confidence in the impartial, professional performance of public affairs and where effective systems of monitoring and monitoring and monitoring of work and behaviour have been established, which is otherwise one of the basic objectives of the new Public Administration Strategy for the period from 2021 to 2030, which we introduced in the first half of this year. In fact, the strategy was brought in the first half of this year. I'm thinking, that's about 25 minutes as I speak, it's normal for him to resist a speech error. The bottom line is that these draft laws are indeed proud of the Republic of Serbia when it comes to the process of European integration, i.e. the harmonisation of legal acts. By improving the legal framework governing the institution of the Protectors and free access to information of public importance, we want to contribute to the improvement of responsibility and transparency of the work of the state administration. I am convinced that the solutions that contain the laws that are before you today will succeed. Thank you for your attention. I am indeed with my associates, not only those who are here, but who are today also closely monitoring at the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government during our debate and later in particular when we consider these laws, we are at your disposal. I hope the public takes their part as well. I expect certainly and a very critical contribution, a constructive critical contribution from the media, which should help us to show that these two draft laws really show that the Republic of Serbia is a democratic society, whose legal acts in the process of European integration are something that is the pride of countries in the region, and that we should show it today, and the next days, because the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is the only place where and where and in the future to be defined acts that will guarantee every citizen of the Republic of Serbia every constitutional right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-27-0.u10016	Thank you. Do the officials of the committees want a word? The word is by MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic, chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-27-0.u10017	Thank you. Dear Mrs Obradovic and her associates, ladies and gentlemen, on the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, we discussed the proposals that are before us today and assessed that they are in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so today the MPs will have the opportunity to discuss them. When we talk about the Law on the Protector of Citizens and the Law on Free Access to Information of Public Meaning, we must certainly keep in mind the Strategy for the Reform of Public Administration, which was adopted for the period from 2021 to 2030, which the Government adopted precisely on a proposal from the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government, and of course, we can also talk about the improvement of the legislative framework that will contribute to the improvement of the responsibility of the state administration and the transparency of its work. I will speak from the point of view of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law. What is interesting in this proposal that lies ahead of us are new legal solutions that prescribe the choice of Protectors of citizens, given that the Committee responsible for selecting the Protectors of Citizens is the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law. It is good that the president of the National Assembly will make public calls to all interested persons who meet the legal requirements to apply for candidate status. Of course, parliamentary groups will propose candidates to the Committee of Representatives and, as authorised proposings, they will be able as a candidate for the Protector of Citizens, i.e. the Trustee to propose an exclusive person on the list of candidates previously identified by the committee in charge. In this way, more transparency is guaranteed in the process of electing the Protectors and the Trustees and, of course, ensuring a higher level of control by the public. Also interesting are the solutions envisioning the long term mandate of the Guardians of Citizens and Trustees. When you mentioned the Venice Principles on the Protection and Promotion of the Manchester Institution, it states that the term of office of the Simeon should be longer than the mandate of the body choosing it, that the function should be limited to one mandate, and that one term of office should not last less than seven years. I think these solutions are good and that we will be able to implement these solutions and fit into the legislative framework as it exists in the Republic of Serbia. Speaking of these Venice principles, I would also like to say that in the talks with the representatives of the Venice Commission in the process of changing the Constitution, I have indeed seen the importance they have given to the institution in the EU countries. In particular, during constitutional changes, I saw that they simply meant their participation in the election, let's say, members of the VSS, unless they were able to do so by the Assembly to the two-thirds majority. So, I want to say that there are rules that we will implement and best fit into our legislation, because on the one hand, we are fully committed to a process whose ultimate result will be our country's full membership in the EU. What is more important, perhaps, to say today, for Serbian citizens is that in this way we will provide Serbian citizens with a good administration that is addressed to their needs, which is approximated to them, which will suit their demands professionally and efficiently, of course, according to the law in accordance with their powers, but also respect the rights and dignity of Serbian citizens. This is what is most important and what I believe will be expected positive effects from the application of the proposal, or the law the next day when we vote, in practice. So I finally invite my fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament to make these proposals in the voting day and to support them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-27-0.u10018	Thank you. I give my word to the chairman of the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality, the honourable MP Dr. Muamer Bačevac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-27-0.u10019	Given that strengthening independent state institutions contributes to one effective protection of human and minority rights, the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality is with special attention, and I must say the Minister and with pleasure, since it is an excellent law, considered this law. Certainly, the Protector of citizens in our legal system has a significant and special place. The Manchester institution is a bond between government and citizens and sometimes it is not only the first, but also the last measure a citizen can do to resolve some injustice. In that sense, the proposal of this new Law on the Protector of Citizens, which has been a resolute ministry, and our Government, has implemented and implemented, is only a continuation of one policy aimed at strengthening the responsibility and efficiency of the public administration. This year we were able to adopt two extremely important laws in the field of human rights. These are the Law on Gender Equality and, on the other hand, amendments and additions to the Law on combating discrimination. What we are doing today, what we have in front of us, shows that there is one government intensities to really strengthen mechanisms that protect human rights and fundamental rights, including minority rights of our citizens. Addressing the Protector may enable citizens to receive professional legal assistance in the process, which does not expose them to any costs. They also receive effective protection, although this does not mean a legally binding decision, but often leads to the correction of errors in the illegality of the work of the public administration. Today, however, in the world of the Simeon institutions, it does not only serve to control the work of the public administration, but it creates and acts preventively in this field. It also initiates the adoption of laws in this field, but it also amends and supplementes laws dealing with human and minority rights. Through its activities, the Citizens' Protector monitors the phenomena in society that lead to or can lead to human rights violations and can respond to appropriate actions, actions or proposals. The need for a new law came from the practice and experience of the work of the Ombudsman himself. It's very important to emphasize. You have already said that guidelines and arguments have been adopted, i.e., to say the principles and principles adopted by the Venice Commission of 2019. It is very important to extend the responsibilities of the Citizens' Protectors and expand and it is given a significant role in monitoring and implementing our obligations under certain conventions, the Council of Europe and the UN which we have ratified. You've talked a lot about the Civil Protection Procedure. He is more transparent and I am very glad that there will be a public competition, which will be able to register all those who deserve or who have practical conditions for that. Under the bill of law, this new one, which according to us is a condition for selecting the Guardian of Citizens, is no longer a need to be a graduate lawyer. It will now be possible for anyone with a higher education and a ten-year experience in the affairs of importance and the exercise of the competence of civil defenders. Of course, the conditions for moral and professional quality and the non-compatibility of functions and bans on participation in political activities that do not comply with the function of civil protectionists are still in force. The news is that Deputy Citizens' Protectors are no longer elected by the National Assembly, but appointed by the Citizens' Protector himself. The very procedure carried out by the Protector of Citizens is much more precisely defined. It is also important that the bill provides for the possibility that, in the name of the natural person, with its consent, the complaint can also be lodged by the association involved in the protection of human rights. I would especially refer to the specificities that the law provides for, when it comes to harming the child's rights, which is that the child can bring it on his own, bring the complaint if it's 10 years old. Finally, I would like to conclude that we have before us a bill that will contribute to the improvement of the work and capacities of the Citizens' Protectors, and that is why the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality has proposed and therefore proposes to the National Assembly to accept this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-27-0.u10020	I thank the President of the Committee, the esteemed Dr. Bačevac. I give my word to Mr. George Dabic, in front of the Committee of Justice, the State Administration and local self-government. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-27-0.u10021	Thank you, Chairman. Dear People's MPs, ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Minister with Associates, the Committee on Justice, the State Administration and the Local Self-Government at yesterday's session supported both proposals for legislation today in front of MPs, and a proposal for a Law on the Protector of Citizens and a Bill on Free Access of Information of Public Matter. Of course, these newspapers that are being introduced are good, as soon as transparency increases in one process. This means absolutely to all Serbian citizens that we will have one more precise and better selection process for the Citizens' Protectors, so that all these changes are absolutely in place, but I would particularly refer to the relationship between today's government and the assembly's calling towards all these independent bodies, according to all these regulatory bodies, agencies. You have a completely different relationship today than it was before 2012. To remind the citizens of Serbia, before 2012, all these independent, alleged bodies were not even a little independent. They were also under the control of the former regime, so you had a situation that the Anti-Corruption Agency had nothing when the former mayor of Belgrade put hundreds of millions of euros in Serbia's citizens' pocket. They didn't even advertise from the Fiscal Council when we were in debt at green interest rates. At the time, we couldn't hear anyone from this Competition Protection Commission saying it wasn't right for one company, one group, the "Multicom Group" absolute monopoly over state seconds of RTS. The DRI didn't answer either. Today, as we know, all these institutions are free to do their job. We are also proud of today's and the DRI and how it goes in the municipalities, looking for hair in the egg, I say, there were no sanctions before for any violation of the law. Today, the Competition Commission, you had here seven days ago, people said, dozens of applications were written for harming the competition. That's Serbia we built today. Everyone can do their own job and that's what we stand for. We also have criticism when the Fiscal Council comes to us here, which brings out certain political assessments. They're being answered politically from here. And the gentleman, MP Veroljub Arsic last week, also had arguments when we talked about everything we predicted when it came to the economy of our country, and how we responded to all the political remarks that came from Pavel Petrovic and from the Fiscal Council. So institutions are certainly doing their job today. They're doing their job. We are particularly pleased that today we are in such a situation that everyone can freely plead, say what they think. We also have a situation that the former Citizens' Protector, when we're talking about it here today, we inherited it from the former regime, we didn't replace it, we didn't make party cleaners, we didn't bring our people in, he was in the middle of the former regime, I'm talking about Sasha Jankovic, but we didn't replace him, he decided to replace us, so he sought out co-operation at certain foreign centres of power, and as he says today, and that all the foreign embassies were interested in taking action here, replacing power and bringing him to Serbia. Of course, for all the happiness of the Serbian citizens, it did not go well with them. We today have a country where the citizens of this country are wondering about its leadership and we are glad that even today when we have Mr. Pasalic at the head of this institution we have a man who does his job, we have no party, how can I say a catch, we did not bring anyone from our party or any ruling coalition. So, a nonpartisan person, he runs his own business, works the way he really should. This is Serbia as we have built from 2012 to today. We are particularly proud of the fact that when they hit politically, as is often the case with the Fiscal Council, they are answered politically from here, but there are no sanctions, nor are we replacing anyone, nor are any pressures being put on all these independent regulatory institutions and bodies. Once again, we will vote in the day of voting and call on all the people's followers to support both draft laws that are on the agenda today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-27-0.u10022	I thank Mr. Dabic. Short notice. We got a call for the fifth session, so after his exposure, we close the fourth, and then we start with Fifth. Here you go, Mr. Zukorlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-27-0.u10023	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens as we have already been able to hear and see through explanations and other discussions before us today are two very important laws, two laws that have the intensities to ensure a full sense of freedom and rights for citizens in relation to the state. It is clear that the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government have made a huge effort to make these bill proposals look the way we see them and I thank them and congratulate them, as well as the government that proposed these laws. As far as the Law on the Protector of Citizens is concerned, it is known that this is an institute which is here to say a few terms dates back to our society, or state, that at first we have faced a phenomenon that was first between us and actually these amendments and additions of the law we are perfecting this law, but we are already relying on very serious experiences from the past years. The very idea and purpose of the existence and introduction of the Civil Protection Mechanism actually stems from the very awareness of the belief that the state apparatus is some kind of mechanism that can be insensitive at some point. Because the state and the state apparatus represent some sort of concentration of power. That power certainly will be used or abused depends on the people in the state apparatus who exercise power and whose hands that power is in. However, it is not possible and it is not good to leave it exclusively to the consciousness and ethical quality of individuals that they decide whether to use or abuse that power themselves. The very fact that this phenomenon exists, the flow of modern human civilization in terms of improving the rights and the rule of law, improving freedom and human rights of every citizen has actually come up with the idea that within a state apparatus in the status of a certain independence installs a civil protection mechanism from the state. The role of the Protector of Citizens is to protect the citizen from the abuse of power within the state apparatus and it is definitely one great idea, however much it looked or utopian in principle, because we actually have this intertwination because the state itself, or the state apparatus, is installing or establishing itself a mechanism to limit the possible abuse of power towards the citizen, and certainly the delicacy of the idea itself is precisely pointing to the delicacy of the implementation of this idea and all these years of our experiment with the Civil Protection Mechanism shows how sensitive the category is. We have had experience with the establishment of this institution of various observations that we have removed in earlier changes and additions, but what is clearly seen today is that the bill's intention was not to cosmetically carry out some interventions that are suggested by certain factors of the international community, but to really get a law that does not have a reserve in intent, or intensity, and to play its part. Of course, it was logical to respect the principles of Venice, but what is more important than that is that we really have a Protector of citizens who will be the Protector of citizens who will play this role in full capacity, no matter how delicate it looks, but it is visible that if there is a intention above all the legacies of the law, because it defines, formulates the laws, and there is a proponent in favour of choosing each word to determine the position of the Protector of the citizens, and of course we are the ones who today, or these days, will take their stand. I don't see any reason not to support this law. On the contrary, this law should be supported although it now looks remarkable, but it does not again mean that in a few years we will not come up with any new experiences, which we will consider and which we will implement and that is the personality of human law, because however imperfect man is, then his laws can not be perfect. They're just as human as they are. It's just a matter of intent and expertise. So intent and ability determine the quality of one law. What is clearly seen in this proposal was clearly a good intention to get the best possible law at this point, and I think we're going to succeed. Sure if it's for every other law. As important as the legislative aspect of the quality of the law is and in terms of its writing and in terms of what we are about to adopt here, nothing less is important, even more important for the very effects on citizens will be the application of that law. It depends on the quality of the Protector of the Citizens although the very notion of the Protector of the Citizens is somehow personified in an individual, in a man who runs this institution. We know it's a very complex system, a very big mechanism, a team of people, a very serious administration that is personified in a man who runs it, but it's of paramount importance the quality of the entire administrative apparatus of the Guardian of Citizens. How much this law will give depends on the quality of not only the first man we choose here and who we choose, but also on his entire apparatus, the efficiency of that apparatus, their attitude towards the citizen. Because the Civilian Protector is too much, let's say, a legal mechanism, but he kind of sounds the hottest in that whole state apparatus complex. So the state itself, as well as the notion of the state kind of sounds a little harsh, rough, because it's holding something back. I guess because the state holds everything together, the Protector has a duty to give in a little bit, not to hold everything as tight as the state does. So, the Citizens' Protector, in my opinion, in addition to what his legal role is, actually represents a kind of psychological exhaust valve for citizens, where a citizen feels what he gets as a child, which is pardoned by his mother, doesn't always mean that he gets everything from his mother, but the fact that he's being pardoned by the head and that he gets an understanding, it means a lot to him. Because the demand is also a very relative category. It doesn't mean that everything a citizen feels is denied his rights, that's right, because it's a question of respect or disrespect for the rights of a citizen, as much as a legal category, as much as an individual category of experience. So, I think my right is compromised, and maybe it's not, or many of whom are threatened, they're used to it, and they don't feel threatened. So, in addition to the principled dimension, it has its very important individual dimension of experience or sense. That's why it's important for the Citizens' Protector, in addition to this mechanical aspect, to say the same thing, to actually have this one human, human relationship, which seems to me to be being built up over time and that it actually exists. Because sometimes when you feel that all your cases are closed, it's important to you that someone tells you -- yes, you're right, we'll do everything we can, even if it was nothing at the end, but that -- we'll do everything we can, it just sounds very positive and benefits the citizens. All that is suggested in terms of further, let me say, establishing the independent functioning of the Guardian of Citizens, and about the mandate and about financial independence, is actually something that definitely further promotes the Protector of Citizens. What I want to point out and to round up what this law is about, is that in addition to being a legal mechanism, which is a mechanism that has its own implications for the emotional-psychological of the citizens, I think it is very important that all levels of public communication are more worked on by the fact that it is also a very important cultural aspect. Therefore, the existence of the Protector of citizens also has its very important cultural cultural aspect and should be done more, not only at the level of political public communication, but also at media communications and education. So it would be very important for us to talk more in the education system, not just about the Institute of the Protectors, that, but even more importantly, about the culture of law-seeking. You know, when you educate, educate, educate, raise children, young generations that what makes them human is right, that freedom is what makes them vertical beings, that the choice of what makes them human beings, etc., that when you speak, then you don't actually create a barrier between the state and the people. You know, only by the law, it has to, it's like, it has to be respected, it's like the difference between a strict parent and a soft parent. So a strict parent achieves effects up to one age, as long as the children are held firm, under the control of force and firm arms. That looks great, the father's sullen, he's screaming all the time, no one's allowed to talk in front of him, the mother's following him, the kids are listening, and everything's great, they're great in elementary school, and as much as we're gonna see in high school, as we're gonna see, as much as they're growing biologically. When they strengthen these children biologically, that pressing that produced results to some period, it actually turns into its counterproduct. So we get a counterproduct where that rigor no longer produces results. Most of the time, those families in which they rule with a firm hand by their parents shoot a little later. So, when these children feel strongly opposed to their parent, not only will they not listen to him anymore, but they will also watch what they have been forced into for the past ten or 15 years, to make up for breaking all of this and doing the opposite. It is similar for you in the mentality of communication between the state and the citizens. So if we only have a culture of law enforcement, the must, who doesn't do it, will be persecuted, etc., yes, those who feel their weakness or at some stage of weakness will tolerate it, however, will experience the state as a bully towards themselves, even if it is legal. It is therefore very important that we have through education to improve and improve the culture of relations towards law, justice, justice and freedom. In this way, we will have this piety relationship, like the soft power of a smart parent who keeps control, but all of this works in a soft way to communicate with children, and what is difficult for them, to long learn, to read a lot, to stay early, to train, etc., to make it nice and nice. So, the smart state with the smart system works like that. So much more energy is investing that through culture, therefore, cultivating consciousness through education is actually what is basically imposed, because justice and law must be and impose. We can't even go to that extreme completely. So, to make it not only normal, but also receptive, and it is achieved through quality education, through permanent education, and it takes a lot of energy. I'd like to talk more about it, that is, show awareness of the importance of it. Because the meaning of sanctions is important, but the meaning of sanctions by the idea of legal theory is only for the small minority that you cannot bring into order by education and culture. If you understand sanctions and impose rights and justice as a rule, and not as an exception, then we have cruelly negative relations and it always accumulates negative energy that will sometimes explode and produce negative results. As for the second law, the law on free availability of information of public importance, it is also a law of exceptional importance based on the idea of transparency. So, that is the meaning of this law, that again the potential danger of abuse of the position in the state apparatus, especially when it comes primarily to the financial flow or flow of other interests through the hands of the owners, whatever level they are, to eliminate that possibility, transparency is a key factor that prevents abuses. This law is the answer to such a danger, i.e. such a problem and now we have a relatively short experience, but a solid experience that we have already been able to notice all the real needs or real failures and here now also with very high quality, at least from the point of view of my assessment, are prepared proposals that should certainly be supported in the day of voting. What I would add with this attitude, and what should be further, is what with constantly poor students, when it comes to certain civil servants, factors, or entities, who permanently don't give information to normal procedures, but you have to permanently force them by the protection mechanism. So that's where we don't seem to have any answers yet. We've given insufficient attention not through the law itself, but through perhaps an attempt to seek and some other mechanisms to damage, what about the damage that's being done by losing two years to get that information. The most common medium is the one that asks for information from a certain state authority, my experience is more at local level, so I know concrete examples of this kind. What's now, say, a certain medium requires information from the state's authority about that and that. Watch out, that organ avoids giving that information and you force it to use the protector after two years. That information is no longer worth anything. It's the same problem with the Information Act. But you'd have to look for solutions to that. Whether there is a penalty mechanism, that is one question, but there would have to be at least some kind of public conviction, so there must be, let's say, we also have transparently prominent state authorities, officials, presidents, presidents, or whatever they were, where we're going to have a certain portal or a certain possibility of giving who these officials or officials are constantly doing this abuse and constantly pushing a citizen or a certain institution interested in information of public importance to use the protection mechanism and to lose a year, two, three, etc. So, that's something that I should, I believe, at a further stage of working out and this law or maybe some sublegal acts, but I think it would be of paramount importance, because it's important and not actually producing that impression that you have the law, but then whoever has to apply that law says, well, it takes me two years to get that information, I better raise my hands. So with this suggestion, that is, the proposal and the remark, I'm definitely finishing my discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-27-0.u10024	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President of the National Assembly of the Academy of Muamer Zukorlic. Honorable Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 90(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that, pursuant to Article 101(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, Rules of Procedure, I interrupt this session due to the fifth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2021, which was called for today, starting at 11.30 p.m. In accordance with Article 101(5), Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that the Fourth Session of the Second Regular Session will continue immediately after the end of the Fifth Session. We're continuing the previous session, just a few minutes to wait for the minister. Thank you. Dear People's MP and representative of the Social Democratic Party of Serbia MP Natasa Mihailovic Vacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-27-0.u10026	I thank you, Vice President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The Honorable Minister with his associates, fellow Members and fellow MPs, the current Law on the Protector of Citizens, which was passed in 2005, means before the adoption of the still valid Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, except for constitutional normation, which has been appointed by the Ombudsman as the most independent body protecting the rights of citizens and controlling the work of the authorities of the state administration and minor changes in 2007, mainly in relation to compliance with the new constitution, has not experienced significant changes. Meanwhile, thanks to the accumulated experience of looking at comparative practices and the necessary changes, there have been a number of proposals for the necessary changes that have come from both the Citizens' Protector and the professional public and associations dealing with the protection of citizens' rights. Also in the 2011 regular annual report, which I was still working on as a journalist, the Citizens' Protector pointed out the need to improve the legal framework so as to point out in all the upcoming annual reports the need for amendments and amendments to the law by making concrete remarks and proposals towards improving the legal framework. In addition to the Citizens' Protector, the need for change and problems in the application and the need to amend the law were also highlighted by individual civil society organisations that presented identical and similar objections and proposals for amendments to the Law on the Protector of Citizens in published research and studies. Finally, in its progress reports on Serbia in the EU accession process, the European Commission has expressed its position on the necessity of amending the Law on the Protector of Citizens to improve the independence and efficiency of the work of the body. By adopting this law, we are fulfilling the activities envisaged by the Action Plan for Chapter 23 in the EU accession negotiations on the judiciary and fundamental rights, particularly in the area of amendments and addition of the Law on the Protector of Citizens, in order to strengthen independence and improve the efficiency of the work of that body, particularly in the performance of the national torture prevention mechanism. On the other hand, the Action Plan for Chapter 24 provides for the establishment of the capacity of the Citizens' Protector's Office for Independent Oversight in the fight against trafficking in human beings, particularly with a focus on the rights of victims of human trafficking and the protection of human rights. The bill brings before us a newspaper inspired by these very proposals that respond to the needs that have been crystallized even during the current application of the Law on the Protector of Citizens. Let me also pay attention to several significant changes that will certainly have a material and visible impact on the protection of the rights of our fellow citizens. What I would especially like to praise is that this bill extends the circle of the person whose rights the Protector of citizens protects. The indicator of this enlargement is that the term citizens in the bill includes this time all natural and legal persons regardless of their nationality and whether they have citizenship at all. We believe in the SDPS that this is a significant change compared to an existing legal solution that such people without citizenship have not recognised so far. A significant newspaper, which I also believe will especially help some of the most vulnerable groups that have difficulties in meeting in legal norms, but also for all citizens who want to be helped in the process by professionals, is that this bill allows the complaint on behalf of the natural person to also be submitted by the human rights association, which receives written consent from the natural person. It is good that the Citizens' Protector has a comprehensive co-operation with those organisations dealing with the protection of human rights, the protection of citizens' rights on the ground, and I hope that a good signal is that the long-standing practice of the Citizens' Protector is introduced into the law as regards achieving co-operation with civil society organisations, as well as international organisations and mechanisms for protecting and improving human and minority rights. This bill specifically points to the importance and obligation of building the institution of the Protector of Citizens with regard to the protection, promotion and promotion of the rights of the child. We in the Social Democratic Party of Serbia believe that this is a major and good shift towards protecting those who often have the least protection and are recognised as one of the vulnerable groups. I would single out a significant extension of the areas of protection that are being looked at in that the adoption of this bill will allow children over 10 years of age to file complaints, but also that for children, complaints can be filed by their parents, also by organisations engaged in the protection of the rights of the child, of course with the consent of parents or guardians or children over 10 years of age. I think it should also be commended that this proposal allows for greater and more significant participation of the Protector of Citizens, in the protection of the rights of users of social protection and institutions providing home accommodation services to children and young people as well as adults and old people, i.e. this proposal gives the Ombudsman practical authority to review the social protection institutions providing the service without prior notice and distraction. Another item that I am quite sure of is helping citizens who want to file a complaint is that this bill provides for much longer deadlines than the current law provides, and this would mean in practice that the complaint can be filed no later than 3 years from the violation of the right of citizens, i.e. from the last act or failure of the authority of the administration, in connection with the violation of the rights of citizens. Of course, we all know the saying that justice is slow but affordable, but that doesn't mean that we shouldn't work to increase efficiency and speed, both judicial proceedings and complaints to the public defender. The significant paper adopted by this bill also refers to the obligation of the complainant, to try to protect his rights before addressing the Citizens' Protector, in an appropriate legal procedure. Under the current law, the Guardian of Citizens cannot act on a complaint until all legal means are exhausted, which would include appropriate judicial proceedings, as we know, that they can often last very long, and which, according to the Constitution, the Citizens' Protector, cannot influence. With this bill, it is proposed that the obligation to wear out appropriate legal procedures only applies to the procedures against the authorities and oranimations that the Protector can control, and in some ways will be facilitated, to help protect the body of the Citizens' Protectors. I would also refer to changes in the citizens' choice as well as the change of mandate, and this proposal introduces the Institute of Public Call to all interested persons to apply as potential candidates for the Protector of Citizens, and this represents a kind of democratisation, and we always welcome the steps that will allow citizens to have as much and more active a part of the choice of their Protector. Of course, the National Assembly, however, as a representative body of citizens, retains a decisive role in the election, authorised candidates for the Protector of Citizens, the committee responsible, should as so far be parliamentary groups in the National Assembly. In relation to the existing legal solution, the proposed and extension of the mandate of the Protector of Citizens, but without the possibility of re-election to the post. The bill provides for the term of the Protector to be 8 years and there is a successful practice in the world that leaders of those institutions who should play a role in control and supervision, who are elected and appointed by representatives of the executive and legislative authorities, have mandates longer than those who place them in those places, in order to strengthen the function of the independence of these bodies. We hope that now good practice will also be shown in Serbia. In line with this understanding, the next change concerning retirement should also be taken into account, the Protector of the Citizens during the term of office, that is, if, in the course of the term of office, the Protector of the Citizens fulfils the conditions for retirement, he, unlike the current solution, continues to perform his post until the end of the term of office he was elected. In line with the principle of autonomy of the Civil Protection Institution, it is also a proposal that Deputy Citizens' Protectors no longer elect the National Assembly on a proposal from the Citizens' Protectors, but that right was left exclusively to the Protector himself, after a public competition. As for expanding the autonomy of the citizens' protectors, I think it is a good step forward and that the bill, unlike the previous one, empowers the Citizens' Protector to provide initiatives for amending or supplementing the laws, but also other regulations and acts, points not only to the National Assembly and Government, but also to other administration bodies. I would also like to welcome that the National Assembly, the Government and the authorities of the administration will have an obligation to enable the Citizens' Protector to be made known in the preparation process, the regulations, in particular, and to make his views known. The second law we are discussing today is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Free Access to Information, of public importance. The Act of Accession, as well as the very access to information of public importance, certainly represents one of the basic weapons of researcher civil society organisations and independent media in the investigation of corruption, the fight for greater transparency of public authorities and labour control, public function holders in general. The annual report of the Commissioner for Public Information and Personal Data Protection confirms the continuity, i.e. the trend in the closure of institutions, because several hundred examples are recorded year by year in which institutions do not provide timely information, or do not provide any information of public importance, even when they are obliged to do so by the Trustee's solution. And this law was passed before the adoption of the current Constitution, more specifically in 2004, has been changed three times today, with the focus of the amendments as was in the case of the Law on the Protector of Citizens, its alignment with the Constitution, declared in 2006, in the area of the regulation of a qualified majority to elect the Trustees, the termination of the duties of the Commissioner for Information or the removal of the identified problems in his previous work and application, such as the execution of decisions made by the Trustee for information of public importance and protection of personal data. But these changes did not include changes necessary for the sake of compliance with the many laws that are important for the exercise of public rights, to know, such as the Law on the Secrecy of Information, and, of course, the Law on the Protection of Personality Data. The amendments also did not cover changes that would be in line with the development of human rights and the application of international documents and practices by most EU countries. On the needs of amendments to the law, even though he was given the highest marks since his adoption, the trustee himself has repeatedly pointed out. Also, according to the Commissioners' reports, in the application of laws with aspects of the exercise of his jurisdiction, difficulties in the administrative executions of his solutions, inadequate responsibility and difficulty in enforcing trustees' powers have been recorded. The need to amend this law has been recognised, of course, by the revised Action Plan for the negotiating Chapter 23 relating to the judiciary and the protection of human rights in the EU accession process of July 2020. Also, in order to improve accountability and transparency in the work of public authorities, the changes are foreseen by an action plan to implement a new public administration reform strategy in the Republic of Serbia for the period from 2021 to 2025. By adopting these amendments and by supplementing the trustees institutions, it shall be entitled to request from any authority an insight into the information and to request the delivery of all necessary documents, in order to determine that any infringement has occurred. Also, it would be sanctioned and the silence of the administration and the Commissioner could impose a fine, which I am sure will, positively, reflect the application of this law when we adopt it in practice and will certainly contribute to improving the exercise of the authority of the Commissioner himself, but also the right of citizens and the public to receive the necessary and necessary information. As we know, the silence of the administration, or the silence of the administration, was a major problem and one of the key weaknesses in law enforcement. The highest number of complaints to the Commissioner is also being made for failure to comply with the requirements of the information seekers, as well as for the delivery of a negative response, and without making reasoned solutions to the reasons for the refusal and with the lesson on the legal remedy. Thus, in 2019, the Trustee resolved 5.188 complaints, of which 4,604, or 88,74% were reported precisely because of the ignoring of the requester's information, or the delivery of a negative response. These changes for the first time since 2004, will sanction responsible officials in Serbia's authorities for failing to comply with a request for free access to information of public importance. According to the above, the proposed amendments to the law have the purpose of establishing mechanisms that need to lead to authorities acting in accordance with their legal obligations, in particular, to respond to the requirements received by citizens, and, of course, the applicants of their rights under the law can only exercise their rights for the purpose provided for by law, which is the availability of information on the work of the Authority. These mechanisms are, above all, characterized by the provisions on the administrative execution of the trustee's solution, the authority of the Commissioner to apply for criminal proceedings and the introduction of a criminal order. All of this will certainly in practice further improve the independence of the trustee institution itself. This, in practice, means that the Commissioner is entitled to apply for criminal proceedings against responsible persons in authorities that do not comply with the legal obligation and for which, in the appeal procedure we receive, we find that they have committed an offence. She has been able to do so so far, and will be able to do so after the adoption of these amendments and the addition of administrative inspection, but because of the burden of their activity in the area so far has been limited, so there has been a situation for the proceedings before the criminal courts to be conducted at the request of the damaged persons and their lawyers. A significant change is certainly the possibility of opening the trustees' offices in other parts of Serbia and the announced opening of regional offices in Kragujevac, Novi Sad and Nis. A good indicator is, of course, that officials from these cities supported the proposal to set up offices. When we talk about improving public access to information directly or indirectly related to the proposed amendments, i.e., additions to the law, the extension of the circle of entities subject to the obligations laid down in the law is also foreseen. It is also necessary to support the adoption of the principles of proactive transparency, as well as the improvement of the system of production and publication of information on the work of authorities. These are all positive changes. I believe that the effects of this new law will only be seen in its practice and application, and of course, we are here to further improve both the institution and the Protector of citizens and the Trustee of information of importance, because these are independent control bodies that must continuously improve their independence in work, because in the extreme line, contributions and strengthening of institutions and the rule of law and the protection of human and minority rights. To me, it remains only to say that the Social Democratic Party of Serbia, the parliamentary group, will gladly support both proposals of your law in a voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-27-0.u10027	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Slavenko Unkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-27-0.u10028	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister with fellow Members, honourable fellow MPs, today we have two very important laws, a new Law on the Protector of Citizens and amendments and amendments to the law on free access to information of public importance. These amendments are foreseen by the Revised and Action Plan for Chapter 23 in the process of Serbia's accession to the European Union. Speaking of the European Union, a report to the European Commission for 2021 is available these days, and this is the most favourable Report for us so far, where progress has been found in almost all areas. The report concluded that the Commission's findings were interpreted and more favourable than in earlier years, resulting in a recommendation to open two clusters in the country's accession process. When it comes to the Protector of Citizens, it is an independent state body in charge of protecting, promoting, respecting civil freedom and rights. The protector controls whether the authorities of the State Administration, the Republic Public Advocate, bodies of the organisation that conduct public affairs towards citizens are acting in accordance with the laws. This new law should cover changes in already existing solutions, but also to settle some new rules for the first time. As a society, we are often successful in ensuring the competences entrusted to the Protector, and the uninformed citizens are asking a question - from which the Protector protects us, actually believing that the Protector has a solution to all their problems. The protector is the most frequently corrective factor in the rule of law system, where the power of arguments and authority warns authorities to correct their documents, their views and their decisions. The proposal for a new law provides for the extension of competence in some areas as capacity building for the Protector of Citizens through an increase in the number of employees, as foreseen by the Action Plan, as well as the systematicisation of the Protectors. The new legal solution determines the widest circle of faces whose rights are protected and the circle of faces that can file a complaint spread. Powers are being extended to protect persons with disabilities, persons who are victims of human trafficking, as well as greater children's rights. The concept of citizens under the new law implies all natural and legal persons who, whether or not they have citizenship. So far, the solutions have not recognized a person without citizenship. The paper is that an appeal on behalf of a natural person can be filed by an association dealing with the protection of human rights, for a child the complaint is filed by a parent or guardian or association engaged in the protection of children's rights. The new law provides for the authority to protect citizens so that without prior notice they can look at social protection facilities provided by home accommodation services for children, young people and older people. Citizens have often complained over the past period about the work of the authorities and organisations in the area of pension and disability insurance, social health care, local self-government authorities, public business managers, tax authorities, etc. According to the Citizens' Protector, about 5,000 complaints on the work of all public authorities annually, and much of them also apply to judicial authorities. On two occasions, Simeon addressed the president of the state to protect him from attacks by politicians. It was 2011, and in 2015. The public expected the Citizens' Protector to report after the threats of irresponsible people and children of the president of the Republic of Serbia on several occasions, as well as children of the president of the Serbian Parliament, journalists, children of some journalists, etc. We've never heard the voice of the Guardian on that subject. When it comes to attacks and lies against the President of Unity Serbia, Dragan Markovic Palma, when some politicians, some irresponsible people tried to destroy human integrity, no voice of the Citizens' Protectors was heard. Today we are in a situation where everyone can say anything without having any responsibility to tell lies, false things, and that no one is responsible for such actions. This certainly shouldn't be left without the Protector's response. We know that the Guardian is limited by law, but his reaction would certainly have a positive fact, that is, he can't do anyone any harm, and the citizens would hear his voice and be sure that there's some institution that deals, that takes care of the citizens. When it comes to the trustee, the adoption of amendments and additions to the Law on free access to information of public importance will for the first time be sanctioned by the responsible persons in the authorities for failing to comply with the request for free access to information and more and wider powers for the Trustee are introduced. The proposed amendments to the laws set up a mechanism that should lead to authorities acting in accordance with their obligations, i.e. to respond to the requirements received, the applicants shall seek their rights solely for the purpose provided for by law, which is the availability of information on the work of the authorities. These mechanisms are primarily the authority of the Commissioner to apply for the initiation of criminal proceedings and the introduction of a criminal order. The main problem in the existing law is just to comply with the trustee's demands. Even when an authority withholds information and the trustee brings a solution requiring them to be delivered, they do not. The law is usually old and there are 17 years old, there are many new circumstances that need to be corrected, and in the meantime some new institutions are formed that are not subject to this law. The passive attitude of the government towards the requirements for free access to information and the absence of any response under the old law is not effectively sanctioned. The new law should resolve the question of how much public institutions are willing to respect it, whether the fines provided for are sufficient to further stimulate them to respect the law. Information most often denied and concerned the spending of public funds, as well as information that some political connotations have. The authorities did not give in even after the trustee’s solutions. When a person asks you for information from a state authority and does not get an answer within the time limit, he complains to the Trustee, and the Trustee with a request and a solution to the execution that is mandatory, he delivers to that authority, with a short deadline to make a statement, the Authority must prove that he has acted with proof of it. If he does not, there is a fine for the responsible person, whether it was the minister, director, mayor, president of the municipality, etc. The penalties to be imposed in the light of the mandate are indeed symbolic and demanding, and under the new law, the question is how it will give effect. We had something similar a few years ago, and it didn't give us any big results, because those fines are paid to the public. Some irresponsible official will not fulfil his legal obligation, the trustee gives him a fine in some amount, he pays the fine for public money, the information has not been received and the problem has not been solved. If the Authority, or an institution falling within the jurisdiction of this law, does not wish to supply the requested information, it will not deliver it in spite of all complaints, penalties and sanctions. By 2017, the trustee had the right to impose fines of up to 200,000 dinars. That's what the institution paid for. It was indeed in some way an incentive for those who did not want to, or those who wanted to hide information from the public, to pay the penalty and to solve the problem. It's this danger that may not be solved by a new law. Under the new law, this fine goes up to 500,000 dinars, but it's hardly going to, in fact, see if it's going to have any effect. The proposed changes allow the trustee to open an office outside his seat and this is indeed commendable, meaning in other cities, to establish equality for all citizens across Serbia, i.e. the possibility for citizens in other cities to submit directly to the offices of the Trustees. The Commissioner will therefore need more new capacities, new logistics and more employees. As a major insolvent problem, public enterprises remain where the state is a minority owner, i.e. less than 50% of state capital as public private partnerships. We can never get the information we want from such legal entities. Among the untouchable institutions, in addition to the President of the Republic, the Government, the Assembly, the Supreme Cassation Court, the Republic Public Prosecutor, the National Bank of Serbia has now been added against whose solutions the trustees are not allowed to appeal. This has caused a lot of controversy in the public, because the National Bank will, by this law, be more advantageous than any service to the security of this state. It's a little vague, and it's a little hard to explain. Of course, this is one of the basic anti-corruption laws, because it insists on the transparency of the work of all institutions, and citizens should develop awareness that the state is their service. Both of these laws are very important to us. As an example of the state's responsible attitude towards independent institutions, the recent consultations that Prime Minister Ana Branbic made with the Citizens' Protector and the Trustee on the introduction of a clear pass. Together, all aspects of such a decision have been considered and simply, this positive discrimination was necessary at this point in order to introduce a slip of the pass at this difficult epidemiological moment. In any case, the JS parliamentary group will support these draft laws in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-27-0.u10029	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Arpad Fremond.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-27-0.u10030	The Honored Chairman-in-Office, the Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Minister with Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the SVM Group welcomed with special attention the Proposal for a Law on the Protector of Citizens, as well as the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Free Access to Public Information, because these two legislative proposals are guarantees for finding a balance between the improvement of good administration as a special human rights and promotion and protection of fundamental human rights and freedoms, for the control of labour, openness and transparency of authorities by citizens and for strengthening the rule of law. Of course, not in the last place why the SVM parliamentary group will support these two draft laws is that we cannot talk about the rule of law without a political and legislative framework, which provides an independent, independent, professional, professional and fair work of the Citizens' and Trustees for information of public importance and protection of personal data. There is no rule of law without respect for human rights and good governance. There is no rule of law without respect for the principle of public work of state authorities. In order for legal provisions to be effective and effective, we need to monitor reality, and we are all aware that the provisions of the applicable laws that were passed more than a decade ago do not correspond to the changed reality. The proposed laws continue to harmonize with the EU's legal assets, especially in Cluster 1 – the basics of the accession process, as independent and independent institutions represent one of the pillars of the rule of law and mean advocating an idea in a valid legal order, which provides permanent legal restrictions for state authorities, the relevant properties of the law and reliable institutional guarantees to provide legal certainty and freedom of citizens. A report on Serbia's progress in European integration processes for 2021 found that the government established a proposal for a new Law on the Protector of Citizens, amending and supplementing the Law on free access to information of public importance, which followed the recommendation of the revised Action Plan for Chapter 23 and the European Commission's report also assessed that it was a positive step that the National Assembly in 2019 for the first time in four years after its plenary session was also considering annual reports of independent bodies. When we talk about reality, it is important that the government proposed a new Law on the Protector of Citizens, because in 2005, when the First Protector Act was passed, the 1990 Constitution of the Republic of Serbia was in force which did not know this institution, so that the institution of the Archives was an extra-constitutional category. Only in 2006, with the new Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the Citizens' Protector became a constitutional category and according to that fact, amendments and additions to the law were passed in 2007. The SVM parliamentary group understands that the proposed law aims to highlight the professional and moral authority of the Citizens' Protectors and Commissioners for the Protection of Information against Public Matters and to propose a solution that the Protector and the Trustee continues to choose the National Assembly, but in time of eight years, without the possibility of re-election, goes in that direction. In the interlink between the negotiating chapters, in the specific case of Chapters 23 and 24 of Cluster 1, the proposed solution is that the Citizens' Protector performs, in addition to the tasks set out in the applicable law, and the tasks of the national rapporteur in the area of human trafficking, in accordance with the Law on Confirmation of the Council of Europe Convention on the fight against trafficking in human beings. For our parliamentary group, fighting human trafficking is an important topic. We supported otherwise in February of this year and the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia on co-operation in the field of combating human trafficking, because on the Balkan migrant route Northern Macedonia is the entry point. And today, unfortunately, migrants are the biggest victims of human traffickers. And in this respect, the role of the Protector of citizens is important, as all analyses warn that refugees and migrants are a social group that is most often excluded from the human rights system, and that access to justice is practically unreachable. It is important for the SVM parliamentary group that the proposed law has not changed the concept of work. In addition to the Protector, there remain deputies, despite the deputy protection of the rights of persons deprived of liberty, gender equality, the rights of the child remain a substitute for the rights of national minorities and the right of persons with disabilities. The new law retains the traditional model, because in principle we can say that the control carried out by the Manchester is divided, directed and directed to control the legality of the work of the administration, as well as to control the integrity and protection of human rights and the rights of citizens. Hungary is characterized by two specialists, along with the General Simeon. They are the parliamentary trustee for the rights of national and ethnic minorities and the parliamentary trustee for data protection and freedom of information. As the title of the first scientific monograph on the Protector of Citizens says, the Frankfurt maintains the legality and rights of citizens, which was published 52 years ago. So, like half a century ago, the Guardian of Citizens is at the same time a guardian of the legality of human rights. Otherwise, the mandate of the Simeon in a large number of Member States of the Council of Europe also contains an explicit mention of human rights, such as in the Czech Republic, Denmark, Finland, Georgia, Hungary or Norway. As for co-operation with the authorities of the administration, it is envisaged that the government's principled duty to co-operate with the Citizens' Protector. In Austria, the commitment was raised to constitutional level, and in Sweden there is a refusal to co-operate with the Manchester crime. When we are on the ground of sanctions, for the first time since 2004, responsible authorities will be sanctioned for failing to act on a request for free access to information on public importance. In addition to the proposed decision on non-compliance sanctions, it is important for the SVM parliamentary group to amend and supplement the Law on free access to information of public importance to give greater authority to the Commissioner for Public Information, which is, among other things, the submission of the indictment act and the initiation of a criminal proceedings against the responsible persons in the authority considered to have committed an offence. The importance of free access to information also relates to the fact that more than 30 states guarantee the right to free access to information of public importance, for example in Austria, Belgium, Canada and Portugal, and that the legislative regulation of this matter exists in more than 50 countries. Our practice shows that so far the biggest problem in the exercise of this right has been the silence of the authorities, which has led to a large number of complaints. This is the problem that the European Commission's annual report also points to, and it is said that the Information Commissioner has found that 84% of citizens' complaints, and most of them regarding the silence of the administration, have been justified, which means that the information they requested had to be forwarded by the authorities, according to the law. We believe that a step forward in solving this problem is a proposal which gives the Commissioner the authority to issue an offence order to the person responsible in case he adopts a solution to the appeal for not acting on the authority. The objective of this amendment is to influence authorities not to ignore requests for access to information of public importance, which is the most common reason to appeal to the Trustee, and in addition to that, it will contribute to the dispensation of criminal courts. Our parliamentary group is the view that the proposed solution will have a positive effect on the change in the practice of the public authority's behaviour so far, and we are aware that, among other things, because of the failure of the public authority's system to implement the Commissioner's solutions is not sufficient to open and comply with the legal order and therefore the administrative force must be provided, the enforcement of the decisions of the Commissioner must be ensured. To get to these solutions, the process was something longer. We can calculate that the change procedure began five years ago, if, as the time of the law's amendments, the date of formation of the first working group for the drafting of the text of the law is taken. During this time, two working groups were formed to amend the law. Three documents have been drawn up, two draft laws and one document entitled ‘Examination of provisions amending the law’. Two governments have changed, but we have reached a solution, because access to information of public importance is one of the fundamental rights, a condition for a more complete and quality exercise of other rights. For example, the right to freedom of expression and opinions in a number of countries is so in Japan, South Korea. The Constitutional Court has granted this right the character of constitutional law. Also, the right to free access to information guarantees the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the EU. Our MP group has a dilemma about two solutions, but we'll see what happens in practice. In fact, the issue of supervisory over the law remains in the hands of a administrative inspectorate who for years does not use all the mechanisms available to process organs that, even after the decision of the Commissioner, refuse to supply the requested information. As in the previous year, the inspection has not filed a single request for the infringement courts to initiate proceedings under the non-executed decisions of the Commissioner. Second, the lack of access to information of public importance among exceptions states that access may be denied if the disclosure of information would endanger the environment or rare species of plant and animal origin. One of the reasons for the adoption of amendments and additions to the Law is the harmonisation with Directive 2003/04 EC on the availability of information on the environment and the Law confirming the Convention on the availability of information and public participation in decision-making and the right to legal protection in environmental matters. Also, starting with the Constitution of a guaranteed right to a healthy environment, reports by the Citizens' Protectors recognise the threat of the environment as an area of human rights violations. We are not sure whether the lack of information on the environment will be in line with the spirit of the Directive and the EU Convention, because in principle all these documents are intended to make information on the environment available to the public to the greatest extent possible. Otherwise, it is positive and we welcome the proposed solution to give the Commissioner the opportunity to educate offices outside his seat, thus making it available to a larger number of citizens according to the local ombudsman model. Local offices for free access to information of public importance are ways of exercising citizens' rights to good administration, and this is certainly one of the reasons for amending and supplementing the Law on free access to information from public importance provided for by a number of acts, starting with the Action Plan for Chapter 23, the Action Plan for the implementation of the Open Administration Partnership Initiative for the period 2020 to 2022, and the Action Plan for the implementation of the Public Administration Reform Strategy for the period 2021 to 2025 and the Action Plan for the implementation of the media strategy. Offices in local self-government units are a real example of direct democracy, a transparent and open system. In view of the above, the SVM parliamentary group will support the Proposal for a Law on the Protector of Citizens and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Free Access to Information of Public Meaning. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-27-0.u10031	Thank you. The next is MP Hadji Milorad Stosic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-27-0.u10032	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia, on the agenda of today's session in a united debate are two draft laws, which are very important for our citizens, which are the proposal of the Law on the Protector of Citizens and Amendments and the addition of the existing Law on Free Access to Information of Public Meaning. At the very beginning, I would point out that the MP group of the United Pensioners of Serbia – "Tri P" in the voting day will support these laws and other proposals from this session and vote for it. The laws we are discussing today fall within the order of specific, very important laws for the reasons that they regulate the work and treatment of the state bodies that the Constitution itself has laid down and whose adoption is also a constitutional obligation and further development of constitutional provisions. First of all, this is a new Bill on the Protector of Citizens. We all know that it is an extremely important republican body, whose existence in constitutional practice for the past 15 years has fully confirmed the justification for its introduction into our legal system. However, the application of laws and experiences from the practical work of the Protector has shown that there is a certain space for improving the legal provisions of the law on the regulation of certain segments of its work, and this has been drawn by representatives of international organisations and former citizens' protectors in their regular reports, which suggests that these amendments also mean the harmonisation of our legislation with EU fluids. We are now seeking to implement these necessary improvements in order to potentially even better work this institution as the Protector of Citizens. In this direction, the new law first liberalises the selection process for the Citizens' Protector, so that instead of a solution so far that the legal proposal of candidates only has parliamentary groups in the National Assembly, it is now envisaged that any interested person, who fulfils the conditions, can also apply for a public election invitation to be called by the President of the National Assembly by certain specified deadlines, so that this significant place in the system of government remains long-running in cases of the expiry of the mandate, resignations and other unforeseen cases. A newspaper on the duration of the mandate is also foreseen, which will take eight years instead of the current five years, but without the right to re-election the same person in the second term, which I think may be a better solution than the current one, as the longer mandate will certainly allow for greater independence in his work. The member who deals with the Deputy Protectors of the Citizens has now met the international obligations we have made, and there will be some deputies who will deal with certain issues of the rights of persons with disabilities and human trafficking. Article 14 dealing with resolution options also provides for the possibility that the Protector of Citizens should be suspended in the event that he is eventually convicted of a criminal offence and on the basis of a first-degree verdict, but of course we hope that these provisions will never be applied in practice. The competencies of the Citizens' Protector's work are more detailed. I would like to point out the extension of the Protector's authority to in the future control without notice in addition to the institutions for the execution of criminal sanctions, even social protection institutions and homes for the accommodation of the elderly. Provision in Article 20 Proposal for a law where an obligation is introduced to consider the proposal of the Protector of Citizens in the Committees of the National Assembly and Government and the mandatory feedback of the Protector within a certain period of 60 days. On the other hand, the provisions on treatment before this authority now introduce the precise obligations of the Protectors of the citizens and his services that any complaint they receive must be handled within 15 days, by rejecting or conducting an examination procedure which may take up to 90 days and only for an exceptional and longer period. The novelty is also an opportunity to conduct a shortened procedure if the actual state can be determined from the documents attached. In Article 37, more detailed issues are related to the completion of the investigation and the possible measures to be taken, in particular with regard to the procedure for the recommendation to resolve from the function and non-compliance with the recommendations and measures given. The second law, which we are dealing with today, relating to changes and additions to the existing Law on free access to information of public importance, and this institute and the state body that should protect the application of the constitutional principle of freedom of access to information are certainly of great importance for the full implementation of democratic principles of the rule of law, which Serbia certainly is. We are witnessing that during the long period of time there has been inadequate implementation of this right in practice, namely that many state authorities and other entities that have been obliged to provide information on the request of an interested person on these obligations in a significant number of cases have simply been deaf despite all legal mechanisms, which is also witnessed by the exact information given in the light of this Bill proposal. The amendments and additions to the existing text first specify what is meant by the public authorities so as not to involve misunderstandings about who has, who has no obligation to provide information. Article 9 also provides for a new basis for the denial of the right to insight information, which is an infringement of intellectual property rights and the protection of natural goods, and the existing basis is further specified. Most importantly, an existing Article 13 has been deleted, a member of the 16th legal text where senior authorities and authorities will not be able to call for an excuse to ask for too many information, to reject the request, and only the conduct of the authority when receiving the request is more specifically regulated. Also, by adding an article. 27a. and 27b. The behaviour of the Trustee is now in the event that the Authority does not wish to issue the information fully in accordance with the provisions of the law on enforcement and security. Thus, a lack of coordination would be avoided so far that these procedures could invariably be blocked by the use of various types of abuses of legal means. As far as the Commissioner himself is concerned, the addition of the law creates the possibility that he can open his offices outside Belgrade in order to manage procedures more easily, and changes have been made in the course of the elections that are analogous to the changes proposed for the Citizens' Protector. Finally, fines for violations prescribed by this law have been increased, and it should be hoped that this will affect better and more effectively the application of the law itself. Dear People's MPs, the PUPS Parliamentary Group – "Tri P" has always supported the work of independent authorities, especially those that aim to control the work and conduct of other bodies, the proper application of legal regulations and the protection of those citizens who need help in handling. The Ombudsman and the Commissioner for Public Information certainly belong to those categories, and therefore the PUPS Group - "Tri P" in the voting day will give its support for the adoption of these draft laws. Also, the PUPS parliamentary group – "Tri P" will support other proposals and a legal solution at this session in the voting day and also vote for. Dear friends, respected citizens of Serbia, respected representatives of the ministry, I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-27-0.u10033	I thank Mr. Stosic. Next is counterpart Snezana Paunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-27-0.u10034	Thank you, Vice President. Honorable Minister Obradovic with his associates, distinguished colleagues, dear citizens of Serbia, above all, to all who today celebrate the glory of the heart of the congratulatory, colleagues from the SNS, too, that for many years you have been celebrating all together in peace, above all, and the rest of us are in charge of providing for both citizens and for us. We're talking about two very important laws and all the discussions before my own were exhaustive and significant and I won't say much new, but I want to look first of all at the importance of both laws and the facts of what they mean and what they bring and how much the change of this law is, in fact, a confirmation of the leverage of the democratisation of our society, but also one important mechanism of strengthening the rule of law through control, above all, respect for the Constitution of guaranteed human and minority rights and freedom. The new Law on the Protector of Citizens when we talk about it or about amendments and additions to the Law on free access to information of public importance, we speak primarily of the position that the Protector of Citizens is an independent state body which, by definition, protects the rights of citizens and controls the work of the authorities of the state administration, public defence as a body responsible for legal protection, property rights and the interest of the Republic of Serbia, as well as of all other bodies, i.e. organisations of undertakings and institutions that exercise public authority and before which citizens exercise their rights. If we know that the Guardian of Citizens is a constitutional category, then, of course, his powers are clear and, above all, the power of his legal protection of citizens against the unconscious work of state authorities and public authorities, or what we call in practice a state administration. The establishment of the U.S. Civil Protection Institution, and you spoke of it, is primarily a reflection of the needs of these modern societies to simply step in the direction, to facilitate and improve the quality of life. You, as well as my colleagues, said that the very concept of the Ombudsman was first established in the Swedish Parliament, in 1809, as one of the authorities that independently of the executive authority cares about citizens' rights. Today it is an institution that is established at European level as a single mechanism somewhere, so for Serbia the establishment of this institute is part of our European path. The citizens' protectors have all the EU members today and all the candidate countries as well. The Institute of Protectors was introduced by law 2005 and the adoption of the Constitution in 2006 defined its constitutional position and role, which gave it a significant place in our legal system and was classified in the highest authorities of the state. The great powers that the Citizens' Protector has confirmed, above all, are the importance of this independent body, which independently and without any political pressures, exercise control over the work of the state authorities before which citizens exercise their rights. Citizens have the right to protect their search with the Protector of Citizens when they failed to exercise their rights and exhausted all legal opportunities in front of state authorities or courts. It is not possible to challenge the discussion of counterpart Zukorlic in the part in which he talks about deadlines, but now simply in the adoption of every law somewhere only practice shows what is what needs to be improved, so all of this should be taken into account when it comes to both this version of the law and every future one that we will, I'm sure, we or some other talk about. Digitalisation of the state administration, i.e. the introduction of eGovernment and the function of the single population register, which has connected 13 different databases, then the opening of one channel for all administration services, the introduction of electronic signatures and electronic documents, as well as the continuing education of public sector employees, are evidence primarily of our country's commitment to strengthen the rule of law and guarantee its citizens legal certainty in the exercise of rights. Serbia, especially in the past five years, has taken a lot of quality steps towards that goal, and above all, the ministry of which you are headed, the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government, but also all other government resolutions in the domain of your responsibility. So, personally, I believe that by further promoting, above all, the expertise and efficiency of the public administration, the pressure may also be reduced on the institution of the Protector of Citizens, at least in those segments of inefficient work, silence of the administration or formal-legal failures of the authorities, which often can create a sense of uncertainty, inequality or infrequent and discrimination in the exercise of rights. Even here in parliament, we have talked many times about the efficiency of these state authorities, we have passed many laws that should contribute both to the efficiency and legal work of public administration, to suppressing the unwanted behaviour of the state administration, primarily corruption, nepotism, because for every citizen the meeting with an officer on the counter is about the first picture of the state and its efficiency and justice. It's a saying that we're all used to, which is "You're missing one piece of paper," it's really a good way to become the past, whether the reason for the real lack of paper or the unprofessional relationship of an official who simply tells citizens -- come tomorrow. I stress that we do not forget that this picture of the public authority has resulted in a later and general view of the state, and the criteria of efficiency and legality of the work of our public administration are used by the unhinged and European institutions. First of all, the European Commission assesses Serbia's progress as a candidate for EU membership. The latest report somewhere says that we recognized what they criticized and improved what was missing. The new bill strengthens independence and thus the importance of the Civil Protection Institution and eliminates the shortcomings observed in the 14-year practice of applying this applicable law. The powers, procedures and procedures relevant for the protection of citizens' rights against this authority are more clearly specified, and there is a need for harmonisation of domestic legislation with signed international agreements and conventions, in particular with European practice and legislation. The new bill sets out the powers that arise from all signed international agreements and conventions, and thus provides that the Protector of Citizens has the role of the national torture prevention mechanism, the national monitoring mechanism for the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, the national rapporteur in the area of human trafficking, as well as the position of a special body that protects, promotes and promotes the rights of the child, for me somewhere the most important moment. In the context of these powers, I will really pay particular attention to the importance of new legal powers concerning the rights of the child. I have no dilemma that the minister understands why I'm talking about it, because it's primarily the most sensitive population group. This new solution empowers the Protector that, without prior notice, he can come to the institution of social protection for the accommodation of children, young people and adults, carry out an examination and determine whether or not children's rights have been violated. In previous reports, the protector also pointed to a small number of employees in social protection institutions, which is one of the reasons for insufficient preventive work and when it comes to family violence, especially children, but this can also apply to children's rights in divorce procedures, which is increasingly an issue, or to family social protection rights with children living in difficult social conditions. I will take advantage of the opportunity to draw attention to the problems of single families, with children who, despite judicial rulings, do not receive alimony because there is no enforcement of the verdicts, which is also one of the reasons for addressing the Citizens' Protector. More and more frequent is the example of endangering children’s rights in the process of trusting children in divorce. Often a parent is taken away because of a poor material condition, neglecting the need for a child to be with a parent who is safer and whose child may be more emotionally attached. Instead of materially helping a parent to care for a child, they resort and settle in a foster home that pays for caring for a child, even though it has parents. I simply appreciate somewhere that it would be healthier for a child if a parent wanted to live with might be able to help in the way the state does when it comes to foster families. Not to bring my discussion down to the impression of a film made after a true event, the film "The Father", but why not look back on it as a case that may not be allowed to happen again. When it comes to the protection of the rights of the child, this law will allow parents or guardians to appeal to the work of bodies that violate the rights of the child, and if the child is older than 10 years of life, he can and only appeal for violation of the rights by state institutions and bodies. All this confirms the enormous importance and role of the Manchester and thus its enormous responsibility for the realisation of the competences established by the Constitution and this law. We as MPs, in the last few years, have regularly debated and adopted a report by the Guardians of Citizens, which has the character of overseeing the work of this authority. From previous reports on the work of the Protector of Citizens, we have come to know the scope and structure of the demands and complaints of citizens referred to the Protector, as well as the outcomes of these submissions, many of which were directly related to the basic needs and rights of citizens. In this regard, the question of the choice of the Ombudsman and his deputies is also a great responsibility of the National Assembly, which is legally chosen by the Protector. I fully agree that the step forward is in the way of proposing the Protector. However, this proposal also changes the conditions necessary for selecting the Protector and his deputies, the length of their mandates, and suggests that the Citizens' Protector should not be a graduate lawyer, as he has been so far, extends the mandate to eight years, and that deputies, who can be up to four more, are not elected by the National Assembly, but are appointed by the Protector himself on the basis of the contest. We have submitted as a parliamentary group of several amendments relating precisely to the professional preparation of the Guardians, above all, and the choice of his deputies. Indeed, we propose and think that the Protector must be a graduate lawyer by profession, because the Guardians' jobs are closely related to law enforcement and protection against law enforcement in any way. When it comes to Deputy Protectors, we suggest that their choice be returned to the Assembly because of the importance of the role and the great powers that they simply have with this law, but we will discuss according to the amendments in particular, that I am now not taking up my time or yours. However, I ask you to consider this proposal because it is truly well-intentioned and it seems to me to be meaningful somewhere. The second draft law in this search is amendments and additions to the Law on free access to information of public importance, and it also contains extensive changes that are promoted by the trustee institution for information of public importance and protection of personal data, which, as well as the Citizens' Protector, is an important independent state body, with a significant role in our legal system. The trustee shall protect the right to public information and information on the activities and responsibilities of the public authorities. The mediator is between citizens and authorities and resolves disputed situations in which public authorities deny access to information of public importance to citizens and legal persons. It is someone to whom citizens should trust and trust that it will help them to exercise their rights to information of public importance, whether it is information from the influence on citizens' rights or information of general or public interest. The work of the Trustees and a large number of requests by the applicant for information of public importance confirms the importance of this institution and the trust that the citizens have built. In accordance with this law, the Trustee shall be involved in the protection of rights when public authorities adopt a solution rejecting the request for access to information. Then citizens or legal persons for such a solution have the right and opportunity to appeal to the Commissioner. Just in the Annual Work Report and the Commissioner, discussed at the National Assembly session, we saw that the highest number of complaints was sent to the Commissioner precisely because of a failure to comply with the requests of an information seeker. Therefore, the key amendments to this law and apply, I think, to improving this process and increasing the transparency of the data to be published, as well as to extending the circle of the person to which the law applies. The proposed changes should lead to all authorities acting in accordance with legal obligations and that citizens can exercise their right under the law, which is the availability of information on the work of the authorities. Extending the circle of persons covered by the law will have a major impact on increasing the scope of available information on the work of the public administration. Finally, we can say that the amendments to this law are the result of our strategic commitment to European integration and in practice the need to improve the law in the public interest to be informed and to have relevant information that can affect life, health or the exercise of rights. As well as the Citizens' Protector, the trustee is also a mechanism for democratisation of society, strengthening the rule of law, which is a strategic definition of Serbia somewhere. In this context, these independent bodies face one great responsibility for the exercise of the powers entrusted to them by the Constitution and by law. What may have also been my dilemma in person and parliamentary groups is the length of the mandate, somewhere only because it seems to me that the eight-year term will be the longest mandate anyone has with Serbia, somehow far above the presidency of the Republic. But we gave up the amendment affecting the length of the mandate, primarily believing that the assessment was made before such a long term was allocated rationally. Maybe it makes sense that they've been doing that function for eight years. I hope we improve these changes, I say again, and improve the existing situation. I'm sure the practice will show that there's more to be done. In any case, the Department of State and Local Self-Government, you personally congratulated by the Minister for one such step. These are not small amendments to the law, and these are two really important laws for Serbia's functioning. So, I expect that practice will give us more tasks to improve. I ask that once again and before the debates in particular, let us pay attention to what we have tried to respond to in amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-27-0.u10035	Thank you, colleague Paunovic. The next MP is Dejan Kesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-27-0.u10036	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Minister of Associates, respected citizens of Serbia, as my distinguished colleagues have said during today's day, today's proposal for a Law on the Protector of Citizens, as well as a Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Free Access of Information of Public Meaning. And during today's day here in the National Assembly, we will discuss the legal acts aimed at regulating areas that fall within the jurisdiction of independent institutions and which correspond to the National Assembly for their work as the highest legislative body. Also, during the previous session, we had the opportunity to discuss reports of independent institutions, or independent regulatory bodies, and in this way we clearly demonstrated our desire and intention to hear the comments and opinions that come to us from independent institutions, but what is significant change in relation to the period when the SNS represented the strongest opposition party here in the House of the National Assembly is that we could not hear negative opinions directed at the ruling majority, rather than comments that represent different views of certain measures and activities taken by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. When we talk about the very proposal for a Law on the Protector of Citizens, constitutional and legal frameworks for its adoption are contained in Article 91. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia clearly defines that the Citizens' Protector is an independent state body that protects the rights of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, but at the same time exercises control over the work of the authorities of the state administration, organisations, public enterprises and institutions entrusted with public authority. To begin with, we must say that the Citizens' Protector is not authorized to oversee the work of the National Assembly of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the President of the Republic of Serbia, the Constitutional Court and other courts and public prosecutors. If we are to discuss the reasons for the adoption of this law, on the one hand, it is necessary to improve the legal provisions relating to the system of control of the work of the national authorities and those entrusted with public authority and, on the other hand, to improve certain legal provisions relating to the choice of the Citizens' Protector which will contribute to the more efficient and transparent work of the Citizens' Protector in the future. But if someone asked us a question so that we could define this legislation in short lines, we would say that it is clear, concise and that it contains clearly defined provisions and norms that will contribute to the easier application of this legal text in everyday situations and that will be guaranteed by an even more independent and transparent work of the Guardian of Citizens. Certainly, since we are talking about a new legal act today, it also contains new legal norms, I will try to focus only on those legal norms that represent specificity in relation to the previous legal act. As my colleagues said anyway, this bill defines the widest circle of persons under whom the Protector of citizens can take action in order to protect them, i.e. all legal and natural persons, as well as persons who do not have citizenship at that time or persons who do not have citizenship, which is a fundamental change compared to the previous legal act which did not recognise this category of person. It is also defined in Article 2 that the Citizens' Protector is responsible for carrying out the tasks of the National Tortrum Prevention Mechanism, as well as the National Mechanism for Monitoring and Implementation of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, a direct step towards further protection and improvement of the human rights corpus in the Republic of Serbia. But the norms that certainly represent a newspaper compared to the previous legal act are those that regulate a more transparent way of electing the Guardians of Citizens here in the National Assembly with the active participation of the relevant assembly committee. These standards clearly define the possibility of calling a public call from the president of the National Assembly, which will be addressed to all those interested persons who want to be candidates for the position of the Protector of Citizens and to be published in newspapers distributed in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, so that the general public can be involved in this very responsible process. Certainly the most important change is that, instead of the current six-year term, the Citizens' Protector is elected to the eight-year term, but the difference is that he will not be able to be re-elected to the post. As far as business is concerned, I think we've talked a little bit about this in these opening words of authorised representatives of parliamentary groups. As for the change when we talk about the responsibilities of the Protector of Citizens, it is now going to have the opportunity to guide initiatives for amendments and additions to laws not only to the National Assembly and not to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but to all other state bodies that are under its control. Certainly, the important newspaper is also that the applicants will now have to exhaust all legal resources, so that the complaint is filed by the Citizens' Protector and that the Citizens' Protector will not be able to discuss it in the future, or will not be able to act on anonymous reports. What we can recognize as the positive objectives of this law is that budgetary and financial independence is achieved, then the expansion of existing powers that are achieved through the giving of initiatives to a wider circle of state bodies, as well as the strengthening of the independence of the Protector institution. What you, the minister, said in the process of preparing this bill, we had a very clear principle of inclusiveness where both natural persons and other international institutions were involved so that we could talk today about the best legal act that we will vote on today, that is, in the coming days in the National Assembly. As regards the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on free access to information of public importance, it is an integral part of the Public Administration Reform Strategy from 2021 to 2025, and as one of the objectives was to amend the Law on Free Access to Information of Public Meaning. What we have recently recognised as a negative practice and what is called a abuse of law in the legal profession is that a large number of persons simply choke the institution of the Trustee by a large number of complaints and then there is an infringement process where these same applicants charge the costs in relation to participation and the finalisation of the infringement procedure. The newspapers are, of course, what the Commissioner for Public Information has been authorised to issue infringement orders of 30,000 dinars to those responsible persons who do not comply with his request, as well as the obligation of the Trustee, that the Trustee may issue an order to all competent state authorities to carry out all the most important information on their web presentations. I really believe that these legal proposals are well arranged by the Government of the Republic of Serbia as a mandated proposing and resolute ministry, and we can really be proud of certain legal norms that have been introduced into these new legal texts. However, what I cannot understand and what my exposure will differ from my esteemed colleagues, is that we are facing certain conflicting attitudes compared to the period until 2012. We need to set a clear distinction here compared to the period before and after 2000 and after 2012, and talk about all those people who led these independent institutions, who used these institutions for their political self-promotion, and did not work in accordance with the Constitution and the law. Therefore, when reading this bill, it is truly incomprehensible to me that the Commissioner for Public Information and the Citizens' Protector also made recommendations in 2011 and 2012 that these legal proposals were advanced and did nothing during their term of office. I remind you that Mr. Sasa Jankovic performed this function from 2007 to 2017, and Mr. Rodoljub Sabic performed this function from 2004 to 2018. What is also incomprehensible to me is that the number of complaints from 2009 to 2012 was many times higher than it was in 2019, 2020 and 2021, and the number of complaints was in 2012, i.e. the number of complaints submitted and the number of complaints lodged was 5,021. This exact number tells us how the state authorities worked until 2012. They simply didn't want to answer to anyone at that time because they knew they had an absolute majority in the government, that they had an absolute majority here, and that they didn't have to explain anything to anyone in any area, in any respect, and that was, of course, abundantly on their heads in 2012, when the people realized that they didn't want to have dilettantes anymore. The same thing when we talk about the Citizens' Protector, I have to remind all of my distinguished colleagues and citizens of the Republic of Serbia about a statement that Sasa Jankovic made a few weeks ago for a media in which he said that certain ambassadors and certain quasi-friends had suggested to him in a certain way to come into contact with Alexander Vukic, to get close to him, to get under his skin, and after he got his trust that, of course, with their advice, certain centres could try to take over the role of Alexander Vukic, because to God, Alexander Vukic has certain problems with his heart, so it is much better to make Sasa Jankovic a callif instead of Caliph. But I would not agree with that name, Caliph, instead of Caliph, but to come to the post of President of the Republic of Serbia. Sasa Jankovic, who was our political opponent and for whom we said all the things he really did, decided at some point to ease the soul and to tell us all the things that will be the introduction to the things we have been meeting for the last year, year and a half. And these things that continue his statement are exactly what we see in the media today, the media that are mostly owned by representatives of the former tycoon regime, who are dehumanising and criminalising the Alexander Vukic family. We had a statement from SNS Vice-President Milos Vučević the other day, which I fully agree with, as well as all my colleagues, I hope, and now that I am looking at all of us with my own body, i.e. Milos Vučević is the first person to make it easier for the soul in 2019 and who said that there are parallel centres of power that want to directly harm President Aleksandr Vukić. Why is that happening? It happens because Serbia today is economically stronger, economically independent, independent, independently making its decisions and is a problem for both specific and external power centres. Why did someone need to build parallel structures in the state of the MUP in order to commit full criminalisation and dehumanisation of the Vukic family, in particular Alexander Vukic, and then his brother Andrej Vukic, by dragging him into the affair so that someone could come to power after a certain time and take all the credit we have achieved since 2012. We're seeing these results today. We see that some high-ranking state officials at the time are in custody today. We can't ignore the fact that President Alexander Vukic was tapped 1882 times. We can't ignore the fact that his brother, Andrei Vukic, was being followed by certain members of the MUP. That someone was delivering information to KRIK and another so-called. The independent media about his son Daniel Vukic sitting in some bar watching the game. Well, what's wrong with that? Then, as the tip of the icy birch, try to invent an affair of Jovanica where support is given to certain police officials as someone had to, or as they forced Colombia to directly accuse Andrej Vukic and thereby break Alexander Vukic to leave power. This isn't the first time that's happened. When we talk about the external centres of power, these attacks come from Montenegro, they come from BiH, they come from Croatia, but it is evident that they have certain support within Belgrade and within the Republic of Serbia to implement their plan so that Serbia is no longer strong, independent but weak, that the Serbian people must always suffer and that the Serbian people must apologize for all the things they have done or have not done. I really ask, since we talked yesterday about budget rebalancing, to separate the larger funds for both the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Justice, and to once finally open this multi-layer ball and see who was all involved in these, I would say, catastrophic attacks on the family of Alexander Vukic. Why did someone need this at these moments and why some, I say, I hope that the state authorities will soon discover it, create individual parallel structures both in the state and in the tycoon media and in certain opposition blocks, but also in certain structures of the Ministry of the Interior. I hope that we will all stand together behind this serious and responsible policy, that we will never hide again and that we will all stand together in the defense of Alexander Vukic and Andrej Vukic. Why does it take someone to criminalize their brother's president for the past few years, to attack him, to falsely accuse him of having restaurants, having vineyards, having cafes, having no idea what? Where did you see Andrei Vukic sitting in Belgrade, Novi Sad, Nis, Kragujevac? Do you have any proof? You don't. Because you need to hit on the members of the Alexander Vukic family in order to get some parallel structures into its place and to be able to take all the credit he created from 2012 to today. I hope we don't just work on amending laws relating to independent institutions. Why? Because these independent institutions have nowhere to condemn members of the Alexander Vukic family. You don't have a birth equality trust anywhere, you don't have any Guardians anywhere when the front page against Danil Vukic is published in the daily newspaper today, and you don't have any SNS officials to condemn such attacks. They'd probably condemn certain attacks more strongly if the dogs hit the street. You don't have them a month ago, you don't have them now. We have to make a distinction once from the things that happened to us until 2012. We must not in any way become the former Democratic Party, to do only the things we will create to put ourselves in our pocket. We need to be much more advanced than before 2012. But that's why it's important for us to have a single policy, that we don't have parallel structures, that we don't have people who want out of the corner to take down Alexander Vukic, to attack Andrej Vukic, Danil Vukic, to get him out of power. Dear citizens, I tell you, as long as the SNS is headed by Alexander Vukic in Serbia, decisions will not be made here by tycoons, they will not be made by members of individual parallel structures, they will not be making dirty badges from the Ministry of the Interior and will not be made by tycoons and foreign ambassadors. The citizens of the Republic of Serbia are the only ones who can decide here, and I hope that in the upcoming 2022 elections, we will give full support to Alexander Vukic's policy, because it is the only policy that secures prosperity and further progress in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-27-0.u10037	I thank Mr. Kesar. Now we're moving on to the list of MPs. The first on the list is a colleague of Misala Pramenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-27-0.u10038	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there are two very important legislative solutions ahead of us, as we had the opportunity to hear. One concerns the amendment and addition of the Law on access to information of public importance, and the other concerns the Law on the Protector of Citizens. One and the other laws directly concern the rights of implementation, are in fact adequate mechanisms for the exercise of citizens' rights, and in this respect it is certainly an interest of all of us, MPs, who are primarily representing citizens' interests, to support such legal solutions, which represent an adequate and quality complement to the functioning of concrete mechanisms, i.e. two very important institutes. When it comes to the proposal itself to amend and supplement the Law on Access to Information of Public Meaning, i.e. on the Trustee of Public Meaning, we see that this legal solution further strengthens the position of the Trustee, which is very important in terms not only of greater transparency but also of the opportunities and powers that this very important mechanism receives in terms of the possibility of asking relevant factors, i.e. public institutions, institutions, that the information that is necessary should be placed on its web presentations, etc. On the other hand, and this segment of a somewhat criminal policy that can at this point say itself is probably an adequate means of coming to information of public importance. With regard to the Law on the Protector of Citizens, we have heard a series of amendments that have the intensities to strengthen the position of the Protector of the Citizens from the aspect of independence and representation of the interests of the citizens, which is too important for him in the description of the very purpose and what is expected of the Citizens' Protector. So, the Protector of Citizens is an institute that should help citizens at times when they feel they can't get adequate legal protection or a solution to a particular problem that weighs them down. I would take the opportunity to mention the institution of the local Protector of Citizens as very important. Therefore, the local Ombudsman is a very important moment, although the Law on Local Self-Government does not oblige local communities but gives as a possibility. A good part of them, to put it this way, has dared to establish this institute, some have not yet, but the issue of the local Ombudsman may sometimes be adequately exploited, or representing citizens by local citizens may at some point be largely abused and possibly politicized, which should not happen. I'll give you a concrete example. In 2016, in Tutin, the local Citizens' Protector attacked two citizens, which is precedent and incompatible with the function he performs. Exactly in terms of professional and moral qualities, when we mention potential candidates, both for national and local citizens' protectors, these qualities are something that should be a feature of such persons. So, in addition to professional qualities, moral qualities are those that are very important, especially in smaller local communities, where people usually know each other, recognize each other, and then the question is whether someone can trust and if they have the courage to actually address the person they might suspect will best represent interests. In this regard, I would like to say that sometimes certain powers or the functioning of certain organs can somehow be executed from the central level towards the locale in terms of consistency and the sense of responsibility. That is why coordination and co-operation between the National Protector of Citizens with local citizens is very important. For example, some modern countries have introduced a larger range of ombudsmans, i.e. the protectors of citizens, so there are, for example, protectors of citizens exclusively dealing with the rights of children, persons with disabilities, etc. This is an example of good practice, where we will probably, in some future period, strive to make such changes and additions and improvements to this institute, if they normally require concrete opportunities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-27-0.u10039	Thank you. Next is counterpart Sanja Jefic Brankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-27-0.u10040	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister with fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, will first and foremost refer to the Law on the Protector of Citizens in my presentation today. As colleagues have already mentioned, its significance is unquestionable. It was introduced in 2005 into our legal system, i.e. the order, so before the Constitution that is now in force, and in 2006 it contained certain provisions relating to the Protector of Citizens, and in this respect we have an amendment and addition of this law. Obviously, all these changes have not been sufficiently accompanied by European legal flows in this regard and there is a need to pass one of these laws. At the same time, the European Commission eaten on several occasions in its annual progress reports on Serbia, stressed the position Serbia must adopt a new law on the Citizens' Protector, which will improve its independence and efficiency in the work. Historically rarely seen by an institution that has experienced such great popularity and widespreadness as the Ombudsman institution, and the authority the Ombudsman has had since the introduction in Sweden in 1809, has essentially not changed much until today. Their importance is particularly expressed when we talk about ombudsmen at local level. I come from Nis, Nis has his ombudsman, i.e. the Protector of Citizens, and I can say that the reports he submits to the Assembly of the local self-government units and how important they are, because they point to the extent to which violations of the rights of citizens occur, and in particular the objections to the work of public utility and public enterprises whose founder is local self-government. As the name ombudsman, or patron of the citizens, who, as I mentioned, was introduced into our system according to the Swedish model, he means in a literal translation - one who has hearing for the people. That is what may add to the additional weight, but also the importance of dealing with the Protector of the Citizens in solving the problem. The need to protect human rights, but also the need for some external control of the work of the administration, is so much more important if we take into account the modern concept, let me say, of creating a country in general in which man is a central place. Time has simply shown, that it is the ombudsman who is decorated in one institution and, in fact, it is the help and support that should be provided. I would therefore define the Ombudsman as the person to whom the institutional character is given, but at the same time it is neither an in-coherent nor a collective body, but an ad person organ, or an organ that involves a person and an institution and which has appropriate professional support and assistance behind it. The set of powers at the disposal of the Citizens' Protector, in my opinion, is quite sufficient to ensure that, if those powers are used as planned, they ensure progress and a shift in the protection of citizens' rights, as well as preventing discrimination and improving the work of the public administration in general. I don't want to diminish the importance of some other independent institutions, but in the area of the protection of their human rights, citizens turn to the Citizens' Protector first, which means that they recognize him as an institution that can provide them with appropriate assistance. Perhaps the reason for this partial work by the Guardian himself, on the one hand, and on the other hand, perhaps the reason lies because the proceedings before this institution are completely free and deprived of some strict formal, let me say, demands that follow some other procedures. From the point of view of the protection of specific vulnerable groups and their rights, it has a particularly important role to play in the submission of the report, but also an initiative to amend certain rules. Based on reports we can read from previous years, we can say that the Guardian of Citizens has the highest success in this area. I will mention one such activity that has been carried out in the research on the implementation of the Roma Strategy for the 2009 period. In 2015, and this research has shown that only two of the proposed and envisaged measures make sense. As a result of the Protector’s reaction in this case, a special report on the implementation of the Strategy was drawn up which subsequently produced the relevant results. Finally, you will agree with me, if one of the units of local self-government is polite and gives the information that is necessary to all citizens, if the professors are expected to transfer their knowledge and objectively evaluate their students, if the doctor is expected to treat patients and care for their health, then the Protector of Citizens is expected to exercise those powers that were given to him, that is to protect the rights of citizens where he is in his jurisdiction. It is precisely those who run these independent institutions that are expected that by the power of their authority, as well as the way they represent their work in public, because we will only create a real picture of what their work is, and that quality will also reflect on the quality of the provision that would be in the job description. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-27-0.u10041	Thank you. The next Members of the People, mr. George Kosanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-27-0.u10042	Thank you. Dear Minister Obradovic, I will not say welcome to the Assembly, because this is your house. You have been an excellent MP, and today certainly an excellent minister, the Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have today brought together a debate on two very important draft laws. First Proposal for a Law on the Protector of Citizens and the Second Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Free Access to Information of Public Meaning. Of course, the Single Serbia parliamentary group in the voting day will support the puzzling bill proposals, which are certainly another example of our country's engagement to make human rights a priority, on the one hand, where the right of every citizen is false regardless of nationality. Also, as a society, we are responsible enough and mature enough to build a country that will give equal chances for everyone in line with modern and democratic Serbia, which we all stand for anyway. Returning to the very draft laws of this united debate, I say, two very important draft laws, but today my presentation will focus on the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on free access to information of public importance. The new law certainly needs to resolve a burning issue, which is whether public institutions are ready to comply with the law. The law was passed 17 years ago. He had some changes, as we heard, in 2007, 2009 and 2010, but many things are not covered by this law. The law needs to be corrected. So we also have some, certainly, institutions that have been formed in the meantime, which are not covered by this law. So, as I said, Minister, the law is 17 years old, and there is a great space for this law to be improved in the interest of all our citizens. The main problem in the existing law is the execution of the trustee's demands. We said to be critical and to say what the problems were. Even when an authority withholds information from a person, the trustee makes a solution requiring them to be delivered. They don't. The proposed amendments to the law establish a mechanism that should lead to authorities acting in accordance with their obligations. One of the major changes that comes right from the trustee, an institution that was formed, if I'm not mistaken in 2005, is that this institution is entrusted with greater powers, of course I mean primarily inspection supervision, but also some fines. It will certainly contribute to faster access to information, more proactive government, while at the same time enabling abuses that have certainly been done so far. As I said, the role of the Trustee has existed since 2005. It has never been, I mean, insignificant, but in practice it comes down to the role of a second-degree body, because it is unable to provide citizens with information as an independent state body. According to the current regulations, the Trustee is not able to allow forced access to information of the public importance of a public authority if the citizen has sought some information and has not received it. Minister, what does that mean in practice? Here, let's say I come from Kragujevac. Some Kragujevchan asked some public authority to get some information. He received an answer not to have that information, and there are indications, let's say, that that information is still available. The trustee doesn't have the mechanisms to carry out surveillance and see if that's the case. It's about to be made possible by a new law. And that's good, since we want an open society, as you already said, in which citizens will be able to be informed of all the information they consider to be of public importance. Also, Mr. Marinkovic, on the other hand, often spoke, we supported it, that he wanted some kind of territorial decentralisation of trustees institutions. That the trustee is making a little more rounds around Serbia, leaving Belgrade, having regional units in some regional centres where citizens could file complaints. Here, again I say, I come from the Woodland. Let's say that the Shumadi is a Kragujevac where anyone could get information, and that would save both the money and the time of the citizens and the state. It is this law that gives the trustee the opportunity to open offices outside the headquarters, outside Belgrade, and elsewhere. This creates equality for all citizens across Serbia. At the very end, Minister, as far as the EU and our agreement with it are concerned, although I think that we have long met all the requirements and we should have joined the EU long ago, but Serbia is in favour of the independence of the institutions as part of the reform, the reform in the EU has been assessed as positive and the EU has been constantly providing assistance in the work, relying on positive experience of good practice in its countries. In the end, let me just say that certainly the JS parliamentary group in the voting day will support the two proposed laws very important, because we JS always support solving problems concerning the common man. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-27-0.u10043	Thank you. The next is MP and vice-president Stefan Krkobibic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-27-0.u10044	Thank you, dear Vice President Hardisic. Dear Minister, welcome, as the previous speaker said, to his house. In our constitutional legal system, the Protector of Citizens is among the highest authorities of the state. In Article 138. The Constitution is prescribed that the Citizens' Protector is an independent state body that protects the rights of citizens and controls the work of the public administration, the body responsible for the legal protection of property rights and the interests of the Republic of Serbia, as well as other bodies and organisations, enterprises and institutions entrusted with public authority. The Ombudsman is not authorized to control the work of the National Assembly, the President of the Republic, the Government, the Constitutional Court, courts and public prosecutors. The Ombudsman elects and relieves the National Assembly and the Protector for his work corresponds to this particular National Assembly. The Ombudsman enjoys immunity as a national MP, and the immunity of the Citizens' Protector is decided by the National Assembly. According to Article 2. Proposal for a Law on the Citizens' Protector, which we are discussing today, the Citizens' Protector performs the tasks of the national torture mechanism, the tasks of the national independent mechanism to monitor the implementation of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, as well as the tasks of the national rapporteur in the area of human trafficking, and has the position of a special body that protects, promotes and promotes children's rights. The Ombudsman is concerned with the protection and promotion of human rights and minority rights and freedoms. So we see that in many ways it is about protecting the most vulnerable and vulnerable categories of our population exactly what it insists on and what it is primarily about and what the PUPS parliamentary group is fighting for – "Three P". According to Article 19. The Civilian Protector is authorised to control the legality and regularity of the work of the Authority in order to determine whether their acts, actions or inactions have violated the rights of citizens guaranteed by the Constitution, confirmed international contracts, the general rules of international law, laws, other regulations and general acts of our country. The protection of citizens may take procedural and other actions in the proceedings of state and other bodies, when authorised by specific regulations. The protection of citizens shall also be authorised to recommend in writing the authorisation of officials, i.e. to initiate a disciplinary procedure against an employee in the authority of the administration who has violated the rights of citizens or has made a failure to cause material or other damage to the citizen, to apply to the competent authority, or to apply for the initiation of a criminal, criminal, criminal or other criminal offence or other appropriate procedure if he finds that in the actions of a functioner or an employee in the authority of the administration, there are elements of a criminal or other criminal offence. The protection of citizens can, without prior notice and distraction, review a place where persons are deprived of freedom, persons who are limited to freedom of movement and places where groups of rights are located, and especially places under police control and the Serbian Army, detention units, detention institutions for the execution of sanctions, psychiatric institutions, shelters for foreigners and asylum centres. Also, the Protector of Citizens can do so in social protection institutions that provide home accommodation services to children and young people, as well as adults and older people. The President of the Republic, the President and the members of the Government, the President of the National Assembly, the President of the Constitutional Court and officials in the bodies of the State Administration, shall be obliged to accept the Protector of Citizens at his request no later than 15 days, and in a case which requires the urgency of action even within three days. The Civil Protection Officer shall initiate proceedings on the complaints of the citizens or on his own initiative. In Article 38. The draft law provides that the Citizens' Protector may also initiate proceedings on its own initiative when, on the basis of its own knowledge or knowledge obtained from other sources, including exclusively there and anonymous complaints, it is considered possible that an act, action or inaction by the authorities of the State administration has violated human and minority rights and freedoms. In addition, the Citizens' Protector has the right to act preventively by providing good services, intermediating and giving advice and opinions on issues in his or her jurisdiction in order to improve the work of the Authority of Administration and improving human and minority freedoms and rights. These are all very respectable responsibilities and powers that the Citizens' Protector should perform exclusively for the benefit of the citizens. Serbia strengthens the institutional capacity of its citizens' protector structure, including the national torture prevention mechanism, support for relevant independent human rights institutions and the appointment of a national human trafficking rapporteur, as well as the establishment of the capacity of the Citizens' Protector's Office for Independent Control in the fight against human trafficking, particularly with a focus on human trafficking victims' rights and human rights protection. The basic criteria for the appointment of the Protector are high moral character, integrity and adequate professional expertise and experience, including expertise and experience in the field of human rights. Article 11 provides for the incompatibility of the functions of the Protector of Citizens and Deputy Protectors with other public functions, i.e. actions and jobs, as well as the prohibition of their political and other engagement which would be contrary to the obligations of the Citizens' Protectors. That is why it is good that the mandate of the Protector takes eight years, as this allows for a sufficient period for the elected Citizens' Protector to effectively achieve its function. It is interesting to appoint the President of the Republic in France, after consulting the Permanent Parliamentary Committees in both Houses of Parliament. In the Netherlands, Simeona is appointed by parliament on the list of at least three people who are proposing the Vice-President of the State Council, the President of the Supreme Court and the President of the Dutch Court of Audit. In Austria, the three political parties with the highest mandate are proposing the Manchester, while in Poland and Hungary, the Human, or Fundamental Rights Commissioner are proposing the president of the republic, and appointed by parliament. In Finland, parliament is setting up the Manchester, but the opposition leader's consent is also necessary for the Nautilus to be elected. In Article 20. The draft law provides that the Citizens' Protector is authorised to submit an initiative to the National Assembly, the Government and the Authority for amending or supplementing the laws, other regulations and general acts on grounds of the existence of deficiencies in the rules which lead to infringement of the rights of citizens. The protection of citizens does not address citizens' rights in terms of legal resolution, but acts in the process by establishing a legally relevant factual situation and proposing certain measures and making certain recommendations to the authority of the administration. Thus, the procedure before the Citizens' Protector remains a procedure of extrajudicial character. The protection of citizens also aims to encourage complainants to seek to protect their rights and interests by using all the laws of the prescribed remedies. The protection of citizens shall have the right to act preventively by providing good services, intermediating and giving advice and opinions on issues of its jurisdiction in order to improve the work of the Authority of the Administration and to improve human and minority rights and freedoms. The bill also emphasises the specific role of the mediator that the Citizens' Protector has in the process of exercising control through the active consequential action between the authorities of the administration and citizens in order to remove injury or endanger citizens' rights and to remove damages. Over the last two years, the total number of recommendations the Citizens' Protector made to the authorities has been steadily growing. The largest number of complaints received was rejected by the Citizens' Protector for failing to comply with the legal requirements for handling them, but the Citizens' Protector provides advisory assistance to the citizen and when he rejects the complaint of incompetence or prematureity. As counterpart Kosanic pointed out before me, the law as the seat of the Guardian of Citizens determines Belgrade, but also predicts that the Citizens' Protector can also educate his offices outside his seat with his decision. The PUPS parliamentary group – "Tri P" in order to revive the measures of a comprehensive state strategy to prevent further demographic demand for whole, especially border regions in Serbia, suggests that the offices of the Citizens' Protectors in Nisavska, Pcinjska, Jablaničko, Toplic and Pirot County be formed immediately. Due to all that has been said, the honourable minister, honourable MPs, the PUPS parliamentary group -- the "Tri P" will support the bill in a voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-27-0.u10045	Thank you. Next is counterpart Dunja Simonović Bratić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-27-0.u10046	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Minister with fellow Members, honourable fellow MPs and MPs, respected citizens, today are on the agenda truly two important laws. I will focus on the Civil Protection Act, and my esteemed colleague, after me, the Dubravka King will talk about the Trustee. So far, we've heard what's new and advanced in this law, and I absolutely agree with that, and I think the law would be a clean ten, but I'm troubled by this Article 7, and that article 7 if it exists, then Article 1 is very much asked. What is it, exactly, and who is the Protector of the Citizens? Article 1: "This law regulates the position, jurisdiction and procedure of the Protector of Citizens, as an independent state body, which, under one, protects the rights of citizens, under two, controls the work of the government authority and the authority responsible for the legal protection of property rights and the interests of the Republic of Serbia." Now I'm gonna focus on these first three. So it protects citizens' rights. If it protects citizens' rights, we are here in the field of rights, but it is not enough to be just a lawyer, but also qualified to interpret and apply rights, and that is already a legal exam. The judicial exam is not only about judges, prosecutors, lawyers, public notebooks, and public executioners, but also about the performance of senior duties in the authorities of the administration. For example, the head of the administration of administrative affairs at the MUP, and under that administration is the issue of passports, ID cards, gun licenses, citizenship for the entire Republic of Serbia. Under two, the control of the work of the government's authority. What are they? Who are these authorities of the state administration? These are all ministries, all special organizations. That means the blood flow of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The work of the authorities of the state administration is governed by the Constitution, the Law on Government, the Law on State Administration, the Law on Ministry. The work of all these bodies is governed by the General Administrative Procedure Act, meaning system law. So we're back on the legal ground. How is the work of the State Administration Authority controlled? It is controlled by two aspects - whether at the request of citizens, the government authority takes action and makes decisions from its jurisdiction in good time, within proper time, and whether it takes action at all and makes decisions or silences, so-called silence of the administration. Two, whether these actions or decisions are correct, whether actions and decisions are the right decisions and cannot be mixed by the Citizens' Protector, the second-degree bodies decide on this, but whether they take action and make decisions within the legal deadlines prescribed by citizens, according to complaints, the citizens' protector decides. Under three, he controls the authorities responsible for the legal protection of the property rights of the Serbian state. It's the state's attorney's office. Who works for the state's attorney's office? A lawyer with a legal exam. So, the control of these organs cannot be done by someone who is at least not a lawyer. So far, in this existing law, we have a lawyer with ten years of experience and the idea would be that if we make it a lawyer with a defined legal exam. Okay, let's say it's an extra one, so it's an idea. As in ordinary life, you can't be controlled by someone who knows less than you do. What can we think of now? Not only should it be necessary that the Simeon is a lawyer, but we should reach that level that he has passed the judicial exam, because if he is not, he will not be able to enforce the provisions of Article 1. What lawyers like to say is, it is a regress, the futility of that Article 1, if we focus on that Article 7, which you want to bring, or contradiction inerto, as philosophers say, or incorrect legal sylogism, anyway, and then in Article 1, we come to the stand that the Protector of Citizens takes care of the protection and promotion of human and minority rights and freedoms. You are in your address and presentation of this law have called upon the Venice Principles and here you have included them in some parts and I have been very focused on asking for an explanation in these 100 pages of this law and the reasoning of the same. I have to tell you that I was surprised that this much text, and that for that Article 7 we only have an explanation from point 8. Venice principles. I now quote what you have written in the explanation: "The criteria for the appointment of the Simeon are broad enough to encourage the inclusion of a number of suitable candidates. The basic criteria are high moral character, integrity and appropriate professional expertise, including expertise and experience in the field of human rights." I have Venice principles here in front of me, and at that point eight, what you've stated, is all right, but you've forgotten one piece of the sentence. So you didn't quote right because here at the end he says "included in the field of human rights and fundamental freedoms". So you didn't write here that this applies to basic freedoms, too. Why does it matter? This is important because the EU otherwise has four basic freedoms, they call them. So, "freedom of speed, wheeze, from wanting, from fair." So, freedom of speech, freedom of religion, freedom from poverty, freedom from fear. When are we talking about these freedoms? Where are we again? We're back on the field of law. So if he has no right to protect those freedoms, what are we talking about? Therefore, here we can conclude that since it is not defined as a lawyer, it can also be a landscape architect, if it is empathy and if it has shown in practice that it respects human rights. Also, I have to call for a personal example. Before I became an MP and received this great honor, I worked at the Foreign Ministry in the Multilateral Sector, and in the Department of Human Rights and Humanitarian Affairs. That's where lawyers work too well, then people from the Faculty of Political Sciences and we philosophers. We philosophers and the Faculty of Political Sciences can debate, but the key word for it is brought by a lawyer. Since you know what international activities we have and how important this segment is in terms of our country's international representation. I really appeal, and we should all think about it together, especially if we look at it in a way and parallelly right in terms of what our neighbors are doing, because we like to watch what they're doing, like they like to watch what we do. Why don't we now give ourselves the right here, since we're only calling for the Venice principles to be explained? You also called on the Venice Principles in your presentation in terms of the length of the term of office. It says at point 10, you've made a mistake here, so you've made it right in the presentation, so it's not under seven years, and here we've determined eight, and it can be in terms of independence of autonomy, that there's no influence of other organs, as well as the relationship with deputies. Why? If we don't choose in the U.S. Parliament anymore, and we bring in a guy who's not a lawyer, he doesn't have a legal exam, he's not a law professor, but he's from another profession, so what are his deputies gonna be? So that's really one serious question, because this autonomy and independence that is mentioned here and in principle, in points 22, at 11 and 10, where it's about independence and, of course, the impact on the budget, which you absolutely respect, as far as the independence of the Archives is concerned in this material context. That is why it is very important, let's say, in Croatia, that there is a lady lawyer, that female lawyer, and a court-law. She also graduated from Oxford in parallel law. In Strasbourg, too. In Bosnia and Herzegovina, we have three ombudsmen who are all teachers of law with a passed judicial exam. So in Albania, we have a professor of constitutional law. In Romania, we have a lawyer who is also a teacher, and she was also a judge and a member of all these committees we're talking about. So, the appeal from here, we filed those amendments, but to really think about it all. Also, you used the explanations, you called a certain teacher, I took that manual, report, whatever it was. The publisher is "Jukom", and for the publisher Katarina Golubovic. You often quote her here. This is usually five years of analysis of the work of the Protector of the Citizens of the Republic of Serbia in the period from 2015 to 2019. In her team are Prof. Dr. Vesna Petrovic, Dr. Katarina Golubovic, meaning that Mrs. Milan Filipovic, Vladica Ilic, Theodora Tomic, Tara Petrovic, with the support of the UN Human Rights Team in Serbia, with the comments - opinions and attitudes expressed in this document are not necessarily the views of the author and do not necessarily reflect the UN Human Rights Team's policies in Serbia. Why did I read this? Whoever reads 140 pages of this report will see that there and how this institution is treated politically, where the current Simeon is said to be unskilled and that he has studied for 10 years, where political affairs are mentioned, and not cases that could have been procedural, where some diplomatic parts that are not at all related to the public are mentioned for Jazdet Ajaz and his extradition, because I know the whole case that's why I'm saying it, and these are things that are not for the public. It's all in here in this report. There is one about Sava Mali, mentioning of course the favorite Judge Majic, he is quoted as the whole team, meaning, let's say, the professor of another Serbia. I just want to know why we used that report or if it was used, and why didn't we also use our professors of comparative law or professors of the Faculty of Political Sciences, which is what we do here, and I think we've made a narrow throat and a commercial for them without a short notice? What I really think is that besides the president of our country, who is doing great international co-operation and has phenomenal successes, it can't be challenged by anyone, the Citizens' Protector, who exists in 140 countries, is a very important PR for our country, since we are going to the European Union, that there are very important human rights and relations with them, we have to give one of the best lawyers to such a function, given that according to the instructions of the Venice principles we will most likely adopt and that the mandate lasts or lasts eight years. That is why it is very important to go back to that beginning, means that Article 7 must be included in this obligation to be a lawyer. I'd like it the most, I know it's too much, and if there was a passed judicial exam, at least not to say that some famous professor of comparative law would represent us abroad, since they have highly developed international co-operation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-27-0.u10047	Thank you. The next colleague, Samira Ćosovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-27-0.u10048	Although two very important laws are on the agenda today, I will speak in my address about the Proposal for a Law on the Protector of Citizens, so I will say that the legal order of the Republic of Serbia was introduced in 2005 when the Law on the Protector of Citizens was passed. The existence of this institution has also been confirmed by the 2006 Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The role of the Protector is to prevent the state from acting illegally and incorrectly against its citizens. As early as 2011, the Citizens' Protector pointed out the need to improve the law, which he did in all the upcoming annual reports, as has been pointed out by many NGOs for the protection of human rights, as well as relevant international organisations. The essence of the initiative to improve the law was to enable more effective protection of citizens' rights through the dissemination of the competence of the Citizens' Protector, to enable more effective control of authorities and organisations that resolve citizens' rights and compliance with international standards, positions and work of organisations of this type, which provides their independent, independent, professional, professional and fair work. It is therefore particularly commendable that the new legal solution that extends the circle of the person whose rights are protected, spreads the circle of the person who can appeal and further regulates the child’s rights obligations. The widest expansion was carried out by the very notion of citizens covering all natural and legal persons in the proposed law regardless of their nationality and whether they possess citizenship. It is important for the protection of citizens' rights that the proposed legal solution also provides for a longer period of time to file a complaint and stipulates that it is no later than three years from the violation of the right of citizens, i.e. from the last act, or from the failure of the authority to comply with the infringement of the right of citizens. The law also introduces the long-standing practice of the Protector of Citizens, which concerns co-operation with civil society organisations and international organisations and mechanisms for the protection and promotion of human and minority rights. In practice, this brings the paper in order to enable complaints on behalf of a natural person to be filed by a human rights association, which receive written consent from a natural person. This is particularly important because it will facilitate access to justice and protection of citizens' rights to those citizens who would have difficulty going through the procedure themselves necessary to protect their rights. It is particularly important when we consider the protection of citizens of the form of protection of rights which is free of charge for citizens and that the possibility of using this instrument of protection of citizens' rights is further facilitated. Today, the citizens' protection institution is doing more than self-control of the administration following complaints from citizens. In contrast to the previous legislative solution, the Ombudsman empowers citizens to advise initiatives to amend or supplement laws, other regulations and general acts not only to the National Assembly and the Government, but also to other entities, or the authorities of the administration that are subject to its control, and the National Assembly, the Government and the Authority of the Administration have an obligation to enable the Citizens' Protector to make their own views known in particular in the draft procedure. I would also like to point out, as a significant newspaper, the role of the Protector of the Citizens, which the Citizens' Protector actually receives in the area of protection and promotion of the rights of the child. The bill would allow a child older than 10 years of age to file a complaint on his own, also for a child the complaint is filed by a parent or guardian, but in accordance with the principles of co-operation, with civil society organisations and associations dealing with the protection of the rights of the child with the consent of parents or guardians or children over the age of 10. The bill specifically provides for the authority of the Protectors to provide home accommodation services to children and young people, as well as adults and older people, without prior notice and obstruction of the review of the social protection institution. Compared to the so far solution to the newspaper, transparency is the choice of Protectors of citizens. This implies the introduction of a public invitation to all interested persons to apply as potential candidates for the Protector of Citizens. Changes in the term of office have been made, and an extension of the term of office has been proposed to the Citizens' Protector, but without the possibility of re-election to this post. The duration of the term of office is planned for eight years, although the Protector of the citizens during the term of office fulfils the conditions for retirement he, unlike the current solution, continues to perform his post until the end of the term of office he was elected to. This solution should allow for a higher level of protection autonomy than those who choose it, but to discourage possible attempts at trade by affecting the function in order to ensure re-election. In line with the drive towards greater autonomy, the proposal is also to no longer elect the Deputy Protectors of the Citizens, but only on the proposal of the Protector of Citizens after a public competition. It's an important paper relating to the complaint's obligations... (President: I'll just warn you in time. )......................................................................................................... So, before addressing the Citizens' Protector, he tries to protect his rights in an appropriate legal procedure. Under the applicable law, the Citizens' Protector does not normally act on a complaint until all legal means are exhausted, which is very often the case for appropriate court proceedings which, unfortunately, may take a very long time and often require significant material resources and which discourage citizens from entering the proceedings themselves. According to the Constitution, the Guardian of Citizens cannot influence. We therefore welcome that it is proposed that the obligations of exhausting appropriate legal procedures apply only to procedures against bodies, organisations and which the Protector of citizens can control and thus make it somewhat easier to come to protection by the Citizens' Protectors. I'm sorry if I overstepped time and thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-27-0.u10049	Thank you. Now according to Article 27 and Articles 87, 2nd and 3rd, you are now members of the 27th and 8th and 3rd, respectively. I would like to inform the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly that today we will be working even after 1800 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to act as soon as possible from the agenda of this session. This information concludes the first part of the session. We'll continue at 15.00 hours. Thank you. [[After a break.]] Dear MPs, we continue our work. The first on the list is a distinguished colleague of Dubravka King. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-27-0.u10051	Thank you, Your Honor. The Honorable Minister with his associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, today there are a number of professions that are there to facilitate the lives of citizens. For example, there are real estate agents, there are commercial agents, traditionally, of course, and lawyers. Citizens rarely seek real estate agents, he knows opportunities on the market, explains to him what their needs are, what kind of apartment they are looking for, and he, in an effort to earn, to profit, does the job in the best possible way. Also, when you've suffered some damage, you hire a lawyer to simply do all the work and then transfer the funds to you if he succeeds in the dispute. It's often said, I'd better pay some expert to do it for me than to think about it and now to deal with it. It's kind of logical. Often these words are now heard among citizens. The government should also act in that manner. In fact, the state apparatus exists to deprive citizens, i.e. In order to facilitate their private lives by not having to think about the issues that have been transferred to the authority of the state and the entire state apparatus. All public officials should act as political agents, as political lawyers, as citizens' representatives, and do their jobs in the best possible way for them, so that citizens do not have to burden themselves with thinking, for example. how much a container is paid for municipal waste, from which it was obtained and the like. Simply, the state apparatus is there because of citizens, citizens choose who will make the apparatus, choose their representatives, directly select all public officials, and for that I say they should be political citizens' lawyers. Unfortunately, however, in every society, in all times there were individuals who had some private interests away from that path of MPs, a path that needed to be followed by someone who wanted to be represented as a representative of the citizens. As a result, citizens should remain business managers, continue to be interested in what public officials are doing, and therefore, of course, they must be given access to all information relating to the work of public authorities, public officials' affairs, to be able to know who these jobs are, what are the biographies of people who exercise public authority, which precisely means doing certain functions, in which way they are performed, under which conditions, for which fees etc. Therefore, it must be possible for citizens to exercise their right to control public authorities because there is no place for secrecy in the public sector, just as public officials do not have the right to privacy in performing their functions. To this end, the Law on free access to information of public importance has also been adopted. To this end, the educational institution of the Commissioners is also to take care of the application of the law in practice. Finally, amendments to the law are being made today. What is it that citizens need to know? So they need to know that they have the right to free access to information of public importance. They reiterate that it is all that information that concerns the work of the public authorities or is related to it. They can ask without needing to explain why they want to possess this information, because they are assumed to have interest and reason enough to know what is going on in the country, in the province, as well as in the cities. Of course, there are exceptions to that rule, but they are taxed and need to be limited in practice and interpreted. Even, for example, the Law on free access to information of public importance goes to the point where and when some data is marked as secrets, when it bears a code of secrecy, it may be required to access that information, and the Trustee has the authority to, if it assesses that this information, without justifiable reasons, which would be based on the regulations, bear a code of secrecy, can be ordered by the Authority to remove that veil of secrecy from the data in question. So, like I said, there's little reason for public sector secrets. Also, citizens should know that a request for access to information can be asked by any public authority, including public undertakings, public authorities, or even legal persons whose business is largely contained. That's what the minister was talking about and it's really good changes. It is also important that they know and want to go this way and remind them that I am a request for access to information of public importance can also be submitted orally, on the spot, to any public authority. The very process of searching for information is not overly formalized. So the way to the information is pretty passable. If, at their request, no action is taken, if rejected, rejected or conditioned, they shall have the right to appeal to the Commissioner. So then the Trustee comes to the scene, protects this right, and according to new changes, there are new powers and much stronger mechanisms to force public authorities to give information to citizens. Besides, as they say, information is power, and power needs and must belong to the people. That is why citizens should be given free access to all information in a way that will be simple and that, as I said, will not be burdened with formalities. Also, in order for the trustee institution itself and all the opportunities it offers to be available to all citizens, one of the changes is the possibility for the trustees' offices to open outside Belgrade. So citizens in smaller places will also be able to communicate directly with the Trustee, just as the Trustee will be able to draw closer to what he does, what his tasks are to citizens. Furthermore, as I said, unless the authority requested the information from the authority has acted on that request, a complaint shall be filed with the Commissioner. So his powers are being activated. I repeat that they were wider than they were before these changes, because by now, of course, there was a criminal liability, there could have been a request to initiate a misdemeanour procedure. However, now the Commissioner himself can directly impose fines. I know that until now there has been a great deal of effort to sanction state authorities who do not act on the requirements for public information, so even on the site of the Commissioner, I would call it a list of shameful, or a list of bodies that have not acted on the requirements. However, few people see this and I think these changes introduce sanctions that will boost public authorities' discipline. However, all this and all the mechanism of access to information of public importance should not serve to satisfy some mere curiosity or some curiosity. I've been looking through the P.I.'s practice for information of public importance and I've seen that some data has been requested. I don't know what reason it's wanted for now, but as I think it is, let's say, looking for an address a public prosecutor lives on, it's obviously a piece of information that in no case can be considered to be of public importance. I appeal that this is not done, that it simply does not paralyze the work of the Commissioner. Just as the right to the availability of information of public importance should not be misused. This is not the right that has been established to make any of these profits, but has been established in order for citizens to have the insight they need to develop a view of the quality of public government work, to deliver their opinion and possibly also to run for their ideas to improve the rank. Simply, I think that this mechanism through which citizens can contribute, even if it is a criticism, can also be extremely productive and useful when it is well-intentioned. But the possibility of abuse of the right, of using the opposite goal, which is why something that needs to be prevented has been established and these changes and done, or trying to reduce the space to use this mechanism is the opposite of the purpose of which this mechanism is established. That is why, for example, no more direct address to the Criminal Court, but an appeal to the Trustee is being made as one procedural assumption. The authorities shall be able to request a precision of the requirements if too much information is requested in the application and if it is burdened, slowed and made it difficult for that authority to operate. Also, the authorities of which information is required may extend the deadline or facilitate their fulfilment of their obligations. This is useful information, and I believe that access to information of public importance and the ability to seek information will return to the right path. I'd just like to mention a few more newspapers that stand out the most. In fact, the minister spoke about this proactive transparency, i.e. the obligation of the authorities to simply warn the search for information by publishing information on their websites, i.e. on web presentations, which such apriors estimate to be of public importance and I think it is a very good and useful newspaper. Also, there are now very current social networks and I think it is commendable that many state authorities have orders on social networks especially because of younger people who often get official information from the competent authorities via Facebook, Instagram and information. We Socialists as a parliamentary group have a Instagram warrant. Each of us individually has orders on Instagram, and the president of the National Assembly has a warrant and regularly informs the public and his followers about what he is doing and what all meetings are organised and simply what the topic is in the National Assembly. Now, since I've told you that I've been searching the practice of the Trustee, I'd only do one digression because I think it's important, and I've seen that a request for information has been filed on whether a particular person is a doctor of medicine, whether she's employed in a particular health care facility and whether she's completed her specialization, and from what area is this specialization. Let's just say, I don't know what the outcome of this procedure is in front of the Commissioner, it's not important now, but I think it's a very useful question and it's a good thing that there are citizens who are interested in it, and I'm saying all of this because in recent days and months it's a very relevant subject of surrealism, or people who are falsely represented as doctors, especially in the domain of this beauty and plastic surgery, it's not important, and a lot of people have been damaged due to such treatment of irresponsible individuals, who will naturally be sanctioned, but I want to say that it's commendable to be interested in who are the people you expect medical help from. I would share information on the fact that Serbia's Medical Chamber has always published on its site an up-to-date list of doctors with the number of their licenses, with an indication of which area they have completed specialisation and whether, so I appeal to the citizens that if they have doubts and whether someone who presents himself as a doctor, a real doctor, yes, they can also check it out, but they certainly need to be interested. Also, the criminal liability for non-compliance with public information requirements has so far been established only for the body manager, and now it is extended to a person who, within the framework of that body or company, is specifically responsible for acting on request. In that sense, I would like to say that there is still a problem in some local self-government, in some companies, that employees are still not fully clear, they are not fully trained to implement this mechanism, so I welcome that education will continue and that additional resources will be allocated, because I believe that someone would be responsible. First, he must be given adequate training. I will end up with freedom being the cornerstone of the ideology of the SPS and the source of all the values that we stand for, and one such basic form of freedom is freedom of mind, and it does not have an adequate basis for the formation of attitudes, and that is why it is important that information be made available to everyone, that everyone can exercise their right to control the public authority and that everyone can assess the work of the government, not on the basis of disinformation, gossip or innuendo. As a result, the SPS parliamentary group will, of course, support the Law on Free Access to Information of Public Matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-27-0.u10052	Thank you. Next is the People's MP Nebojsa Bakarec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-27-0.u10053	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliaments, dear Madam Minister with fellow citizens, I wanted to congratulate all citizens first on Mother Paraskeva's Holy Friday's celebration, happy with the glory of our dear advances, what would we do without a dream, if life heard our voice, what would we do without love, what would we do without us, it's Zoran Predina's rocker, and I say what Serbia would do without us and what would we do without Serbia? Of course I welcome the adoption of this new Law on the Protector of Citizens and these amendments and additions to the Law on Free Access to Information. I'm going to talk about an anomaly, I've listened very carefully to all the previous speakers, I'm pretty sure nobody's going to talk about this, it's very important what I'm going to talk about because the institutions of human rights and the institutions of justice in this country are a little helpless in front of that anomaly and the phenomenon I'm going to talk about. So, let me just say, with the introduction provisions of the Law on the Protector of Citizens, that law says nicely - Protector of citizens is an independent state body that protects citizens' rights. So, it protects citizens' rights, it thinks of all citizens and says, "The Guardian of Citizens takes care of the protection and promotion of human and minority rights and freedoms, but not just minority, but all of them." I will point out the negative phenomena that are within the jurisdiction of independent regulatory institutions of citizens' supervisors and trustees for free access to information and, of course, the Trustee for the protection of equality and I hope that the Trustee and the Protector are watching this session of the Assembly, because I think it is in the description of their work and that and as far as their institutions are concerned. So I'm going to point out the negative phenomena that are within their jurisdiction. However, the victims of some of these negative phenomena are simply not protected. The victims are closely seen by the president of the Republic and members of his family, and the SNS officials are also widely seen, and so are all members of the SNS and all those who vote for SNS, and that the President of the Republic, for example, was threatened, a few months ago, witnessed by no one but former Citizens Protector Sasa Jankovic. I will speak, therefore, of the threatened and neglected rights and freedoms of the President of the Republic, his son Daniel and his brother Andrej, but also of the other members of the Vukic family. Simply, one important question arises – who protects the endangered rights and neglected rights and freedoms of the people I have cited? Of course, that's what we do in the Assembly, that's what SNS officials do, so MPs also do some members of the government, headed by Prime Minister Brnabic. However, I have not noticed that they are, institutions are silent, they say most often – they are not competent. By reading this law, I'd say they're competent. There is also this, in fear of the institutions, that they will protect the threatened and neglected freedoms and rights of the president of the Republic, his brother, son and family that they will be charged with a cult of personality. I mean, that's nonsense. As a result of then the silence of the institutions, we have a four-year hickey and dehumanization, primarily Alexander, Andrey and Daniel. In doing so, their only fault is that they exist, that they are, therefore, the president, the son, the brother, and that they are not at the will of the extreme opposition and those media. So, they don't have, these faces I've listed, they have no connection with criminals, they're not rich in any way. So, the President of the Republic has been involved in politics for 27 years, and by doing politics, he has literally acquired nothing, let alone stolen something. I mean, all this is so much more striking because Serbia is making significant economic progress. It leads a peaceful foreign policy, and social tensions have been reduced to literally the least possible since 2012. It's thanks, first of all, to Wolf and this government. Then, by the logic and nature of things, therefore, great popularity and successes above all in the economy would have to lead to a reduction in the number of threats, slanders, insults, dehumanisation, Satanization etc., it is by logic and nature of things. Now, the only possible conclusion, since that is not the case, is that someone artificially encourages the dehumanisation of the first man of Serbia and his family and his party. And when we look at the bearers of that phenomenon, it's a corrupt and compromised part of the opposition and their even worse leaders, therefore, strategically linked to part of Western structures, compromised media owned by tycoons and individual compromised NGOs, then it's all clear. So, it is no accident that the attacks on Vucica were decimated in the period from 2018, which is the period when Gilas returned to politics, and of course the coincidence was – Gilas returned to politics in 2018, at the time when his "Multicom" had fantastic losses only in 2018 4.6 million euros. Another "coincidence", therefore, since Gilas returned to politics in 2018, the number of physical attacks on SNS rooms has been quadrupled. By that point, it was 10, and from that moment on it was 40, so there were 50 attacks, so you see that nothing is random. In the last eight years, there's been an alarming phenomenon that hasn't been there in decades at all, so that's what I'm talking about. It is, therefore, an organized and targeted dehumanisation of President Vukic, his family and other authorities. Vukic became a charismatic leader, with huge support and the blade was mostly directed towards him, but in recent years we have seen that there are many attacks, and I have explained why, directed both at his brother Andrey and the eldest son of Daniel. All three and all the other members of the Vucic family are exposed, and that is important, I hope, again, that the Guardian of Citizens and Trustees are watching this, exposed to demonisation, dehumanisation, stereotyping, demeaning and negative prejudice. In the expansion of this phenomenon, and yet happiness, only part of the unpopular opposition, participates a relatively small number of celebrities who support this extreme part of the opposition, that is so-called. The scum of the elite, but it participates, unfortunately, and a number of quite the media of theirs and certain NGOs. All of them are working together to prepare the terrain for the attempt to violently knock down power in Serbia, which was tried in April 2019 by breaking into RTS, then attacking the City Assembly, by blocking the presidency and finally in 2012, they gave themselves up completely by attacking the Assembly when 140 people were injured, and it's hard, because we remember, even though they don't think of it, these extremists, and the cops are living people, they hurt 140 police officers, one of them broke both their legs. I'll give you just one piece of information about the number of attacks on Danil Vukic, and I've done this search, I've written an analysis of it, it's only a Google search by the given parameter "Danilo Vukic". When you do that, Google shows you 24 pages of data and there are 240 media news and 87 of these news is extremely negative, so transfer the percentage to the other non-shown pages. So, extreme attacks on Danil Vukic are one-third of all news, which is terrible, especially if you have in mind that this search does not apply to electronic media, television, radio and the press where it is a drastically larger number. So Danilo is Satanized and criminalized only because he exists and is the son of the President of the Republic. And President Vukic said about media attacks on his children, especially his son Danill, the other day: "Is it always easy? Surely not, because you feel responsible for your children. I ruined their lives for the job I do, not for anything bad I did. That is the responsibility I feel for them and I will never be able to do it," he meant enough, “to say to Daniel – I'm sorry”, the end of the quote. And of course President Vukic didn't ruin his children's lives. The lives of Vukan, Milic and Danil are destroyed by those who dehumanise them in order to harm their father, the president of Serbia, but not only him, but to harm Serbia's flyer under Vukic. President Vukic and we from the SNS, it is very important, we are proud to say that we do not know at all and will not know any of the four children of Dragan Gilas, nor their parents' names, nor any of the two children of Marinika Tepic, nor her parents' names, because we will never attack and drag them through the media mud, as they and their media do to Danil, Andreja, Tamara, Angelini, Ksenija, Milic, Angelka and little Vukan. There's a whole diary, I think most of you are familiar with that violence journal, so I'll just talk about it for a second. You are familiar with the death threats sent to the president for four years and more backwards by the leader of the extreme opposition. tycoon Dragan Djilas, Jeremic, Mladjan Djordjevic, Nogo, Marinika, members of the jilas scum elite, the jilas media, they artificially create back at least four years of a sick climate in society that has led to these phenomena which are the topic of what we are talking about. We remember the great threats of murder, the accusations of fascism and treason, the threat of the destruction of the government on the street in blood, the persecution of the streets, the throw of the river, the threat of the courts, the revolution, the call for rebellion. These threats and slanders hit the president's very personality, depicting him as an inhuman, evil culprit for all. The best example of what I'm talking about is, remember that propaganda three-hour N1 TV movie - "Government". In this film, the name Alexander Vukic is mentioned in a particularly negative context, you will not believe, 442 times, with 43 drastic insults. I'll just mention some of the best talk about dehumanization. So the insults were: evil, radioactive, sick, toxic, unaccountable, and even negative birth, imagine. So these are the prejudices I'm talking about and dehumanization. So, Vucic haters in his family don't see people like them, or haters, at all. The show of haters about those who satanize is dehumanized, dehumanized, and the fight against dehumanization is that the task we need to deal with is the Protector of citizens, the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality and, of course, these laws that we are making today and that we are talking about. We have come, ladies and gentlemen, in an absurd situation, to ask the question – is it a society, and Serbia is a society based on respect for human rights, tolerance and respect for diversity, is this society and does these norms also apply to Daniel, Andrej and Alexander Vukic? Do the three have the right to achieve equality and protection against discrimination? In addition to these principled views I was talking about, I'm going to ask the question - do the other children of President Vukic have human rights? I know it sounds absurd to you, and of course it sounds absurd, but it's absurd that we came to the question of whether a three-year-old child, little Vukan Vukic, has human rights and whether other nearby presidents of Vukic have human rights? Are they protected? Are they even? Does Alexander Vukic's mother have human rights? So dehumanizing anyone's family is inadmissible and inhuman. Because the fundamental human rights of all persons and this family that I have listed have been completely ignored. They do not endanger human rights and do not make these slanders and insults and violation of the Criminal Code just some anonymous persons from social networks. No, that makes up a lot of public figures I listed, so-called. "poor elite," politicians from the opposition's work, through the media. I'll give you a few examples. Director Goran Markovic, as far as I know, PSG, said in his own time: "The only solution in Serbia is absolute rebellion and street. He won't hand over power without blood. He knows well that he's just a worm that's gonna cramp on fire." If this isn't a death threat, I don't know what it is? Professor Dr Jovo Bakic, a reminder, is a professor of sociology at the University of Belgrade Faculty of Philosophy, otherwise a politician is trying, said in time: "Vučić will be tried by a revolutionary court. I'd like to chase them in the streets." Imagine a professor with a knife, because he mentioned a knife, chasing people in the streets to do what? He also mentioned throwing into the river. Professor Bakic says: "There is revolutionary justice, the existing law is suspended, when the disease has advanced, the knife is used," near Professor Bakic's quote. So the Ustashas worked and spoke. Columnist list "Today" Snow White Chongradin, that's so-called "Today's" Snow White. Size, a columnist who promotes freedom, equality, equality, told Vukić: "You will be judged not by independent, but by revolutionary courts". Librarian Dragan Velic, who was an ambassador to Serbia in Austria, said, "I really believe and I am convinced that this regime can only be moved on the streets." The director whom everyone calls Kokan Mladenovic, I will tell you that his name is Sandokan, said, "It is necessary for the current government to collapse on the street." There are thousands and thousands more statements of such and similar faces, plus anonymouss on the network, plus death threats, which are directed against the lives of members of the family of President Vukic and himself. I'm going to take a quick look, because there are other than this and an invasive violation of the Criminal Code. Simply, crimes are being broken, I'm just going to mention heads against the freedoms and rights of man and citizen, the chapter is being violated -- the threat of security, I mean the president, the head of the Criminal Code -- criminal acts against constitutional order and the security of the Republic of Serbia. So what? Nothing. Nothing to anyone. I'll put in a few critical words at the expense of the Guardian and the Trustee. You'll see, I'm going to pull out one parallel that's relevant to this whole thing, human-right. So, the Protector of Citizens and Trustees, indeed, are largely unable to fulfil their responsibilities on AP Kim territory. Unfortunately, however, they are not even trying to do their job and to help citizens living on KIM, especially in enclaves. And these citizens face severe violations of human rights and freedom. Can the Protector and the Trustee, say, visit the kim as the members of the kim office do? I can. I'm sure they'll let them someday. For example, they can visit Dragica Gasic in Djakovica or agree with her to come to northern Kosovo and try to help her. For all I know, the last time I got up, Kosovo was still part of Serbia, and it was. The protector and the trustee are in charge of KIM territory, just like the KIM Office. So this is where I pull the parallel with Dragica Gasic. So President Vukic has huge support in Serbia, and yet part of his human and civil rights is at risk. And Dragica Gasic has zero percent of the support of Albanians there in Kosovo, which is extremely sad, but she is threatened by all human and civil rights, so much so that she can't buy, watch out, food at the store after eight months of life in Djakovica. At night they harass her, threaten her, rob her apartment, harass Djakovica municipality, not get her to renovate her apartment, not even replace her. I urge Mr. Zoran Pasalic and Mrs. Branko Jankovic to help Dragica Gasic, as well as other Serbs living in KIM. Fortunately, when we talk about the fake state of Kosovo and Serbia, there is one huge difference. Serbia, thanks to President Vukic, is quickly ending, a decent society, whose institutions do not humiliate citizens, a civilized society in which citizens, as a rule, do not humiliate each other, and thus is Serbia and justice society. And the fake state of Kosovo is none of what I listed. If anyone thinks that the facts that I've presented on the preparations, let's say, the President's liquidations are exaggerated, let's just remember the two events that happened. One is the murder of Serbian Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic, and another is the attempted murder of Aleksandar Vukic in Srebrenica in 2015. Once again, it's unnecessary, but I'll do it again. Angelina, Angelko, Tamara, Ksenija, Milica, Danilo, Andrej, Alexander and Vulcan have the same human rights as everyone else. Here's a couple of Nobel Prizes, Serbia's biggest friend, Peter Handke, "Friendly Song": "When the child was a child, it was walking with its hands. He wanted the stream to be a river, the river to be a sink and this bar to be a sea. When the kid was a kid, she didn't know he was a kid. Everything had a soul and all the souls were one." And I'm talking about this quote because, except for the children, it's about innocence. Alexander, Andrei and Danilo are innocent. I will mention the example of Croatia, which had the corrupt and guilty president of Croatia, Sanader, which was also proven in court. Our president, I repeat, in 27 years from politics, he has acquired nothing, and no member of his family, they are pure as tears. Long live Serbia! Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-27-0.u10054	Thank you. Madam Minister, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-27-0.u10055	Thank you, Chairman. My fellow MPs, first of all my colleague Bakarec, here, listening to you carefully, thinking, for the first time, this is how I listen to you live here in the O.R., are mostly television broadcasts, of course, and my colleague, Kesar, before you, who was part of the exhibition, talking about similar things. Indeed from the beginning of the 10.00 hours I've been here, I haven't spoken in this political context in which you two have spoken, intensely much more than the other colleagues. Everyone else, including me, we followed the legal framework, talked about the consequences, about the impact on the everyday lives of citizens who would imply these two draft laws. Indeed, on the verge of me falling into a trap, exactly what you were saying, to trap and the everyday atmosphere in Serbia, that while we are dealing with matters that are our business, we here today need to talk about the Bill on the Protector of Citizens and the amendments and additions to the Law on Information of Public Matters and by doing so we have completely put it aside, this process that you are talking about. So, Serbia is trapped today, and it seems to us, only on Serbia's progressors, that we point to these two parallel processes. We must strengthen, build the institutions of the independence of our institutions, what today is a basic task in this Parliament and a topic on the agenda. At the same time, as a member of the government, you, as SNS MPs, must not leave out, ignore the process that is happening, which is the process of dehumanising the Vukic family just because one of them is the president of Serbia. We must insist on this process. That process must be more visible. And when will he be more visible? Well, here, I listen to you, I say it for the first time in my life, because just now listening to you carefully these twenty and a few minutes, I actually realized, concentrated because I could devote myself to you, today it's my job to listen to the MPs in detail, to listen to what you're talking about. Why do I insist on listening to you so carefully? Even in different humorous shows, and often when people quote you, and in some texts, analytical comments, in different blogs, you are like the MP Bakarec, someone who is a symbol of the permanent defence of Alexander Vukic and his family, and somehow, it comes to you as a middle name. You know, when someone gets used to you doing things, then they're already kind of losing it, it's part of your story, and all right, here's the copper, now he's going to defend the Wolf again, to indicate how much he's at risk. We can't fall into that trap. You should continue, in my opinion, perhaps that people think differently, do what you do and point out, and be equally loud. Those who laugh at what you're doing, actually bother with what you're doing, realize that it comes to someone's consciousness. And to reach someone's consciousness, to change their way of thinking, to point them out to danger, is very difficult today, because in this time when millions of information is bombarding us, daily, not just in daily communication, not just on cell phones, over television, different, all the information that comes to us. In that sea of information, listening constantly about how endangered the Vukic family is, becomes bored. It seems, let me ask you, no matter which party you belong to, you'll say, "Oh, yeah, again, attack on the Wolf." Okay. Well, this isn't a wolf attack. So I say, I almost fell into a trap. Since 2008, among the founders of the SNS, I, as well as my colleague Maja Macužic, who was also among the first few hundred people who were then at the Sava Centre, agreed to form a SNS in 2008, 21 October, because some comment in the media, what about the founders of SNS, they are gone, they have been removed, some new, aggressive, angry, angry came. It's not like that. There we are, and we founders, and Alexander Vukic is the founder, there are many of us who were founders. Whether the party is changing, whether we adapt, whether some of us who have been there from the beginning have some different functions, positions, tasks in the party, whether some new young people, such as leaders from our academy, come, and indeed, at great speed, take place in the front rows, well, that is because of their activity, dedication, sacrifice, love they feel for both the foreigner and the positions for which they are given confidence. Therefore, we should look forward, eyes wide open, ready for all the challenges, for all that we carry with us daily on our backs by dealing with politics and bearing responsibility for the future and development of the country, while we are the ruling majority in the Republic of Serbia. I look forward to, as I believe most of you, the upcoming campaign, I look forward to the elections, both presidential and parliamentary, and in several places there will be local and certainly Belgrade elections. It will be an opportunity for us to show citizens the results that we have made, it will be an opportunity to show what those who want to take responsibility for the exercise of power, you said, "the scum of the opposition", and it made me sick in the moment, but we will also show what they said in the previous period and how many years it takes for them to come up with a programme document that will be interesting to Serbian citizens, at least to read it, if you don't remember it, because we can't get that opposition programme document. I'm saying again, I'm trading on that "dangerous opposition" thing, but I don't need to fall into a trap. I am a minister in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and I should be a minister who cares about the interests of all Serbian citizens, but like you, I would call the institutions, you have listed some of them, but they all know well what their tasks are, called, to really respond, to not only be heard anymore, verbally, to warn, that this kind of dehumanisation, and that degree of attack on the Vukic family, you have well listed all the members of the Vucic family, all suffer daily pressures, we should seek action. I want the result, not only do they listen to me and change the program, when I start defending the Vukic family, because in the first place, it's not human, you may not like political commitment, political activation, but as a serious and mature political society, we need to respect people who have received trust and a large number of votes to take certain positions. So, Mr. Bakarec, I know it's not easy for you, but I would ask you to continue on that path, because maybe some of us won't be loud enough, maybe some of us will find another kind of fun, but that in society, that in Serbia today we have a context in which it doesn't matter, tomorrow there will be a situation where, if anything other than this incredible psychological terror being conducted over the Vukic family, if anything happens to any of them, most of them will say, something like that, it's probably guilty. Something was mentioned about Andrej, something was mentioned about Daniel, something was mentioned about this member of the Vukic family. We must not allow it, we must not in the sea of false information to accept that some people who are seriously and committed, even what is most valuable, and that is our family, are putting into service of the state and believe that they must not give up on Serbia, even at the moment their loved ones suffer the greatest harm, and I think that this man Alexander Vukic, formerly prime minister, now the president of Serbia and the president of SNS, is least deserved, that we stand loudly and constantly in his defence, and the citizens will say in the next upcoming elections, whether it bothers them or they will become part of the great front, who will not allow one man in Serbia, just because he does his job properly as never before, and his family with him. We at SNS, we'll never let that happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-27-0.u10056	Thank you. Let's move on, colleague Vesna Nedovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-27-0.u10057	Thank you. The esteemed chairman, a respected minister with associates, respected citizens of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen of the people's MPs, is a Protector of citizens who cares about the protection and promotion of human rights and freedoms, solves citizens' problems and ties and controls institutions for the benefit of citizens. His work is in the area of child rights, the rights of refugees, asylum seekers, the rights of LGBT populations, persons with disabilities, older persons, Roma and Roma women of gender equality and national minorities. In the EU accession process, harmonisation of laws and regulations on improving human rights and reducing inequality in society is of great importance. The choice and termination of the protection of citizens has been determined by specific rules and conditions for the election, as well as by the way in which the function ends. The maximum number of deputies is foreseen, the National Assembly elects him by majority of the votes of the MPs, and the newspaper is the introduction of a public call institute, of all interested persons, as well as potential candidates. The public call shall be called by the President of the National Assembly, and the proposal by the protection of citizens who meet the conditions shall be determined by the majority of the votes of the committee responsible. An extension of the mandate has also been proposed, but without the possibility of a re-election. The election process is launched 6 months before the term of office, and the bill stipulates that the Citizens' Protector has a maximum of 4 deputies who assist him and each of them has a specific specialty, related to jurisdiction, such as protection of the rights of persons deprived of liberty, gender equality, child rights, members of national minorities, persons with disabilities. Before taking office, he takes an oath, and from that day on, his term of office runs out. The public defender and his assistants cannot deal with politics, he has immunity as a national MP. The new rule is also if, during the term of office, it meets some of the conditions for retirement and continues to carry out its duty until the term of office. In the jurisdiction it is taxed, as well as the authority and exercise of control, the regular annual report, as so far, is submitted to the National Assembly by the next year of the previous year. He has the right to pay the President of the Constitutional Court, his assistants at the height of the Constitutional Court's salary. The law envisions the budget allocation of the 1992 institutions so that their work can be independent and efficient. As one of the tasks of the Protector of Citizens is the protection of journalists, so am I, but please, as an institution of great importance. But what happens when certain journalists, their performances, put a target on the head of Serbia's President, Aleksandr Vukic and his children, without prejudice to what they will say, or when they will declare and how brutally execute. Are their responsibilities and freedoms really without limits? Does this mean that every statement of insult and swearing can be interpreted as creative freedom, although it is clear to all of us that it is not creative freedom, but their call to the lynch, but a real call to the lynch of a small child, a girl, a boy, their parents, grandparents. If so, if journalists have their rights and freedoms, why don't some others have a tenth? Why are some journalists protecting themselves, and some treating themselves, like a punching bag for those who call for lynch and insult? When will the Citizens' Protector protect the most important institution in Serbia, the legitimately elected president of Serbia, Aleksandr Vukic? Directly chosen by the citizens in the election. The Protector of the Citizens is elected by the vote of us MPs. Serbia's president in elections, wills, most citizens. The difference is obvious. We witness daily attacks against the family of our president, Alexander Vukic, with statements openly referred to the lynch and violence, very openly. The security of the Vucic family is seriously compromised and everyone is quiet, you're silent with journalists' associations, I don't condemn journalists, I don't judge the media, with that silence alone, I can only say that such statements support it. I would ask you to tell us which legal means are affected by such, especially in developed EU and US countries. Again, I ask, does the president of the state, his family and children have the right to protection or is it thought that this will stop Serbia's progress? You'll be eating kevapee, cursing and insulting the mother of the president, just you, creative journalists, all at a time when everyone can look at you, from seven to 70 years old. But you are the elite and you are all allowed and forgiven, but most have the right to tell you where you belong, a determined, bold majority, one who loves Serbia and sees a better future with Alexander Vukic. That particular majority will again tell you in the elections that you are Serbia's ugly history. In the voting day, I will support the bill's proposal, as well as my parliamentary group, Aleksandar Vukic, for our children.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-27-0.u10058	Thank you. Before the next speaker, just brief information. You have just received reports from the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly, which has found that by the appearance of the death of MP Đur Peric, the case in Article 88 paragraph 8 of the Law on the selection of Members of Parliament has occurred, and proposes that the National Assembly within the meaning of Articles 88 and 4 of the same law determine the termination of the term of office of this MP. In accordance with Article 88(1), point (8) and points 3 and 4. The Law on the selection of MPs, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Committee on Administrative and Immunity Affairs, finds that the term of office ended before the time of his election, MP Djur Peric, on the day of his death. In accordance with the Law on the selection of Members of the People's Parliament, the vacancy in the National Assembly will be completed. Thank you for your patience. Now we're going to the next National MP, Ilija Živić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-27-0.u10059	Mr. Chairman, Madam Minister, with associates, fellow MPs, citizens of Serbia, the existence of an institution of Citizens' Protectors and Commissioner for Public Information is a mirror of democracy in one society. We, with these legal solutions that we are discussing today, are working to improve exactly that, to improve democracy in our society. I think it is very important that the new law provides for a public call for candidate applications, but that the interview with the candidates will be recorded, that is, being public and citizens will be able to check, to make sure who we chose for the next one, who will represent them and protect their rights. Also, I agree with the opinion of most colleagues, who believe the proposal to extend the mandate of the Citizens' Protector to eight years, because I simply believe that a continuity in the work is necessary in order for such a responsible job to be done as high-quality as possible. Which, of course, does not mean, dear citizens, that this person we choose will be in that position for eight years and will be immeasurable. On the contrary, I believe that this person will find himself under an even bigger crowd. What is also significant is that the new law prohibits the reduction of budgets for the Citizens' Protector, allowing the citizens' protector, with his team, to have continuity in the work, i.e. he will not have to fear for the resources they will need to carry out their activities. But that's not how it's always been. I have to remind the citizens, we were here yesterday, discussing the budget, the budget rebalancing, that there were some authorities that, for example, in 2008, in 2009 the budget rebalancing of funds that were previously planned, for example, the most vulnerable social categories in our society. Unlike them, we have become the new budget rebalancing, which we simply want to share with citizens the surplus money we have in the budget, which we have acquired by a responsible single policy, we have just defined for the socially most vulnerable categories of the population hundreds of millions of dinars, in order to improve their position and the position of institutions dealing with these socially endangered categories. Also, as someone who studied at the Ministry of the Interior, I can never forget my colleagues who worked at the Police of Serbia in 2008, in 2009, who had less equipment than they have today, who were forced to buy their own equipment for basic, T-shirts and shoes because by budget rebalancing, the irresponsible government of Gilas and Jeremic had denied money to the interior ministry. We're the ones who take care of every member of the Department of the Interior and we've just rebalanced the budget to make sure that all the police officers, that all the people in the Home Office get new sets of uniforms, new shoes so that they have the best conditions to do what they're paid for, which is to fight organized crime, to get drug dealers and paedophiles off our streets. Which, by the way, they proved. Police led by Minister Vulin managed to arrest the entire Belivuk clan, Miljkovic, without a shot fired, to bring in some high-ranking officials, which never happened in the history of the Serbian police, because Djilas, Jeremic and others who were with them persistently covered up all the affairs that were happening in their time in the security services, which were then only the expositions of individual foreign embassies and individual services. When we talk about the Citizens' Protector, I want to rely on what my colleague Bakarec was saying, but also what the minister mentioned. I really expect the Guardian to protect citizens, but every citizen, primarily the protector of the one most Serbian citizens voted for, and that's the president of Serbia. It is truly unthinkable for me that the Citizens' Protector is not concerned with the protection of the president and the threats that all of us MPs, most of all Bakarec and colleagues, Marijan Rističevec, receive daily through social networks from Gilas, Marinika Tepic, Jeremic and other members of their gang. It's really incomprehensible. You can't understand, Serbian citizens, what insults we face. Not only us, but also the children of President Vukic, especially Danilo, who exposes the most cruel persecution. It's just that everyone has to condemn it, but not just us as MPs, but simply, and all the institutions. Their goal is simple. The minister talked about it. They have no economic plan, no economic programme. They don't know what they'd do if they came to power, if that happened to them. Their only plan and programme is an attack on everything bearing the inscription Serbian Progressive Party. That is why I call on citizens to think carefully, whether they will support Gilas, Jeremic and Marinic, who, due to their impotence and the little economic programme, insult and persecute the president's children, because when the opposition has no economic programme, when its only programme is persecution and insult, imagine what they would do to get into power by any chance, to treat their children of Serbia when they treat a protected person like the child of the country's president. That is why I call on Serbian citizens to stand by the president who builds roads and hospitals, which is responsible for high wages and pensions, and ultimately, which is due to the never-greater reputation of Serbia in the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-27-0.u10060	Thank you. Next is counterpart Nevena Vujadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-27-0.u10061	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Citizens of the Republic of Serbia, is here today in front of us a Bill on the Protector of Citizens, which requires special attention, given that this law regulates the position, jurisdiction and procedure of the Citizens' Protector as an independent state body that protects citizens' rights and controls the work of the authorities of the state administration. The citizen's protector takes care of the protection and improvement of human and minority rights and freedoms and is among the highest authorities of the state. This independent body has great legal powers. Therefore, its legal and responsible functioning is of paramount importance. On several occasions, the European Commission has expressed its position on the need to amend this law in its annual progress reports on the accession process of the Republic of Serbia to the European Union, to improve the independence and efficiency of the work of the Citizens' Protectors. There is obviously a need to improve the existing legal framework governing the position, jurisdiction, procedure and other issues of importance for the exercise of the power of the Protector of citizens. New legal solutions improve provisions on the handling of the Protectors in the exercise of control over the work of the authorities. The proposal for this law also contains provisions that are in line with the relevant conventions ratified by the Republic of Serbia, provided for by the Action Plan, which concern matters in the domain of the Protectors of Citizens. According to the Constitution and under the law, the Protector is authorised and obliged to care for the protection and promotion of human and minority freedoms and rights. The environment in which we live frequent and unconscious discrimination, intolerance and intolerance towards those who differ by something, whether it is about skin color, origin, religion or some personal commitment, imposes exactly priorities in the involvement of the Protectors on the protection and promotion of shell and minority freedoms and rights. The Law itself directs the Protector to pay particular attention to the protection of the rights of members of national minorities, the rights of children, the rights of persons with disabilities, the rights of persons deprived of liberty and gender equality. What is important in this bill is that the Protector can visit social protection institutions without prior notice. The protection of citizens is currently authorised to check the places where persons are deprived of liberty, detention units, psychiatric institutions without notice. This power is now being extended to social protection institutions, which I believe is of particular importance, precisely to improve the rights and freedom of the child. The important news of this bill is that the Citizens' Protector is obliged to provide, in addition to the annual report, information on the state of human rights in the Republic of Serbia. When we talk about human rights, I need to look at the current epidemiological situation caused by the Kovid-19 virus and its impact on human health. It is clear to all of us that the right to health is one of the fundamental human rights and that the violation of it for any reason also entails a violation of other rights. The number of infected and the number of dead have been very worrying for a long time. So I urge citizens to respect, adhere to all the epidemiological measures of protection and to vaccinate. In circumstances where there is now a vaccine against the virus Kovid-19 is the best answer. It is the fastest and easiest way to get out of the severe epidemiological state in which Serbian citizens are present. The state has given everyone the opportunity to be vaccinated without discrimination. Moreover, Serbian citizens could, and they can still choose which vaccine they want to receive. Nevertheless, a large number of citizens, especially young people, have resistance to vaccination, making it significantly difficult to fight an epidemic caused by the Kovid-19 virus. It is necessary for every citizen to be responsible, because it is the only way we can keep our health and the health of people in our environment. The state of Serbia has taken serious and responsible action from the very beginning when we talk about an epidemic caused by the Kovid-19 virus. All epidemiological measures have been carried out in good time, and Serbia is among the first countries to allow its citizens to be vaccinated. Three new Kovid hospitals have been built, and what Serbia is particularly proud of is that despite the numerous negative consequences caused by this pandemic crisis, we have managed to preserve economic stability. All of what I'm talking about points to one responsible, healthy and stable policy led by President Aleksandar Vukic, and it is of great importance that we keep such a policy in continuity, that we pass laws that will contribute to the more efficient functioning of the state and that are, above all, in the interests of our citizens. The Law on the Protector of Citizens is certainly one of those laws that fights for the interest of citizens and protects their rights. Many from the former government are bothered by Serbia's strong and stable. They are bothered by the strong and stable economy and economy, but it will not prevent us from continuing to work intensively and continuously on the development of our country, to advocate the progress and better lives of citizens, to live in a healthy environment and to build a safe future for our and generations to come. So, the SNS, led by Alexander Vukic, advocates a policy of equal opportunities and is guided by the fact that only a society in which everyone has equal rights can move forward and develop. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-27-0.u10062	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Zoran Bojanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-27-0.u10063	Thank you. Minister, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues, above all, allow me to congratulate all the believers, or all the citizens of the Republic of Serbia who are celebrating the glory today and wish them long glory in happiness and peace. What is especially fulfilling me today, come on, I'll say, pride is that not only are our two former colleagues from these parliamentary benches, but as a man who grew up on the shores of Ibra and Morava, beneath Mount Goc, there are two of mine, let's say, my friends. There are two people I've known since their childhood. That as a royal fills me with pride. Now I'm going to move on to what we're here for today, which is two very good proposals, namely one new bill and one amendment and one addition to the existing law. Since 2003, 2004 and 2005, many have been able, and this is someone in previous exhibitions and mentioned, to supplement, to amend, to improve existing laws. No one remembered or had time, no will, or no desire. It is a pleasure that this very minister, with a team headed by the ministry, has found both time and will and knowledge to complete it. Why am I saying that? Well, these two laws are exactly what we are seeking at the SNS, headed by Alexander Vukic, not only a strong, economically strong Serbia, a financially strong Serbia, but a Serbia that respects rights. Whether Serbia will at some point be an EU member or not, I can tell you, that is the least important now. What is important is that all that is worth, that everything that it means and everything that improves, above all, the life of our citizens, which makes life easier for them, we need to take over from the EU and the principles that they respect and value. I think these are the two laws in that direction. So these are the two laws that follow that Serbia, Serbia in 2025, agenda. When I say this, I'm not saying it by heart. You've all heard what Mrs. Obradović's very comprehensive presentation, you've read the laws, and I don't want much to talk about it, but what's gotten into my eyes, these are exactly the opinions of the Venice Commission that are highly valued here and when it comes to rights, above all, and if I'm not a lawyer and SIGMA. So, the organisations that together formed the EU and the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development and in co-operation with these two organisations, and this ministry worked to produce these two very important documents. What I want to stress is that there have been many consultations, that there have been public hearings, which is very important to the public, and that all those objections that have moved within the frameworks have been accepted and incorporated into this law. What I would particularly like to point out, and I would like to say, is something I was going to say before my colleagues and Bakarec came forward, and ultimately, an authorised representative of the SNS parliamentary group, including the minister. I would ask all these bodies to understand once that we are all equal and that we are working in the interests of all citizens of Serbia, and the President of the Republic of Serbia is equal to everything else, the President and his family. Alexander Vukitch is a strong man. He can take it all and don't be afraid. It's a lot stronger than all of them who go around, moaning and talking nonsense. I know that for sure. If it wasn't for that, Serbia wouldn't be who it is. Isn't it ugly to comment on and attack, spit on a man's family? If you're powerless, if you're jealous, if you know he's strong, if you know he's going in the right direction, if you know he's creating one big Serbia, big, big financial, big economical to his young people, Serbia where young people will stay and Serbia in which young people will live and create generations, so join him or criticize him if he hasn't done something right in that part, don't touch the family, because no one's family on this side has ever mentioned or attacked him. So, institutions do your job, you work all the way, we're all the same and we're all the same. If I didn't owe you much, I'd just like to talk to our fellow citizens who haven't been vaccinated so far. I speak as a man who was on the verge of death and life, precisely because of that crown, which many say doesn't exist. There is. I felt it on my skin. Thanks to our medical workers and their efforts, I stayed alive and therefore receive the vaccine, because it is the only salvation at this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-27-0.u10064	Thank you, Mr. Bojanic. The next is distinguished colleague Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-27-0.u10065	Thank you, Your Honor. A respected minister with associates, fellow MPs and MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, today we have two legislative proposals from the authority of the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government, but I will focus on one, and that is the proposal for a Law on the Citizens' Protector. Why? Because it is a system-based new law, because for a long time, in a completely transparent and responsible way, this legal solution has been made, because all other interested persons have been involved in this legislative solution, and the civil sector, of course, and the professional public has, as a result, been involved in this proposal for a Law on the Protector of Citizens. I must say that Serbia is a democratic country, that Serbia is defined as a European path, that it is a strategic definition of the Republic of Serbia, that Serbia, of course, wants to bring its legislation into line with EU legislation, especially in the part concerning the protection of fundamental human rights and freedom and the protection of citizens. Of course, this law is fully in line with the strategy of the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government, in that aspect of the efficiency of the work of the state administration, because the aim of this government and the aim of the SNS is for the authorities of the state administration to work in the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, to do a lot of jobs for them, to be civil servants, not citizens to be couriers for the sake of the work of the state authorities. When it comes to the Proposal for a Law on the Protector of Citizens, I must also point out that the proposal for this law will select the Citizens' Protector in a completely transparent way, through a public competition, a precise selection procedure for the Citizens' Protector is envisaged, but I must stress the special importance that the procedure is fully envisaged, as well as the deadlines and all those procedures under which the Citizens' Protector is acting when it comes to complaints from citizens to the work of the national authorities, i.e. on the work of the authorities of the State administration. I must also point out that for the first time, the Citizens' Protector can submit proposals, opinions on making and supplementing those legislative proposals concerning lower levels of government, not just the National Assembly and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Then, I would like to highlight four very important areas in which the Citizens' Protector works and I would like those areas in which the Citizens' Protector works to compare to the situation until 2012 and with the situation since 2012 when the SNS took over. Namely, the Citizens' Protector shall appoint a deputy under the national torture prevention mechanism as part of his powers. This implies, of course, that the Protector of Citizens has the right to unannounced and uninterrupted visits and criminal and correctional institutions and social protection institutions and psychiatric hospitals. I must point out that by 2012, when it comes to the Department of Criminal Sanctions and our prisons, they were so overcrowded that we were simply the last and we couldn't rank on that list of overcrowding prisons, and the overcrowding of prisons is directly linked to the inhumane conditions of the life of prisoners in prisons. In prisons there were 156 convicts in 100 vacancys. Since 2012, when we came to power, 200 thousand square meters of space has been restored and reconstructed, which is related to judicial institutions, and as far as prison is concerned, the conditions have been so improved that three years ago, in 2018, the most modern prison has been opened in Pančev according to the greatest European standards, the prison that is adapted to people with disabilities. It's the prison of the most modern type in which the full resociation of prisoners is fully possible, but of course and fully human conditions for the maintenance of the prison sentence. I must also point out, when it comes to the national mechanism for the implementation of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, that the yellow tycoon rule by 2012, not that it did not take care of persons with disabilities, but robbed them, so Dragan Djilas and his party colleague Pajtic robbed children of development through taking money to build the Hetherland Castle, which was to serve children distracted in development. Of course, at the time of the government of the yellow tycoon company by 2012, children were mentally distracted were robbed. The Hetherland Castle left only ruins, weeds and nothing else. Today, thanks to the province government, the Heterland Castle is completely renovated and it will not serve only children with developmental disorders, it will serve for recreational teaching and for the stay of children from all over Serbia. The capacity of this castle, now renovated thanks to the resources of the province's government, is to stay for several days 120 children. Also, I must point out that by 2012 at the time of the power of the robbery company Dragan Gilas, who robbed citizens of 619 million dinars, there were legally invisible persons. These legal invisible persons were mostly members of Roma nationality. No matter what the EU has pointed out to the gaps when it comes to the legal framework of those persons, it of course did not touch them, because the last thing they would be dealing with, or not at all, is the issue of human rights. Of course, we have also introduced legally invisible persons since 2012 through the legal framework of persons who can also have a health book, who can also be educated, who can enjoy all human rights, which first and foremost the Constitution and the laws of this country allow them. If they weren't interested in it, the yellow tycoon government, no human rights, and the Citizens' Protector is concerned with protecting human rights and solving their complaints, it also says that 600,000 people have lost their jobs, thus jeopardizing the basic existential needs of both workers and their families. They threatened the right to the health care of every child whose parents were out of work because the health books of those children were untrusted. Since 2012, it has been up to the authorities of course to take over the SNS and thanks to President Aleksandr Vukic for this time he himself has opened over 250 factories in which citizens are entitled to work, and the right to work is one of the basic human rights. That the yellow tycoon power, which is not a critic today, but a critic of this government, because they have no policy, but only by plying lies, lies and lies, as well as hatred, above all according to the President of the Republic of Aleksandr Vukic and according to his family members, shows also the fact that Dragan Gilas is a false contract, a contract in which the building of a building of general social interest, or building a living room for children, built the house "Big Brother", thus introducing the first reality program in Serbia and thus trading seconds robbed the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and illegally gaining millions. I would like to stress another jurisdiction of the Protector of the Citizens, which concerns the protection, promotion and promotion of the rights of the child. Our Constitution and all our laws make every child's rights equal. The equality of rights is guaranteed for every child. It seems that in this country, this alone is not guaranteed to the children of Alexander Vukic, the president and for this reason I call on all the competent authorities, the institutions to deal with this issue, to find mechanisms and measures to protect the rights, interests and minor Vukan and Milica and Daniel. Also, for the yellow tycoon rule, for thieves, looting people's couples, it seems normal for a brother not to like his brother, it seems normal for a son not to love his father and mother, it seems to be for a yellow tycoon power, which has no moral norm and criteria normal for a parent not to love a child. However, Serbia is a country of decent people. Moral values that a brother loves a brother, moral values that concern coherent and harmonious family relationships, moral values that father takes care of his children, the moral value that a child is the greatest wealth of one parent is something that they value and respect and, of course, it is high on the list of priorities of our citizens. What is also important for our citizens and what our citizens recognize is that Aleksandar Vukic lives and works day and night to make Serbia and its citizens better. That's why Alexander Vukic's policy has no alternative and that's why the policy that leads to prosperity and the future, both today and the generations that come and our children, will certainly win us a convincing victory in the upcoming elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-27-0.u10066	Thank you. Next on the list, honourable MP Marijan Risticevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-27-0.u10067	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is difficult to talk about this subject without remembering the famous two without the corporal - Rodoljub Sabic and Sasa Jankovic. When I was being replaced in time by the president of the Indji Municipality Assembly, I addressed Sashi Jankovic, since the electoral will of the citizens was violated, by being replaced at the session held by DS in the water management building. So, I'm the only official who's been taken over in the water management building where the DS headquarters was, and that session was held in the water management building at DS headquarters, where the office of the chairman of the DS municipal board was. Saša Jankovic's answer, then the first Protector of the citizens, in fact the protector of his large salary was that he was not interested in my rights. He probably didn't really care after the election. We remember Rodoljub Sabic, a famous, independent, regulatory body, or as it is already called, who was so independent that in his career he changed three political parties and was a functioner to three political parties. So he chaired the National Assembly. He was a minister. So, I don't know what else he was supposed to be so he could be really independent, but his independence is reflected in the functions he's performed in his previous work before we chose him as the Trustee, or the DS chose him. And so Sasa Jankovic, former julain, and I don't know what he wasn't, and Mr Sabic chose and placed irresponsible people in responsible places. In principle, they say democracy is the rule of the majority. This is the thing of the people, for the people, etc., of the people, of the people, of the people, that the rule of the majority. I'm afraid that the system currently transferring part of the government to independent authorities and bodies and NGOs, that I don't forget them, is the famous Martinovic law that emerged as a parallel part of the former yellow DS, I'm afraid that part of the government, part of the public government in the state, is transferred to independent authorities, independent bodies, or what is already called the NGOs that lurk us on every corner, etc. So, people, the three of them come together and register some NGO, and then they mix directly, interfere with the exercise of power, and if you object to the NGO sector that's good with the tobacco independent regulatory media, and even if Shabic and Sasa Jankovic sit behind your back, then you have a problem that we have to overcome. Thus, the former regime treated these allegedly responsible functions. I claim that most of the MPs, especially us who have been here a little longer, receive more people a day than the Commissioner, in the case of Shabic, it was the conspirator and Protector of the Citizens, so there is no day to not receive three, four, five, six persons, etc. While these guys there record every phone conversation, they record like, here, they've been working with citizens, and they're basically doing it for big money. The next Guardian of Citizens to be elected under this law will be elected for eight years. Imagine how much one citizen can get on Bingo, or as it is called, those who get 100,000 euros, 200,000 euros, 300,000 euros are weaker winners than the Citizens' Protectors. I calculated it this way, since his salary will be like the salary of the President of the Constitutional Court, I calculated that it will not be below 4,000 to 5,000 euros per month and I have long opposed that we as MPs of the National Assembly who are going through election cycles every two years, whenever someone asks or doesn't ask for elections we organise, election campaigns within parties etc. Blood must still be done, the citizens need to know, in order to get on the election list at all. You're going to put on posters, have toes to be glued, etc., you're going to go to public gatherings, qualify, have citizens who are supposed to or at the moment protected by the Citizens' Protector, have citizens telling you things in these stands, there's, in particular, we from smaller parties, say, representing the rural population, there's going to be a bit of a freeze in these halls, because usually in the village, it's cold, usually, etc., there are worse jobs than ours, but in order for you to come here and choose a man or to determine the Guardian by law, you have to go through some procedure that's not so easy and you choose a person with four times the pay. In principle, I am in favour of the fact that those we choose have no higher salary than the President of the Assembly or the President of the Republic. For me, it is not normal for the Citizens' Protector to have a higher salary than the President of the Republic, which passes today, the President of the Republic passes through a warm rabbit, an entire family, and the Citizens' Protector is well tucked in with four times the salary. Well, you do the math, Mr. Arsic, four, five times the salary of the President of the Assembly, and then eight years. I calculated, it's 500,000 euros and if it's been another five years before, it's 800,000 euros. It is rare that at Bingo or a team of gambling can get 800,000 euros, and of course fame hits their heads. I've watched it here, independent regulatory bodies, those when they come in here spread around these benches and then they come at us and treat us with the height of their pay. Like, what these MPs, well, they have four times the pay. What, well, I have a driver of several cars, well, yeah, I don't know, four assistants, I don't know how many secretaries, etc., and these assistants get into honey, like, together, how many there are, four with the Protector of Citizens, and they become a state in the state and government, part of the government, and it belongs to them a lot more sweet than Parliament, Prime Minister, President of the Republic. Then they treat us like they do at the height of their pay, and like, what these poor people want there now, and we only matter to them until we choose them by name, etc. It's not acceptable for me for them to have higher wages. I'm not asking us to have their salaries, here I am asking them to have our salaries. So that you may see that there will be no confusion, and there will be no kidnapping for the place of the Protector, the Trustee. Usually in the second part of the term of office... You know that story about the customs officer, like what to buy him for his birthday. So they think, think, and one remembers and says, "Hey, people, let's give him another shift. This third one says - don't people, so there's a lot of two shifts. So this, I think, is a lot of eight years without any re-election. We are likely to place anyone in Serbia, in the second part, when he feels that he can no longer be re-elected under this law, he will probably go into politics as Sasa Jankovic did, so he wished that whoever has four times the salary of him and who does his job on a daily basis would receive citizens, as Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic did, later the President of the Republic, and received citizens, and the other one was involved in politics. We had a crazy situation, a row in front of the Prime Minister's office, a line of citizens he's taking, hearing about their problems, who's hungry, who's boss, who's unemployed, who's underpaid, who needs medicine, and the Citizens' Protector doesn't have a crowd. Then I wonder, wait, what does the one who needs to protect and does not protect have four times the salary of the President of the Republic doing his job? Sasa Jankovic, of course, was known to everyone, was also dangerous in the environment even as a student and when she got the job, all other protectors might be occupying him, so in the second half of the mandate they will say – well, now that I am qualified for politics and start doing our job as Rodoljub Sabic and Sasa Jankovic did. It's especially interesting, for example, this Shabic. He was attacked by concrete after some drunk and then he was angry, like, look what they did to me from the state, the sidewalk jumps, such a rude concrete jumps and threatens the poor confidant. In particular, the parliament was under his control. Instead of parliament controlling him, what he was doing for such a big salary, the former politician remembered that he could control us from that place, so I was a lying thief, etc. Now, imagine the man we chose, confirmed his choice, as now let's not change the trustee, not to change the Guardian of Citizens, give them another chance. They took that chance, better say abused to be politically qualified with desire, you know, if someone stopped their heart I could jump into his place and become a politician. Just because the Citizens' Protector has become your candidate in the presidential election, it is enough to say that and see how much they have combined their function with politics. Privileges, all MPs come mostly to their cars, the Citizens' Protector has several cars available, has a cabinet, while MPs receive citizens and bear part of the burden they need to bear. That's why you need to be careful. I'll vote for this law. We'll see how he can be enforceable, but basically the system they're offering us from Brussels is mostly looking for certain victims. In politics, you don't always get what you want, you often get what the other person wants, and the country as a country must fit in if it wants to be an EU member, and I see the EU growing. I am neither a Eurosceptic, but in small quantities, the EU is solving its problems, and it is increasingly reminding me of the SFRY somewhere in 1989 of each other's accusations, etc., but Serbia sees them as very harsh. You need this, you need that, put the Protector, put some people who are nice to us, and then Tanya Fajon comes along and one of those Europarliamentaries says, even if they don't ask themselves in their country as Bilček etc., and you have to do this now, so give it to the opposition, since 1996 I've participated, give them 30 points. We fill 30 points, they won't go to the election. Then the Europarliamentaries - let's give them this again, etc. We then conduct tough negotiations, they oversee us, NGOs oversee us, God's independent journalists oversee us, when the Protector of Citizens shows up and says – people, there can't be unregistered political parties, they have to register, according to the laws that these yellow ones have brought before us. To register a political party, you need 10,000 signatures. So they came up with ways to get rid of opposition parties and to have as few competitors on the political market as possible and these were citizens' rights to deal with politics. So it couldn't have been 100 signatures anymore, but it had to suddenly be 10,000 signatures and all the political parties that were registered had to be like that in SFRY, that you would just move to all the republics, so all the political parties say – now, everyone on the counter, you have to reregister, behold, the yellow god, Boris Tadic also ordered Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic, etc., ordered that there must be 10,000 members in one political party. Are the citizens denied the ability to start a political party? Of course they were denied. Now, when they got into a fight after losing power and one hen formed a hundred chickens, with a political power smaller than my party that was constantly making fun of, well, then it was -- we're a movement. Now I ask you, Madam Minister, what is this movement? I can't do it, I've been doing politics, I'm still trying, but I can't figure out what the movement is? I'm combing a little bit. It's the turnaround movement. That colleague of ours who was here, who established the rule that the political party must have 10,000 members. But when it came to refer to them, when they no longer have 10,000 members, nor can they collect it, they say, we are a movement. I looked at it a little, when that association of citizens. It takes three members, let's say, in the case of that reverse, he, the woman and the sister-in-law, and he registered the Turnover Movement. Suddenly, it's not a party, it's not a grandmother, it's not a girl, you can't tell what's going on. And the Citizens' Protector, he doesn't give a shit about the rights of those political citizens and they have to start a political party to do so. And then you have independent regulatory bodies, so you have media. I have not yet heard that the Protector of Citizens and the Commissioner for Public Information has sided with the citizens and said – you have the right to objective information, you have the right to the media, the media that write about you and who inform or disinformation must be registered in the Republic of Serbia in order for you to benefit from the right to object, the right to reply, etc. You have unregistered political parties, these movements, the movement register doesn't exist, there's a registration of sports organisations, there's a register of citizens' associations, there's a register of political parties, but the movement register doesn't exist and they abuse the right to gather. Then on the activities of unregistered political parties at unregistered and illegal public gatherings, where, for example, doctors are called because of corona, vaccinations, etc. means unregistered gatherings, and from there they report, inform or disinformation so-called. independent free or unregistered media. And then the shit -- the Guardian of Citizens shuts up, the Trustee of information of public importance, and the information that comes from the media should be the subject of the work of the Protector and the Trustees, and then they say -- you know what, dear Protestants, there's no one here in front of RTS, and then with eight cameras, there's unrest in the state, the pound of the Assembly, at unregistered public assemblies, registered political parties are breaking and breaking and reporting unregistered media that you can't even sue in the Republic of Serbia for misinformation, because you get the answer that they're not registered in the Republic of Serbia and that they're not a party that can be sued in the Republic of Serbia. All these citizens then have the right to be informed of certain products, to find out through advertising what they need to buy in "Maxie", etc., which are prices, and then see these independent media, media freedom and the rule of law. They're mostly grudges, right, that come from where? Who's carrying this? The ones from the EU that are isolated. I think that if they want us to fight corruption, first in the EU they should do a little bit of corruption, because some decisions that in many countries an operator cannot be the owner of the media, and in Serbia they return the law to us, says, e, you can have the operator own the media. Then he's not the owner, he's an operator in Serbia, but he's not even the owner of the media in Serbia, but he owns the media in Luxembourg, and then he doesn't answer to anyone. Then we have independent media who complain about freedom of the media, and registered. Apparently, the program is being broadcast, it's being downloaded here at the same time, and the programme is reportedly being broadcast in Luxembourg or Slovenia. Even so, they write from the independent regulatory body of REM that they are packing our programme, from Belgrade it goes a little bit to Luxembourg from Luxembourg to Slovenia, where they are "packing" our programme, even using that expression, it is not re-emissioning but walking the signal and from there informing us and paying no one. The domestic media must pay everything, REM, RATEL, SOKOJ, OFFS copyright, etc., while these independents, as free media, professional, as they say, owned by Gilas and Solak, means owned by politicians, the European Union doesn't care that Gilas is involved in the media, which shouldn't be one politician who owns the media, has nothing to do with it, lived in media freedom. If they're for freedom of the media, then they should have advocated Luxembourg for freedom of the media. You have a report from N1 TV that says a N1 TV correspondent has been awarded in Luxembourg. How does a correspondent of N1 TV in Luxembourg, when Solak and Gilas claim that these media are registered in Luxembourg? He's a correspondent here, not there. So, a little bit, a little bit, and then some truth gets ripped off, it's been said, and they're not even aware that it's been announced. And then independent regulatory bodies that don't pay anything here, don't have to have a license, but the advertising law says they can't broadcast Serbian ads, and then they take and broadcast Serbian commercials, and so directly affect the freedom of the media that are registered, because when they run out of income, there's no freedom of the media without advertising income, that the media can have salaries for employees, technology, etc., that it can broadcast the program needs revenue, and incomes are mostly made by advertising. But foreign media re-emissioning reportedly have no right, under Article 27. The advertising law, on advertising, does not have the right to inform citizens about products, actions, etc. Today you look at the Luxembourg media and even "Fox", you watch Serbian ads where they even write prices – 399 dinars, etc. And now someone's trying to prove to me that, say, there's an action going on in the dinars in Washington, New York, Berlin, Paris. And now imagine us registering, say, in India, fictitiously. Like, in Europe, you can register television, and you don't have to broadcast a program. It directly violates the Convention, because it targets the Member State that signed the Convention, in general or predominantly, which is considered to be an abuse of law. That's what N1 TV does. Those who force us various independent bodies, organs, etc., are mostly silent about such violations. What is not allowed in their countries is allowed to be done in Serbia. Imagine we open a studio in Paris, Vienna, Berlin, etc. And we're going to broadcast their commercials, attack McCron, Merkel, etc., their parties, complain about the lack of freedom of the media, etc. We say -- you know what, we're registered in India, we don't have to broadcast the program there, here, we're recasting the program here. I think such televisions, wildly, would be closed in 15 minutes, so that the fines would be very large, in order to act very harshly against wild, pirated media, and with us, the wild, pirated media at United Media, sue the state of Serbia, i.e. Citizens who make up that country, who should pay for them, and here's their investment coming from Luxenburg, the White World Islands, I don't know where, from Holland, etc. their investments are compromised. Madam Minister, I warn you, as a member of the government, that it is a great opportunity to lose arbitration, since their judges, and outside, we know it well, love everything that young people love, what they cannot use in their country, they will be very happy to use from Serbia, and these Schools, Gilas, the media have that black money, acquired ads, illegal commercials, contrary to the 27th and the surplus of these black couples, can have an impact on what, they love all the young people, and in such a way the states and citizens can lose the dispute, and while the Citizens' Protector and the Commissioner for Public Information will not be interested. Imagine now these independent media reporting from a rally that hasn't been reported. They even stage these protests, sort of organize, call, call, report, do everything, and call themselves objective journalists. In doing so, their journalists have three times the salary. How do they have three times the salary or more pay than journalists in registered media, etc? Well, because they take revenue from advertising from the media that have the right to do so, and that's why they register in Serbia. Those who don't register and don't have the right to advertise, take that money, and buy it like that, not just journalists, buy politicians, buy it, buy it, I don't know... That list of Gilas paid for everything, how he bought a political party from Bulatovic and so on for 5.7 million. He was the leader of the Green Ecological Party, and as soon as he heard that all of the canvass had been cut down by Gilas in Belgrade, he decided to resign a political party a few years later, though, my God, 10,000 signatures should be collected. Then you'll get an independent assembly club in favor of Gilas, and they haven't been to the election. That was normal for the trustee, the conspirator, and so on, and today we're dealing with these issues. Let me ask the following: Do citizens have the right to list the most important events, which, by the law of Article 74, must not be deprived of the right to the most important events? For example, football matches are on the list of most important events, which are solely legal, have the right to transfer media that cover the whole market of the Republic of Serbia, the entire Republic of Serbia and have free access. You suddenly see an independent regulatory body, shut up, and the games transmit - who? The games are broadcast by Solakov and Gilas TV and directly violate Article 74 because such events of interest to all citizens must not deprive them of their rights, they deprive, and if they cover only half of the market and there is no free access, it is cable channels. So a citizen like that has to subscribe to watch it, he has to subscribe. What are his rights? Who's protecting the citizen? When the law has the right to monitor these events on the televisions available to it, which cover the entire market. They can't follow it because someone usurped the law guaranteed the right. And nothing. The independent regulatory body is silent, and if it is paid precisely by televisions covering the entire market, i.e. those registered, they pay, from where the fat wages are received by REM Council members, officials, I don't know, executive director, etc., as if the law does not exist. The law does not apply, except for those of us who are registered, we are working in accordance with procedures. It's just like if I open a shoe shop, pay all the contributions, then a shoemaker shows up who pays nothing, and does the same services, and says – well, I'm a little registered in Luxembourg. I haven't seen the Citizens' Protector yet, or, and I expect Pasalic to start this, to say, "You know what, my citizens can't be deprived of the right to watch Serbia's football team, or basketball, or any event from the list of most important events, that's what the law has guaranteed them, and I, the Citizens' Protector with such a small salary, will die for my citizens to exercise those rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-27-0.u10068	Thank you. The word is proposed by Minister Marija Obradovic, the esteemed minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-27-0.u10069	Thank you. Just for a little while, I can't help but react to the presentation of MP Risticevic, you've been a really long time, we've been colleagues long in parliament and you've been talking about this issue for several years, I'm thinking about these Luxembourg TVs, and you can't get any institutional answers. This may be a little unserious to you, yet you are the voice of the people and the messenger of the people, and someone would have to react or speak falsely or act according to what you say. According to the information I have, you're really telling the truth, but I'm guessing you won't give up on those topics that you've been working on for years. It's called a political struggle in the end. What is interesting to me is that you also spoke very critically about the individuals who had previously taken over the positions of the Protector of Citizens and the Commissioner for Public Information about Mr Jankovic and Mr Sabic. You spoke a little in a funny tone, or it sounded funny, but I understand that you were extremely dissatisfied with their work and somehow you have now passed that dissatisfaction on to these current leaders of these two independent bodies. At least that's my impression, I don't know if I guessed. The bottom line is that all that you've been talking about is a great opportunity, that by passing this new law for both the Protector and the Trustee, you're actually being extremely strict to the extent that the law allows you to choose the next Guardian, or the Trustee. The process now looks a little different, but certainly a public call is made by the president of parliament. All are allowed to apply under this bill and for the time being to be resented by the SPS parliamentary group we have made a much wider proposal than the lawyers. So, in keeping with the rules of the Venice Commission, the Venice Principles, but we'll talk about it when we're in the detail days, is it a good solution to be an exclusive lawyer, or can we be a bit wider, and then we have a well-organized group, or a team of officers within the office, within that service that will take care of the things you've been talking about, and that should certainly be taken into account. Personally, I think and this is pictured in a law that is the result of the work of a large number of institutions that we really need to open up as large a circle as possible to get as many candidates as possible. Simply put, but we'll talk on the day that we consider, in particular, this law. Once again, MP Risticevic, it is always interesting for me when you speak, and I hope that the public will support you in your initiatives, because you should not give up this kind of political struggle and as long as there are those people who strictly monitor every step of the Guardian and the Commissioner for Public Information, they will certainly not be able to do their job casually. The amount of profit you've been talking about is kind of not convenient to talk about other people's wages, that's a rule, but when this situation is about what you're talking about, obviously that degree of your dissatisfaction with their work, and people when they're unhappy, how who works is starting to ask you about your salary. When people are satisfied with how someone works, they don't ask much. So there are many questions open today. I agree with you that we need to discuss all of this here, open these questions, because the wider the diapazon of the questions we are opening, the sooner we will find better answers. It should not be protected in Serbia, on any subject, and at this point in Serbia we do indeed have, I would say a double archinae. What is valid and what can be attacked when Alexander Vucic and his family are involved, for some others it is not acceptable. So you are right, counterpart Risticevic, to open as many questions as possible until we get the final answers that will satisfy most people in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-27-0.u10070	Thank you, Minister for the clarification. Next on the list, the honourable MP Dr Ugljesa Mrdić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-27-0.u10071	I would like to thank the chairman, the Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, Mrs Obradovic, with his associates, distinguished fellow MPs and citizens of the Republic of Serbia. First of all, I would like to begin by congratulating my dear advances and all the citizens of Serbia, who celebrate, the happy glory of St. Friday, with a desire to give us, primarily a lot of health, so to you and your families, and I want the SNS led by Alexander Vukic to continue to win, in all the upcoming elections, that SNS and President Aleksandar Vukic will be in power for a long time because of the interests of Serbian citizens and that SNS determines all of this efficiently and professionally, as is the case so far, in the service of citizens and to record results in all areas and as regards state administration and local self-government and health care and all sectors. When we talk about the Citizens' Protector and when we talk about the Commissioner for Public Information, we need to remind ourselves, what my fellow MPs, who spoke before me, have done well, must be reminded of Sasa Jankovic and Rodoljub Sabic. One of the main critics, current authorities, and while he was a confidant, Rodoljub Sabic was later on. Rodoljub Sabic repeatedly criticised the interference of the executive and legislative authorities, in the work of the creditors, and the criticism was mostly professional or because the trustee did not react when needed and insisted on that independence. Otherwise, to remind the citizens of Serbia, Rodoljub Sabic was a folk MP for the Serbian Parliament, then spoke differently. He was also vice-president of the Serbian Parliament for a time, and later he was a minister and that was right in your position, he was Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government. And then, as he insisted, it was before legislative, and when he was minister, that I had the right of criticism, he, as minister, could say, criticise, to look back, etc. Then when he became a trustee, he suddenly became independent and began to criticise the legislative and executive authority, whose own he was. He's an amazing man. Example number two, Sasa Jankovic. He was a civil servant in the ministry of youth and sports, during Slobodan Milosevic, later worked as a non-governmental organisation official and I can no longer remember where he worked, then became a trustee. When he was a confidant, or I apologize to the patron of the citizens, Frankfurt, when he became Sasa Jankovic, the Citizens' Protector, once again began to criticise the executive power, but not in his first term, when Boris Tadic was in power and Dragan Djilas, but in the second, when Aleksandar Vukic was in power and SNS. And then when he realized he couldn't be chosen for the third time, then he was a politician, then he started criticizing everything alive and talking about various imaginary abuses of power. Today, Sasa Jankovic, look out, this is a man who has been a public defender for 10 years, today he talked about some things, i.e. These months, more specifically in mid-September, on information he was obliged to deliver to the competent state institutions and citizens of Serbia, as regards the threat of the president of the Republic of Aleksandr Vukic. So we had a Protector of Citizens, who was from the authorities and from the citizens of Serbia, who should be protecting, hiding information that he was preparing the assassination of President Aleksandar Vukic. You can imagine that hypocrisy, but it's just not hypocrisy, imagine God forbid it happened, what would it be? In doing so, Sasa Jankovic publicly admitted to co-operation with Western embassies. And it was the Guardian of Citizens. I just hope that the current Civilian Protector and the current Commissioner for Public Information will not be co-workers of the Western Service, nor any foreign service, and I hope that if they get any information about the threat and security or President Vukic or his family, or any citizen of Serbia, that they will inform both the competent services and that citizen, that his life is at stake. So look at all the absurdities we've lived in and what's going on today. So, the least said unprofessionalism, as regards the so-called Independent Protectors of Citizens and Trustees, and apparently they were addicted, and time will show who they depended on and who they worked for. Even though they did reveal themselves. Sasa Jankovic revealed himself. And then I'm very glad, and this is reminded today, it seems to me that my colleague, Kesar, that the vice president of the SNS and the mayor of Novi Sad, Milos Vukevic, has now reminded the public, of what seems to have been done to me by the SNS officials in December 2019, came out in public with information that the Ministry of Interior is making, not real, but that the established parallel structures of power, parallel centres of power, crime in the police, and here today we have an epilogue of all this and I hope that the trials will be prepared to end and that all those who have abused the MUP, all the other institutions, have worked with the mafia, worked with the Western services, worked against the President of the Republic, whoever was involved in listening to the president, his family, following the family, and all the time we have had silence, among others and most of the trustees. I hope that this will be revealed to the end, and I hope that both the current trustee and the current Protector will react when we have obvious and clear intentional attacks on the family of the President of the Republic. To him, to the President of the Republic, so to his brother Andrej, and worst of all, to his children and underage Vulcan and Milic and Daniel, so nothing is sacred to them, but that is why I see that part of the trustees, and God to me and part of the state officials, and part of the people by political parties and parliamentary and outside the parliamentary parties, are silent. But we're not all the same. So on this occasion, I want to commend, to congratulate, to thank and to have every honour, to all my fellow MPs, to all these wonderful people here in the hall, and to the SNS and from other parties, who stood up and stood up for President Alexander Vukic and his family. I also want to commend and congratulate all ministers and state officials and all officials and leaders of the SNS and other coalition partners, and other parties who have spoken publicly about the threats of President Vukic and his family, and have condemned this and condemned it better than certain state institutions should condemn and react. And to all this, who criticises the current power, who laughs and encourages attacks on President Vukic and his family, one Dragan Djilas, one Vuk Jeremic, one Marika Tepic. Why are they attacking the family of Alexander Wolfich? They're attacking to bring down Alexander Vukic because we're all weak on our family and we're not all giving and we're ready to do everything we can to protect our family. They're trying to get him to that stage, to get a man out of politics. That is why we need to give Alexander Vukic and the state institutions and we who are involved in politics full support and ask for the full protection of both President Vukic and his family. First, because of the safety of his family, and secondly, that Aleksandar Vucic would be even stronger to continue to lead Serbia into a safe future for our children, and in parallel with these certain elements around Gilas, Jeremic and these various "We don't strangle Belgrade", these opposition columns gathered around them, they have a desire to destroy Serbia and not suit them with strong Serbia, so that they can do what they want and that they can continue to do and what my colleague Marijan Risticevic was saying. They simply don't want to be strong institutions, they want their tycoons Gilas, Solak to be as rich as they can be, not to become but to remain multimillionaires and to kidnap new hundreds of millions of euros from Serbian citizens. Serbia bothers them. That is why it should not surprise Marinika Tepic's statement that Serbs are a genocide people. Look out, they're accusing the whole nation of Serbians now. So, not only Alexander Vukic, not just SNS officials, you from the government, now you hit the whole nation. It's clear there was a major crime in Srebrenica, but the genocide didn't happen. It is clear that there has been a crime against the Serbian people and other peoples, but the most crimes, and I would say genocide happened in the Serb people exactly, in the territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia and in the 40s and 1990s. That's what you keep your mouth shut about. If any of the state officials or president Aleksandar Vucic talks about the survival of the Serb people in Republika Srpska, the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia, in the southern Serbian province of Kosovo and Metohija, all rise from the opposition's work gathered around Dragan Dilas, Marinika Tepic, Jeremic and we do not strangle Belgrade and other movements to criticise both President Vukic and our country, because they do not respond to strong Serbia. What I would like to say, as regards state administrations and local self-government, is often addressed to us by citizens with one criticism of the work of officials, whether by municipalities, whether by city institutions or by republican institutions that often when they refer to certain requirements we have the silence of the administration, we have an untimely reaction, we have the ignoring of citizens. I would just like everyone who works, and most of them, they're honest people by local self-government and republican institutions to be what we are here as MPs, in the service of citizens, the service of citizens. I know it's hard because the Democratic Party, along with its coalition partners and these parties, has been hiring seas of people mostly unusable by the party line and who knows what accounts, interests, to build up the administration in Serbia and to ensure that this administration of local self-government to the republic is the administration of a yellow tycoon enterprise. But I trust most of the employees, their professionalism and their love for Serbia and the citizens that they will be the service of citizens and that we, the MPs of the citizens, will be heard by the administration as little as possible. And finally, and here I was encouraged by my colleague from Kraljev, Zoran Bojanić, who was barely alive at the beginning of this year because of the crown, please Serbian citizens, so please, please, I beg you, vaccinate. Thanks to the government of the Republic of Serbia, thanks to President Aleksandar Vukic, we have four types of vaccines, drug factories are being built, new birds of the hospital are being built, we have the best reaction in Europe as regards the fight against the crown of the virus. Dear citizens, take advantage of what Alexander Vukic has made possible for all of you, for all of us. Vaccinate, save your health. Take care of your health and your families and your environment. Since the elections are mentioned today, I hope, and this is what I am ordering today on the holiday of St. Friday, which is otherwise also a protector and woman, so all Serbian citizens who are the protector and the sick and the poor that the SNS will receive in the next 2022 elections as well as until now full support to continue to be led by Alexander Vukic to be in the service of the citizens and to be stronger and to make Serbia the best it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-27-0.u10072	Thank you, Dr. Gristle. Commentary, distinguished Minister Marija Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-27-0.u10073	Thank you, Chairman. Ambassador Mrdić, you gave me a good clagworth to inform the public that today's session of the Government of the Republic of Serbia accepted a donation from Poland of 200,000 vaccine "Modern". So in addition to the existing four of today in Serbia, there is also the fifth vaccine "Modern". I think we're among the few countries that have such a choice of vaccines and that the only thing left for us to be vaccinated, the ones that aren't so far, the ones that are second and third doses. It is up to us to talk every day about how important vaccination is, and I know you're doing it here in parliament, and that's good, because directly through the national frequency, you can influence the awareness of a large number of people in Serbia to accept the vaccine as the only way to fight Kovid. On the other hand, as chairman of the Co-ordination Commission for Inspection Control, I want to mention the extremely intensive work of all inspections in Serbia, in Serbia we have about 2,400 inspectors organised into 46 inspections. We've really now raised all capacities, all available forces in surveillance on the ground, because it's important that people understand that in this situation we all have to share responsibility. I don't want to, and I'll always fight to become both police and state inspectors. So, to do something under constant duress, but let us share responsibility, we as citizens of Serbia who want the best, or want to create an environment in which we will be maximum protected from mosquitoes. So, we as citizens, on the other hand of the inspection that has the obligation to monitor and control the implementation against epidemic measures and on the third hand, to be at this moment the hosts, where the dots are at this moment that after 22:00 hours, no one is in a closed catering facility, where food and drink are consumed, and that there is no green digital certification. Let me repeat once again that all of us who have been vaccinated, at least once with a vaccine, and respect the second and third doses, all of us who have been tested by different types of tests and who have a negative test, all of us have a positive green certificate, so we can meet in those areas. I ask citizens to search through E-Government for their digital certificates, it's on the e-Government portal.gov.rs, or on all the “Post” counters. So, since the beginning of the application of these certificates, around half a million certificates have been issued on the "Postal" counters, so that truly thanks and the "Post-Serbia" company, which is at the service of citizens, is easier to obtain green certificates. It is still only after 10:00 a.m. mandatory in closed catering facilities. We will also have a new session of the Crisis Headquarters next week to discuss whether we will extend both the time and other premises to the mandatory possession of a green covid certificate. I also mentioned Moderna as another fifth choice for the type of vaccine in Serbia. On the other hand, you mentioned the elections and you mentioned that you hoped that the people would show that everything we did in the previous period is really going to come across a positive echo and that people, at least 700,000 people, who are members of the Serbian Progressive Party, would really strongly support all of this policy, in the first place of the President, Aleksandr Vukic, and then the Government of the Republic of Serbia. It's good that the citizens know we won't give up the fight. People love those who fight. People love people who don't give up. People like people with attitudes. Your fight, your performance must have an attitude. That's what will define citizens by the upcoming elections, no matter what level. I especially tell my fellow promoters, they need to see you fight, that you head up ahead, that you do not respond to attacks, to constant false accusations, but to go forward proudly raised heads, proud of the results and parliament, both the Government and President Vukic. That's what we're gonna be together for, I believe. All of us 700,000, as many as we are members of the Serbian Progressive Party, but it is, I will tell you, the great front of citizens who support us at this time may not be loud enough, but I think the figures in the elections will show that this Serbia has someone to rely on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-27-0.u10074	Thank you. Let's move on. The next on the list is Honourable MP Aleksandar Mirkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-27-0.u10075	The Honorable Chairman, a respected minister with fellow Members of Parliament and fellow MPs, I would like to begin by congratulating all citizens today to celebrate St. Friday, but above all, to my party colleagues to wish for a happy celebration and to welcome everyone along with Serbian citizens in an even better and even better mood with even better Serbia. At the very beginning, a lot has been said here since this morning. I think that from your opening statement through the authorized representatives of the parliamentary groups, through every speaker, I think that everything you could hear here today had a point and had a purpose and came to the citizens of Serbia. Unlike a number of MPs, my exposure will go in the direction that previous conversators such as Mr. Risticevic, Mrdic or Mr. Bakarec went in. You know, getting ready for this session, I was able to talk to the citizens, and when you mention the term Citizens' Protector or when you mention the term of information of public importance, you know, these terms in citizens are some kind of conflicting reaction, and I would agree with Mr. Risticevic that we didn't really celebrate with Jankovic, not even the previous one, with this Shabic, because these people were more concerned about personal marketing and personal interest. Of course, after you saw that they had political ambitions, those ambitions were also trying to come true from the position of the Protector of the Citizens, and that is the legitimate right of every man who gets to function. Whether it's moral or whether it's good, we'll agree it's not. I think it's very important to take care of what these people are responsible for. I will also agree with the fact that some things are not in charge, and I will agree that somewhere the law does not allow these people to react in certain situations, but I cannot agree that there is no desire or will to change the law, so that we give these people a greater opportunity to react. Why am I saying all this? If we're talking about information of public importance, as someone who is, let's call the official, as a national MP, I was the subject of the interest of certain citizens, so where I was, what I was doing, what is the salary, diploma, and it's nothing controversial. However, it is very difficult for citizens to explain one situation that the trustee or people dealing with information of public importance somehow do not find it appropriate to ask, are interested in things that are so obvious. When I talk about it, it is interesting that no one to that of journalists, investigative journalism, has asked the question of where Dragan Gilasu has more than 68m euros scattered into more than 16 countries into over 53 accounts. Why is this information of public importance? Well, because that man made his fortune just as he was a state official. And I'm not saying this, or anyone else is saying that, but that's what he reported himself. Namely, when he entered politics, his wealth was 70,000 euros, his wife's house and his used car "Saab". And in 2018, and he's had a break in political activity since 2012, so in about ten years of government and politics, he's acquired all this wealth. When we talk about wealth, in 2018, as a candidate for mayor, as part of a list that included members of Vuk Jeremic's party and the Movement of Free Citizens, then Sergei Trifunovic and Sasa Jankovic, he even reported property worth 22m euros. I wonder how this is not information of public importance, that no one wonders how and in what way did a man who had a salary of 100,000 dinars come to such wealth? Is public information of public importance and what journalists have found themselves again in these Veritas Papers, where you see who, by which scheme, how did he finance everything, to use the term that citizens used, bought? Well, Mr. Risticevic talked about buying a Green party from this Dejan Bulatovic, the same year he couldn't collect signatures, so 10,000 signatures, he already borrowed 5,700,000 dinars on this marifetluc, and then the party changed the name from the Greens to the Freedom and Justice Party. I wonder how this is not information of public importance, in which way and whether this money that Gilas borrowed from various NGOs, journalists, will they return and if they don't return, is information of public importance and is it tax evasion? And we all know that it was done in such a way that he would give them material satisfaction, and they would perform tasks for him. In the end, if research journalism doesn't do it, if one of the MPs doesn't do it, most often as in the Risticevic case, it is left without an answer. Come on, now, we'll bring, in voting day, we'll adopt all of this in front of us today, but it's not just enough to leave it a letter on paper. We must also have the application of all that is in front of us today and what is in the law. If that's not enough, let's all find a solution together, so let's do the law supplement, change the law, just get into that situation so that something that's so obvious, we finally get an answer to the question asked. I will agree that the information of public importance has been neglected very much in some long time behind us. When we talk about the Guardian of Citizens, it is a very sensitive subject and topic that the last few speakers have highlighted that which is most troubling to us. It seems that everyone here has rights, and I don't want to challenge anyone as a citizen, but at least the rights are people who are part of the SNS or support only SNS policy and, above all, President Alexander Vukic. You've heard here how many threats we've received, we're getting, and we're going to get in the next period, but something we can't stay immune to is that in the past few years, here's the intense amount of this council, more than 12, 14 months how effectively we're working, from this place from the tide, we've repeatedly called on the competent institutions to make an advert to all those threats, but above all the satanization and criminalization of President Alexander Vukic's family. It is not disputed that perhaps the Citizens' Protector will say – it is not in my jurisdiction, I cannot react to it. But, you know, the citizens of Serbia when they hear the Protector, it gives them some trust. The citizen is Aleksandar Vukic and Danilo Vukic and Andrej Vukic, all of which are citizens of Serbia. Do they have the same rights as other citizens? Does anyone guarantee them any rights? When I ask this question, I ask it for the simple reason that it's created such an atmosphere that is absolutely not good or normal that you can say absolutely anything about these people, whatever comes to mind, to invent any nonsense, crap, lie and absolutely nothing happens. And so you get into a situation, which you mentioned, God forbid if anything happens to these people, the citizens will say, well, that's what's been said. And that's how the atmosphere of Satanizing these people is created, where you create a picture that's desirable for someone to take that fictitious justice out into the open and take justice into their own hands. It's a very dangerous thing to do. What's even bigger is the problem, which targets are no longer just the biggest circle of President Alexander Vukic's family or SNS officials. You have a situation now, today no one talked about it, I wanted it yesterday, but I didn't get to the turn, Mr. Kon and Mr. Tiodorovic. Before that, I talked about it in this tide that they went to the door, people inspired by Gilasov and Jeremic's speeches, lies, lies, went to the door of Goran Vesic. Imagine going to someone's door, under the window, burning torches, screaming, calling for that man's lynch. Now they did it outside the door of Kona and Tiodorovic. You have months, and now and a year ago the satanization of people sitting in crisis headquarters to that extent that they are literally guilty of every lost life in this battle against the Crown. And when we talk about it, all people say -- well, well, yes, but it's a crisis headquarters. These people are working and thinking about the measures that will protect all of us. But it is unacceptable when we talk about a statement by the Freedom and Justice Party just two days ago, it is only two days ago that Serbia is falling into an ambience, that this government, that the crisis staff is guilty because we have this number of infected and that they allow themselves to say in their statement – we do not know what is going on, or that the number of deceased is being hidden from the herds, or our health system is under complete collapse. So this is how you charge the CID and the state with covering up the number of deaths. In this way you encourage citizens and that group of extreme people, the anti-vaxer, as they already call themselves, who want to execute their own justice or deal with both Kon and Tiodorovic. When they saw that the devil had taken the joke, that it was not popular at all in the people, in terms of citizens' opinions, today they issue a new statement trying to wash off and say we demand that we stop the protests in front of the apartments of the epidemiologists, that is the title, and in the following text they say that the insults are not an excuse, nor should verbal aggression justify all that is happening, as well as the harassment of our colleagues and their families, and below, in the next paragraph, they say – the Vice-President of the Freedom and Justice Party, Marinika Tepic, in June 2020, filed a criminal complaint against a member of the Crisis Staff for the inaction and hiding of the data on the number of dead and the infected, so now you see what kind of paradox and contradiction is here in just one statement. So, you file criminal charges without any basis, you accuse these people of the most difficult things possible, you cause people to go to them, threaten their doors, which threatens their safety at every turn, and then this is one miserable statement, which you didn't even bother to put together better, you break all your hypocrisy. I'm interested in where the Protector of Citizens was, and if he's not even in his jurisdiction, he's going to come out of the human side and say, "people, don't do this, you're jeopardizing someone's civil rights, you're jeopardizing human rights." Also, I am sorry that we have, Mr. Mrdic mentioned earlier, that 23 ministers have in this government, with all due respect, I think that this topic may be more convenient for tomorrow when questions are asked to the Government, but from 23 ministers, with all due respect to everyone, a small number of ministers have felt and found it appropriate to condemn everything that happens to President Alexander Vukic, Danil Vukic and Andrija Vukic, even on that human side, or they are in so much fear that they too do not go through the warm rabbit of Dragan Gilas and his machinery. I'm sorry, because if we're all on the same path, if we're all sharing the same values, and I think we share them as much as most in the Serbian Parliament, you as a government, if we follow that policy of President Alexander Vukic, then it would be at least correct to stop, not that I don't know what the force is, but that only on the human side we step forward and say -- it's not normal for days on front pages and on TV shows, under direct control of Dragan Gilas, to satanize Danilo Vukic just because he's the son of Alexander Vukic. It's not normal. Also, I am sorry, and few who have noticed it from colleagues, in the last month our colleague here, National MP Nevena Djuric, is subject to the Satanization of people just because he has the courage to fight for SNS, but above all for Serbia. There is no portal that under the direct control of Dragan Gilas, without taking the most different vomit and abominations into her account in the last few days. Why? Just because every show beats them with truth and arguments. They thought it would scare her that way. No, they're not. No, they're not, they're going to beat them in every debate and result and the truth is on the side of the SNS, President Alexander Vukic's policies. It's not normal for us to stand up for so many NGOs, women's rights associations, and even for certain ministers who are full of mouths, to advocate gender equality, which I am the first, who have raced here to discuss whether or not we're going to call a minister or minister, politician or politician, that no one finds fit and says that it's not normal to make a show about a woman first of all where you bring conversants who are in the worst possible way trying to plow her. That's not what they did. Even last night, Neven showed courage, determination and showed how she was fighting for Serbia and how truth, justice and arguments break all the lies served for days by both Djilas and Jeremic and all their other halftrons. It's not normal for no one to find themselves called and say, well, you know, it's not right and it's not fair. Also, with that I will slowly and end up, all of this that I'm talking about today, everything that you've been able to hear from us, take as a message from the citizens of Serbia, because all of this stuff they're telling us and they're suggesting to us. I am convinced that these legal proposals that are ahead of us will make it easier, help the citizens of Serbia, function and life, but also, respected minister, all of these criticisms, if we can call them and be critical, are only in order for everyone in our country to feel equally protected and equally respected, and from previous exhibitions you could hear and see how many of the least rights people today want to stand up for President Alexander Vukic, in defense of Serbia, and all the good we do. To you, to your ministry, but above all, to the citizens of Serbia, I want you to have more of these constructive proposals and laws and other things that will improve all that is in our interest, the interest of our country. I am convinced that the April elections will show that SNS and President Aleksandar Vukic's policy, the only policy that guarantees that we will make our country a better and better life. Thank you and live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-27-0.u10076	I thank the People's MP. Next on the list is the honourable MP Adam Shukalo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-27-0.u10077	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister Obradovic, honourable MPs, dear colleagues and colleagues, today is an important day, many have mentioned it, and I will also join the congratulations of all those who celebrate as the baptismal glory of St. Friday, as well as all the promoters, all the citizens of Serbia, because he is the protector of citizens and peoples in Serbia, our great glory of St. Friday. I wish to everyone, in any case, that today's saint gives good health, good luck, personal progress and all the families living in Serbia and struggle to be healthy in these difficult times. In the context of today's agenda and all that we are considering, I think a lot has been said, but a few things have been offered to me to report and to apostrophe something that has been said so far, what my colleague Mirkovic has said before me, and also some of the things that I have seen in the context, to say, the responsibilities that the Citizens' Protector has, and also some broad debates that could possibly be touched, whether future jurisdiction or even public debates concerning certain rights that citizens in the Republic of Serbia have. In that sense, I must, number one, join today to condemn all that we could see in front of apartments, family homes in Nis, Dr. Tiodorović and Dr. Predrag Kon. I think all those who are the inspirations of these events, I don't think it's spontaneous, who had only one desire to present Serbia in one bad context, to send one message that one doctor or two doctors who have fought with everyone else in the Crisis Headquarters since the first day of battle with all the others, with all the doctors, with all those who have worked in various public services against this vicious disease, against the crown of the virus to go through in this way and to have someone come to them in front of their home, the hearsay, shouts, calls out, and lets out those fascist calls. It is not Serbia's majority, and it is not a minority in Serbia either. It's one madness. That's one schizophrenia. That, I would say freely, as a believer, is a form of Satanism that is being promoted here in the streets of Belgrade, and in the context of the story that it is good not to be vaccinated, that it is good to work against your health. I don't know what else to call it, and that in certain media people who say that the coronary virus can be treated by Pavlovic's fat or I don't know any other methods of getting any publicity in the media, and maybe it's only good for that reason to mention certain things, but for every conviction and for, in any case, the Protector of citizens to take a great job with his initiative and to say everything in his jurisdiction and to initiate certain procedures that not only Dr. Kon and Dr. Tiodorović, but anyone who has been in this fight since the first day of this fight would not experience any similar fate. Not only because of the origin of Dr. Kon, and in any case we don't need to exclude this context, it's extremely important, that from this home, from this institution, from every other institution and representative of the Protector of the Citizens, we send a message that we condemn every sight, to say, advocacy, potential violence, the discomfort of doctors who are members of the Crisis Staff. That's terrible, and it can't be allowed anymore. The Ministry of the Interior, which was present in any case, should respond in any case, in any possible place and not allow any behaviour directly related to the threat to the rights that both these citizens who are in this case and members of the Crisis Staff and the Doctors. I think it is the least we can do to repay these people and that the picture from Serbia must not be sent in any way in that direction, because it is obvious that the inspirationists of these events are going in that direction to send such a picture from the Republic of Serbia, that we have here some hordes walking the streets of Belgrade and are making such heavy and disgusting accusations. All institutions of the Republic of Serbia, each honorable individual should be protected by Dr. Tiodorovic, Dr. Kona. In particular, I have to say that my stomach turned when I looked at certain media that in such a devious and subtle way, so below the grain, were trying to say that it was some punishment for attitudes that, in terms of the medical part of the crisis staff, had Dr. Kon and Dr. Tiodorovic. It's so ugly and disgusting that you can only be amazed when you hear these subtle structures that aren't able to pronounce, which are exactly what they're meant to be. The aim of all of this is to create a rebellion on the streets of Belgrade and to construct it in some political demand that will go in this direction to change the crisis headquarters, so the government, so emergency elections, etc. We have this story in the environment, and on the other hand, there are no more liberal conditions in terms of everything, you have a normal option to choose, and if it is a recommendation for all institutions to vaccinate, but you also have the right to not be vaccinated with your constitution, but you have no right to endanger anyone, especially these people. I loathe every kind of nickname that these species are. It gives me the creeps. It's so ugly that I almost didn't see something happen so ugly in the region. Serbia isn't it. Serbia has an honest face, an open face, a healthy face that has offered in this pandemic hand, help and support to everyone in the region, and has enabled Serbian citizens to protect their health in order to protect their health. To those who don't want that choice, who believe in social networks, who in those spirals are built on social networks where you only follow those who have your attitudes, who share only those contents that have no proven source and who, based on it all, gather here and spread disinformation across our streets, by social networks, may God help me, I have nothing else to say. They have no right to threaten anyone. So, judgment in every sense of the word. On the other hand, one more aspect would be to point out, and it is related to the Ministry of the Interior and everything that has happened in the past period of time. I personally believe that the Guardian of Citizens in the past time period, while we now had officials who ended up thanking God behind bars, that during a serious period of time they were mobilising a serious number of honorary members of the Ministry of the Interior, Inspectors, etc. who did not want to listen to orders that were against the law, which went towards listening to the president, which went in the direction of forming parallel institutions within the framework of the security agencies of the MUP, etc. All those honorable men who are hundreds in the MUP have ended up, gone somewhere in the seal, into some corner, unable to advance in their career because they did not want to order what someone had ordered them to do who was unauthorized and against the legal abuse of the official duty they had received. These are very important things. I believe that these people are not only violated labour rights but also violated human rights. Many of them still fear, though many thank God and have encouraged them to talk about all that has happened. These people have to get justice, they have to do things by law, and they have to move on in their careers if they're doing decent careers. If someone put them away just because they didn't want to do something illegal, those people should be protected, and from this place we need to encourage them to know and that we are aware that many, the biggest majority, did not want to participate in these dirty games that they intended to obviously not only bring down President Vukic, his supervision, the attitude of his family in terms of the threat to the rights that members of his family have, but also everything else that is related to other impeccable actions, and the illegal actions that, I am fully convinced, will surface you. Therefore, the Citizens' Protector can react on the basis of information and hear an individual case where some violence occurred, where there was some illegality, but in this case this is one systematic, let me say, process that's been going on for many years, and it's obvious that in this process, a large number of institutions tended to, to say, head, and didn't want to deal with certain issues. I hope that these things will come to an end because in the interest of the Serbian state and in the interest of all its citizens, it is up to the end. On the third hand, I want to say something about both your ministry and something very important to me. It's the public's performances. I think that a single management site project that promotes your ministry, which, in principle, operates in areas of an extremely good example, which should, in the context of resolving the rights of citizens who are often addressed, in this case, and the Protector of Citizens, because they cannot exercise certain rights because they are divided by competences, intertwined competences. There's a lot of bureaucracy in there. There's a lot of bad faith, bad energy, etc. in the context of everything that is our bureaucratic tradition in the society from which we have emerged and it is very difficult to health projects such as electronic administrations such as all projects such as the Office for the IT Government of the Republic of Serbia, along with your ministry and many others, establish. What I advocate is that every notion of a citizen has this one-shot system where no matter where a citizen turns, no matter whose jurisdiction it is, it comes to the work desk of that official, of that official in whose jurisdiction it is, and not that you have a constant walk that implies, in that sense, that if something is not in the jurisdiction, neither do I - city municipalities, so no one will consider it, that it does not go to the city level or if it is in a municipality or in a city in the Republic of Serbia that it does not go to the level of the province or the Republic. It's one job, it's serving the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Their problems are complex in those who address themselves, especially the Citizens' Protector needs a multidimensional approach, it needs a lot of will, and what is very important and what we have basically done in the context of everything that has been one of the main objectives and this Government of the Republic of Serbia to whom we have given support is digitisation, electronic administration and everything else. We now have opportunities, we have channels of communication. We have a basic story in which we can basically have a measurable result in all of this, and that is when we have a certain entry electronically anywhere in the Republic of Serbia to get that item to the desk of the one in whose jurisdiction it is, or if it's more institutions to do it together, and that citizens get this answer again, or at least to go to that institution where someone will not start again, and he has to start over again to bring everything, documentation, to talk about his problem, etc. Then that job comes down to therapeutic work, not work that comes down to solving the problem. This problem, for example of administrative nature, is a lot of these problems unfortunately related to the judiciary where representatives of the executive authority can do nothing, but thank God they have offices for free legal aid. You can write an application, a complaint, an objection, anything in any sense facilitate the citizens, but in order to have the right result in that kind of story we have to have a measurable result, we have to have a visible result. The visible result can only be the result that is recorded electronically. The real example in that kind of story is the story of the vaccination where we know at every moment how many citizens have been vaccinated, how many times they've been vaccinated, how many times they've been tested. In their medical records, in medical records again, which are electronic we have their picture medically. Therefore, all these very good things in Serbia need to be integrated and made a real final product in this kind of story that will eventually have a satisfied citizen, and less and less work for the Protector of Citizens. In that direction, I am fully convinced that we are on the right track, that we only need a little more will, strength and energy, as you said, to cross that point in which the state of Serbia will, in every sense, be a modern state, in which on the basis of several operational knowledge that you and the elemental knowledge about, say, computer equipment, Internet and everything else, you can achieve any service that any institution in the Republic of Serbia provides. In that name, I believe in such a Serbia, I believe that we are going in that direction, I am giving you full support and I ask you to do everything possible for every notion of Serbian citizens, wherever he has directed, in the village, in the suburban settlement, to come to the desk and to make your contribution as you have so far. For that matter, Serbia has lived!
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-27-0.u10078	Thank you. Dear Minister Marija Obradovic has a comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-27-0.u10079	Thank you, Chairman. My fellow Shukalo, I repeat myself again, you have given me a good creamworth, but it is indeed a pleasure when we talk about these laws, so we also mention the powers of the Ministry that is proposing this law, it is our essence to improve life, quality of life and standards in Serbia for every citizen. All of this that you've been talking about, digitizing, introducing e-Government, is the essence of each of us becoming an e-Citizen. This means that we have an e-Government portal with our own profile and that I communicate with the state and all institutions, institutions in the state, electronically. So, in your e-sanduces, you get all the documents that made you go to different counters before and into different institutions, people's language said. The point is, you're looking for those documents and you're getting into your e-boxes. Of course, there is also the older part of the population that may not be dressed in information and is not in a position to communicate in this way with the state, but there are tents within the municipal and city administrations and tents within the mail. So we still found a way to make life easier for the citizens. You mentioned that there should be one centralized place and I know that you know that there is a single administrative place, unfortunately, only in 14 cities and municipalities in Serbia. They should be in every city or municipality, and of course in the city hall in larger cities. It's necessary that people, as you say, don't care what the procedure is, I want to solve my problem, I need a document, I need a copy, I need a certificate, I want the state to solve it for me. It's a modern administration, it's an official who's a service and a citizen and an economy, and that's the essence of our ministry's motto -- the administration of all of us. So it's exactly what we need, citizens and businesses in Serbia, not what we're used to or something we inherited from the previous period. You mentioned a kind and service officer on the counter. That's the point that's very difficult. It's easy to write on paper. And when we talk about jums, that it needs more, now there are 14, it takes ten times more. It's still a number. We set aside the money, make room, buy software, educate people. But people, human capacity, what is kindness, politeness, the will to help both the citizen and the economy, is also difficult to change and difficult to learn. But we're all here to be the one team that brings change and wins, who wants modern, practical Serbia. We can do it. As it is often heard, we are talking about robotics today, a large number of young people are now engaged in some occupations that their parents have not heard anything until five years ago, now children are already working in these places, having exceptional profits, because all the jobs and services in the IT framework are extremely expensive and chargeable. The digitisation and modernisation of e-Government is really our priority, and I believe I will be talking about it tomorrow since 4:00 p.m., when a kind of small report is filed here in Parliament, because we will report seriously and comprehensively, first and foremost, the Prime Minister, on the work of this government over the next year. When we talk about a single management post, more than a double amount is scheduled for next year, about 100 million dinars for new jums across Serbia. Also, the budget fund will be announced in January, a call for funds from the budget fund, where we also promote e-government and help function local self-government. My priority is over the past year, and that will be the end, as long as I have the responsibility of being a minister in this government, to especially help small local self-government, smaller. Because it's much harder for them to find funds and apply to improve the quality of services in their local self-government units. Just one more thing that speaks for what you're talking about. In this year, with the help of the Central Register of Population, there are a large number of official bases that otherwise exist in the country, ten million documents and information exchanged between institutions, which means that the state of Serbia has allowed Serbian citizens 10 million times less to go to the counters, pay less taxes, less time. So, modern management saves you time and money. I think it's the 21st century Serbia. Just for a little while, I guess this is also the final address of the minister, and I'm not going to do the resume again under these two laws, even though it was foreseen, I guess we'll see each other very soon in the discussion of details, and I want to thank everyone for an extremely constructive debate. We went to a political field in one part, where we were really talking about constant and excessive attacks on the Vukic family, especially President Vukic, but that's our daily routine. And let me repeat -- we're working on two strips, jargonically speaking -- strengthening our state's capacities, building a democratic society, we're strengthening the independence of independent institutions to an extent that is desirable on the path of European integration. It's not a problem for us to run this country. The problem is if we close our eyes to political attacks, in front of an unequal political struggle that is currently happening in Serbia with the support of foreign centres of power, and therefore we do not need to be silent, close our eyes and keep our heads quiet and down. Heads up, just let them hit, we're doing our job, we're showing results, and the results are people vote for, and among other things these two very important laws that have passed a big plus in Serbia's Progress Report, in the European Commission Report. Thank you all for your hard work and hard work, and I'll see you soon in the discussion of details.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-27-0.u10080	I thank the honourable minister for his participation and for his clarifications. Since there are no longer declared word on the lists of parliamentary groups, pursuant to Article 98(4). Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude a joint principled search on the proposals of the law of dots. The 2nd and 3rd agenda. Thank you. We'll continue work tomorrow at 10:00. Thank you.
