ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-23-1.u11744	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the 15th session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2021. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 96 MPs. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in determining the agenda exists if a majority of the total number of MPs are present at the session. To determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Thank you. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 133 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly within the meaning of Article 88(5). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? The word has the People's Messenger Samir Tandir.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-23-1.u11745	Thank you, Your Honor. Fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, citizens and citizens, my question is addressed to the Ministry of Environmental Protection, and it concerns whether and if they are, when the department's competent inspections controlled the work of peletarians in Novi Pazar and Prijepolje, are they using adequate filters and are they regularly serving them? This is one picture from that ballet, which she's causing in New Market. The Justice and Reconciliation Party is not concerned with ad hoc environmentals, nor have we begun to address the environmentals of the moment when the competent institutions did not give us permission to a small hydropower plant, we are dealing with ecologically, systematically, because of the interests of all citizens and citizens who live in our country, and especially from the part of our country where I come from, meaning, from Sandzak space. And rickety President Muamer Zukorlic and other members of the party and I are proud that in 2010 and 2011 we stopped the construction of hydropower plants that the Canadian company Rev Kapitel from Canada tried to build at Brodarev on the Lim River and that is evidence of our essential struggle, not because of interest, not acting as an NGO because of grenades from abroad, but because they were citizens and citizens of Prepolje and Brodarev, but also the whole of Sandzak, at that point asked us to do so. Now I'm raising the question of these butterflies, why? Because the price of the pellets is at a historic high level, because the owners are making enormous profits, that's all fine, and that's good, but I demand that part of that profit, a significant part, be invested in protecting the environment. Every honor to the ministry, it's really fundamentally, essentially, systemically doing, it's getting rid of non-sanitary dumps, it's changing boilers, it's introducing and it's building heat on the bio-mass, it's all something that's good, but part of the responsibility has to be shown by businessmen, especially those who earn, make enormous profits and what every day we have opportunities, especially in Novi Pazar to watch, but also in Prepolje, where the snow is no longer white but yellow, where the facades are destroyed, where the cars you can't recognize, well, then the logical question is asked -- what are we inhaling? So I demand that the Ministry give me one answer, see what filters are used, whether they are regularly serviced, whether the inspections regularly visit these businessmen, because indeed what we can visually see looks terrible. I remind you that Novi Pazar is a city that belongs to a group of the most polluted cities. This is not only the cause of city heat or coal and lukewarm used for heating, but also these butterflies are actually making a big mess. Another question for the Ministry of Environmental Protection concerns what will be done for wild construction in the Mileshevka Canyon, which is a special nature reserve, the Mileshevka River ravine? Any construction, especially wild construction in the river bed is forbidden by law but also by sound logic. The moment you have any objects in the corridor, the moment the water level rises, we'll have inconceivable effects in terms of floods. It's something we can't allow. It must be examined whether existing facilities are authorised, if they have permission, to see who gave it to them? It's a case that we're really not gonna make any rotten compromises about, and we're not gonna be blind in the eyes. So, in this special reserve, it's impossible to build any kind of building, especially some hotels, catering facilities, etc., so I demand one detailed answer. I believe in the ministry's work, but they have to take care of what their colleagues do at lower levels, about at the level of Užice and Kings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-23-1.u11746	Thank you. The word is Jelena Mihailovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-23-1.u11747	Thank you, Vice President. My question today is to ask the Serbian Government, Prime Minister Ani Brnabic, and the obligation to pay special compensation to authors, as prescribed in Article 39. The law on copyright and related rights and the Regulation establishing a list of technical devices and objects for which there is a obligation to pay a special fee to holders of copyright and related rights. Namely, Article 39. The copyright and related rights law, among other things, is prescribed that when an author's work is multiplied without permission by authors of works which, given their nature, can be expected to be multiplied by photocopying or recording to sound carriers, images or text, for the personal non-commercial needs of natural persons, literary, music, film works and others have the right to special compensation from imports, i.e. the sale of technical devices and empty sound carriers, images and texts that can reasonably be assumed to be used for such multiplication. The fee referred to in Article 1(1) shall be paid by producers of sound and visual recording devices, photocopying or other devices with a similar multiplication technique, by manufacturers of empty audio carriers, images and text and in solidarity with them by importers of a device with a similar multiplication technique. The position of the same member is prescribed that the list of technical devices and objects for which there is a obligation to pay a special fee under the conditions laid down in paragraphs 1 to 9 of this Article shall be determined by the Government. In view of the fact that, in accordance with the same article, the authors of their right to compensation can only be obtained through the collective exercise of copyright and related rights organisation, this way I would like to remind the Government, as well as the Institute of Intellectual Property, that the SOKOJ, OFFS, the Organisation of phonogram Producers, and PI, the rights of interpreters, as collectively achieving copyright and related rights represented by the authors of music works, the producers of phonograms and interpreters on several occasions have submitted the initiative, then to the competent ministry, the Government, as well as the Institute of Intellectual Property, which meant an amendment to the Regulation establishing a list of technical devices and objects for which there is a obligation to pay a special fee, and in order to update the list in accordance with the galloping technological achievements that have taken place in the last 10 years. Namely, the list in question was last adopted by the Government Regulation in 2010, so 11 years ago, and it is necessary for it to be modernised and to be listed in devices and objects such as mobile phones with MP3 player, smartphones, tablets, laptop computers, etc. which are currently not on the list. The organisation for collectively achieving copyright and related rights, SOKOJ, OFFS and PI, the applicants of the mentioned initiatives, also carried out a comparative analysis of foreign lists of technical devices and audio carriers subject to payment of a special fee. This led to the conclusion that although challenges exist in the adoption of compensation systems and charges for the collection of specific fees for different countries, including EU members such as Poland, Croatia, Austria, Romania, Slovenia, Slovakia, Belgium, Germany, France, Hungary, etc. They're just part of the countries that have been analyzed. Subject analyses may be submitted to the Government. All of them have ropes or wider lists of technical devices and sound carriers that are subject to payment of a special fee, but regardless of their size, the lists are modernized, accompanied by galloping technological achievements and are all devices and objects, products of modern technology, which can potentially be used to multiply copyright works, interpretations of phonograms for personal non-commercial needs of natural persons, such as memory cards, hard drives, internal and external computers, laptops, tablets, mobile phones with MP3 player, smartphones, analogue video and audio recorders, etc. In addition to improving the implementation of intellectual property rights and raising awareness of piracy and counterfeiting, the abovementioned modernised list of devices and objects would also significantly contribute to increasing the remuneration paid to the authors personally, since all the funds paid by manufacturers and importers of the device through collectively achieving copyright and related rights are subsequently collected and, in accordance with the law and procedures, passed to the authors, the creators. In this way, we would be directly supported by creators and creations, which, if we look back at the pandemic times, has been tremendously sustained. What I would like to draw attention to at this time to the Government, which would also improve the position of the authors and their existence, the initiative of the MIMA Group, the Music Artists and the Music Authors, in the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, which, personally as an artist, I, of course, support, which the authors and performers suggest that, in the following amendments to the Law on Electronic Media, be determined by law and mandatory quotas for the broadcasting of music by local authors on radio and TV stations, following the practice of European countries, such as France, Italy, Spain, Germany, Slovenia, Croatia and many others. I would like to point out that this kind of provision would be an extremely important step towards improving the position, especially of our local authors, and that would motivate the authors to new music works and speed up creativity and music production. Through the broadcast of our music, we would devote ourselves to protecting our language and language of national minorities, hence and culture, and in this way we would keep a large part of our country, millions of euros that are being poured abroad each year. In line with all of the above, and with the desire to further improve the position of authors and creators, as well as the creation in general, my particular question to the Government is this – is the Government planning to amend the said Regulation on the establishment of a list of technical devices and objects for which there is a obligation to pay special compensation to copyright holders and related rights holders, and in what period can the public, authors and collective rights organisations expect the change mentioned? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-23-1.u11748	Anyone else want to ask for a note or an explanation? Yeah. ) The word has Dr. Ugljesa Mrdić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-23-1.u11749	Thank you, Chairman, Mr. Orlic. Dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I today have three questions on behalf of the legislator group Aleksandar Vukic – For our children, who I wish to direct to the competent state institutions. The first question concerns the malversion of Dragan Gilas from the time he was mayor of Belgrade. We have not yet received adequate answers from competent state institutions, especially from the prosecution, and it concerns not only those 619m euros that he kidnapped from Serbian citizens, but also other malversions in which he participated and organised during the period when he was mayor of Belgrade from 2008 to the end of 2013. I don't want to pick up all his affairs. About his affairs, while he was mayor of Belgrade, we can publish a book, and one good movie can certainly be made. The second question, again, concerns Dragan Gilas, not because he is particularly interesting to me, but because he is interesting to the citizens of Serbia in all of his bad actions and all of the procedures that he directly advocates the destruction of state institutions, and this time it is the state institution Telecom Serbia. Lately, and especially in recent days, we have witnessed a new campaign that Dragan Djilas, together with Dragan Solak and Marinika Tepic, has launched, with regard to the destruction of "Telecoma Serbia" because of the interest of strengthening his United Group, which together with United Media, the Darekt Media and other their cooperating companies, is taking over all activities together with the SBB, so that, under one, it will bring down the reputation "Telek Serbia", and then eventually destroy "Telek Serbia", solely because of its financial interests. It is important for SBB to be as strong as possible, their companies to be stronger, their pockets to be as rich as possible, and one of Serbia's most important state institutions, led by Alexander Vukic, to preserve and strengthen it, and that is Telekom Serbia, Gilas, Solak and the team, they want to destroy it. My third question concerns either a weak reaction or a non-reaction and the Protector of citizens and all trustees and competent institutions, when it comes to threats addressed to President Aleksandr Vukic and officials in the Government of Serbia and the MPs spoken not only in Gilasov and Solak's media, but also on social networks and other electronic media. They're not just insults, they're classic threats. They did not respond adequately to the competent state institutions. Is it because they have a protective relationship with some director, some actor, and some tycoon? It's Dragan Gilas again. So all citizens should be equal in front of state institutions and there is no elite when it comes to the state institutions' reaction. So whether someone considers himself an elite or not, whether someone is a public, known person, a social political worker, a drama artist or an businessman, he should also be subject to the reaction of competent state institutions when he poses insults and threats to any citizens of the Republic of Serbia. When I talk about the elite, I want to say that if someone belongs to the elite it's not enough to just be an intellectual, it's not enough to be famous and have some results in its work, it's important to me that they love their country, that they respect their people and that they're a respected citizen. When he has it, he can think of himself as an elite. Certainly, not all of these people's elite, they're a false elite who poses threats and insults to all who think differently of them. Therefore, I would like to conclude in the end that in terms of all three issues, and as regards the malversion of Dragan Gilas in Belgrade, and as regards these orchestrated Solakov, Marinika and Gilas attacks on Telecom, with the aim of destroying another state institution and, under three, these do not react or a weak reaction of various state institutions, Commissioners and Protectors, when it comes to insults and threats to SNS officials, I expect a rapid reaction from the competent state institutions, because it is clear that in both the first and the second and third cases, Dragan Djilas, Dragan Šola and Marinika Tepic, who do not correspond to the strong Serbia, which does not correspond to strengthening of Serbia, because they are mostly being disturbed by the number one, Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic, who strengthens our Serbia day-to-day Serbia, that we are getting stronger and better. Thank you. Long live Serbia!
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-23-1.u11750	Thank you. Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, answer for word, we continue to work. In the context of this session, which has been delivered to you, there is also a proposal on the agenda. Prior to the establishment of the agenda, pursuant to Article 92(2) and Article 93. Rules of Procedure, it is necessary for the National Assembly to decide on a proposal to put the act on the agenda in accordance with the urgent procedure and on proposals for supplementing the agenda. National MPs Bojan Torbica, Marjan Risticevic, Ana Karadzic, Prof. Dr. Ljubisa Stojmirovic, Bratislava Jugovic and Djorđe Komlenski suggested that the draft resolution on the police brutality of peaceful protesters in EU countries, which submitted on 21 December 2021, be put on the agenda. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: total – 141 for – six, no vote – 135. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Smilj Tishm, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure, he suggested that the agenda of the session be complemented by a point – a motion for a resolution on the Ustasha genocide against Serbs, Jews and Roma in the Independent State of Croatia (1941-1945). Does the People's Messenger Smile Tishma want a word? Yeah. ) The word has the People's Messenger Smile Tishma. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-23-1.u11751	I am Smilja Tishma, the surviving child of the Jasenovac camper, founder of the Jasenovac Camping Association, the oldest MP of this assembly of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I ask the President, or the chairman of the agenda, to the point we have waited for and waited 80 years, which is the proposal for a resolution on the Ustasha genocide carried out against Serbs, Jews and Roma in World War II from 1941 to 1945. I have the moral right to say that by adopting the Declaration of Crime in Srebrenica since 2011, the Serbian people have shown respect for all other victims, except their own, because for 80 years no Serb leadership has succeeded in condemning, raises the issue of NDH genocide committed against Serbs, Jews and Roma. How many times did it take to bring the Srebrenica Declaration to deliver a resolution on genocide in Jasenovac, Jadovna, Logrado, Koprivnica, Danica, Sisak and throughout NDH? In NDH, there were 83 camps where there were massacres, killing and destroying Serbian people and other benefactors, or people in Yugoslavia who loved Yugoslavia, who loved the Yugoslav community and who had the right to say so. In NDH, 74 thousand children were brutally killed. It's genocide. Only in Jasenovac was slaughtered and brutally tired of cyanide and tired of starving 20,000 children. It's genocide. I was just a kid and I was already a camper just because I was a Serbian. Both me and my entire family were destroyed by camps, killed, and that's genocide. We've been to the camps and we've been to diapers. The fetuses from the womb of the mother were removed. The Ustashas pulled out, destroyed. And it's genocide. From 1941 to 1945, about a million people, women and children were killed in NDH just because they were Serbs. It's genocide. We are now counting ourselves again on the number of people and victims killed during World War II, and among them is a particular issue of Serb casualties. The Jews managed to settle this, and to show with international authorities, their compatriots and other responsible persons their condition of death during World War II, and we Serbs failed to prove it until today. Croatian President Milanovic said the other day that Jasenovac and Srebrenica are not the same and that then a new name for genocide should be drawn up in law science, and I, as far as I know, learned, I was a lawyer and I worked in the Federal Administration institution, where there was a lot to talk about and talk about, so I completely understand what genocide is. All that the state of Croatia has done towards the Serbian people, Jews and Roma, it is a true genocide. Izetbegovic said the other day that he should ban the denial of the crime in Jasenovac in Bosnia. So it is clear to the politicians in the region that genocide has been done in the NDH in Jasenovac, not all but some have. Only Serbs are unable to bring resolution and condemn genocide to their people. Today I wear a badge that says "eighty years of genocide in NDH" and that in that sense the resolution and international genocide day and this shirt are adopted, so that you can see me well and remember my words today on this historic day. I was a kid. I didn't even go to school, but I remembered things very well. We needed a lot more to do today, but unfortunately we didn't. Should we remind ourselves, that is, to beg that genocide be condemned against genocide in the 20th century upon our own people. We should be ashamed of the haystacks' victims and martyrs today. Vote on your conscience for supplementing the agenda so that we can adopt the resolution and carry out this moral historical act for victims of death in our people, because Serbs have never been genocide in their history. They were ready to fight for the rights and fate of other peoples, to give their own sacrifice and the interest of other peoples, not to go further into history, to repeat where, what, when and how is known to many of them. We should do everything in this regard because of our children and the future in the Balkans, because the brutally murdered children in Jasenovac, NDH is that, and it is a true genocide. When you want to kill the whole people, kill the mother and child. Let me tell you colleagues, dear MPs, it's genocide. The resolution is a state issue of utmost importance for the Serbian people and its future and co-existence with neighbours. As I spent a long time in camps with two sisters and a brother, Father was liquidated already in April after 10 days of NDH, and we were forced twice by the mother and other Serbs of Western Slavonia to camp. I don't want to talk about this history of the victims of this Slavonic people during World War II. That all that was done was genocide. I watched them stand up and bake, cherries, this is terrible, but it's true, they cut off the head, they break the child's head in the camp when they take us to Sisak. Mothers, grandparents, and our children on one side, and grandparents and others on the other side. It was one general cry, one general moan, one common misery. I saw the Ustasha of a little boy, a little boy, rip off his head and throw away his head, and he threw the mother's child on the other side. I watched it with my own eyes, there were plenty of scenes. Dear fellow MPs, everything that was done during World War II in NDH against Serbs, Jews and Roma was a true genocide. Let me thank all those who particularly supported the Jasenovic greats, who were killed 57 ways and over whom the genocide was carried out, as well as the survivors of the campers. We must break through the thunderous silence and silence in the Assembly, so that the act of not adopting a resolution on genocide in Jasenovac and NDH is a consequence of the people, not only Serbia, but also of the Balkans. We ask for full responsibility. The Serbian Parliament will bear it in that case, unless it stands up for the interests of its people and the country it represents. A people who have no history, no historical memory and no power to condemn genocide, condemns that his suffering is repeated. This is not a Croatian Parliament that does not recognise genocide in NDH, it is only a Serb parliament and in this sense it is also a duty for this parliament to refer to its people who represent themselves in the way it suits and should treat their people. We try not to kill our victims for the second time by rejecting the verdict of the genocide committed against him during World War II. Do not let down the expectations of Serbs, exiles "Storms" and "Bleska" and Serbian diaspora around the world. There are many Serbs all over the world, but there are also Jews and Roma who have been victims. We can forgive everything, but we can't forget our children. It's the future, it's the power of future generations and this country, these countries of Serbia suffer through all wars in the past. On behalf of the Serbian people and all the NDH victims, allow me, Mr. President, to hand over my personal copy. The president isn't here, we've prepared it, like all of us badges we've got, etc. That's what we'll do when we meet him. This act is the last breakthrough of the camper Jasenovac so he never forgets. We try, the genocide is terrible, we have had a terrible genocide during World War II, especially the Serbian people. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-23-1.u11752	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: total – 143 for – 30, they did not vote - 113. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. Mrs. Tishma, for your information, the proposal remains in formal procedure. National MP Selma Kučević, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the session agenda be complemented by a point – a motion for a resolution on genocide in Srebrenica. People's MP Selma Kučević is not here. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: total – 145, vs – three, did not vote – 142. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marijan Risticevic suggested that the session agenda be complemented by a point – a motion for a resolution on crimes in and around Srebrenica from 1992 to 1995. The word is Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-23-1.u11753	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, right at the beginning, and so far, I want to say I regret all the Muslim sacrifices that took place in Bosnia and Herzegovina and also in the territory of the former Yugoslavia. Obviously, those who claim that genocide has been committed in Srebrenica do not regret it, and I have not heard until now that they have regretted Serbian victims, but I think that they do not regret their own victims, but that they are politically using them for political purposes, not only their political goals, but also their mentor's goals. I didn't mean to answer my word, but Saint Nicholas was recently. At St. Nicholas's in my father's neighborhood, at the end of my mother's birth in 1992 in the village of Josianica, the municipality of Foč, according to Gorazd, was killed by the army of Bosnia and Herzegovina 56 Serbs for glory. They were killed with axes and knives, and to this day, no one has ever answered. This is proof that the Hague court did not establish trust among the warring peoples, but that by its judgments and by its actions and by its inaction, by punishing the once innocent, by impunity of many times the guilty, it was dissuading the mistrust between the not-so-so-managed nations. Among the 56 victims 21 were women, women, 16 Visnić, two families were slaughtered completely by knives and killed by axes, three children. The youngest Danka Tanovic was two years old, Drazen was eight, and Dragana was 10. That's why I answered, because they deserve to be mentioned and to say that no one has ever answered for that crime, which is for condemnation, not only for Serbs, but for condemning those who did not come today, and insisting that genocide was committed in Srebrenica. If a genocide could be committed in a municipality, why couldn't it be in a village, a team before there was no separation of women and children? They were all brutally liquidated on the day of St. Nicholas's glory. That's why I claim that the crimes in Srebrenica and around Srebrenica are related to each other, but that it's not genocide, nor that this cruel crime is also not genocide, because it's not destroying an entire population and so on, unselective. If there was genocide and there was a 21st century in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the genocide was above Serbs, and the last genocide to occur is genocide to the truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-23-1.u11754	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and declare: total – 146 for – 12, it did not vote – 134. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. Since we have come to the conclusion of the proposal for the agenda of the emergency act and the proposals for supplementing the agenda, pursuant to Article 93(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I put the Rules of Procedure to vote on the draft agenda in general. Please make a statement. I conclude the vote and declare: total – 146 for – 135, no vote – 11. I find that the National Assembly established the agenda of the 15th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2021, in general. The proposal for a decision on the election to be elected by the public prosecutors, which was submitted by the Government. We're going to work on a set agenda. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that she has been invited to attend the session by Maja Popovic, Minister of Justice. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. I also welcome the Minister. According to Articles 192, paragraphs 3 and 201. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search into the motion for a decision on the election of public prosecutors. Does the representative of Proposer Maja Popovic, the minister of justice, want a word at the beginning of the session? Here, you have a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-23-1.u11755	Dear Members of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, today the National Assembly is on the agenda of the Proposal for a decision to elect public prosecutors, or 37 public prosecutors, in the Prosecutor's Office for Organized Crime, Appealal, Higher and Fundamental Public Prosecutor's Offices in the Republic of Serbia. In addition to a candidate for an organised crime prosecutor, candidates for two public prosecutors' appeals, 11 senior public prosecutors' offices and 23 main public prosecutors' offices were proposed. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, in Articles 159, paragraphs 2 and 3, stipulates that the public prosecutor is elected by the National Assembly on a proposal from the government, for a term of six years, and that the same persons may be re-elected as public prosecutor. This provision of the Constitution is contained in Article 74(1). Public prosecutor's law. Acting in accordance with the Public Prosecutor's Law, the State's Chief Prosecutors announced a choice for the prosecutor for organised crime, appeals, senior and primary public prosecutors in the Republic of Serbia. In "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia", this ad was published on July 30th 2021, and in the daily "Politika" on the same day. All candidates who have taken part in this competition shall comply with the law of the general and specific conditions for the exercise of the role of the public prosecutor prescribed in Articles 76 and 77. Public prosecutor's law. On the basis of Article 51. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the State Council of Prosecutors, the State's Chief Prosecutors, educated the Commission, which established the timing and completeness of the applications submitted. Full and timely applications were submitted by the Commission to the State Council of Prosecutors for further proceedings. The commission consisted of three representatives of the State Council of Prosecutors, Aleksandar Malesevic, acting as Secretary of State Council of Prosecutors Oliver Kyevcanin, senior adviser to the State Council of Prosecutors and Nikola Djukanovic, adviser to the State Council of Prosecutors. Following the determination of timeliness and full applications, the Commission has joined the evaluation of the knowledge of candidates for the assembly and evaluation of written text and evaluation of the programme of the organisation of the promotion of public prosecutors' work. Tanja Vukicevic, a member of the D.A.'s State Council, Tomislav Kilibard, performer of the office of the Appealal Public Prosecutor in Belgrade and Milan Doncic, acting as Appealal Public Prosecutor in Kragujevac, Dragan Often graduated lawyer and Dragan Lopusina a graduate lawyer. Branko Stamenkovic, a member of the State Council of Prosecutors, Zorica Stojsic, deputy member of the republican public prosecutor Slobodan Radovanovic, deputy member of the republic's public prosecutor, Marica Dulin, a graduate lawyer and Dragan Lopusina, a graduate lawyer. Milan Tkalac, DVT member Slobodan Radovanovic, Deputy Prosecutor of the Republic of the Public Prosecutor Miljko Radisavljevic, Deputy Public Prosecutor Dragan Rajkovic, graduate lawyer and Velimir Golubovic, a graduate lawyer, were committed to the prosecution of organised crime. For the prosecutor for organised crime, Mladen Nenadic, prosecutor for organised crime, was proposed. For the Public Prosecutor in the Appealal Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade, Tomislav Kilibard, acting as public prosecutor in the Belgrade Public Prosecutor's Office of Appeal, was proposed. For a public prosecutor at the appeals public prosecutor's office in Kragujevac, Miljana Doncic, acting as public prosecutor at the Kragujevac Appealal Public Prosecutor's Office, was proposed. Nenad Stefanovic, deputy public prosecutor in the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade, was proposed. For a public prosecutor in the Higher Public Prosecutor's Office in Valjevo, Dragana Markovic, a public prosecutor at the Higher Public Prosecutor's Office in Valjevo, was proposed. Then, for a public prosecutor in the Senior Public Prosecutor's Office in Smederev, Mr Ivan Konotar, the public prosecutor at the Mladenovac Public Prosecutor's Office, was proposed. For a public prosecutor in the Higher Public Prosecutor's Office in Sombor, Zoran Divjak, the district attorney at the Sombor Public Prosecutor's Office, was proposed. For a public prosecutor in the Higher Public Prosecutor's Office in Subotica, Miroslav Krkelic, a public prosecutor at the Higher Public Prosecutor's Office in Subotica, was proposed. Then, for a public prosecutor in the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office in Sapac, Svetlana Nedeljkovic, acting as public prosecutor at the Main Public Prosecutor's Office in Sapac, was proposed. Dr Bratislav Petrovic, a public prosecutor at the Higher Public Prosecutor's Office in Krusevec, was proposed. Milan Djordjevic, deputy public prosecutor at the Great Public Prosecutor's Office in the King's Republic, was proposed. For a public prosecutor in the Senior Public Prosecutor's Office in Novi Pazar, Milana Mrvic, a public prosecutor at the Senior Public Prosecutor's Office in Novi Pazar, was proposed. For a public prosecutor in the Higher Public Prosecutor's Office in Nis, Gorica Mitic, a public prosecutor at the Higher Public Prosecutor's Office in Nis, was proposed. Then, for a public prosecutor at the Vranj Public Prosecutor's Office, Daniela Trajkovic, a public prosecutor at the Vranj Public Prosecutor's Office, was proposed. For a public prosecutor in the First Basic Public Prosecutor's Office, Ljubivoe Djordjevic, a public prosecutor at the First Basic Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade, was proposed. Nebojsa Popovic, a public prosecutor at the Second Basic Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade, was proposed. For a public prosecutor at the main public prosecutor's office in Obrenovac, Daniela Sidelic, a public prosecutor at the Obrenovac Public Prosecutor's Office, was proposed. Then, for a public prosecutor at the New Sad Public Prosecutor's Office, Radivoje Kacanski, deputy public prosecutor at the Senior Public Prosecutor's Office in Novi Sad, was proposed. Milan Knezevic, a public prosecutor at the Basic Public Prosecutor's Office in Backo Palanca, was proposed. For a public prosecutor at the Basic Public Prosecutor's Office in Zrenjanin, Mladen Vujin, a public prosecutor at the Basic Public Prosecutor's Office in Zrenjanin, was proposed. For a public prosecutor at the Basic Public Prosecutor's Office in Vienna, Tamara Simin, deputy public prosecutor at the Basic Public Prosecutor's Office in Vienna, was proposed. For a public prosecutor in the main public prosecutor's office in Sremska Mitrovica, Nada Radmanovic Grozdanic, public prosecutor at the Central Public Prosecutor's Office in Sremska Mitrovica, was proposed. Lidija Panic Miletic, a public prosecutor at the General Public Prosecutor's Office in Subotica, was proposed. For a public prosecutor at the General Public Prosecutor's Office in Senta, Mirko Gašovic, a public prosecutor at the Senta Main Public Prosecutor's Office, was proposed. For a public prosecutor in the main public prosecutor's office in Kragujevac, Slobodanka Rakovic, a public prosecutor at the Kragujevac Main Public Prosecutor's Office, was proposed. A public prosecutor at the Paracino Public Prosecutor's Office was proposed by Marina Makariev, a public prosecutor at the Paracino General Public Prosecutor's Office. Then, for the Public Prosecutor's Office in the main public prosecutor's office in Kragujevac, Slobodanka Rakovic, a public prosecutor at the Kragujevac General Prosecutor's Office, was proposed. For a public prosecutor at the Paracino General Prosecutor's Office, Makariyev, a public prosecutor at the Paracino General Public Prosecutor's Office, was proposed. For a public prosecutor in the main public prosecutor's office in Krusevec, Dragan Jovanovic, a public prosecutor at the Basic and Public Prosecutor's Office in Krusevec, was proposed, according to Dragan Jovanovic, a public prosecutor at the Basic and Public Prosecutor's Office in Krusevec. For a public prosecutor at the Basic and Public Prosecutor's Office in Raska, Dragica Rosic, a public prosecutor at the Basic and Public Prosecutor's Office in Raska, was proposed. For a public prosecutor at the Basic and Public Prosecutor's Office in Gornji Milanovac, Milena Veljovic, a public prosecutor at the Basic and Public Prosecutor's Office in Gornja Milanovac, was proposed. For a public prosecutor at the Basic and Public Prosecutor's Office in Uzic, Marko Dimitrijevic, a public prosecutor at the Basic and Public Prosecutor's Office in Uzic, was proposed. For a public prosecutor at the Basic and Public Prosecutor's Office in Požega, Vladimir Vukkovic, deputy prosecutor at the Basic and Public Prosecutor's Office in Požega, was proposed. For a public prosecutor in the Basic and Public Prosecutor's Office in Pozarevc, Snezana Dubajic, a public prosecutor at the Basic and Public Prosecutor's Office in Pozarevc, was proposed. For a public prosecutor at the Basic and Public Prosecutor's Office in Veliko Gradište, Sasa Milojkovic, a public prosecutor at the Basic and Public Prosecutor's Office in Veliko Gradište, was proposed. For a public prosecutor at the Basic and Public Prosecutor's Office in Vladic's Han, Dragan Nikolic, a public prosecutor at the Basic and Public Prosecutor's Office in Vladic's Han, was proposed. For a public prosecutor at the Basic and Public Prosecutor's Office in Leskovac, Renata Cvetanovic, a public prosecutor at the Basic and Public Prosecutor's Office in Leskovac, was proposed. For a public prosecutor at the primary and public prosecutor's office in the Kingdom, Mirjana Milović Kolarevic, deputy public prosecutor at the Foundation and the Public Prosecutor's Office in the Kingdom, was proposed. For a public prosecutor at the primary and public prosecutor's office in Ruma, Milosav Rakic, the prosecutor's office in the primary and public prosecutor's office in Ruma, was proposed. In the end, I would like to thank you for your attention and express my hope that the National Assembly will elect the proposed candidates for public prosecutors in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-23-1.u11756	Thank you. Does the word want a report from the committee responsible? The word has the People's Messenger George Dabic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-23-1.u11757	I thank the chairman. Dear People's MPs, ladies and gentlemen, the honourable Justice Minister with an associate, the Justice Committee, the State Administration and the Local Self-Government supported all the proposals that are on the agenda today, and I call on all MPs to support the report of our Committee and all the prosecutors who are elected to these functions that day, I wish much happiness in doing this important and responsible work for our country. In public, the tones that go towards the justice system today are often heard to suffer pressures from politics, as they say, the executive authorities, and precisely all of these solutions that are ahead of us, are showing that this particular government, not some previous one, has given the greatest impulse to the full independence of the judiciary and the prosecution. All prosecutors who are prosecutors today will have the status of prosecutors and thus improve the work of both the judiciary and the prosecution, and in this way we show that we are really making a full contribution to everything that the EU is trying to do when it comes to European integration, which is what our country is seeking. However, to say that politics today has an impact on the judiciary and the prosecution is not quite an incorrect claim. It is also the pressure that comes and politics exists, but it does not come from the executive authority, as it is often respected, it comes from an opposition spectrum that often has a variety of expectations from the prosecution and when they are generating various affairs, expecting someone to act on them and then declare that there is the prosecution, they say, does not work properly, and in fact does not work on their dictatorships as they are used to the case being, we know for themselves, until 2012. They just say when they ask you, you know, how can I say, today in the judiciary that claim the judiciary is influenced by politics, when they ask, say, Majic, who does this to you, and he says, "No one." So, they themselves confirm that there is absolutely no pressure when it comes to executive power, nor in the legislative one, but I say that mantra exists and is placed in the media although we ourselves confirm these amendments and referendums that are ahead of us that we will give more than perhaps many EU countries could boast that they have such a legal framework as we are creating here. I say, Serbian citizens should know that pressure and that there is when it comes to policy towards the prosecution, but what happens to prosecutors who do their job fairly and responsibly today is exactly an example of being satanicized by various media under Gilas' control, what the pressure on the judiciary looks like. So, any prosecutor who would possibly dare to comply with the laws of this country, to sanction that behavior as we did in the past weeks, to rampage on our highways, it is known which member is precisely injured, our constitution defines and the laws define that such behaviour is not permitted, any prosecutor who dares to initiate any procedure would be declared a servant of the regime, would be most terriblely dragged through the media mud and then we come into a situation that the prosecutor says - I don't have to respect the law, I don't have to respect everything that is my constitutional and legal obligation, let someone else do. The police are writing warrants, the prosecution hasn't responded so far, we haven't heard anyone from the D.A.'s office react, and that's how it shows that in this country and that they don't respect the laws of those who should be doing this, and I think we need to give an impulse to that process to know what the prosecutor's role is today. He doesn't need to think about what he's going to write any portal or medium for him, because we're just choosing prosecutors as the bravest people in our country to fight crime. How is he gonna fight crime, stand up to people who are willing to kill if he can't blame the media he's afraid of getting dragged through the media mud? Then we really come into a situation to wonder – what's the next step, but we let it go, I really have to tell the bastard, Srdjan, from the late DS, Milivojevic, who said that Andrej Vukic and Danil Vukic, after the election, would find it in the shah as Gaddafi and it went unnoticed. No one's taken any action. It's perfectly legitimate to call for murder not only is it the president of the state, but it's anyone you call public to murder. It goes unnoticed. Of course, after that, all those who stand in defense of such a procedure appear. As we've seen in the case of Goran Markovic who didn't make it to some competition, he didn't get the money he expected to win, he found a man fit to go straight to the media, start complaining and tell Vukic - you'll be shot like Ceausescu. He'd better stop him from withdrawing himself from the election. They know they don't stand a chance in the election. That's what the latest research has shown. Let him step aside from the election, and we'll probably forgive him, we won't shoot him. So, we've gone completely into one madness where it's enough to get anyone to call for the right to kill the president and not just him, but members of his family, and that our prosecution pretends it doesn't exist. We must indeed give encouragement to those people who sit in the D.A.'s office. People respond, don't let anyone fear you'll be dragged through the media mud. You have to do the job. That's why we chose you. We didn't choose you to be prosecutors and judges to be afraid and to let this country be led by criminals, to come back to power by criminals, and to let simply that in public you can say whatever you want without any sanctions. That's why there's a state. A colleague of Risticevic just asked on the Justice Committee – what's next? We let this go, let's let them go out with the AKs on the street and let's say it's legitimate, what do we do, it's a simple expression of democratic will. That is why it is necessary that the prosecutors we choose today, who are elected, who have to respect the laws to know what their obligation is and what we expect from them, and I really hope that in the coming period we will really try to create such a legal basis that we also have ways to sanction those who do not do their job. We need men who will defend the laws and the constitution of this land, not those who hide and fear. Once again, we will support all proposals that are on the agenda and that is certainly what is important for the people we choose here to know what is the message of the people because the representatives of the people are right here in the National Assembly, and the National Assembly and how it should have its own attitude, and we will certainly do so in the coming period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-23-1.u11758	I thank the Justice Committee. Do the mandated representatives, or the president of the parliamentary groups, want the word? The word has the People's Messenger Samir Tandir.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-23-1.u11759	Dear President, colleagues and fellow MPs, a respected minister, a respected ministry representative, we are talking today about the election of prosecutors, including prosecutors for organised crime. It's a very important topic. What I want to point out at the beginning is - without the rule of law, there is no democratic society, and there is no rule of law without strong institutions. What the Justice and Reconciliation Party, as the strongest Bosniak party, absolutely supports is the primary fight against crime and corruption it has announced and implemented primarily by the president of our country, Aleksandar Vukic, the government and the resolution ministries, as well as other bodies of our country. Whether he agrees with politics or not, it must be acknowledged that one serious, perhaps the most serious, criminal group, the Velja Belivuk group that ever existed in this area, has been broken down. But what's the fact about any organised crime is that crime can only be so powerful when it's committed by criminals, but that it must have the logistical support of certain people and systems. What has to be acknowledged to this government is that it exposed these rotten apples in the system, that it detected them, that certain officials were detained, arrested when it comes to the ministry and police and individual ministry officials, and that's something to give a confession on. There is no effective fight against crime and corruption without the strong judiciary and the strong prosecution we are now talking about. Yesterday we had a debate here about the Independent Regulatory Body for Electronic Media. But most of the discussions that were held here yesterday at the tide, I think it was much more important that you, as justice minister, hear them from prosecutors, not the Independent Body for Electronic Media. It's an absolutely unacceptable public discourse we've had lately, and I think it promotes both violence and promotes divisions in our society, which is absolutely unacceptable. People who have certain political support, even if it was minimal, must be aware of the responsibility for a spoken word and attitude. You can't threaten political opponents with murder, you can't threaten to kill members of their families, you can't threaten political opponents, I don't know how to cut hair, whip, harass, etc. It's an introduction to an organized chaos and I beg you, I'm using this pay phone, but so are you to use the power of your authority, because then what's next? Next, if a citizen is permanently listening to representatives of the largest state institutions threaten to go unpunished, then what will people in everyday life do, what kind of discourse will they use? So there will be absolutely no more respect and what is one public discourse will become unfortunately the usual level of conversation among people and that is something we cannot allow. It's something, no matter what rank you have, what position you have, the moment you cross the line, and when you start making a play, satanization, you put a target on someone's forehead, especially when it comes to family. So it absolutely doesn't matter if it's part of the government, whether it's part of the opposition. Our children are not obliged to carry that burden because their parents do some public work. I think people who have that kind of thinking, they have a serious medical problem, not a political problem. But whether or not they are aware of it or not, it is important that the prosecutors, that judges act quickly, effectively in accordance with the law, that we cut off such a single deviation, because the moment it becomes one accepted public discourse, we will have one inflation of violence, and that inflation of violence has had its manifestation, as I have repeatedly spoken of in this case, in the Shadow when an innocent man, Edin Hamidovic, was killed on the promenade, in front of his children, in front of his wife. Why? Well, because at that point someone realized that he didn't like his opinion and that's how it was handled. Well, there's a responsibility, now we get to justice, to the prosecution and to the police. Very often, I mean, that me and my other colleagues are criticizing the work, we're looking for a more efficient work of the Ministry of Police. However, we must agree that in most cases there is responsibility at the prosecution when it comes to investigations, investigative actions, etc. But somehow by definition and difolt, we talk more about police behavior, and in fact there is a key responsibility in the prosecution. In order to have a more effective fight against crime and corruption, so just really pleased that today he had the choice of these prosecutors and in this number, we have to have the elements. So, the elements and that tool that we can fight against organized crime and corruption. We can't have an effective fight against crime and corruption if we have hundreds of cases that are buried by judges, prosecutors, we don't have good conditions to work with when they're involved and we don't have, I don't know, good conditions for police work. So, all that is necessary to have this effective fight must be provided to both courts and prosecutors, and then we have to have this more effective fight, not only at the state level, as I've repeatedly pointed out, it has to go in depth, and when I say it, it means every honor for this Belivuk case and the other fight against organised crime, we saw some action and arrests yesterday, and it's absolutely proven that this party book does not protect anyone in this case. That's something we have to say hello to. However, we expect such actions to be carried out primarily in the depths and in that part of our country where I come from, these are the Sanjak municipalities, I'm talking primarily about the Shadow. I've been given a certain, what can I say, assurances that this famous police commander will be replaced. But it is not important here that the nationality of the prosecutor, nor that police commander, is important that this man who does the job, does it honestly and securely, and not that, as they say in the people, dismount Kurt, to ride Murt, so they work for the same organization and just change. When someone represents the prosecution, when someone represents the court, when someone represents the police, it represents the state. He thus performs his position, people, citizens, especially in small areas, on the periphery, members of minority communities, through this pattern of conduct see how the state behaves. What I want to point out is that it is absolutely unacceptable to have this contamination of certain representatives of the judicial system of prosecutors. If we are now talking to types of suspicious past or suspicious business, and the media very often talked about it, wrote and in the end nothing happens, it is something that must be permanently monitored by competent institutions, and especially in small areas, it is clear who is drinking coffee, who is socializing with whom, and it is very often also the rickety academic Muammer Zukorlic said that we have a situation in Novi Pazar that we know about how much judgment costs and which lawyer, which case and how can it end. We have this example of unfair competition as much as this organized crime is a cancer for our society, by every society, is proof of the phenomenon of the collapse of the new market economic wonder, of this market giant. By the time they had a clear competition, people who were working on djinn production, they were hiring people, working successfully, etc. The moment that the dirty capital of the people involved in organized crime, primarily by drug trafficking, entered that sphere, those who were truly involved in the production of gins, failed because they couldn't hold that competition. Please pay particular attention to that part of our country. What I want to point out and take advantage of your presence is to urge you to specifically address the case in three cases. The Ernad Bakana case, the Scarep case and the Fahrudin Mavric case. Some people, we have talked very often here in parliament about these cases, these cases from the legal field trying to transfer to the field of daily policy. Some people, who are politicians or politicians from the beginning in Novi Pazar, are trying to exploit these three families for daily political purposes. I ask you to find a way for you or any of your associates, or whatever, to talk to these families and to tell them, to convince them some of their doubts, because it's trying to transfer them to the policy field, that the procedures that have been conducted or that are late in the case of Bakan that they are ethnically motivated, which I absolutely don't want to believe that this has anything to do with it, but it's simply about some bureaucracy or negligence of certain judges. I ask you to examine it and send it to both Bosniaks and Novi Pazar and Sandzak one message that we are here in front of the court absolutely all equal and that if someone has misused their position I expect you to examine it and that he is bearing sanctions. A very important topic today is on the agenda and Parliament's Club of Justice and Reconciliation and the United Peasants' Party in the voting day will support the proposals because I believe that the resolution board and the competent institutions have really analysed each candidate in detail. I don't know most or almost all the candidates, but I believe that the committee colleagues did it thoroughly and that's why we're going to support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-23-1.u11760	I would like to thank the president of the Parliamentary Group of the Justice and Reconciliation Party and the United Peasant Party. The word is made by the president of the United Valley of the SDA Sandzak parliamentary group, MP Shaip Kamberi.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-23-1.u11761	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, this decision proposes the election of prosecutors in the prosecutor's office for organised crime, prosecutors in appeals and public prosecutors, senior and primary prosecutors. I don't know if there are a list of candidates from the ranks of national minorities on the list of proposed candidates, but from what I can see, I don't see any representatives from the ranks of the Albanian national minority. Maybe that's why this is a moment to point out some facts and to improve the effective participation of minorities in judicial institutions. In the Vranj Basic Prosecutor's Office, the Bujanovac department was employed by two deputy prosecutors of Albanian nationality who during this year, meeting the legal conditions went into retirement and these jobs were vacant. The main prosecutor's office was left without a single member of the Albanian national minority in the ranks of deputy public prosecutors. In order to inform the public, the Vranj General Prosecutor's Office is also responsible for the main court in Bujanovac, which also covers the Presevo Municipality area, an area with a significant number of Albanian population, which is left without a single member in the prosecutor's ranks, i.e. the deputy prosecutor's office. The participation of national minorities in all state institutions, including the judiciary, is guaranteed by Article 77(2). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 20 The Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedom of National Minorities. Democracy is a process that implies that it protects the entire population of a country, regardless of its cultural, social, economic, language, ethnic or religious membership. Countries must fully respect the rule of law and international standards of minority rights, including standards relating to the effective participation of minorities, according to recommendations from Lund that the effective participation of national minorities in the public life of the OSCE High Commissioner for Minority Rights. Since the authority of the government is based on the will of the people, the Copenhagen document, the preamble of attitude 5 and 6, implies that everyone has the right to participate in public affairs, in return it requires that representative institutions exist at all levels of government, according to the Universal Declaration of Democracy of the Interparliamentary Union adopted in 1997. With that in mind, I must say that minority rights are an integral part of international human rights rules and they impose an obligation on every member of the international community. The OSCE Member States are also bound by their political definitions and obligations in the area of minority rights, on the basis of the Copenhagen document. The UN Charter stresses the importance of preventing and eliminating peace threats, the UN Charter, Article 1. History shows us that there is a greater likelihood of a conflict when states do not adequately protect minority rights. According to the Ljubljana guidelines for the integration of different societies, countries are obliged to promote minority rights to participate effectively in public life to enable them to preserve their identity by giving them equal opportunities to use their language, which means that conditions should be provided for the use of minority languages and in judicial proceedings, and this is achieved through the employment of persons with the knowledge of minority languages. So, the Republic of Serbia is obliged to create equal opportunities for all minorities, including the Albanian minority, as a member of the OSCE International Community, the Council of Europe, the UN. I must say that the participation of the Albanian is in judicial institutions that cover the area of Presevo municipality, Bujanovac, and the Medvedja is below the levels that both domestic and international standards require. In the Bujanovac basic court, 67 employees are of only 20 Albanian nationalities, while 47 are Serbian national. Of the 12 judges the court has, eight are Serbian, four Albanian nationalities. Three Albanians, two deputies and one senior prosecutor's assistant were employed in the Vranj General Prosecutor's Office, two deputies retired and the two seats remained vacant. These are the data that the institutions gave to the president of the Bujanovac municipality's assembly at his request while the Infringements in Vranj, the department in Bujanovac refused to give the requested information, so the subject was forwarded to the Trustee for information of public importance. There are several members of the Albanian community who meet all the criteria required by the law to elect judges, i.e. public prosecutors or their deputies. He is aware that integration is a process that is going on, but I must also point out that we are in one process that has lasted since 2001, which began with the then plan and the crisis resolution programme in the municipalities of Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja, whose provisions have been confirmed by the new agreement in 2009 which was concluded by the OSCE mission in Serbia and its then head of ambassador, Hansa Ola Urstad, and is from the conclusion of the Government of the Republic of Serbia in 2013, which fully accepts the information of the co-ordination body on the necessity of the integration of the Albanian minority in all state institutions and in the judiciary. An adequate and effective representation of minorities should not be limited to local level alone. Regional participation is desirable, but also good for democracy. I believe that you are aware that in the senior prosecutor's office, the Public Prosecutor's Office in Vranj no Albanian is employed, and that the prosecution covers a territory in which the Albanian minority makes more than $20% of the population. So, as it is a matter of judicial institutions that cover the territories that are inhabited by Albanian as a majority population, it would be my question at the moment whether the ministry has a concrete plan to fill these jobs and to ensure equal integration of members of Albanian nationality in those institutions, I am talking about those members who meet the legal conditions for the election, or the appointment of those places. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-23-1.u11762	Thank you. National MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic, in line, has a priority, and then a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-23-1.u11763	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I called as an authorised representative of the Electoral Group Aleksandar Vukic – For our children because we could hear certain information that I had to hear, I felt that I had to respond. So it is very clear that it is not about discrimination, but about meeting the criteria relating above all to expertise. As I recall, the prosecutor was an Albanian in Bujanovac for a long time. So there is no national omen, but there is a criterion called expertise. Now four judges from 12, judges in Bujanovac are Albanians, although I have no intention of counting people by nationality here, but if we're going to talk that way, there are also four interpreters for Albanian language that allow those national minorities to do their job. Of the three judicial assistants, two are Albanians. Direct discrimination certainly does not exist when we talk about judges, prosecutors, there are translators who also allow members of the Albanian national minority to participate in procedures and work. In any case, if we're already talking that way, I want to present other information concerning the Presevo municipality and the Bujanovac municipality. So, the president of Presevo municipality is Albanian, the deputy president is Albanian, the president of the assembly is Albanian, the deputy president is Albanian, the secretary and deputy secretary are Albanians, all the heads of municipal administrations are Albanians. In Bujanovac, where 40% of Serbs live, the president of the municipality is also Albanian, the deputy president is Albanian and all officials in the Bujanovac municipality are Albanians, although the SNS received 10 seats in the last elections, i.e. 1,300 votes more than those who exercise power there. Therefore, the unilateral government excluded Serbs from the municipality's leadership, from the management of the municipality's affairs, although 40% of Serbs are there. So, I don't know why we're talking today about discrimination in the judiciary that I believe absolutely doesn't exist, and here I hear that Mrs. Popovic answered her word, so I'll leave her to fill in or correct me if I bring out some information that isn't correct. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-23-1.u11764	Thank you. The word has a minister of justice.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-23-1.u11765	The MPs, she brought out the information I wanted to bring out. I'd just like to supplement her exposure to where the prosecutors are elected right now, so the prosecutor's office. You mentioned two deputy public prosecutors who retired. That choice is only in order. The Ministry of Justice does not elect prosecutors, nor judges, but does so by the State's Major Prosecutor's Office and the High Council of the judiciary. In any case, one of the criteria and the most important criterion is the quality of the performance of that job. There is absolutely no reason, no talk of discrimination, given what Mrs. Zaric has said, so we are thinking about national minorities. As for their use of language in court, this time a court interpreter, everyone has the right to use their native language. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-23-1.u11766	I thank Minister Popovic. Replica, Shaip Camberi.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-23-1.u11767	I will not compare the numbers of employees in the municipal administration in all services that are the founder of the Bujanovac or Presevo municipalities, to see the exact number of employees per national structure. That might be another time. I am talking about a process in which the Albanian community has been in contact with this country since 2001, and the latest information from the Coordination Body on the need for the integration of the Albanian community in all institutions, as well as in judicial institutions since 25 February 2013, on the basis of which the Government of the Republic of Serbia concluded on 4 June 2013 that a report from the meeting of the President of the Co-ordination Body of the Government of the Republic of Serbia for the municipalities of Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedje and representatives of the political parties from the Bujanovac municipality, which is an integral part of this conclusion. It was signed by then by Prime Minister Ivica Dacic. So I'm talking about some of the obligations that were created, which should be realized in the integration process. That's why I asked, if jobs are already vacant, will they be, I understand that they may be other institutions, but the ministry has a certain insight into all these procedures and will those places be filled? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-23-1.u11768	Thank you. The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-23-1.u11769	I would certainly answer that all the vacant jobs will be filled. Which way I can't prejudge it, because that's the only decision I've ever made, as I said, of the State's Chief Prosecutor and the High Council of Justice, as far as the prosecutor and the judge are concerned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-23-1.u11770	Thank you. We can keep going. The word has the mandated representative of the Social Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary group, MP Daniela Veljovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-23-1.u11771	I would like to thank the President, the Honorable Minister with his associate, fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament. Today, on the agenda of the session, we have a motion for a decision on the election of public prosecutors. Based on the applicable Public Prosecutor's Law, and above all on the current Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, public prosecutors are elected by the National Assembly on a proposal from the government, for a period of six years. Although we have received the biographies of each candidate in the material for today's session, I will not deal with the reasons for and against their candidacy, considering it to be the most measurable body to discuss this with the State's larger prosecutors. It's an 82 right now. The Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office has been clearly established that the State's Chief Prosecutors draw up a ranking list of candidates based on their expertise, skills and dignity to perform their public office. The expertise involves having the theoretical and practical knowledge necessary to make a public prosecutorial call. Training involves skills that enable legal skills to be applied to solving problems, while dignity refers to moral traits, such as honesty, justice, perseverance, respecting the reputation of the institution, awareness of social responsibility, maintaining independence and impartiality. Discrimination on any basis is prohibited when selecting and proposing candidates for a public prosecutor's office. The most important role of the prosecutor is precisely in the handling of the investigation and investigation. At this stage, operational co-operation with the MUP is important, which must be effective, constructive, unquestionable, as this depends on the whole investigation process. The police are obliged to act on the request of a competent public prosecutor, if not, the public prosecutor may immediately inform the authority's elder and, if necessary, the competent minister and the government. The public prosecutor may also request the launch of a disciplinary case against a police officer, whom he considers to be responsible for non-compliance. However, practice has shown that this is almost never happening and that these powers are not enough for the prosecutor's role in the investigation process. The problem is particularly expressed when it comes to cases, where possible suspected police members, for example, are, here's how these problems have been solved in some European countries. In Spain, for example, this issue was resolved by the establishment of a special piece of police that corresponds to the prosecution, in Switzerland the prosecutor is also the police director, in Belgium certain parts of the police are attached to the prosecution. It is very important to talk about the protection of public order and morals, about the protection of the interests of minors and the privacy of participants in the process, and constantly when it comes to the judiciary and the public prosecutorial function, I use the opportunity to point out the position of the SDPS, that it must prevent the leak of information in the public that is important for the conduct of the proceedings, because this is causing great damage to persons in the process and to the general public, precisely because media often abuse this information for sensationalism. On the other hand, there is bad or insufficient communication of the public prosecutor's office with the media, and this passive relationship is very damaging to the public prosecutor's image, and I find it important that public prosecutors do not run away from the media, that their work, though independent, should provide certain answers and explanations when there is, of course, a legitimate public interest. The most significant changes in the judiciary, including the public prosecutor's own organisation, should bring new constitutional amendments, to which citizens will be declared in a referendum on 16 January. What these constitutional amendments need to resolve is greater public prosecutors' independence and an extended definition of public prosecutors' immunity. These amendments exclude the National Assembly from the election of judges, the president of courts, public prosecutors, and constitutional changes provide that prosecutors as well as judges cannot be held accountable for the opinion expressed in the context of their duties. The public prosecutor's office, the amendments, should be a collective body in which all owners of the public prosecutor's office. Therefore, all deputy public prosecutors continue to serve as public prosecutors in their public prosecutors. The public prosecutor's office is being held by the chief public prosecutor, a public prosecutor who handles the work of the public prosecutor's office and public prosecutors. The prosecutor of the prosecution has the possibility of giving orders to the rest of the prosecutors, but also against the authority he owns, there are legal means to exclude the possibility of abuse. One of the important changes brought by these constitutional amendments is that the number of election members of the High Council of Prosecutors will be increased, but the possibility of the Supreme Prosecutor being a member of the Council is excluded at the same time, and so is the president. This will disable the concentration of power in the hands of one man. The High Council of the Prosecutors will consist of 11 members, 5 public prosecutors elected by public prosecutors and 4 prominent lawyers elected by the National Assembly, the Supreme Public Prosecutor and the Justice Minister. A member of the D.A.'s High Council elected by the National Assembly from the ranks of prominent lawyers should not be a member of the political party. The High Council of the Prosecutors is an independent body that provides and guarantees the independence of prosecutors, proposes to the National Assembly the election and termination of the public prosecutor's office, elects chief and public prosecutors, appoints the public prosecutor's office, decides on the termination of their post, as well as on other issues concerning the position of top public prosecutor and other prosecutors. These are just some of the constitutional amendments that citizens will declare in the referendum, so it is very important to speak in a objective and professional way about all constitutional amendments, so that citizens can get a real picture of why it is important to change the parts of the Constitution relating to the judiciary and why it is important to take advantage of their constitutional rights and sovereignty guaranteed and to go to the referendum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-23-1.u11772	I thank the authorised representative of the Social Democratic Party of Serbia parliamentary group. Honorable Members of the People, pursuant to Article 27 and Articles 87, 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that today we will be working after 1800 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to pass the act from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. A regular break is scheduled at 13.50 p.m. to prepare for an oath in this 1400-hour hall. We're moving on. The word has the mandated representative of the Single Serbia parliamentary group, MP Djordje Kosanic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-23-1.u11773	Thank you. Dear Minister Popovic, with a co-worker from the ministry, respected chairman, Vice-President of the Assembly, Mrs Kovac, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is today ahead of us with a motion for a decision on the election of public prosecutors. Minister, at the beginning of your debate, you were talking about candidates, not to repeat myself. I would say that two candidates come from Kragujevac, where I come from, one from the Appealal Prosecutor's Office, the other from the General Prosecutor's Office, but what is certainly important, which I will say at the outset, that in the day of the vote, the Parliamentary Group of Unity of Serbia will support the aforementioned decisions when it comes to the election of public prosecutors. A unique Serbia in its work and operation always advocates independence and independence of the judiciary. Today we choose prosecutors, but not only when we talk about prosecutors, when we talk about judges, it is very important that they be independent and independent in making their decisions, because in any case it is a prerequisite for the rule of law, and on the other hand a guarantee for the normal life of all our citizens. Minister, I'm going to go back a little bit and say that in the past ten years Serbia has gone through comprehensive reforms when it comes to the judiciary, and all in order for the new judiciary to carry out the full burden of reform. As our ultimate goal, we had a truly full development as far as justice is concerned. I can freely say that Serbia may also be a leader in the region when it comes to independence or judges or prosecutors, because today in our country judges and prosecutors have full freedom to make their own decisions. When it comes to the European Union, on its way to the EU, whose basic value includes the rule of law and respect for human rights, Serbia has, therefore, regulated this area on its way to the EU through Chapter 23 or, as we will now say, through clusters. The European Commission's general conclusion is that Serbia's judicial system has made a certain level of preparation. Serbia is creating a stable social climate, because we are pursuing European standards and, as I said, when it comes to the judiciary and when it comes to the prosecution. The whole process of amending the Constitution and the way judges and public prosecutors will be elected in the future is also part of this. But, Minister, what is very important and, we must be honest, the basic argument for changing the Constitution when it comes to the judiciary is the fact that the existing Constitution leaves a great deal of space for the influence of legislative and executive authorities on the holders of judicial functions. This influence can lead to unwanted politicisation of the judiciary. In fact, the only goal is to avoid this politicization, and on the other hand, and what we all advocate, as I said, for full independence regarding the prosecution and the judiciary. What is the goal and desire of all of us is to guarantee that Serbia will be a modern society in which all laws will be fully applied, as it is now. When we talk about the draft act, when we talk about the prosecution and change the constitution, it is envisaged that the composition and way of electing members of the State Council of Prosecutors, which I hope, by changing the Constitution, will be called the Supreme Council of Prosecutors. Once again, there will be 11 members. I will say here that the High Council of Prosecutors is scheduled to have four members who come from the ranks of prominent lawyers, elected by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, but what is important, certainly, after having conducted the competition and the two-thirds majority in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Five members are elected by public prosecutors and chief public prosecutor from the ranks of public prosecutors. I said there are 11 members, two members, there will be an current minister in charge of the judiciary and, on the other hand, the High Public Prosecutor in office. The election of the top public prosecutor is being held by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, but what is often a problem can happen if we do not have a majority in the Assembly regarding the decision, not only when the election of a senior public prosecutor is at stake but also when it comes to the High Council of Prosecutors, so the mechanism is envisaged to prevent the blockades of these authorities. If two-thirds or three-fifths of all MPs do not vote for their members, members of these bodies from the ranks of prominent lawyers or top public prosecutor shall be elected by the Commission. The Commission is comprised of representatives of bodies that are the constitutional category, so they are the president of the National Assembly, the President of the Constitutional Court, the President of the Supreme Court, the Supreme Public Prosecutor and the Protector of the Citizens. I have already said that, but once again, it is envisaged that the name and function of the public prosecutor's organisation should be changed. I have already mentioned it through my presentation, but for some of the functions just mentioned, I will say that, let's say, the Republic Public Prosecutor will be the Supreme Prosecutor, the Attorney General will be called the Attorney General, the Deputy Prosecutor will be the Public Prosecutor. So, what is ultimately important, just to say that these provisions of the Constitution in the area of justice should be changed, primarily because of all of us, because of the citizens of Serbia, because it is in their interest, not because the European Union asks us to. At the very end, let me also say that in the day for the Single Serbia parliamentary group to vote, it will certainly support all these decision-making proposals, as the Single Serbia advocates maximum reinforcement, both by the prosecutors and by the judiciary. As a guarantee of the rule of law and independent judges, or an independent prosecutor and judge are guarantees that the law will be applied equally and impartially to all, that there is no, to say, privileged. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-23-1.u11774	I thank the authorised representative of the Single Serbia parliamentary group. The word has been authorised by a representative of the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group, MP Dubravka Kralj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-23-1.u11775	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Minister, Mr. Vinci, good afternoon. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've looked back on one of my thoughts since I was a student and later as a graduate. Somehow I never dreamed of a public service business, because somewhere I felt that the real value of knowledge can only be seen on the free market, but now I realize that the real value is only seen in the contribution that we are willing to give to society and in the struggle to build a social fair environment. So as a socialist today, I don't want to be fascinated by quoting legal norms that I know of, but by pointing together with my colleagues what is necessary. We need a round of applause for all decent people who live honestly and respect regulations, and it is necessary to punish all those who break regulations, and it is necessary to show that there are no easier paths of shortcuts and detours. Therefore, the necessity of honorary and professional prosecutors is courageous and determined to fight for such evidence, respecting everyone's rights and motivated by the desire for Serbia to be a legal state. Serbia deserves the rule of law, deserves a fair and efficient judicial system, deserves the best possible framework of the system, but also deserves people who will give their moral and professional qualities faith in the judiciary. We today choose several public prosecutors who will run public prosecutors across the country, and I hope that they will do so in a way that will ensure that every question is possible, whether I can disobey my country and violate its legislation, arrives quickly, efficiently and loudly enough – can not and that the answer comes no matter who asks the question, who is testing our legislation. Also, regardless of who the protection is looking for, because as important a message from the state that there are no protected, which is sent, it is equally important, perhaps more important message that there are no unprotected and that anyone who addresses the prosecution can receive equal protection of their rights and satisfaction by sanctioning those who threaten them, because everyone's accident hurts equally, and that order of priorities should not be anyone who is damaged. What is a priority is a message to society that every type of crime, whoever does it, does not lead to a comfortable life, but leads to punishment and that is why we need prosecutors who are up to this task, who are up to the importance of their work, who are determined to work legally, independently, impartially, respecting everyone's rights, responsibly and committed to professional and personal integrity. These are the demands made before the prosecutors by the Ethics Code. Generally, all they have to do is write everything in the regulations, and all we expect them to know, respect, and act. It's a big responsibility. The promotions are needed, despite the fact that the prosecution has shown a really great ability in the previous period. Today I have heard the praises and successes that have been achieved in concrete cases, and it really is, but I would add that the prosecutors have come across in a relatively short period of time in a new system of prosecution which, at the moment of its introduction, has really changed the concept and indeed the prosecutors deserve to be commended. The changes will potentially follow after the referendum. I loved the presentation of my colleague Veljovic, as well as my colleagues, Kosanic, from Unity of Serbia, because they really got into the topic of constitutional change. And I have, personally, since I'm going to talk next week, the ambition to devote the whole exposure to constitutional changes. Today, the honourable MP, Zvonimir Stevic, from our parliamentary group, will talk about it, but in addition to the appointment of MPs to bring constitutional amendments closer to citizens, I think it would be useful for the Minister of Justice, as someone who has really put a great deal of work into making constitutional amendments and is really committed to this topic and has been present and in all the public hearings organised by the chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, to nevertheless take up a more active presence of this topic in the media, because I really think that citizens deserve to be explained what these constitutional changes really mean and what the intensity is, and I really think the intensity is good. Also, I fully respect the fact, and it is commendable, pay increases, generally in the public sector. However, even so, I think that earning in the judiciary is really no longer a motive for dealing with these professions, and therefore, somewhere more and more quality lawyers are opting for other legal professions. Now, for example, there's also the role of public prosecutors, who will run the prosecutions, that they really motivate their associates and deputies to act more up-to-date, to improve and educate, despite... I'm saying, I don't think that the salary of prosecutors and judges is small, but I think it's inadequate for the great responsibility that their jobs carry, or that there's enough guarantee of independence and independence. I therefore believe that it would be useful to invest in the judiciary and in this way, in addition to the fact that, in the previous period, a lot has been invested in improving judicial infrastructure, buildings or renovated facilities for the needs of the judiciary in several cities have been built, I have already talked about it, and I would now point out that I am really particularly pleased that the construction of the Court of Justice in Novi Sad has started, because the New Sad Court and the Prosecutor's Office really deserve better spatial conditions. But unlike that, I think that working at the Grains Palace of Justice is a special privilege, because it is indeed a curiosity that such a monumental building, which is also declared a monument of culture, preserves the dignity of the grain judiciary. But much more important than that, the dignity of the judiciary in general should be kept by all holders of judicial functions in all situations, regardless of the challenges and pressures they are inevitably facing, and we are aware of that, they meet. Members of the Socialist Party of Serbia will support anyone who has the will to face these challenges and pressures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-23-1.u11776	Thank you. For our children, the National MP Jelena Žarić Kovacevic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-23-1.u11777	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Mrs Popovic, Mr Vins, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we have before us a proposal for a decision on the election of public prosecutors, of course with an explanation and with the biographies of candidates. In line with the Public Prosecutor's Law, the State's Chief Prosecutors announced an ad for the election of public prosecutors in Serbia, after which, of course, formed a Commission to determine the timeliness and fully filed applications of candidates, which later, which were timely and complete, forwarded the Council to a further decision. The Commission has also been established to draw up and evaluate the written test and evaluation of the organisation's programme and to improve the work of the Public Prosecutor's Office. The state's major prosecutors certainly valued the expertise and training of candidates, the presentation of programmes, organisations and improvements of the work of the public prosecutor's office and other criteria which are important for proposing candidates. I hope that these candidates will rightly respond, first of all, to all the professional challenges they expect, to act in accordance with the Constitution and the laws that apply in our country and to work on it and to make their contribution to making the situation better in Serbia when we talk about the rule of law as much as it is, of course, in their jurisdiction. I believe it will require a lot of denials on their part, but I call on them not to give up, especially when it comes to fighting crime and corruption, because, as far as I can see, we have here a proposal for the Public Prosecutor for Organized Crime, and the state needs help to remain consistent in that fight. Controlling crime and corruption is still and will be one of the strategic goals of the Serbian government not only because of EU membership, but rather because we want to live in a healthy society and for the safety of our citizens. Speaking of the security of our citizens, I can ask today if Alexander Vukic is a Serbian citizen and is he safe? Can the question be answered by the state authorities that we daily call for to respond, because attacks on Alexander Vukic and his family do not stop and is the fact that Aleksandar Vukic is the president of the state qualified for behavior that often has elements of crime? The second question is, how bad is it that we're used to the president of the state every day being the target of the attack, so it's not only not news anymore, but it's not even the basis that the state authorities seem to react. How can swearing to the President of the Republic be creative anger, that sexist insults by the Ministers are an act of intellectual criticism, that the front pages on which the president is being targeted are a normal thing, that the electronic media places affairs on the president's family without any facts or arguments, that the most terrifying threats are addressed to the president's children and that they are published on social networks, which under the real names and last names, which under false profiles, and that no one has questioned it? How is it possible today to say shooting, hanging, bloody scenario, rematchism, bastards from the congregation, closing people, revenge, etc. They don't mean anything and the state authorities don't care what context those words are spoken in? Is it possible that no consequences can be suffered for such behaviour and does this mean that it is becoming normal to chicanate the Vukic family, but also all SNS officials and members? It is convenient today when we talk about the choice of public prosecutors to look at the situation in the judiciary, but also to remember some of the situations that marked the period of collapse, I can say freely, our judiciary by 2012, but it is convenient to talk about some current political issues, and perhaps the daily-political ones that are important to our citizens, which our fellow citizens are interested in, because they really want to be informed and understand, for example, how this spent Serbia's budget until 2012 or, for example, the budget of the city of Belgrade while Dragan Gilas was mayor. This topic I'm going to talk about has a lot to do with today's agenda. It has a lot to do with the holders of judicial functions, i.e. with the obligation of judges to judge in accordance with the law, to make decisions whether or not they belong to a political party or to which, but also with the obligation of prosecutors we today choose to initiate proceedings in accordance with their respective powers. So I expect a reaction from the state authorities in one specific matter that many of my colleagues and colleagues have talked about here in parliament. Although we know that we will be targeted, that we will be mentioned in certain media and on social networks, that we will be marked in different ways, that they will insult and demean us, but for the sake of the truth that we are obliged to give to the citizens of Serbia, we will continue here in Parliament to fight and to make our contribution in the fight and against thieving, and against crime, and against the deception of citizens, and to place any lies and inventions. In fact, we were able to see the results of the investigative journalism that the journalists “News” met with, and I think that many of us certainly surprised the amount of money that connects with Dragan Gilas, or the amount of money that is in his accounts or accounts of his companies abroad. It is certainly the amount he did not show, or did not report to the competent state authorities when he entered politics, which further points to the question of how much money was obtained and whether there was a possible abuse of the position he was in his political career. Furthermore, how is it possible that at a time when Gilas was in power, Serbia collapsed and poored, and his accounts were filled with money? Does that money have anything to do with the affairs surrounding his period of government when he was in the place of mayor of Belgrade? I'll remind you that some of the clues existed and some of his associates were arrested at the time, and processed precisely because of the affairs and abuses that were found to be pumping money out of the city's budget, while I say, individuals were rich. Because of all these issues that are plagued by the MPs, but they also torture the citizens of Serbia with whom we are in daily contact and who ask us, I insist on investigating, but also on applying the law, and above all on telling Serbian citizens the truth, because it is about their money, or money from the budget. Serbian citizens need to know if Dragan Gilas is connected through a certain Pascal Schmidt to 34 companies in Switzerland, as you can see from a search of Swiss business portals that has just been authorized by Pascal Schmidt in 34 companies, including the company Dragan Gilas. Therefore, it is a company which, by 28 December of last year, bears the name Multicom Open AG when it changes its name to Open International AG, whose signatories are just Gilas and Schmidt, and the fact that three times the recapitalisation, i.e. the increase in funds in the account and the change of name, has been made. It is these facts that cause doubt that it is either money laundering or tax evasion. In addition, business and Askanius ltd, also named Dragan Gilas, whose account in Mauritius has nearly sixm euros, is suspicious. Furthermore, Gilas also has an account in Hong Hong with more than threem euros in it, and again as authorised persons, Dragan Gilas and Pascal Schmidt, as well as persons related to dozens of other accounts in as many as 17 countries. In addition to expecting our state authorities to do their job and check these allegations, there is a possibility that the state authorities of other countries, therefore countries in which these accounts exist, could be involved in the investigation, and it is clear what situation this whole case has received, which is why Dragan Gilas is nervous. So he's not just nervous about the political campaign he's supposed to have if he's planning to participate in next April's election, but he's not alone, I don't think he's sure which countries all the accounts are in and how much money he has in his accounts. Of course, instead of clarifying all of this to the citizens, instead of answering questions about where millions of figures in the euro are coming from, it's getting deeper and deeper, it's going from a lie to a lie, and we've been able to figure it out for months, but when you ask him something, the only and main goal is the answer that is that it's all Alexander Vukic's fault that instructs the attacks on him and, of course, the SNS. It was his fault as well as the press when they asked questions like this. In his anxiety, and I say, I hope that along with our state authorities the state authorities from other countries will participate in the investigation, he goes from mistake to error trying to hide the origin of the money. So here I am not contesting the fact that in Serbia there should be rich people, of course, but politicians who have earned so much money at the time when they were in power and in office are a special category and their property should be examined, that is, the way they acquired their property. It is unacceptable, of course, that someone uses their positions and engages in politics for personal gain. Therefore, the competent authorities should examine all doubts about the origin of the property and then verify whether the obligations to the state have been met. If we bury a little deeper beneath the surface of Gilas' lies, we can also find scandalously large amounts of money that may be the money of Serbian citizens, but we also encounter the results of investigative journalism in terms of millions of euros in foreign accounts. We can also come across documents that prove it and very strong facts that cast serious doubt in the way of obtaining property. Imagine what information is expected of us if indeed this investigation by our state authorities or state authorities of other countries is carried out, about how many transactions that are illegal we will talk about, how much abuse of position there was, how much pumping of state money, how much trade influence and how many apartments for Dragan Gilas and his brother. Of course, when we talk about prosecutors we have to keep in mind and things like this, we have to give state authorities from this place to do their job at full capacity, because only through institutional action will we be able to find out the truth, but we can be sure that justice will be served. I say, the second question is whether that money, after all, will be taken away in any indirect way or returned to the budget from where it was taken, if that turns out to be the case. The same Dragan Gilas feels urged every day to insult President Aleksandar Vukic in the worst possible way, to direct threats, to spread fiction, and not only against President Aleksandar Vukic, but against all SNS who raise their voices and tell the truth. There is a policy of lynching, a campaign of persecution, which is created on social networks, which on the media which it is financing, and where we are constantly subject to mistreatment both on a personal and professional basis. You remember that at the speed of light, there were suggestions in any of the shows and that they voted for us, and they made comments that, of course, were not appropriate. They, of course, draw our sentences out of context, give them a completely different meaning and in this way doing all this, of course, insult our dignity, talk about what we look like or what we say, that Alexander Vukic writes to us the speeches we read, try to lower our personal and professional integrity in all ways. This unscrupulous targeting of MPs from the Parliament group “Alexander Vukic – For our children”, of course members of the Presidency or members of the SNS board usually come from people I like to say when they look in the mirror mostly see one big nothing. Such people are now predicating to come to power, to take up the chairs they used to be in, and to pick up where they left off, to ensure their personal wealth, but on the other hand, we are all aware of that, of course means one lack of care about the citizens of Serbia and absolutely their needs. From all of this I have stated, of course, it can be concluded why I'm talking about it today, because there are proposals on the agenda for the holders of judicial functions, proposals for public prosecutors I expect to make professionally and responsibly the next day when we choose them to do their job here. Now I want to devote some time to the current topic of the Republic referendum, because we can hear different information in public, so it would be good to tell the citizens what it is and what it is not. We have no MPs from the list "Alexander Vukic – For Our Children", nothing to hide, and the policy we are conducting and implemented by our President, Alexander Vukic, tells us to tell the people always the truth. In recent days, we have been able to see many opposition politicians running an anti-referendum campaign or a negative referendum campaign or calling on citizens not to go to the Republic referendum at all or invite them to round up the referendum. First of all, I would like to say that it is very bad to have a Republic referendum in connection with the elections that await us in April of next year. Then, it is very bad to influence people not to exercise their right and not to go to the referendum because it means that they are urged not to take part in making decisions that are important to Serbia, but which will naturally reflect on all of them. Finally, no one is authorized to influence both how and how citizens will plead and whether they will round up "yes" or "no" in the referendum, except for legal persons who have reported and authorised themselves to carry out a referendum campaign in accordance with the Law on Referendum and People's Initiative. So it's about mixing the political election campaign with the referendum campaign. It is a violation of the Law on Referendum and People's Initiative and of a kind of abuse of the Republic's referendum for political purposes, because if you tell someone that "no" is actually "no" in the referendum for Alexander Vukic and SNS, and the referendum is not to go to the elections that will take place on 3 April next year, it is a referendum on whether Serbia needs constitutional changes in the area of justice, then you have committed an abuse and then you have violated the Law on the referendum. Going to the referendum is not a vote for the secession of Kosovo and Metohija, nor for the abolition of human rights, nor for the introduction of mandatory vaccination, nor for the introduction or entry or exit, whatever they call it, migrants into our country. Without any need of the opposition party scares people, they deceive people for days saying any of these issues I mentioned would be in front of them in a referendum on January 16th. I would also like to take the opportunity to ask the citizens of Serbia to take some time to read the information everyone will receive at home, which the RIK has already delivered to a third of our population, which it has also drawn up and adopted at the RIK session and which contains all the information that is needed for citizens to decide how to plead in the referendum. Also, they will be able to see from printed and electronic media videos that will be made by the RIK who is authorized to do so, which will provide information that is important for the referendum. When we had here on the agenda the Law on Referendum and People's Initiative, we highlighted the importance of a number of kinds of referendums. For what? Because this importance is reflected precisely in the participation of citizens in decision-making, regardless of whether it is a Republic or any other referendum. Also, I want to explain why the referendum was called for January 16th next year. The Constitution itself sets out the reasons, i.e. the situations in which the opening of the Republic referendum is mandatory. So it's about changes in the area of justice when the governing order is changed, which is the case here because it's the judicial authority, the call of a Republic referendum is mandatory under the Constitution itself. So, nothing here is done under the grain, nothing is hidden, the whole process has been and will remain public and transparent, and ultimately all of us who have participated in this process or are still involved, we fully do so, and we are aware of the responsibility that the citizens have to bear in these matters. Therefore, the opposition that says round up "no" in the referendum, say "no" to Alexander Vukic or SNS, commits abuse of the referendum, violates the law and leads a negative campaign ahead of the elections that await us in April of next year. In the lack of, of course, the policy they would offer citizens, they are grasping a straw, they twist everything they can to deceive the people and thus attract voters. They frighten the people by connecting the referendum with the status of our southern provinces to Kosovo and Metohija, an autonomous province or any other issue the republican referendum does not apply to in general. They began by saying that a mistake was made in asking a referendum question, which was also not the case and it was not true, and now they continue to unequivocally invent and place falseness. During the long process, as you yourself know, no change in the Constitution occurred overnight, was public and transparent and we pointed out in each part of the procedure why constitutional changes in the area of justice. We want to further strengthen the justice system because we aim at full EU membership. So, in fact, the situation is very simple and this situation that we explain to the citizens here, the opposition political parties want me to know in a very wrong way, in a very wrong way. There's nothing hidden or fake about it. Our fight for better Serbia is very clear, daily and because of the citizens of Serbia who give us legitimacy, we will continue with full progress towards new victories, as well as the next elections that await us in April, and after April when Alexander Vukic and SNS win, Serbia will win in all areas headed by Aleksandra Vukic. Long live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-23-1.u11778	I thank the authorised representative of the parliamentary group “Alexander Vukic – For Our Children”. We're going to have to take your time beyond your scheduled time from the MP's time. Since we no longer have registered presidents or authorised representatives of the parliamentary group, we are moving on to the list. The first word has a National MP, Milija Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-23-1.u11779	I thank the chairman. Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues, citizens of Serbia, I am Milija Miletic. I come from Svrlig, it is the most beautiful municipality in Serbia located near the town of Nis, it is the most beautiful city in Serbia. By the way, here in the Assembly I represent the United Peasant Party, and I have been selected from the list Aleksandar Vukic – For our children. As I will speak so far about all those things that are important to the citizens of Serbia. Today we are talking here about the choice of prosecutors, about something that is very important because all of us who are here want to work in every place by law, that those who don't work under the law to do so, whether they live in Srlig, the White Palanca, whether they live in Belgrade, Nis, Subotica, doesn't matter. We must all, who are here in Serbia, respect the law, and especially all those who have received some public authority, trust of citizens for certain duties, whether it is the presidents of the municipalities, mayors, ministers, MPs, anyone, directors of public enterprises, we must all be much more serious than the other citizens because we represent what we are, and these are our citizens, citizens of Svrlig, citizens of Nis, citizens of these small communities. That's why I'm going to support the proposals of these people that are proposed for prosecutors, because I'm sure they'll be people who will really work by law and anyone who breaks the law to sanction it as they have to. One of the important things, it will, since today's session of the Assembly on the election of prosecutors, if the referendum we have scheduled for 16 January is decided, get support for the change of the Constitution, judges, prosecutors will be elected later on. The assembly will have no more influences than it has had so far, so distinguished colleagues will once again support the proposals, the proposed members for prosecutors, and I am sure they will act according to the law as it has to be. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-23-1.u11780	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Vladan Glisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-23-1.u11781	The next assembly of the Assembly will not be able to elect public prosecutors if the referendum passes on January 16th, and that is enough to understand how unserious and unnecessary the whole story of the referendum is and to change the constitution. That this is our authentic need as a society also shows that it is not true. It is seen from how the president of the National Assembly reacted at one meeting yesterday in meeting with the people of the National Convention and did what most of us here think, and this has sent a message that the Minister of European Integration, Mrs Joksimovic and the president of the pro-Civil Civil Sector, and in particular EU representatives have treated us in a humiliating way, and I support him in that position, and I think that attitude is something that should be the principal position of all of us in this assembly. That the EU has continued to humiliate us is evident in the fact that we are the only members of the EU candidate who are required to give up the works of our territory. This suggests that the EU is hypocritical and that there is no rule of law with them, because they would know that the integrity of borders is the foundation, a stone of international law created after World War II, that the integrity of borders to sovereign countries is actually that foundation, a cornerstone of international law that the United Nations organisation requires and weighs. Also, the rule of law in the EU does not exist because, in our country and only in our country, they ask us to change our Constitution, although we are not an EU member, and this is not required by an EU body, but based on the opinion of the Venice Commission, a commission that does not oblige anyone in the EU but us. So this is also a condition that humiliates us, because we have to listen to the EU and that because of listening to the EU i.e. The Venice Commission, which is part of the advisory body of the Council of Europe, which is not part of the EU body, we are in a situation that we have another humiliating condition that other members do not have on their way to the EU. That the story of the fact that it is better for judges and prosecutors to choose several specially elected representatives of the Assembly than 250 MPs makes no sense, anyone who knows mathematics knows that. If we are referring to rights theorists and Monteskje, if we are calling on democratic theorists, such as Monteskje, who spoke of the division of power to legislative, executive and judicial, about the need to control one another, to establish a balance of power, even here we see that it is being violated, because balance in power and control of government is not the isolation of one branch of government from the influence of other branches of government. A much more important idea is Jean Jacques Russo, which is the idea of a national i.e. National sovereignty has led to the fact that in the republican and modern way of organising society people are sovereign, citizens are sovereigns who have to control both legislative and judicial and executive powers. With these changes, the next composition of the Serbian Parliament, if the referendum is voted, will not be able to affect any segment of the judiciary except indirectly, very indirectly, very minimally, and thus will establish what counterparts Vladimir Djukanovic, from the ruling majority, said so. Sudocracy. How corrupt it will be you can ask the Dutch Association of Lawyers who say it's a great source of corruption in the judiciary. Why are we in this situation? Because of the famous policy that it says - the EU has no alternative and respected SNS gentlemen say they do not push that policy, but when you look at the consequences of political decision-making, they are on the line. What is happening in our Parliament because of politics – the EU has no alternative and because of our unwillingness to blame individual EU and Brussels members? That is why we do not have a resolution on the Commission to determine the consequences of NATO bombing, nor what part of the ruling majority MPs from the Socialist Movement are proposing, nor the one Dr Dana Grujic has been seeking for years, in order not to object to them. As a result, we do not have a resolution on the police brutality of European police against the peaceful protesters proposed today by colleagues to most of the ruling majority. That is why it is even terrible that we do not have a voted resolution on genocide carried out by Ustasha in the NDH against Serbs, Roma and Jews because we know that if we vote this resolution, Croatia will cause us problems on the way to the EU. That is why we do not have a response to this Assembly which is the highest authority of Serbia's political sovereignty to the continuing violation of the Dayton Agreement in BiH by European representatives and the only one we have the right to submit an initiative to determine why the Dayton Agreement has changed and thus protect our countries' interests as one of the signatories of the Dayton Agreement's treaty and to protect the interests of Republika Srpska. We do not do this because we run politics – the EU has no alternative. Even if he's from Europe, it's a lot. Thank you, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-23-1.u11782	The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-23-1.u11783	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as far as Europe's concerned, the SAA was signed in 2008, far before this government, far before this government. So, the changes were in 2012. The Democratic Party signed the SAA mostly. It was Bozidar Djelic, but was initialled in 2007 by Vojislav Kostunica. So, this signed agreement was initialled earlier in 2007, and I didn't see any members of the Dvora raise the fuss at Vojislav Kostunica, I didn't see Milan Lompar raise the fuss on Vojislav Kostunica who printed billboards with European stars before that initialling and spoke, she wrote a parola, right, Mr Martinovic - it's doable. Today, those who supported Kostunica, and speak all against the EU, although the agreement is key for accession, initialled Vojislav Kostunica, or his government. It was signed by Djelic and we do not have much to do with the agreement. As far as the judiciary is concerned, I said it would turn into a collection of independent trades. If I were to ask myself, I would choose the basic courts and the primary prosecutors by the municipalities, as it once seemed to me in 1990, and select these more prosecutors and more judges in the National Assembly, and maybe even let prosecutors choose the Government of the Republic of Serbia. But everything has its price. This authority objects to agreeing to everything and everything, also mentions genocide, etc. Today's talk is that we suspect, not only suspect, but we're looking for a resolution on the genocide in NDH. As far as I know among the signatories is the majority of the ruling coalition, which was neither the case during the rule of Vojislav Kostunica, nor during the rule of Boris Tadic. There was simply no such proposal for a resolution. Not to say what kind of declaration was adopted, so far ahead of this government. The time of the crawling apologies remained until 2012. It's history. So no one apologizes anymore to Brother Djury for beating us, but apparently those who were silent when it was being apologized, when it crawled, etc., in Croatia, in Bosnia and Herzegovina, etc., I am not against apologizing for the sacrifices that other peoples suffered, but in return we asked that others apologize to us for not being the case either during Tadic or during Kostunica. Today we talk about how Europe has no alternative for this government alone, it is not good. Europe is all around us. God high, Russia far away, and Europe all around us. We found the state military neutral, so they'll tell us, and I'll argue that that state was actually militaryly neutralized. Now, imagine such a country that apologizes, which has a poorly armed army, as it now has, will have an even better armed army, already had a well-armed army, with melted tanks, crawled, apologized without any sovereignty, etc. Imagine, compare that country and this country, compare a well-armed army with a broken moment and a country that has a squadron. Compare the military neutralized state with the military neutral and Russia far away. The European Union is all around us. Two-thirds of the trade cannot be easily rerouted to other markets if the goods have gone to European markets, so they will describe it with raspberries and apples. Why do we have a neutral state, why won't we impose sanctions on the Russians? Why did Gilas talk about hating Konuzin? Why did Gilas talk that he was fighting against Russia's influence in the DS, that's what Vikilix is saying, right, Mr. Martinovic, this government doesn't do it? He has the best relationship with Russia. He has the best relationship with China. The investments for the first time came here after the change in 2012, until then they were gone. The European Union opposes investments in China in Serbia, but 99% of Chinese investment is in Central and Western Europe, but they fear that Serbia will rise industrially, that it will strengthen even more militaryly and will be a factor of stability and will not serve, nor will they be able to play with it anymore as they played before this government during the former regime. As far as the judiciary is concerned, the judiciary we have found and which we now have is independent of this authority, I guarantee it independently of this authority, but it is not independent of the former government and I guarantee it. So, we should have done this before this, it's my objection to our work, we should have cleaned the judiciary of the party staff of the former regime before this, and made the judiciary independent and independent, or the prosecution independent, and then when it was really independent, then after the referendum, we would have adopted amendments to the Constitution, because then we would truly have young unsullied, partyly that they didn't belong to any of the parties to the judge and prosecutors, and so we wouldn't get STR which I doubt. Because some courts today, which I think are not independent of the former government, are doing everything to harm the ruling coalition. Our people think the government is judging, that we are judging. We make laws, we exercise power. The third branch of government is not ours, and the fourth so-called. The regulatory body and NGO, that's the fourth branch of government, is also against us. We hold only half the government in Serbia. So, executive and legislative. This independent regulatory body, NGOs, NGOs, are basically anti-government. My regret to the prosecutors that they didn't start processing all these road robbers. Article 133. The criminal code says anyone who interferes with freedom of movement, that anyone who prevents freedom of movement will be punished by a prison sentence for up to a year. I won't even talk about violent behavior. Probably some of it went into processing. However, I have no evidence that the prosecution has requested information from the police regarding the prevention of free movement and obstruction of freedom of movement, which is punishable by the Criminal Code, Article 133, and I think the Constitution of Articles 138 and 139. I haven't seen those brave prosecutors, and among them are a lot of former regime members that they've kicked their butt and said, we're going to process this. Valtazar Bogisic, while I'm already dealing with sayings, said - the law is for every law. The law is also the law for us. So we are passing laws and we must ask that these laws be respected by the executive and by the judiciary. The judiciary is not divinely independent, is not independent of the people, nor can it be independent of the law. The judiciary must be dependent on the law to punish the guilty and protect the innocent in accordance with the law. I don't have any evidence of this House breaking, I don't have any evidence that the prosecuted perpetrators who broke the police's legs were throwing concretes at the police, weighing five kilos. Every rock weighs 500 grams for me is an attempted murder of a police officer. Anyone who threw a stone at the police actually had an attempted murder on me. I don't see that members of the former regime, dressed in judge and prosecutor's uniforms, have been sprayed and punished by the guilty who have been here for days and days producing violence. Then when it burned to the nail, when they entered parliament, when that policeman told these United Media celebrities that we were being shot. When they suffered violence for days and days and had to break up the riot in front of the National Assembly, various declarations of condemnation of violence against protesters appeared, etc. You now have a resolution that I also signed on condemning violence against protesters, peaceful protesters in the EU, where water is poured. I think our protesters at Gazela, those who blocked international roads, I think the associations of citizens so-called. NGOs in the West, I think they'd be sharing shampoos with protesters, given that the police in Belgium, Slovenia, Germany and all European cities are going to water. That's why their NGOs probably share shampoos and there's no rebellion of their NGOs, no condemnation of violence. But we, behold, have proposed a resolution or declaration of condemnation of violence against peaceful protesters in the EU. You don't have a penny that broke. I'm up for it, and for those of you who were rolling sticks on that bridge to be processed, no problem. If they've committed some kind of violence, if they've hit someone for the very ugly appearance, to find the crime they've committed, no problem. You can't protect like the Marinika Tepic the man who broke out the other's eye, because, behold, he was driving a construction machine three kilometers an hour and stopped when he saw that he couldn't pass. It's preventing freedom of movement. And that hero of theirs, regardless of beating, was supposed to be punished by a year in prison, so for violent behavior for another five years, because it was done in the group, so that the cumulative punishment was done for six years, I'm asking you if tomorrow someone would block the bridge or any international direction? The ball was at the D.A.'s office. Somebody say that we as the ruling majority have prevented prosecutors from running the process, gathering information, accusing wrongdoers, someone saying that we did it so they wouldn't do it. No, it's not true. Then we have a regrettable why the police didn't come to the meetings. So it's a violation of the judge's misdemeanor, it seems to me, for criminal courts, when someone organizes undeclared public gatherings, it's a violation. I'm asking you, what about United Media? Why someone can pirately deal with television, not registered in Serbia, is fictitiously registered in Luxembourg, here, I also read the Convention on Cross-border Television called on by Solak. It is beautifully written in article 24 bis, that the television programme in one country cannot be intended mainly or entirely for the country of reception, which is the case with all the channels "United Media" School and Gilas, and there are 30. And they're still unauthorized to play commercials and broadcast 200,000 seconds a day. Only two euros, 400,000 euros, times 365 days -- about 150m euros and here are the funds to fund various political apostates who have joined, behold, in one business organisation or one company, you no longer know whether they are a company, whether they are a party. What are the prosecutors doing? We have unregistered party politicians, so-called NGOs, and I say anti-government organizations, we have unregistered. And what are they doing? They take money from abroad and we think now – it's a good foreign exchange income. But hold on a second. They can finance themselves on the outside, but let's just say, they can't be parapolitical organisations or be political NGOs that are essentially political organisations, they're just fictitiously registered alike, they say -- we're a movement. I'm sorry, where is this movement register? Are you a political party or an association of citizens? If you are an association of citizens, then you cannot deal with politics, finance yourself on the outside and go to elections under that same name, like, "We're not strangling Belgrade". They admit that they're getting money, I don't know, from Rockefeller or I don't know who it's from, Sorosha, etc. Political parties cannot, Madam Minister, be financed from the outside. So what kind of parties are these future electoral lists that have admitted to be financed from the outside? The prosecution nothing, the judiciary nothing, we have unregistered parties, unregistered media, unregistered gatherings. That is why Valtazar Bogisic says – the law is for every law. He also says it's the best law to apply. Emperor Dushan by the Law, I say that all the time, he holds the cannon, the law is the law, and he holds the cannon. The cannon is the power to apply the laws. That power is in the courts. The courts need to apply the laws. Prosecutors need to apply the laws. They have to protect the innocent in such a way as to punish the guilty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-23-1.u11784	The word has a folk MP Sanja Jefic Brankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-23-1.u11785	I would like to thank the President, the Honorable Minister with an associate. We are today considering a proposal for a decision on the election to be a public prosecutor. The state council, in accordance with the Constitution and the Law on the Public Prosecutor's Office, has conducted the procedure neatly and has reached a decision on the proposal we are considering today. As a country that has very serious access to its obligations, above all those obligations contained in Chapter 23 relating to the judiciary, we have approached changes in the Constitution, and all with the aim of improving the quality of justice and independence of the judicial system. I welcome the decision of the RIK to carry out an active campaign in the coming period with regard to the approximation of the referendum, i.e. the act on which citizens will plead at the referendum, because I think that only by approaching matter to citizens can we essentially explain why it is important to use their right to come out and make a decision in that day concerning the other and their daily and their obligations, but also their decisions in life. The Act amending the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia changes constitutional provisions on the regulation of courts and public prosecutors, and this may be the last time we have discussed such a decision. When I say that the act contains certain changes, I mean organizational changes that provide both independence and the responsibility of the public prosecutor's office. The public prosecutor's office is being held by top public prosecutor, chief public prosecutors and public prosecutors, and the chief public prosecutors will serve as current public prosecutors, and the deputy public prosecutors will become public prosecutors who serve as public prosecutors along with the chief public prosecutors. The planned change provides for greater independence and responsibility of the public prosecutor, and according to the name of the highest court in the Republic of Serbia, the name of the highest public prosecutor in the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office has also been changed. The chief public prosecutors and public prosecutors are elected by the High Council of the Prosecutors, and, unlike the current constitutional provisions, the main public prosecutor will no longer be proposed by the government or elected by the National Assembly, but the largest public prosecutor in the Republic of Serbia will be elected by the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Prosecutor's Council, following a public competition. The High Council of the Prosecutors is an independent body, according to the said act, of an independent state body that provides and guarantees the independence of the public prosecutor, the Supreme Public Prosecutor, the chief public prosecutors and the public prosecutors, and does so, as we have heard several times today, 11 members, five of whom are public prosecutors elected by the attorney general and public prosecutors and four prominent lawyers elected by the National Assembly, the chief public prosecutor and the minister in charge of the judiciary. In doing so, what is and how important to achieve the independence of the prosecution is that the minister in charge of the judiciary cannot vote in the process of determining the disciplinary responsibility of the public prosecutors and that may be one of the mechanisms implementing absolute independence in their work. The public prosecutor's office has clearly identified its priorities in the work during a previous period, which is a determined fight against crime, an increase in efficiency and prosecution through further more effective application of the prosecutor's investigation, as well as a plea agreement. In addition, I will mention the importance of strengthening international co-operation, including active participation in the European Union accession process, as well as rapid and effective international legal assistance in bilateral relations. However, in order for the public prosecutor's office to be effective, it must carry out its basic principles consistently, as well as those which exist in the work of the public prosecutors through the application of the principle of independence, impartiality, professionality and accountability, and further work is necessary to establish and improve the work of the Ethics Committee's disciplinary bodies and the State Council of Prosecutors' independence Commissioners. Finally, the Public Prosecutor's Office must co-operate with other institutions, i.e. co-ordinate its work with other state bodies, and I think it must invest more effort in the realization of jobs within its competences. As the Social Democratic Party of Serbia, we will support their proposals in the voting day, wish them good luck in their work, and I hope that all these priorities that they have presented as some kind of star to the leader who will be managed in the coming period will indeed be achieved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-23-1.u11786	I would like to thank Parliamentarian Sanja Jefic Brankovic. The word has been made by the People's Ambassador, Plasimir Stević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-23-1.u11787	Dear Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly, honourable Justice Minister, distinguished fellow MPs, should there be a successful referendum on constitutional changes, this will be the last time the National Assembly has elected public prosecutors. Today we have before us a decision on the election of several public prosecutors, from the Basic to the Appealal, and the prosecutor for organised crime. Indisputable, this is a very important session of the National Assembly, which has so far added great importance to the choice of the holders of judicial functions, because the judicial branch of the government essentially protects the constitutional legal order of our society. Otherwise, according to the proposed constitutional amendments that citizens need to confirm in the referendum, the National Assembly will no longer choose the holders of judicial functions, neither the judge nor the prosecutors. Just given the importance of public prosecutorial functions for the right order and protection of legality and constitutionality, I would take advantage of this opportunity to remind myself of the history of public prosecutorial functions in Serbia, which confirms that Serbia has decades of practice in the field of organising a prosecutorial function, which confirms that Serbia is a country with a rich legal tradition. The indictment function first appears in Serbia's legal system in 1865, when it was first defined by the Law on Criminal Procedure. Under this code, the post of prosecution was conducted by police authorities or by a special judge who played the role of the state prosecutor in the court proceedings. Later in the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, in 1929, a special Law on the State Prosecutor's Office, which was appointed as an independent body, separated from the judiciary, was first adopted by a strict hierarchical organisation. After the 1946 War, the Constitution organised the prosecution as a control body that could control law enforcement, apply for the protection of legality, file lawsuits and appeals both during court and administrative proceedings. To mention that the 1974 Constitution made the Public Prosecutor's Office federalised, the Federal and Republic Public Prosecutor's Office was established as an independent state body dealing with the prosecution of criminal and other criminal offences, and could take certain measures and invest legal means to protect constitutionality and legality. I would like to mention the position of the public prosecutor's office established by the 1990 Constitution, which is the first constitution in the renewed multilaterality of Serbia. This constitution strengthens the independence and independence of the public prosecutor's office, specifically saying that the prosecutor cannot be responsible for the opinion expressed in the performance of his office, nor who can influence the prosecution in its constitutional and legal functions. Such a constitutional position has been practically transferred to the 2006 Constitution, with the exception of provisions relating to the way of the elections, this constitution has reduced the responsibilities of the National Assembly with regard to the election of prosecutors, which has largely been transferred to the State's Grand Prosecutors. Well, let's say again, after constitutional changes in the National Assembly, the election of judicial officials is completely taken away. To remind us that according to the current Constitution and the law, the Public Prosecutor's Office is a hierarchically regulated body made up of the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office, four appeals to the Public Prosecutor's Office, 25 senior and 58 basic public prosecutors, as well as two public prosecutors of special jurisdiction: the War Crimes Prosecutor's Office and the Prosecutor's Office for Organized Crime. According to constitutional changes relating to the judiciary, we have spoken almost all year long from the abstract to achieve a basic improvement in efficiency, expertise, and above all legality in work. Further strengthening the independence of the judiciary is our obligation from pre-accession negotiations with the European Union. It is Chapter 23 – The judiciary and the fundamental rights which we have taken the obligation to implement constitutional reform to ensure the reduction of the influence of the executive and legislative authority on judges and prosecutors. When we talk about the independence of the judicial authority, it is important to say that when the judiciary is elected within its system by judges and prosecutors, at the same time there must be even greater responsibility for legal, security, moral, or worthy of public prosecutorial functions. Constitutional changes remove any, even the slightest doubt that other branches of government will affect the work of prosecutors and courts, but this kind of independence does not amnest prosecutors and judges of responsibility for their work, which is of general interest, nor amnesty of responsibility from the influence of other social circles outside the state or powerful individuals, who, through the structures of the judicial authorities, want to achieve their own personal or group interests. Unfortunately, we have witnessed repeatedly the influence of different stakeholders on the course of some prosecutorial and judicial proceedings. This must be made clear to the holders of the judicial functions we choose and who must be better and more professional than others who are not selected. There must be a clear message to the holders of judicial functions that unfortunately will no longer swear before the president of this House, that the only thing they have to stick to is the Constitution and the law, at any cost. Because honor and honesty, resisting corruption and any influences, pressures and blackmails are also the price of dealing with this extremely important business, as are the basic criteria for the continued exercise of judicial functions. The protection of society against all forms of criminal behaviour, the protection of the public order, the sharing of justice and respect for citizens' rights against courts and prosecutors is not possible if each institution of prosecution or judicial functions does not act in accordance with these principles. Let's also remind ourselves that the Public Prosecution Act has been entrusted with the authority of leading the prosecution investigation which is a very important issue for the course of the investigation and finally identifying the perpetrators of the crimes, so that is the starting point of the struggle with the criminal and perpetrators of all other crimes. That's why we're telling the D.A.'s office that the defense is a state of law. In that sense, we want the successful work of the prosecutors we choose today. The SPS parliamentary group will vote in favour of proposals ahead of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-23-1.u11788	I thank the People's Messenger, Zvonimir Stevic. The word has a folk MP, Professor Jahja Fehratovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-23-1.u11789	Thank you, esteemed chairman. Many times we talked about the need for independent work of the prosecution as one of the most important segments of the preservation of public order and peace and the establishment of a justice and justice system in the Republic of Serbia. Unfortunately, we still have parts of prosecutors who are in every way involved in the work of those who do not want well to the Republic of Serbia and are in line with organised crime, with policies that are not well-intentioned to neither citizens nor to the Republic of Serbia. It is something that is also the result of the former government, which has affected the prosecutor's office not being independent. It is due to the fact that prosecutors have seen this public office as a God-given blessing that they can afford the way they think they should be and that no one can stand up to them. Unfortunately, we citizens, and especially from these parts of the state that are not the central part, we feel that for years and decades on our skin. Simply, there are influential people from a criminal mile, from a political mile, from a mile of businesses that have their own private prosecutors, who protect them whenever they commit some crime and say, you can't do anything to us. Here, today's MP, Samir Tandir, has been talking about a peletar who has been poisoning the citizens of New Market for years. For example, we asked the ministry to examine the work of this peletarian, they said they did not have a license to work, and it still works and constantly poisons the citizens of Novi Pazar. Do you know why? Because the owners of the pellets are in financial and partnership relations with a local political party holding power in the city. Do you know why? Because they did one perfidious thing, so they named their owners' initials, and these initials match the ruling party in the Republic of Serbia. Well, then citizens have a double problem. One is the problem of fear of these powerful men, and the other is the abuse of the strongest Serbian party here they think is part of that ballet, and it is not, but it is one marifetteluk. These people who have used their initials, which are consistent with the abbreviations of the largest political party to intimidate citizens, and thus harm both the party and this country, and are using it to gain a profit that is contrary to the laws and which, unfortunately, has kept Novi Pazar on the scale of the most polluted cities in the Republic of Serbia, as well as in Europe for months. This results in the health situation in the worst possible sense. We've got fatalities, we've got everything. The butterflies, thanks to some prosecutors and some other parts of the system that protect their higher interests, are doing it unhindered. When citizens complain, they say – yes, we do, and you can't do anything to us. That's why we need an independent prosecutor's office, which is capable of dealing with crime-making and saying -- you can't do anything to us, because we're tycoons, because we own capital, because we're the ones who have power with some local powers and we can poison you, we can kill you, we can do you harm. That is why we need the prosecution to deal with all these, such abusers of our rights, and to make the system work in such a way that these prosecutors are brave, worthy, worthy of their call, to respond when it comes to the rights of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-23-1.u11790	Thank you. The time foreseen for your parliamentary group has been spent. The word is given to the People's Messenger Vuk Mirčević.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-23-1.u11791	I would like to thank the chairman, the esteemed chairman, the respected minister with a co-worker, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia. We're talking about justice today, and I'm glad we're talking about it, and I'm glad the prosecutors are the subject, because for us as representatives of the SNS, the party that broke down from the people, it's important that we have a strong judiciary and it's important that we work on the development of the judiciary and continue strengthening the institutions. Strengthening institutions that will work for both the people and the people. However, in the previous period, our people have somehow lost confidence in the institutions, lost that trust, and we are now struggling to regain that trust in some way. The results that Serbia is accomplishing today bring together citizens and around our idea, about the idea of SNS and somehow restore faith in our system. Every time we talk about the holders of judicial functions, it's important that we mention what we always say, which is that these carriers must be competent, possess a high level of knowledge and skills, as well as the moral qualities that qualify them. While we are working in absolutely all ways to join all segments strategically and to meet all the challenges, certain groups, which are mostly representatives of the former regime, are trying to bring down President Aleksandar Vukic in every way possible. Since they know that they do not have support in the people, they are doing everything possible, and these are creative ways they say, emotional spills, etc., to bring down President Vukic. They are, in order not to repeat now, they have also broken rooms and not only now in Novi Sad, but they have been doing it backwards for years, breaking down SNS rooms, insulting the president, insulting his family, organising various protests that have been proven to be the subject they say they are, therefore environmental protests and are not very ecological, because here's what these environmental protests look like at the end. Last time I talked about it, I also showed what was left after those protests. Just what they say is that these are environmental protests, they should bear in mind that it is the only and only Alexander Vukic who has shown that Serbia is fighting in the right way for ecology, and all those who are now telling a different story, so that and Đilas, Marinika Tepic and Vuk Jeremic and certain silences, etc., and Tadic, none of them have moved their fingers. To talk again about insulting the president about the threats he's getting, maybe some people will look like we're exaggerating, but I don't think we're exaggerating because it's enough to turn one threat into something more than that and make it something really scary. We've talked about it countless times here, condemning threats to both the president and the family. And what happened? Here's what they're doing again. Now we have the latest threats, where they threaten him with death. Simply, their only policy is hate policy towards President Vukic. That's what I think all citizens of the Republic of Serbia know. Something else doesn't make sense to me. Why does some SNS officials, Alexander Vukic, answer only when they hide behind him and call for his name? Why don't they go to the media for once? Why don't they write at least one statement condemning the threats to Alexander Vukic, in which he will condemn the attacks on the president, on his family? Are they thus courting the media that are directly controlled by Dragan Gilas and Solak? You know, if these people support you, so are the media that are under direct control, etc., then it speaks more of you. What everyone needs to know is that with the current signing of the SNS accession, you, for that part of Serbia, fortunately a small part of Serbia, become citizens of the second order. It's not clear to me how someone can be courted, how they can't even cooperate with such media. We can talk and judge and we have done it, we have done it countless times. But if the prosecutors don't take matters into their own hands and start doing their job and start suing the ones they're supposed to sue, there's nothing going on. Here, I'd like to ask you a question. Are these activities that my colleagues have shown in the photographs that I have shown today and before in the photographs, is that okay? Is it against the law? It is against the law. Is she all right? Imagine now the situation for them to come to power. What would happen if they came to power? For example, we return in 2009, the representatives of the then DS rule, implement a catastrophic reform of the judiciary, which cost the Republic of Serbia 44.7m euros, 850 judges lose their jobs in the day, we return at a time when representatives of the former regime, so the then DS identified the municipal committees of their parties and municipalities. We remember and several times colleagues in the tide talked about it, the Association of Judges of Serbia reported to the daily "Politika" daily, or it sent them evidence showing that the then municipal board of DS Vlasotince had sent a list of judges who were similar to DS, but what was even more amazing at all is that it was certified with two stamps. On the one hand, you had the seal of the municipal board of DS, and on the other hand you had the seal of the Municipality of Vlasotina. We now have representatives of this DS, which we see as identifying both the party and the municipality, and they have now divided into various columns, so they are now uniting, etc. What is important to the people of the Republic of Serbia is that they only remember what the representatives of the former regime were doing. The example is countless and that according to this, they can assume what they would do if they came back to power. The people of the Republic of Serbia should not worry. Although some others are mentally stuck in the period when they were in power, even though they come from themselves, to decide in Serbia today some others, as they decided in the period when they were in power, I can say that this is not the same Serbia, this is not Serbia as it used to be. We are living in Serbia today, which is leading a free policy, which leads an independent policy, which has a clearly defined position on the European integration process. The future of Serbia is not decided by ambassadors, tycoons, or representatives of any foreign organisation, foreign state, but by the people and legitimately elected representatives of the people. So in the Republic of Serbia, people are asking themselves today. When we talk about SNS elections actively and devotedly, it participates in all elections at all levels and we believe that the people, as I have already mentioned, are the ones who need to be asked and make decisions. The will of the people should be shown in the elections. Now again, you have those who understand this will of the people in a slightly different way and then come out with various flat-rate statements. So we had an example of Dragan Gilas who came out with a statement that they now as a united opposition, so, as a united DS that in the previous period separated because they couldn't stand each other, they now have 56% of the votes. My research, like research, may not sound so bad, but what's interesting is that, I think, twice as many votes as he said a few months ago when he was talking about the support he had. Then you have some other research, I'm not going to say that they're more relevant or not, that the SNS, that today's elections, there's 57%, that united opposition has 12% and everyone else below it. It's research. Research is good for us to follow how people think, in which direction they think, to see what we can do better, but the best research is choices. Because when the people go to the polls, when they go to their polling stations, when they look at a paper with proposed candidates, or lists, when they circle and when those votes are counted, when the official results are -- that's only relevant. That's the right thing to do. They're research rights. When we talk about representatives of the former regime, I am convinced that representatives of the former regime absolutely do not know that there were almost elections in Lebanon. In Lebanon there were elections for members of the local community council, and since the SNS is extremely committed to all elections, at all levels, it is important to note that in 32 local communities at 36 polling stations we won absolutely all the mandates. We've won 146 terms, with an exit of over 50%. It means the people support SNS policy. No research, absolutely no research is important, because the only thing that is relevant is the election result and what is ultimately written is, therefore, an official election result. What we have such support and support of the people does not allow us to relax, but rather obliges us to do even more in the coming period, to have plans, to make plans, but also to follow these plans. It's a policy advocated by the SNS. So, work on the ground, working with citizens, that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia know who is fighting for them and that they show us in the only relevant way that they really see it. This strong democratic legitimacy that the SNS has means for us to implement a policy of peace, security and stability. We will continue in the next period to work on achieving our plans, we will continue to strengthen Serbia in all fields, we will continue to work on increasing wages and pensions. When we talk about this, it is important to note that the salary increase in the public sector is planned and that it will be over 7%. An additional increase in pensions starts as early as January 1st and will be 5.5% and one-time assistance to all pensioners of 20,000 dinars. We thus show that our people are important to us, that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia are important to us, that they are our first priority and that we are fighting for them. We, in part, show that we fight for our people. Some laughed about many things, some didn't believe, and these things are now reality. We will also continue to fight and work to strengthen the judiciary, and let the people compare everything that the opposition did while it was in power, so to compare everything that the representatives of the former regime did while they were in power and all that Alexander Vukic and what Alexander Vukic's policy is propagating and all that has been done, the plans that we have and the plans that we are carrying out. Let the people compare the real political programmes that the SNS has and compare, I can say freely, the only political programme that has opposition, which is hatred for Alexander Vukic. I believe that the strong Serbia led by Alexander Vukic's policy is the only guarantee of continued progress and for that reason -- lived Serbia, headed by President Aleksandar Vukic!
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-23-1.u11792	I thank the People's MP, Vuk Mircetic. The word has a folk letter from Ljiljana Malusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-23-1.u11793	Thank you, Chairman. The Honorable Minister with an associate, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, is the judiciary an independent branch of power and indeed most judges and prosecutors do their job with honor and honesty, however, there is that small percentage that does not. One of the judges, I'll only tell him the initials now, we all know who it's about, but later I'll say the name and last name, not like me, but I'll quote what the Association of Judges and Prosecutors says, and now I'm gonna say that I'm surprised that no one from the D.A.'s office has initiated the procedure for violent insults and the threat of death to Mr. President, Alexander Vukic. No one has initiated any procedure, and it's about beating up his brother, it's about constantly harassing the whole family, about his children. It's an unprecedented case. I've never heard in history that anyone talked, disrespected, threatened the children of any president in the world. It's embarrassing. Why is it that a director, probably not getting money for his project, threatens to die and says that Mr. Vukic should end up as the Ceausescu family in Romania ended? You're a disgrace. That man has to answer. Who's he threatening? The president of the country? It's embarrassing. Why is it Wolf's fault? Because he made 400 kilometers of highways? Come on, let's remember how many in 12 years the authorities made highways? Come on, 32km, 34km, and we made 400km of highways in nine years. There are currently 250 km of highways being built. Is that why Mr. Wolf is guilty? Why is he guilty? Because there are thousands of miles to build highways in the projects? Is that why he's threatened with death? Is it because he made 750km of railways, which ends next year will be released into operation, a fast track from Belgrade to Novi Sad, a speed of 220 km? Is that why he did it? Is it because he opened over 260 factories on his own, that he hired over 250,000 people? Is that why he did it? Is that why he's threatened with death? Is it guilty that after 50 years of empty stories about building a subway, the building of a subway started? Is he responsible for the biggest project in this part of the world, "Belgrade on Water", the most beautiful and the biggest promenades in this part of the world? Is that why he did it? Is he guilty of caring about the health of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, so he opened up and made three coves of hospitals? We have five kinds of vaccines, my dears, citizens need to know that. Is it because he bought the cure now, one of the 10 in the statesman's world bought the cure and our President Vukic? Is that why he needs to be killed? Is he guilty of hiring people? So 26% were unemployed in 2012, now it's 10.5%, because we had a crown. Is that why he's guilty? So I could do it by tomorrow, what a man did everything and what he did. Is he guilty of signing "Mini Shengen" and having four types of freedom? Is that why he's guilty? Well, he should be glorified by the stars. Now a little bit about Judge M.M., then I'll quote after what the Association of Judges and Prosecutors says. That M.M. Judge, the infamous judge, M.M. How is it possible that one judge has an NGO? I'd like someone to explain it to me. I think it's a conflict of interest. How is it possible for that judge to release the notorious Gjilan group? Let's remember who the Gnjilan group was - the murderers who killed Serbs, who raped Serbian women, who cut and burned their breasts, that was the group. Now, gentlemen, this M.M. he freed that group. That's the gentleman. That's the gentleman who said about a 13-year-old raped girl that it was a folklore among the Roma. Shame on him! No, it's not folklore. It's a hard work, and it's supposed to go to jail for at least twenty years, as far as I'm concerned. Now, since I have five pages here of what the Association of Judges and Prosecutors says. Of course I'm not going to name it all, but I will. So now I'm going to say the name and last name, because Ljiljana Malusic doesn't say, but says the Association of Judges and Prosecutors. The Association of Judges and Prosecutors of Serbia sent an open letter to the Court of Appeal, Miodrag Majic, in whom he wishes to leave this supreme judge, under the assumption that he represents himself to the public, to draw attention to the problems with his super-egg, the gentleman has a strong super ego, and to leave himself alone, and to this daily emphasis on his impeccable work, you can think of what it looks like when a man praises himself, abandons insults at the expense of his colleagues, other judges. Dear counterpart Majic, the Association of Judges and Prosecutors says, you will allow several thousand holders of the judicial functions of this country to have more thinking people who deal with their work day and day, to solve the problems of citizens in fair and legal court proceedings and, unlike those you know or recognize, do not wait for a moment from the top or on the side to tell them how to judge. Please keep your metaphors and bass characters about rabbits and prides for the literature that you tend to increase and consider that other judges and prosecutors take their job far more seriously than your illustrations. While you write bass, others write judgments. Do not defamation and slander the entire profession for the style figure, because these people have no other income from receiving it from the judge's and the prosecution's salary. They don't have people NGOs, they only work for wages from their own country. With such continued insults by your colleagues and your entire profession, you are destroying the trust of the citizens in the judiciary and in your own very own way you are calling for disrespect of the laws, institutions and rule of law. We address you with a request that you keep your problems with super ego frustrations and an indescribable need for self-promotion between the cover of your current and future books, keep them on theater boards in plays where you play in the endless space of the Internet world in which your character, who you earnestly try to present as the last protector of the fallen judiciary, virtually lives. We haven't forgotten that you were able to guess at the core of the problem, to recognize some deformities of the system, but even then we couldn't, says the Association of Judges and Prosecutors, not to notice one inconsistencies in your supposed revolutionary flight, and in fact only demagogy. You were talking about a system that's ugly, selective to the obedient, kind to followers who are willing to neglect their conscience, and perhaps the law itself to please the mighty. We can say that we agree with you here, too, which we would say - we couldn't even put a comma on you, but we started to be haunted by the question why are you saying it now, just now? Why did you keep your mouth shut in 2009 and 2010, remember when more than 1,000 judges were blown off, so when we came to power, we had to pay the people who had been fired with nothing, except not to be loyal to that government, 44.7 million euros? Any, it didn't happen again. Comrade Majic, the people of the judges and prosecutors have been crossed over with you well-known lists just because they were not alike. In this unfortunate reform, in the highest judicial bodies, whose composition and structure you now want to display as a great, established for the protection of the rights of judges and prosecutors, are in the most flagrant way in violation of the laws, including the Constitution of this country itself. They then separated the wheat from the weeds, which we do not generally oppose and we believe there must be responsibility for work and citizens, but the separation of grain from the weeds cannot be done according to the lists of local party committees, with the handwritten comments of local obedients who know that the judge is the one and the close one with this or that. And so, gentlemen. I'll take off my trip. So that's not what I said, it's the Association of Judges and Prosecutors, and I'm asking the D.A. to react to all the officers who barely stayed alive, to respond to the case where the officer's legs were broken, to respond to cases like this where the president was harassed every day, threatened to die. What we're saying, someone's saying whatever they want, everyone's talking about themselves, but don't touch our kids. Long live Serbia! Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-23-1.u11794	Thank you. The word is from the MP Dr Boban Birmancevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-23-1.u11795	The esteemed chairman, respected minister with associates, respected fellow Serbian citizens, today is very important, above all, for the judiciary, but of course also for Serbian citizens, given that today we will vote on whether certain people will be in the prosecutor's seat and, above all, we are talking about different levels of decision-making, i.e. from the primary to the highest prosecutor's office, and in this case, this decision is even more important. What we expect from these prosecutors, from people who will take on some new functions and who will continue to work one for the state very important and answers the job, we expect everyone to work in the interest of justice, work all in the interests of the citizens and fight in every way to fight that justice. The important thing is that they win that fight. The victory of justice is the victory of the Serbian state and the victory of Serbian citizens. For no reason did people give confidence to this congregation majority and the responsibility of this congregation majority is to vote today or not to vote some proposals, but given that these proposals have been seriously considered, that decisions and proposals have been made at the highest level and that the candidates are who they are, I expect that this congregation majority today support these candidates. I repeat, these candidates, these people, these prosecutors have to fight for justice and they have to win that fight. Any victory, the prosecutor's victory is the victory of justice and the victory of what Serbian citizens essentially want, and that is that whoever dared to do something that is not in accordance with the law, which is not in the interest of the citizens, is simply responsible for it. How much, the court and the judges will decide, but whether or not anyone deserves to be charged against him, these are the people we're going to plead today. To react at any cost when someone is working against the state, the first rule and war against the state is simply to be sanctioned. It is a serious question, and what do all prosecutors who have already been elected, who have been at these functions for years and, in addition to being natural to have something in every grain, I don't think it's natural that some of the works that simply expect to process are kept under wraps, under the question of whether or not it's possible that after so many years we still don't have the answer to the question whether it's 619 million, how much Dragan Gilas has at this point, or how much it's been established to have, and the question is, how much in reality of these millions in Europe and the world, is it once done in accordance with the law or not, is someone going to have the courage or the strength to raise the process, to listen to the man, to take evidence and to say, the respected citizens of Serbia, things are there anyway? Looks like it won't. Maybe these people we vote today will have the courage to make that decision. What is also a huge and big question, people are asking themselves every day until when and when someone will stand in the way of this madness that is ruling in the opposition, which is that anyone who gets up on his left foot in the morning has the right to threaten the president of the state, has the right to threaten his family, has the right to threaten the Prime Minister, ministers, the assembly, anyone, simply not even to be invited to an informative conversation, i.e. the prosecutor or prosecutors, that is, to threaten the security of all Serbian citizens. What else do these people have to do to earn the prosecution process, that is, to raise prosecution tasks and raise prosecutorial questions to do something about it? It's just amazing that someone's threatening to die. Here's the latest death threats to the president. What else does that man have to do? Look, if the D.A.'s in the process, maybe that man isn't aware of what he's doing, maybe it's medical reasons, maybe it's a matter for Minister Loncar, but it's up to the D.A.'s office to decide. There's an old folk -- if it's not for the courtroom, maybe it's for that other facility. Indeed, let the prosecutors decide, so when the prosecutor says: "People, this is not for the courtroom, the man doesn't know what he's doing, let's turn to Minister Loncar, and ask, that they may be a health issue, maybe we should treat the man on the other hand, not the justice, but the health care." Please, just protect justice. What kind of justice is it that anyone who comes to mind will be threatened with death, among other things, by hanging the chairman of the SNS Executive Board? Why are they threatening to hang him? Only because he is president of the executive board and only because he is president of the executive committee of the party that has absolute support for the citizens of Serbia. Someone may not even know who Darko Glisic is, where Darko Glisic comes from, but he heard a threat from those in downtown Belgrade. They didn't exactly say which location, which position. Question for these people - do they know who Darko Glisic is? Among other things, if they want to know who Darko Glisic is, they better go to Ub and ask Ub citizens who Darko Glisic is or ask SNS members who Darko Glisic is or who he is. Who gives the President of the Executive Board the right, among other things, to the President of Ub Municipality, to be threatened by hanging. If someone was in Ubba 10 years ago, and left now, they'll probably think he was wrong about the city again. It's not the same Ub. It's not the same community. Citizens are the same, and, thank God, there are even more of them, but the way Darko Glisic works in both the Ub municipality and the Executive Board clearly shows that he is doing well, given that they call him to his name and threaten to hang him, that they are trying to challenge his legitimacy and quality. Of course, they have no basis for each other, but the question is, as long as anyone doesn't know what, who doesn't know how to draw attention to themselves is doing this exactly to the president of Serbia, his family, the president of the government, the chairman of the SNS Executive Board. I think there is one big problem, which is that prosecutors must understand the political moment in which Serbia is. It is a moment in which those who lead Serbia, and lead it in the best possible way, do not respond to one smaller group, under the allegations... People are called the opposition, and I don't think they're even the opposition, because in order for someone to be an opposition, they have to do anything in the interests of Serbian citizens, and they don't. What remains behind Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic, Boris Tadic, the entire yellow company, as we popularly call it, but everyone knows who it is, that I don't skip someone in the list, when you look back at the results, what's left of them from capital investments for the state of Serbia and for the citizens of Serbia, is left when everything is collected and taken away is about nothing. One big nothing for the citizens of Serbia, but one big full and full pockets for Vuk Jeremic, Dragan Gilas and the whole thief team. I'm taking the opportunity, I was in Vranj last week, so I went on a new highway and not only to Vranj, I was driving along Milos the Great and I was driving other highways, and I'm calling Dragan Gilas, Vuk Jeremic, Marinik Tepic, I think there's going to be a place, it's a big car, I'm going to drive them myself... I'm sure they don't even know what Alexander Wolf did. I'll drive them myself, it's enough to go to Vranj, and see what that highway looks like and drive back across Milosh the Great, to come back, and it'll all be clear to them. I think that when they fly planes to Mauritius and these island countries to tour their millions, they probably don't see these highways, they don't get to see because the plane leaves Belgrade and they can't see what Alexander Vukic has done, what the state of Serbia has done for nine years. Maybe they don't see these hospitals, or the clinics in Nis, New Sad, the hospital cove. They don't even see a fast traffic station from Novi Sad to Belgrade. It's probably that, and since they keep having sandwiches in their heads that eat people who go somewhere, who travel to support their 13th birthday, say, SNS, I promise them free rides and free sandwiches. They'll get transportation and sandwiches to show them these highways. We have to travel for a few days, because 400 kilometers of highways have been done. When they see it, they may realize that they are wrong and will have to turn to Lonchar for help, because the help of the citizens will not come to them, given what they have done for these citizens. Not that there's nothing left, there's twice as much left behind. There's absolutely nothing from false promises, fake fighters for democracy. Green Serbia has now caught up with false fighters for green Serbia. If someone thinks that people in Loznica, Gornji Nedeljice and the surrounding western Serbia, where lithium exists, will be helped by Viola von Kramon, Nebojsa Zelenovic and the team, they will not be safe. Speaking of Nebojsa Zelenovic, which is indeed a matter for the prosecution, I beg you, I pray, that never again, and no one who spent fivem euros from the Serbian citizens' budget, and among other things because of a failure in the prosecution and in the entire judiciary, instead of ending where criminals end up, his verdict does not become legal because there has been an obsolescence. I ask you, as God, not to go out of date where man must be guilty and where someone must have taken money from the citizens of Serbia, however you know and know it. If necessary, pray, uphold laws, the congregation will consider extending the deadlines, but whoever steals for it must answer. Don't let such thieves get away with it, and then someone who in his West Serbian programme has two sentences about green Serbia until last year until he lost his election, and then suddenly the same party, together for Serbia, declared the Green Party and its logo, which was red and blue, green and now became a great fighter for green Serbia. Serbian citizens know that they will not be helped and the citizens of Serbia know who is who, and that is what is important. They know that behind Alexander Vukic there are results and they know that we have a future with Alexander Vukic for this beautiful state of Serbia and what is most important for our children. Please, you are the minister of justice, to help the prosecutors achieve justice and reach it as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-23-1.u11796	The word has a national MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-23-1.u11797	Thank you. The esteemed chairman, a respected minister with co-worker, fellow MPs and MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, stands before us today a proposal to elect public prosecutors in a large number of cities of the Republic of Serbia, both in the basic and higher, the appeal, as well as a proposal to elect prosecutors for organised crime. I must point out that the SNS, coming to power, in fact taking over the exercise of power in 2012, pointed out that one of its main priorities is the fight against organised crime and corruption. Why fight organized crime and corruption? Because organized crime and corruption have povertyed all citizens of the Republic of Serbia and because fighting organised crime and corruption is in fact cutting down one of the worst kinds of cancers that can affect one society. Corruption and crime by 2012, when the yellow tycoon company led by Dragan Dilas, Boris Tadic, Vuk Jeremic, Borko Stefanovic, was in fact limited in crime and corruption. That is not what we say, said EU representatives, marking Serbia as a "black spot" of crime and corruption. The late Verica Barac, who pointed out that crime and corruption not only exists in the executive government, but also that the executive government is doing nothing to reduce crime and corruption, but rather the executive authority of the tycoon Dragan Djilas, Boris Tadic, Vuk Jeremic, makes everything seem like the wind in the back encourages crime and corruption. At the time of their government laws have not been passed according to the needs of citizens. At the time of the authorities of the yellow tycoons, the laws were passed to the extent and need of their own, as well as their partners, the largest tycoons in the Republic of Serbia. Apart from the fact that the SNS, as one of the priorities, has led to the fight against crime and corruption, I must point out that the President of the Republic, Alexander Vukic, is in the plans set out to implement the government's policy in this period, one of six principles in fact to fight the mafia and crime. The first statesman who actually gave a boost and gave priority to the competent institutions to fight the mafia and crime is Aleksandar Vukic. I must point out that the arrest of one of the most notorious criminal groups in the Republic of Serbia has begun, which is the Belivoka criminal group, and has begun a decisive fight against the mafia. Of course, I would like to point out here that public prosecutors, within their jurisdiction, are pursuing all those who commit criminal acts and other criminal acts, but of course they also care about the protection of constitutionality and legality. I therefore call on all competent institutions, and there are certainly prosecutors among them, to examine how and how tycoon Dragan Gilas acquired 619m euros at the time of the government's exercise and how in 17 of his accounts in 53 different countries and in various tax havens his money. Where did that money come from? In what way was he acquired? This must be investigated by the investigative authorities, because ultimately, the citizens of the Republic of Serbia deserve it. It's abnormal for someone at the time of their government to get rich for that kind of money. We also call on all competent authorities to examine how it is possible for tycoon Dragan Gilas to acquire 35 properties, which are not measured in square meters, but in hectares. We also call on all competent state authorities to address the threats posed to Alexander Vukic, the president of our country, and these are the threats by firing, not being taken lightly, but by the competent state authorities to examine these threats. You know, drawing a target on the head and on the chest of the president, the state of Alexander Vukic, pointed a bayonet at President Alexander Vukic's chest, it's not just a bayonet pointed at Alexander Vukic, it's actually a shot in the state of Serbia. It's actually a kind of naked anti-constitutional action, it's actually terrorism. I must point out that Aleksandar Vukic is the president of the Republic of Serbia, who was elected only in the direct elections and voted by the vast majority of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I also urge all competent authorities to examine any threats posed to the family of Alexander Vukic, especially his children, as well as his youngest child who is underage and who is three or four years old. The children of Alexander Vukic are children of the Republic of Serbia, children of Alexander Vukic should enjoy all rights as all other children in the Republic of Serbia, and therefore the competent authorities cannot remain silent in front of the fact, because these are daily threats posed to the complete family of Aleksandar Vukic. Also, I call on the competent state authorities to examine, over 1,883 times, the President of the Republic, Aleksandar Vukic, was tapped to investigate the case. For SNS there are no protected, they are all equal under the law, so the law must be the same for all. It is before the public prosecutors that responsible, safe, independent, dignified, for the greatest knowledge and skill do their job, and that on them, the Supreme Court for them is, in fact, the Constitution and the law and strict application of the Constitution and the law. Also, I call on citizens of the Republic of Serbia when it comes to the Act amending the Constitution, not to be fooled because the yellow tycoon company, headed by Gilas and his friends, is trying to turn the topic of constitutional change on something else. What the citizens of the Republic of Serbia need to know is that a referendum is scheduled on 16 January, and the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia only changes the provisions concerning the judiciary and the prosecution, which means that the judiciary and the prosecution will be independent and independent, which means that citizens will have faster and more accessible access to justice. This will mean that both judges and prosecutors are more responsible in their actions. This will mean that Serbia will become an even better legal state, that it will attract both domestic and foreign investments. This will mean better living standards for citizens of the Republic of Serbia, higher salaries and higher pensions. It's the only change in the Constitution, there are no other changes in the Constitution. We also call on citizens to vote in favour of peace, stability, life policy and cradle policy, which is owned by Aleksandar Vukic on 3 April when parliamentary elections are held. The policy has no alternative for the future and for Serbia's sake. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-23-1.u11798	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a single search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? If not, pursuant to Article 98(4). Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude a single search into the motion for a decision. According to Article 87(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, set Thursday, December 23rd, 2021, starting at 18.05pm, as the Day of Vote on the 15th session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2021. I stress that voting day for the 14th session will be at 1800 hours. Now, in accordance with Article 87. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I set a break of one hour. With the work we continue at 15.00 hours with discussion in details of the 14th session.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-23-1.u11799	Dear People's MPs, we are now turning to a decision on the single agenda of the 15th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2021. The first item of the agenda – Proposal for a decision on the election of the Public Prosecutors after the National Assembly carried out a single search and before moving to a decision, I remind you that, according to Article 105 paragraph 2. The constitution of Serbia, the National Assembly, elects public prosecutors by majority of the votes of all MPs. I am putting the motion for a decision on the election of public prosecutors, in general. Please press the corresponding key. I am stopping the vote: a total of 172 for – 169 did not vote – three. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by a majority of the votes of all MPs. Allow me to congratulate on behalf of the MPs and on my behalf the elected functionholders of the election and wish them much success in their work. Before the session is concluded, let me just inform you that I called the 16th session of the Second Regular Session for Tuesday, December 28th, starting at 10.00 hours with eight agenda points and the 9th special session of the National Assembly for Wednesday, December 29th, at 10.00 hours with several agenda points, and these are reports of the work of independent regulatory bodies. I remind you once again that the regular session lasts until December 29th at midnight. Since the National Assembly has carried out an examination of the single agenda item of this session and its decision on it, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the 15th session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly in 2021. Thank you.
