ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-02-0.u3499	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the First Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2021. Please let us first listen and welcome the Anthem of the Republic of Serbia. Intonation of the anthem. ) Based on official records of the presence of MPs, I find that 120 MPs attend the session. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the adoption of the minutes and the establishment of the agenda exists if a majority of the total number of MPs are present at the sitting. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the MPs' units. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 182 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? National MP Misala Pramenkovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-02-0.u3500	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my question is addressed to the Ministry of Health, and it concerns the need for reconstruction of the Office for Primary Health Care of Women at the House of Health of Novi Pazar. In fact, in this women's dispensary, several tens of thousands of views are carried out annually. Thus, in 2019, the number was 44,910 services, and in 2020 the number of services was slightly smaller due to the pandemic, rather than 39,527 services. However, the conditions in which medical examinations of this part of the home health work are carried out are very poor. The spacious capacity is very low, so services are provided in two separate parts of the home health building. The female dispenser is located on the third floor, but the ultrasound and CTG apparatus are located in the second part of the building. That's how it's gonna work, for example. A pregnant woman in the ninth month of pregnancy climbs up to the third floor to check out the stairs, because there's no elevator, and then she'll come down again to do a CTG checkup, and then she'll go back to the third floor to deliver her report to the doctor. My question is – when will this part of the home of health be reconstructed to provide better conditions for staff, but also for patients? In fact, several years ago the funds were also provided through the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. However, the dispenser for women was then given some equipment, but the planned reconstruction was abandoned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-02-0.u3501	Thank you. The word is given by MP Branimir Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-02-0.u3502	The esteemed chairman, colleagues and colleagues, on February 27th in the work of the Ibar highway near Kraljev took place in the same place as another in a series of car accidents, and at that time one person lost his life, and two people were injured. I don't want to judge the causes of this car accident, or the ones that happened before it, but I want to point out that there was a roundabout done at this end of the highway last year without public lighting being done in this place. This is when I refer to the question of JP "The Ways of Serbia" – when will public lighting be completed in this place, at a circular intersection at the Leoni factory in the King? And I urge this job to be done as soon as possible. I'm not the first person to point out this problem. I would like to remind you that on behalf of the local self-government, the mayor of the Kingdom sent a letter last December to the JP "Serb Roads" to complete the public lighting in this place as soon as possible. This letter states that because of the absence of lighting, this circular intersection is insecure and that frequent traffic accidents in this place where drivers and pedestrians who do not know enough this part of the road are involved. It is therefore important to make public lighting as soon as possible in this place, given the high traffic frequency and this will certainly improve the safety of all traffic participants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-02-0.u3503	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Vojislav Vujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-02-0.u3504	Thank you, Your Honor. My fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, you know, given that we're coalition partners, that we from J.S. are in daily contact with citizens, and I wouldn't want anyone in this room to get this wrong. The fact is that I come from a tourist resort, from Vrnjačka Banja, a place where many people live and work from tourism. A large number of cafes and restaurants, not only in our municipality, but in all municipalities and in the towns of Serbia, respects the measures prescribed by the Crisis Headquarters. I'm in a situation where when my fellow citizens meet me on the street, very often I get the next question from them. That's why I'm asking you to answer this question as president of the National Assembly. That's the answer I'm asking of all of us MPs who are present here today in this room. If everyone else is destined to respect the crisis measures and if everyone is aware of the situation where, as the figures show, our country is located, then it is our turn as MPs as an example to show that these measures have their weight. If it is appealed that the number of people in one place should be reduced in the coming days, perhaps this room with 250 of us, and along with all people working in congregation services over a few hundred people, then I ask you to set an example and show the citizens of Serbia that we will be the first to adhere to these measures. It doesn't mean that we avoid work, that we avoid work. You have in your record, when it comes to MPs of the JS Group, that in 99% of the cases we are present, that we are always taking part in the work. Of course, in this assembly, attendance is evident when all other colleagues are involved. There used to be 30 colleagues in this congregation at certain times. In this conference, we can all notice, and the citizens notice, the largest number of MPs have taken part in the work and we are almost in full composition here. So my question is -- do you think it's appropriate for us to interrupt the session, not work, and we have conditions to do things differently, but a meeting and gathering in a closed room? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-02-0.u3505	First, let me say one thing, since you referred me a question, the National Assembly is not a voluntary fire company or a singing society. It is the Supreme Legislative and Representative Body in the Republic of Serbia. Do you think we shouldn't be working on conditions when it's necessary? I absolutely reject this proposal of yours. No matter what we're from the same coalition, I think the proposal is absolutely irresponsible and populist, and I say that to all the MPs. We are here to work, to work in the interests of the people and the state, and I will schedule sessions as long as there are conditions. Even when everyone else can't, we have to because we're chosen by the people. That's what I was commenting on, because you asked me a question. Let's move on. The word has the People's Messenger Elvira Kovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-02-0.u3506	Thank you. The Honorable President, the Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SVM parliamentary group is asking for a notice from the Minister for Family Care and Demography Mr Ratko Dimitrovic on the preparation of the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on Financial Support for the Family with Children, and in line with the decisions of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia on the assessment of constitutionality and legality of certain provisions of the Law on Financial Support for the Family with Children. Namely, with the last amendments to the Financial Support Act for the family with children, I will remind you, which was adopted in 2018 and applied from 1 July 2018, mothers, or maternity families have been discriminated on a number of grounds. First, the establishment of a monthly basis for profit compensation, i.e. salary compensation during maternity leave and leave due to child care, since the law stipulates that the maximum, maximum amount, means that the basis cannot exceed three average salaries in the Republic of Serbia according to the last published data of the Republic of Serbia's statistical authority on the day of submission of the claim, which is contrary to the Law on Contribution with Mandatory Social Insurance. Second, insurance companies, women farmers are compensated on the basis of the birth and care of children in a different way and under other conditions. Namely, a difference has been made when determining the person entitled to compensation, it is predicted that compensation can be made when a woman pays insurance as soon as possible, means at least 18 months or a year and a half before the birth of a child. So, she made revenue, she paid actual contributions, when she made incomes based on employment, on self-employedness, on work contracts, on temporary and occasional contracts. While the women of the insurance companies, as a condition for obtaining compensation, are predicted to have been secured on that basis for six months longer than or 24 months, for a minimum of two years. On the occasion of an extremely large number of complaints, the Commissioner himself or the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality on 19 September 2018 submitted a proposal to the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia for the assessment of the constitutionality and legality of individual members of the Law on Financial Support for the Family with Children. On the occasion of the proposal for an assessment of the constitutionality and legality of this proposal, the Constitutional Court made two decisions at the end of last year, more specifically on 3 and 17 December 2020, which found that the provisions concerning the mothers of the insurance companies were not in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the Constitutional Court has therefore proposed the publication of a decision in the Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia for six months. Since the start of the application of this law, as I mentioned, it has been on July 1st 2018, several times, at that time, the minister with no portfolio, for demographics and population policy, Mrs Slavica Djukic Dejanovic and the minister of labour, martial arts and social affairs stressed that these injustices would be corrected in time. But until today, almost three years later or two and a half years later, changes and additions to these laws have not been passed. A large number of mothers and families are still damaged on the basis of the conditions for reaching the amount of the salary, and we believe that, in accordance with the Constitutional Court's decision, these changes should be made as soon as possible and complemented. The government of the Republic of Serbia's obligation is to comply with the constitutional court's decisions during this period. When we look at the government's 2021 work plan, these amendments and additions are scheduled to be adopted in March 2021, given that today is March 2, we appeal to the Minister for Family Care and Demography to prepare the draft as soon as possible, and then to adopt the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Financial Support for the Family with Children, and in accordance with the decisions of the Constitutional Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-02-0.u3507	Thank you. The People's Messenger, George Milicevic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-02-0.u3508	Thank you, Your Honor. The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my first question, Mr. President, is addressed to you. We've talked about it today at the College, but I think it's important that you answer this question here in the tide, primarily for the sake of the public, that, you know, we don't come up with comments from a part of the quasi of the opposition that nothing is done or is working on it. Since during yesterday's day, in some way and formally you started the second phase of inter-party dialogue by talking to the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Policy, David McCallister, the question is: what is concrete and is there a concrete result and some sort of agreement to continue the inter-party dialogue? The second question is also very important. Namely, you have introduced something that is a practice and will be a practice in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the coming period. We at the SPS consider it very good, which is that during a period when there is no meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, it is being held outside parliament's seat, so outside Belgrade. To my personal satisfaction, the first session was in Valjevo, in my hometown and I want to thank you and the leadership of the Assembly and all colleagues and colleagues who attended the College. I think it's very important for a simple reason because that's how we create a partnership relationship between the legislative authority and the authorities of local self-government. Exactly the question I'm going to ask is the result of that conversation we had with the mayor and with the presidents of the municipalities. Therefore, the Law on compensation for the use of public goods has arranged which compensation is the revenue of the Republic, which is the local budget, as well as the distribution of revenue of compensation between the Republic and the locals in the event that income is common. The same law defines water compensation as a member of Article 74 as compensation for the use of water, river application, disposal, use of water facilities and systems, as well as water drop charges. Article 98 of the Law defines the revenue generated from the water compensation as belonging to the budget of the Republic of Serbia and the revenue generated in the AP territory belongs to the AP budget. However, there is a huge depreciation of infrastructure, such as waste of local roads, which has often to be removed from the budget of local self-government units. As an example, I refer to the municipality of Mionica, because it was, among other things, a question of the president of the municipality of Minica, whose territory contains three water bottled factories, which annually bottled over 200 million litres of water, which brings about 240 million dinars of income to the republic. On the other hand, as a result of the heavy transport of cargo trucks for the needs of the Mininica municipality factories, it had to reschedul roads that passed the factory just a few years after they were built. A specific question for the Minister of Construction, Transport and Infrastructure – whether amendments to Article 98 are being considered in order to address this problem, which is not only the problem of Mionica. The law on compensation for the use of public goods so that part of the revenue from the collection of water charges belongs to the budgets of units of local self-government whose territories are exploited by water? Prior to amending the law, further analyses are also needed to assess the costs of local self-government units in connection with the exploitation of water with the aim of proposing the correct distribution of charged revenue. In addition, it should be considered that the revenues that units of local self-government receive in this way should be intended for the construction or necessary recovery of infrastructure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-02-0.u3509	Thank you. Since you asked me about the inter-party dialogue, I want to take advantage of the opportunity now to invite all political parties and parliamentary groups to prepare to continue the inter-party dialogue, to bring out their platforms, to determine their representatives. Once again, I would like to tell them that this dialogue is being conducted under the auspices of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and it has been supported, not led by the European Parliament. It is therefore very important that there is an objective approach and that any representative or mediator by the European Parliament does not express his political favor to any political option, as was the case in the previous period. This was just the first activity. Now it is some preparatory phase that will take some time, and you will all be informed of the moment when this first session will be held in plenary, that is, when all political parties are invited. Let's move on. The People's Messenger, Nebojsa Bakarec, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-02-0.u3510	Dear Chairman, honourable MPs, honourable citizens, I request a notice from the MUP and the BIA on the plot against President Vukic. Events that followed the arrest of the Belivuk mafia clan, but some earlier show that there are a number of related events leading only once -- there is a conspiracy against President Vukic. The plot aims to protect the endangered interests of individual opposition leaders, representatives of the former regime and individuals from the ruling structures. The first have an interest in protecting the wealth they illegally acquired until, roughly, in 2012 and returning violently to power again, while others aim to protect the newly acquired wealth and to retain the privileges of power and power. Both groups see as a major obstacle to achieving their dark goals in Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic. As a result, since 2018, an attempt to violently change power and prepare President Vukic's liquidation has been present. If anyone suspects that my claims are exaggerated, just remember the murder of Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic and the attempted murder of Aleksandr Vukic in Srebrenica. You remember I've already asked questions about the political background of the assassination of Alexander Vukic. There's something called conspiracy chronology. I'll remind you briefly. We remember the weapons of 2016 found in Jajinci, the target of Vukic in the jilas media, the threat of the murder of President Vukic and members of his family, the testimony of Chaba Der, the two-year listening to Alexander Vukic, the Belivuk sniper rifles. We remember the links between the Belivuk clans, Dijana Hrkalović, Dejana Milenković, Aleksandra Kajmaković, Elez Milocic, Kokez Stepanovic, Vladimir Vuletić, Saša Vukadinović and Dragan Djilas. Polygraph rejections, facial amnesia calling SBPOK. I repeat to an esteemed colleague, Vladimir Djukanovic: "The wolf has given you everything in life. If it wasn't for you, no one would have heard of you alive. You paid him back by making him a silk gaitan, sorry, sniper," finished the quote. I will recall the words of the esteemed SNS Vice President Milos Vučević, there is one click that estabilizes itself through the executive power and is probably taking over part of the control of the state system: "I think it went to the point of preparing the physical liquidation of certain people. This is not about 700,000 members of the SNS, but from 10 to 15 people who received power. Apparently, they have little authority, they want to be presidents now, prime ministers," the end of the quote. What is it other than plotting, the meeting of former BIA chief Sasa Vukadinovic in Trieste with tycoon Dragan Djilas and his political director Vuk Vukarevic and Jadranka Drinic, what is it? What the former BIA chief did was highly unprofessional and inadmissible in professional intelligence relations. Otherwise, imagine that the former head of the FSB is meeting with Navalna. You know how it's handled in Russia, well, it's handled in Russia by being gone, because it's not done. So Djukanovic and Vucevic described and touched one wing of the Belivuk mafia clan, I am now talking about Trieste, describing the top of the other mafia, the political wing of the Belivuk clan. Finally, it's a classic plot story, a grampistical story, about how some people in the former regime, but, God forbid, a certain number of them from the current government have succumbed to the influence of grampism and desire and power for powers that are not normal. This reminds me of “the Lord of the Rings” and that famous Tolkin’s song “Three rings for the fingers of the king’s fairy species” - Under the heavens that shine, seven for the rulers of the dwarfs in their court, nine for the mortal men who die at the end, one for the dark lord on his throne dark in the land of Mordor where the shadows last. One ring to all masters, one to reach for all, one ring to gather all together in the darkness fresh. In the land of Mordor where the shadows last, we will not allow Sauron Gilas to turn Serbia into Mordor. We're going to beat the mob, we're going to defend Wolf and Serbia. Long live Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-02-0.u3511	Thank you. Since no one from the president, or from the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, is answering for a word, we continue to work. I would like to inform you that he was prevented from attending the session of MP Milan Urosevic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you have been delivered the minutes of the session of the Second Extraordinary Session of the Republic of Serbia Assembly in the 12th Assembly. As most of the people's number of MPs attend today's session, I find that there is a quorum for the adoption of the minutes from that session. We're moving on to a decision. I am voting on the minutes of the second extraordinary session of the National Assembly in the 12th Assembly, held on 9th, 10th and 11th February. Please press the corresponding key. I am stopping the vote: A total of 194, for – 173, was not voted by the 21st MP. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the minutes of the Second Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly in the 12th Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, with the call of this session that has been delivered to you, there is a proposal for the agenda of the session. Before the sitting agenda is established, pursuant to Article 92(2) and Article 93. The Rules of Procedure need the National Assembly to decide on proposals to supplement the agenda. People's MP Bojan Bagic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure, he proposed that the session agenda be complemented by the draft law amending the Law on Judges, which was submitted to the National Assembly by MPs Djordje Komlenski, Marijan Risticevic, Ana Karadzic and Bojan Torbica on 16 November 2020. People's MP Bojan Bagica, come in, three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-02-0.u3512	Thank you. Comrades and comrades, ladies and gentlemen, fellow Members of Parliament cannot, at first, welcome the announcement by the Minister of Justice that in order to improve the material position and working conditions from income-supervised and achieved by the payment of court fees, employees of the lower-income judiciary will receive monthly assistance of 5,500 dinars. This is truly extremely commendable, but within the judicial system, there has been injustice for more than 11 years in connection with the profits of judges of criminal courts. Since 1 January 2010, infringement courts have started in the Republic of Serbia. Since the first day of the existence of criminal courts, these courts have suffered discrimination in such a way that they are normably placed in a subordinate position for no other reason than their colleagues who are judges of other courts and the same degree of jurisdiction. The variety of cases and the number of regulations to be applied cannot be compared to any other matter in other courts, which gives them special weight. Since they use more than 270 laws and about 800 regulations in their work, they require special skills and knowledge from judges in criminal courts. The fact that in the matter of expertise and the ability to perform the judicial function that they choose to fulfil, they are identical to the conditions that other judges have to fulfil, which tells us that we give judges the status of judges with all obligations, but not with all rights. Except for the earnings of the criminal judges, all other categories of persons employed in criminal courts have the same method of calculating earnings with their colleagues working in other courts. The law on judges is otherwise prescribed that the judge has the right to pay in accordance with the dignity of the judge's office and his responsibility, and in particular I point to a member of the law which states that the salary of the judge means guaranteeing his independence and the safety of his family. Besides this, it's absurd that judges have fewer salaries, not only of other judges, but also of judicial assistants in other courts, and I think we all agree that there should be no such kind of discrimination in the judiciary. The judges of the criminal courts are indeed not a burden of this budget, and unlike some others, they have tripled their wages. That is why we have submitted this motion to amend the law, in order to fulfill once and for all a decade's injustice against judges in criminal courts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-02-0.u3513	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I ask Members to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I am stopping the vote: a total of 195, for – five, did not vote 190 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal by majority vote. National MP Gjorge Komlenski, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure, he proposed that the session agenda be complemented by the draft law amending the Law on Implementation and Security, which was submitted to the National Assembly by MPs Djordje Komlenski, Marijan Risticevic, Ana Karadzic and Bojan Torbica on 16 November 2020. Does Ambassador Komlensky want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-02-0.u3514	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrades and comrades, ladies and gentlemen, in 2017, when the law on amendments and additions to the law on enforcement and security, we pointed to the fact that by changing the possibility of confiscation of money in order to settle court decisions concerning child support limited to half of the income, it can be a serious problem in the future time period. That's just what happened. At that time, we proposed that when it comes to upholding judgments, it remains as it was resolved in earlier regulations, which is that it can be seized up to two-thirds of the earnings of one who is obliged to pay. Of course, it wasn't just demagogue reasons for our position, but practice has shown that we are absolutely right and what I have knowledge, of course, the Ministry has the possibility of making it much more serious, more thorough and easier to verify, is the fact that there is just a suffocation in the execution of an emergency payment on behalf of the maintenance of underage children. Namely, since the length of the proceedings, the accumulation of these costs, as well as the fact that for the maintenance of two or more children, the court may impose up to 50% of the obligation of the maintenance payer, the payer, we come into the situation that interest is now slowly accumulated, the costs of the proceedings and there is simply nothing to implement. Neither was nor was there any reasonable reason for such a change at that time, which was made and the submission of this legislative proposal was aimed at protecting the most vulnerable category of the population in Serbia, which is supported persons. The stories we've been listening to, and the comments that we sometimes hear today, that whoever gives support should also live on something, that there's another family, that these are the reasons why forced collection is limited to half the fee, they simply don't stand. We thus question that those children who have lost their daily presence of another parent cannot at least make their own material claims and what is necessary for them to live through this kind of forced collection realizes and realizes. For this reason, I call on the MPs to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-02-0.u3515	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please press the corresponding key. I am stopping the vote: a total of 195 votes, for – 13, did not vote – 182. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this proposal with the majority of votes. National MP Gjorge Komlenski, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure, he suggested that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the Commission to investigate and determine the number of victims of NATO aggression in 1999, submitted to the National Assembly by MPs Djordja Komlenski, Marijan Risticevic, Ana Karadzic and Bojan Torbica, on 16 November 2020. People's MP George Komlensky has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-02-0.u3516	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrades and comrades, ladies and gentlemen, will soon be 21 years after NATO's pact viciously and insidiously attacked Serbia. We don't even know today the exact number of victims of this criminal and criminal aggression. So, those direct victims, which came as a result of the war. What history has shown us so far is the fact that Serbian victims are in every way from World War I, World War II, belittled, reduced in every way possible. After all, we have been witnesses these days, during this play and campaign against the film "Dara from Jasenovac". If someone in the previous period missed or could or could not understand the importance of establishing and verifying the exact number of victims, then we must not allow ourselves to do so today. It is precisely the proposal that the Assembly will determine the commission as some body that no one can or can doubt, and that the analysis would be complete, the task of the commission is to determine the exact number of all killed and wounded members of the Yugoslav Army, members of the Serbian Interior Ministry, civilians on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, both in the territory of the Republic of Serbia or outside the territory of the Republic of Serbia, if they had the citizenship of the Republic of Serbia at that time. The Commission is due to determine the names, last names, all victims of NATO aggression in 1999, date, place of birth, place of residence, status of the person at the moment of the event, whether he is a member of the military, police or civilian, place and time of the harmful event and place and the time of the NATO bombing. I think it's a great lesson for us to learn what's happening to us today, but it's also a great lesson for us to do so, as well as a list of the victims of the Defense-Otter War that the Republic Center for War, War Crimes Research and Missing Persons in Republika Srpska have already done. Dear colleagues, it is irrelevant whether the commission will do so, it is easy to withdraw from this proposal, the Republic of Serbia is obliged to repay in this way all those who died or injured during NATO bombing, and we will leave the generations in an amanet absolutely pure figure, so that no one can manipulate it in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-02-0.u3517	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please press the corresponding key. I am stopping the vote: 193, for – 17, did not vote – 176. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, has not accepted this proposal. Since we have agreed on proposals to supplement the agenda, pursuant to Article 93(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, I put the draft agenda in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. Stopping vote: 193 total vote for – 172 did not vote – 21. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes, established the agenda of the First Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2021, in general. Dn n e d d: Proposal for a law on the validation of the Framework Agreement on the loan of LD 2034 (2020) between the Bank for Reconstruction and Development of the Council of Europe and the Republic of Serbia for a project loan – Infrastructure in culture, which was submitted by the Government, and a proposal for a decision on the election of judges who were first elected as judges, who submitted the High Council of the Judiciary. We are going to work on the established agenda of the session. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that they are invited to attend: Maja Gojkovic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Culture and Information, Siniša Mali, Finance Minister Vanja Udovic, Minister of Youth and Sports, Ana Tripovic, Director of Public Debt Administration at the Ministry of Finance and Daniela Vanušić, v.d. Assistant Minister of Culture and Information. The first item of the agenda – Proposal for a LD 2034 (2020) loan agreement between the Bank for Reconstruction and Development of the Council of the European Union and the Republic of Serbia for a project loan – INFRASTRUCTURE IN CULTURE. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. According to Article 170. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a single search. National MP Dragan Markovic Palma, according to the Rules of Procedure, spoke. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-02-0.u3518	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you, Mr. President, have misread the issue of the United Serbian MP Vojislav Vujic. He asked the question on the basis of a question he received from the citizens of Vrnjaka Banja, given that it is from Vrnjaka Banja and that there are plenty of cafes and bars there. They said -- how can you sit in one room now, 200 of you, and we can't, until 15.00 hours are limited, up to 2.00 hours, etc. I won't allow it, Mr. President, to formulate such a question as populism. First, each of the MPs has autonomy to ask what the citizens are asking of him and we are the national representatives in parliament. I don't know why you reacted so much. It's a little weird for me. You are the older brother of our coalition, I respect that and you know it very well, but what the grandmothers would say – when she looks at the people, she thinks that we are doing it for personal political points, and we are not doing it for that. So I ask you not to comment again, because who to ask the other, you were there, the answer could be – may or may not, no one has decidently requested that something must, and I am sure that a large number of MPs have the same questions from the citizens of the cities where they are from. Now don't let us experience any fear when we have to ask or say anything, that's why we're gonna get pucks. I don't think this question deserves a puck, but a cultural answer, as was a cultural question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-02-0.u3519	Mr. Markovic, my answer was an adequate question. I absolutely didn't insult anyone. I'm just saying, when it comes to these important political issues, we should still consult within our coalition. On the other hand, you've proposed here last time to the crisis staff to allow weddings to be made possible. Well, how can it not be the Assembly now and there could be weddings? I only ask you, this is addressed to me as president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I'm making proposals for it. I understand, you want to defend your MP and I don't mind and I don't want to comment any further, I'm just saying that this proposal doesn't fit the situation we're in. Everyone else can stop working, the National Assembly has to stay to work until the end. That's my attitude, totally cultural and fine. By the way, I've also supported your proposal that you've referred to the crisis staff, you know that well, that we shouldn't all be getting into some paranoia right now, and I'm against it being some kind of mass lockdown and so on. So, let's move on, I don't want to go back to what it was, I just think it's useful for you to participate and the citizens to hear what anyone has to say about it. Here you go, Mr. Tandir.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-02-0.u3520	Dear Chairman, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, I am reporting to the Rules of Procedure, Rule 108. It is widely known that there is no discussion regarding issues and notifications at the beginning of the session. I think your answer was quite clear and that whether we're going to have a lock-down, whether or not we're going to be working cafes, that's a question for the crisis staff, that's a question for the profession, that's not a question for us MPs. If there's a question for us MPs, they'll be here on the agenda. I call on you to enter into the debate, we have a very important Law on Culture and Investments in front of us. I think it's our job, it's something that we've been elected by citizens for, and not that we're now opening topics just because we're at the beginning of the session, so the ratings are a little higher, so the sher is a little higher, so we'd like to do a little bit of other things. When there's health care, when there's a health minister here, we can talk about it on the subject. So there's no discussion about questions and suggestions, according to the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-02-0.u3521	I don't know what you wanted, but we're moving on. Do the representatives of the motionor want a word? The word is made by Minister Udovicic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-02-0.u3522	Dear President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Dacic, the honourable MPs, ladies and gentlemen, are here today before us a proposal for a bill to confirm the loan framework agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe and on the "Infrastructure in Culture" project. At first, I would like to point out that the government of the Republic of Serbia recognized the great importance of culture and cultural heritage and their potential for our country's development, adopting several documents that will contribute to Serbia's more successful positioning on the cultural map of Europe and the world. The strategic priorities of the development of the culture of the Republic of Serbia from 2021 to 2025, the Strategy for the Development of Culture of the Republic of Serbia from 2020 to 2029 and the Action Plan as an integral part of the Strategy, inter alia, define the priorities of development in this area, the care of material and immaterial cultural heritage and the wider availability of culture. When it comes to the draft law on the agenda of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the amount of loans is 20m euros, and these funds will be used to modernise the infrastructure in culture, i.e. to renovate, rebuild and expand cultural institutions, including museums, theatres, cultural centres and similar institutions. The implementation of this project will, among other things, improve access to buildings and improve their energy efficiency and preserve their architectural historical value. By restoring functionality, increasing the capacity of cultural institutions and providing satisfactory technical and security conditions for cultural events will contribute to the development of cultural initiatives, economic activities, employment and domestic regional and foreign tourism. The project includes works to restore and maintain the interior of the National Theatre in Belgrade, as well as the restoration of its eastern facade, which looks at "France Street" and works related to the scene of performing arts. Also, the project covers the Yugoslav Museum in Belgrade, the Art Pavilion "Cveta Zuzoric", a multi-functional Cultural Centre in Pirote, the construction of an art gallery at Kosančić's wedding in Belgrade, the reconstruction and conversion of an old railway station into a museum, the reconstruction of an earlier casino of an old railway station in Belgrade, and the digitisation of eleven cultural centres throughout Serbia. Also, the building of the National Theatre in Nis will be restored, where a small scene will be built. By improving the energy efficiency of buildings and applying modern construction practices, institutions and users will be able to exhibit their collections and qualify for international exhibitions that require strict control of temperature, humidity and security. Finally, I would like to point out that the total estimated cost of the project is 30m euros. In addition to the 20m euros mentioned, 10m euros will be financed from the Republic of Serbia's budget, other loans and donations. Also provided are 400 000 euros in grants in technical assistance to finance a previous eligibility study for subprojects: National Theatre in Belgrade, the re-design of the current decor workshop in the theatre scene, reconstruction and re-design of the old railway station in the museum, the former password of the old railway station in Belgrade, the renovation of the building and the re-design of a multi-functional cultural centre. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government of the Republic of Serbia is very committed to the development of culture and preservation of our cultural heritage, which is certainly witnessed by the upcoming modernisation of many cultural institutions throughout Serbia. The social impact of planned investment is very important because it will contribute not only to improving the state of cultural institutions that will become more functional and operational, which will increase the number of visitors and incomes that these institutions make, but also to the development of cultural tourism in Serbia. Therefore, I call on you to support the draft law in the voting day, and I am at your disposal for all additional questions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-02-0.u3523	Thank you. Reporters of the competent committees. The word is Jelena Žarić Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-02-0.u3524	Thank you, Mr. Dacic. Dear Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Framework Agreement on the Loan on Culture Infrastructure between the Republic of Serbia and the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe was the subject of consideration by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law. We have assessed that it is in accordance with the Constitution and the legislative system of the Republic of Serbia. We see that the Serbian government has recognised the great importance of culture and cultural heritage and their potential for our country's development. The Serbian government has adopted several important documents that will primarily contribute to Serbia's successful positioning on the cultural map of Europe and the world. Here, above all, I think of the strategic priorities of the development of the culture of the Republic of Serbia from 2021 to 2025, I mean the Culture Development Strategy from 2020 to 2029 and, of course, the Action Plan as an integral part of this Strategy. Among other things, such documents also define the development priorities in this area, which relate primarily to the cultivation of material and immaterial cultural heritage and the wider availability of culture through their institutions, but also through the media. It is foreseen that a number of renovation activities, renovation, expansion of certain facilities, certain cultural institutions, including, of course, museums, theatres, cultural centres and similar institutions dealing with this activity are being implemented within the project. Access to buildings would be improved, their energy efficiency improved, but above all, their architectural and historical value would be preserved. This project will contribute to the development of cultural initiatives, but will also contribute to the development of business activities, employment and tourism. With great pleasure, I can say that part of the project is part of the National Theatre in Nis, which is the renovation of the National Theatre, it will work on rebuilding the building and building a small scene. Nis is one of the first cities to enter the history of the Serbian theatre. They were so-called. Travelling ensembles, or traveling groups. The first famous theatre event was recorded in 1883 and this was a performance performed in connection with the jubilee anniversary of the marriage of King Milan and Queen Natalija Obrenovic. The merger of the two traveling families created the Niško Theatre of Sidelic. Today, the Niško Theatre, the building of the Niško Theatre, is located in the center of the city, right on the square of Siljelic, and was built in 1939 and it was then the theater of the Moravska Banovina. I want to thank the Serbian government for helping us preserve our cultural heritage first of all, to preserve from forgetting the fact that the culture in Nis has evolved through the centuries, but I thank you and for allowing us to enjoy some future theatre performances and in this sense to develop our culture, to develop our city and to expand the range of offers not only for the citizens of Nis, but also for tourists. History and culture should be preserved and passed on to new generations. We need to rebuild museums and theaters, build monuments, write textbooks and be proud of it. This is why the Electoral Group, Aleksandar Vukic – will support this proposal in the day of voting and support for our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-02-0.u3525	Thank you. We are moving on to the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups. The word has been given to the People's Messenger Muamer Zukorlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-02-0.u3526	The Honorable Chairman, honourable ministers and other representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we MPs of the Justice and Reconciliation Party are very pleased by the fact that in this difficult time, the time when most people and nations focus exclusively on life and survival, the fight against the diseases of the birds and other aspects of the crisis caused by the pandemic, we have the strength and capacity to focus on and on what is more than that, what is not mere survival, but what is actually the deepest and most significant or one of the most significant dimensions of man, both in individual and collective terms. In fact, it is culture that represents the deepest meaning of our entire existence and operation. All aspects of society, all the activities we take, all that we consider important has short-term and short-term effects of action and purpose. But only what has its reflections on the quality of our culture can actually be called true and long-term values. At all times, this topic is important. But for us in this time and in this space, especially since after nearly three decades, we are not even close to cleaning up all the heavy consequences of the cultural wasteland caused by the rule of the antithetic system almost half standing. In fact, and then we may have had a louder rhetoric about culture than today, then we had a lot more homes and various cultural institutions. But we didn't have a culture. Why? Well, because culture is in its very sense, by the very etemological meaning of this word closely related to the cult, to what I believe. Therefore, if you establish an ideology or a certain system of values in an attempt to formulate a particular culture, and while your ideology is the negation of God, means, the negation of the highest possible cult known to human civilization and culture, then you are actually entering a paradoxical state, where you actually eliminate and deny the basic origin of culture. So there is no culture without God and there, and as long as God and politics are denied and the entire cultural civilization is based against God, i.e. on antitheistic, very often and aggressive antitheistic settings, you didn't have real cultural origins at the time. That's why we had a big story about culture, a lot, a lot, a lot of cultural institutions, but we had a decade in culture. And all that was produced from cultural achievement, whether it was a written word or other aspects of culture, it was very much. In quantity, however, this could have been considered successful, but it was essentially nothing. In fact, it's time that shows that what is not worth can't survive. What's worthless is gone. You can keep him on stage for decades under the protection of power or power or power or force, but the moment that force disappears, the moment that such power is no longer there, such a culture disappears. So what makes me happy is that we have a title change in direction and rhetorical and in most political discourses, we no longer have a ban on faith and ban on God in terms of both faith and inspiration, both in individual and collective terms, thinking and functioning. But what's the fact is that we need to be more aware of the wasteland that was caused in the second half of the 20th century. In fact, everything that happened after that, whether it's a cultural disorientation, or even what's happened since the explosion of violence in the '90s, wars, crimes, actually has its germs, has its viruses in that cultural and ethical disorientation and desolation. Because the man of the moment when he has no culture, but not only in some monumental setting, but in his soul, in his being, in his chest, in his deep sense, actually he becomes less and less human, all becoming an animal. Then he acts on the animal's paws: kidnap, kill, grab, grab, prove his existence in the destruction of another. So what should be our priority and what makes me happy and through this law that actually shows the willingness of the government, the willingness, which we will also confirm by supporting this law and this National Assembly, as the highest legislative and representative body in this country, is our awareness that we want to change that direction, that we want a new wave, a new momentum, a new energy and a new dynamic, and this should be preceded and followed by a new approach to the culture itself. Here we should more significantly open up a space for discussion and political and intellectual and spiritual and all those who have direct and indirect implications for the culture itself. Of course we will support this law, but I'm saying, we need to open these topics. Why? One of the tasks is to further clean this space in our mentality and consciousness from the consequences of a cultural wasteland that was caused by one mind, the ideology of antitheism in the other half of the 20th century. However, we need some more corrections to do in our consciousness and in our orientation. If we follow this general discourse of culture we will mainly come to the conclusion that the most significant part of our cultural theme is the preservation of cultural heritage, especially material cultural heritage, monumental and cultural heritage. That is certainly good, and that part of culture must not be neglected in any way. But the question arises is, is that enough, is it enough for us to spend the most significant part of our energy on dusting the buildings, the significant structures of culture, our past, and to consider it our great achievement. I'm not sure that's a good orientation. Why? Because these are the works of our ancestors that are their cultural work. We are obliged to preserve it, but we have to wonder if it's enough or even more concrete, we have to ask ourselves, what we're going to leave with our generations and whether they're going to have to take off something dust and if they're going to have as much work as we have now to preserve material cultural heritage. The point is, is we're doing enough and we've focused enough on our actual cultural mission, which means what our actual cultural product is. That's the key question. I'm not sure that we can be consistent with our ancestors in what should be the other way around, because the power of civilization, the advancement in technology, in freedom, in the possibilities of creativity should actually lead us to the position of superiority in relation to our ancestors and their cultural creation both in the field of material and in the field of immaterial culture. But it happens that the process goes quite the opposite, that the more materially powerful civilization, technical and technologically powerful that we are actually becoming culturally impotent, that we do not have cultural achievements, that cultural potentials are reduced, or the potential of cultural creativity. This is an essential question. Here, we often do education, either by jurisdiction or by self-interest, but we have a certain interruption. We can raise education in organisational, legal, materially to the highest degree of quality that we can draw for ourselves, but I don't know why we broke the thread between education and culture. This is inadmissible because education is not a knowledge at all, in itself a meaningful value. Education and knowledge, including science, are not a goal, it is a methodical value, culture is a goal and the quality of education is not measured only by the parameters that establish education. It's methodical and technical measurements. The quality of education, science and knowledge in a society is measured by the degree of achievement in culture. If you have some parameters of the highest degree, or the greatest reach in the attainment of education, learn knowledge at all, but if that doesn't have the range of culture, if we don't get the fruits and results in the culture itself there's some kind of interruption, there's some failure, it's one of the strategic issues that we're actually just opening up today and we can't give answers to here today. It's impossible to say that our education is excellent, that we have a good education, and that we have such a decade in culture in terms of the creativity of culture, if you want the art itself. So that's what we should delegate and open. We are certainly the most invited here in the National Assembly, but that won't be enough. This issue is a matter of general, national, national and national importance and must be opened at all levels. It is now a matter to be resolved in various symposiums and various activities where we would have some professional debate with participants of competence, but certainly all of this is related to the way we live and to a very visible disturbance of values in society that we unfortunately somehow view as happening beyond us, as if neither is our concern, as if all these floods and all these disasters that are actually around us on the media scene, as to what is preferred, what is looking at, what is popular, what is not popular. We're kind of trying to protect ourselves from it like it's some other world. No, gentlemen. No, ladies and gentlemen, it's not another world, it's a flood and an accident that threatens to take away our children, our generations and all of us. That's why the voice of culture must be louder, it must be more present. This joys me that we will have serious investments, that this law will enable these investments, that we will invest serious funds in facilities that will allow for better quality culture. Objects, I say, are important, are important. I support that, we look forward to it from the point of view of the fact that it is given importance from the most important point of view in this country, especially where the funds are allocated, there is awareness of how important something is. A man by his nature can single out funds only for what is important to him. The state, especially when it's in all of these crisis frameworks where we are, when it shows strength and awareness to allocate funds, to reach them not so easily and to single out for the culture sector, is certainly something that is promising. So we have to prepare, or parallel to these investments, we have to run some dynamics. Unfortunately, I'm sorry we don't have initiatives from intellectual circles. It actually just confirms that we're deep in the intellectual elite crisis, that we're just at some crossing point. What we had in the 18th and 19th centuries in Europe with a crisis of nobility, with a crisis of aristocracy, where corruption actually prevailed, where you could then buy titles for not so much money, various titles of nobility in Western Europe, today we actually have this with an intellectual elite. And because of these ideological transitions and fractures that happen between the 20th and 21st centuries and because of all these challenges, and I can say some stalemate materialist civilization that doesn't have some way out, which not without reason certain thinkers also call post-cultural society, which is a fact. In fact, Western Europe has achieved what was the foundation of materialistic ideology that was determined centuries ago. Now we have the fruits of it. We have expansion in a materialistic sense, in a technical and technological sense, everything shines from marbles, glass and metal. So this materialistic-civilization aspect has led to perfection. But on the other hand, we have a complete collapse in ethnic-cultural terms from the state of the individual's spirit to the state of the family's spirit and everything that happens to family, to say, the Western or modern man, and then to the very most subtle aspects of culture. For example, you have various indicators. You know, once Paris was the centre of culture in Western Europe, and today you have such a crisis in terms of cultural creativity in France itself, that France has failed for the last ten years to run for any of its dominant candidates, the French candidate for the Nobel Prize for Literature. So all the candidates in France for the Nobel Prize for Literature for the last 10 years have been immigrants either from the Balkans, or from Africa, or from Asia, or from somewhere else. Imagine what an indication of what a waste of culture we are talking about, or what a waste of culture he is facing. There's definitely a modern man, first of all, a Western civilization that we both geographically and structurally belong to, will have to deal with, will have to look for some new discourse. For us believers there is no alternative to the discourses of returning to God, the discourse of returning to what man cannot be a man without. All right, subdue all knowledge and all culture to life itself. Well, that's a mistake. It's a failure, all the knowledge and all the culture to submit to life. If that were the case then the animal would not be called an animal, but a man would be called an animal. The concept of life and animals is of the same root. Thus, knowledge is needed to establish a certain vertical man, so above all, spiritual and ethical and then man is different from man. We will certainly have to share fate and deal with these issues. We don't have to worry much about Western and Western Europe, but I think that we here in the Balkans still have that potential, we still have that spirit and ethical, and family and cultural, we just need to get out of some of our own, say, torse, borders, from our own, to say, rigid discourses and policies where we seem to have someone else to blame. No, it's nobody else's fault. Let us sit with ourselves, with our families, together with our neighbours, whatever nation, religion, culture we belong to and look for this discourse on real human, ethical, civilizational, and above all, cultural values. It is a discourse, in my opinion, in which we here in Serbia, here in the Balkans, can rise again with one new, cultural, ethical and real human energy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-02-0.u3527	Thank you. I just want to inform you that today we're going to be working on the 1st item of the agenda, and tomorrow on the 2nd item of the agenda, and that the voting day will be tomorrow after this debate is over, so you can plan your activities. We'll work today and tomorrow. We're moving on. The word is from the People's Messenger Nandor Kish. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-02-0.u3528	The Honorable President, the Presidency, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament. It is my great honor to have the first working day of the regular spring session of the National Assembly as a representative of the Parliamentary Group of the Alliance of the Duchy Hungarians talk about the point on the agenda. At the very beginning of my presentation, I would like to stress that our MP group, nine SVM MPs, will support this proposal in the voting day that we are discussing. Today we have an opportunity to discuss the draft law on the validation of the loan framework agreement between the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe and the Republic of Serbia on the project loan, in fact on investments in the infrastructure in the field of culture. Now that we've been hit by the pandemic of world proportions for a year now, when we've experienced various restrictions, it's normal to value culture even more. I'm sure we all lack the opportunity to go to the movies, see a new exhibition at the museum, or look at the latest piece in the live theater, not online or on television. Here I must express our sincere hope that, first of all, the good dynamics of vaccination during the summer will bring our lives back to normal and that we will be able to enjoy the culture as well. The loan deal will provide funds to restore cultural infrastructure, mostly in Belgrade, where it can serve at least two million citizens. We feel that it is certainly necessary to deal with these buildings and improve the quality and efficiency of these cultural objects. Apart from Belgrade, museums, theatres, libraries and other cultural institutions on the territory of the AP Vojvodina, they are also of great importance to the lives of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. As in Belgrade, in the cultural institutions of the AP Vojvodina, we also have qualified workforce, good governance, and some of them struggle daily for better working conditions, so that the more comprehensive work they do, have exhibitions with as many artists, enrich their rooms with more beautiful and numerous objects. Before I was elected MP from the list of the Alliance of Duchy Hungarians – Istvan Pastor, I was employed by the National Council of the Hungarian National Minority in Subotica. I've had a chance to look at all four areas of the National Council. These areas are education, public information, official use of language and letters and cultures. If we are talking about a cultural national minority, we cannot talk about it without national councils from national minorities. The Council is also in several cases the founder of individual cultural institutions. It is the institutions that are significant for the Hungarian national minorities. In the case of the National Council of the Hungarian National Minority, we have higher theatres, cultural centres, historical archives, libraries and museums. Since 2018, while I was employed by the National Council of the Hungarian National Minority, the experience and knowledge I have collected have provided me with insight into what a national council of the national minority is dealing with. I am sure that without national councils, the work of certain cultural institutions would be much more difficult, they would not be financed from their side and would be much worse equipped. The networking of institutions shall provide the National Council with the security and flow of information necessary to perform its function. Users of these institutions are not exclusively members of national minorities. For example, although the performance is in Hungarian theatre and actors speak in Hungarian, the titles in Serbian are always designed. Or, for example, the museum contains information in exhibition exhibits written bilingually. In this way, cultural goods and historical facts are available to everyone in the same way for the benefit of a larger number of Serbian citizens. Dear People's MPs, I am very glad that with this loan agreement for cultural infrastructure development we have the opportunity to rebuild and preserve buildings, modernise infrastructure and provide a better service. We in the SVM parliamentary group believe that these investments are necessary and necessary. We hope that these investments will continue, because we have a number of cultural institutions waiting for similar investments so that they can do their jobs in an even better and more adequate manner and give satisfaction to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. And not only near Belgrade, but also in other cities, municipalities for the satisfaction of the citizens themselves, but also domestic and foreign tourists, tourism potential is necessary and serves the benefit of the population. For example, the decades-old problem in Subotica is the state and process of rebuilding the National Theatre building. Over the years, the Union of Duke Hungarians has often dealt with the issue. In recent years, the process has been accelerated and we have drawn close to the end of the work, thanks to the installation of the National Theatre in Subotica as a strategic goal of SVM, and concrete funds have been allocated since 2017 from the budget of the Republic of Serbia. We are happy to see that the project will be completed in the planned time period and that in the following year we will look at the first piece in the renovated building. To conclude, the SVM parliamentary group will support the draft law confirming the loan framework agreement. In voting day, we'll vote for the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-02-0.u3529	Thank you. MP Gjorge Milicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-02-0.u3530	Thank you, Your Honor. The Honorable Presidency, respected ministers with co-workers, the SPS parliamentary group on the voting day, of course, will support the proposed agreement, because, by supporting this agreement, we want to support the goal achieved by this agreement, which is to revitalise the infrastructure in the area of culture. Before I speak of the loan itself, I would like to refer to the overall importance of culture for the cultural identity of our people. In doing so, I point out that Serbia is a multicultural society in which all national minorities living with the Serb people have the right to cultivate their cultural identity and to develop the diversity of cultural content. This overlap on the other hand confirms the universal value of culture and its importance for the community of the progress of each society. Our country's culture has just been determined by this rich cultural diversity of today, but also by the rich cultural heritage that confirms that different civilizations have crossed and replaced in these areas. What makes Serbia significant on the world's cultural map is the historical fact that the remains of the oldest human civilization in Europe are on Serbia's territory. It's a time since before, correct me if I'm wrong, 9,500 years old. A witness to this is the archaeological site "Lepenski Vir", which we should view as an extremely valuable heritage and represent to the world, because it deserves to be included in UNESCO's World Cultural Heritage. You know, a country that doesn't rightly care and doesn't properly cherish its past can't have its present and the future, but also that past can't and can't be our only present and future. If we are diverged about this past and politically on some issues, we cannot change it today, but we need to draw lessons and we need to affirm what is good, especially in the field of culture and build it today and build on it the foundations of some new future, because history is made up of facts that absolutely no one can change, no matter how hard we try, and in this context we also see what it does and does, you are the Minister of Youth and Sports, but what it does and does by the Minister of Culture Maja Gojkovic. I'll be subjective, I've had my chance to cooperate with her for a very long time, believe in her enthusiasm, her energy, and I believe it will work. Part of Serbia's rich and valuable cultural heritage is also worth all of humanity, which confirms exactly our heritage already on UNESCO's World Heritage List. On the other hand, it is this rich and valuable Serbian cultural heritage that testifies to the continuity and history of our lifetime in this space, about the first Serbian states, their creators, that today, unfortunately, is the subject of frequent attempts at counterfeits, and of attempts to capture our most valuable medieval monuments of culture by some who would make our history their own, I would not speak today. It is the topic that has been current these days and these months when it comes to medieval heritage in Kosovo and Metohija, built by the largest Serbian rulers. Why am I talking about this in the context of the revitalisation loan in the most important institutions of culture? It is because the institutions of culture must preserve our cultural and historical heritage, materially and not material heritage that testifies to us through the centuries. Serbia today has a network of cultural institutions across the country, but we have to admit that in one period the relationship to culture, to the institutions of culture and to cultural creators, the consequences were quite unenviable. The culture was somehow on the tail of other events that completely disrupted the system of values. Hence today, this flood of non-culture or anti-culture, and for culture, and the modern and cultural heritage that represents, always needs money. When we sought as a parliamentary group of the Socialist Party of Serbia 1% of the culture budget, we knew that cultural creation in the protection of cultural heritage and the revitalisation of infrastructure must be invested far more money. This more than 1% of this time represents this project loan of 20m euros, which has clearly defined financial elements and defined institutions and facilities for which the loan is intended. You, Mr. Minister, spoke of it in the opening statement. The cultural policy of the government and the Ministry of Culture itself is just based on the Cultural Development Strategy in the Republic of Serbia for the period from 2020 to 2029, where the priorities of the strategic development of culture are seen through two areas. The first area is cultural heritage and the second area is contemporary creation. In that sense, I also see the loan that we are talking about, that it follows exactly the realisation of these strategic objectives, that I define, because if there are no investments that can preserve cultural heritage, and these are museums and galleries, if there are no institutions of contemporary creation, and these are theaters and cultural centres, then there can be no talk about the cultural development of a society. This and the previous Government since 2013 have returned to a culture that, with the preservation of language and letters, is the foundation of the identity of a nation. To remind myself that the National Museum, for example, experienced its full glow by a reconstruction that was completed at the time of the previous government. This happened also with the Museum of Contemporary Art, and now it is our turn to truly commit ourselves to other institutions of culture of national importance, but also to those who are regional, and what I particularly enjoy, and local importance, because all these institutions preserve heritage or create new cultural contents. So about hundreds of museums that maintain a rich cultural heritage, the largest number of them are located in very old buildings that represent cultural heritage themselves, but for decades very modest investments, the age of these buildings has led to very bad conditions, and you know it very well. This loan has just been directed at several key ones, I would say, institutions that need to be restored to be true in the function of culture. I'm going to mention some of those that are covered by this agreement, even though that's what you're talking about. So, the National Theatre in Belgrade, a national culture institution that was founded back in 1868, and in today's building built by Prince Mihajlo, is in 1869. Then, the Museum of Yugoslavia in Belgrade, the National Theatre in Nis, rebuilding the building and making a small scene, the Art Pavilion "Cvete Zuzoric". I am particularly pleased that part of the loan will also be directed to the restoration and conversion of the old railway station into a historical museum, so that in the area of the Sava Square it will become a cultural and historical continent that will be a monument to Stefan Nemanja and this very museum. The building itself is culturally well under the protection of the state, built in 1884, which will give the museum special significance and special beauty. The second facility in the space of the old railway station, which will be reconstructed, is the building of an old railway station in Belgrade, which will be transformed into an attractive space for various cultural and various contents. The loan will also include the Gallery of Art at Kosančić's wedding in Belgrade, which will complete the cultural and historical continent and testify to the past and historical significance of this space. Not even the cultural centres across Serbia have been forgotten, as I said. This loan plans to digitise 11 cultural centres throughout Serbia. We must recognise that it is a comprehensive infrastructure facility that would give these cultural institutions a new glow, an appropriate role and importance for Serbia's cultural policy. All this says that Serbia is returning to its cultural roots, which is a cultural policy conducted by this government and, of course, by the Ministry of Culture, headed by Mrs. Maja Gojkovic, who has been immediately starting to raise important issues of Serbian culture and to open the door to culture and cultural MPs. I would like to thank her on behalf of the parliamentary group, as I would like to thank all of our artists who, in the year of Kovid, were somehow a cure to all of us. Let us not forget the international role of culture, which connects and tolerates diversity, which through testimony about the history of a people about cultural identity and the heritage of ancestors can present us in the world in a way that world politics does not see us and does not want to see us. One historical fact cannot be ignored. Let's say, after 75 years, someone remembered to do an art of great importance and significance, which is the movie "Dara from Jasenovac". The true story, I say, is a work of art that is very important and significant, especially for younger generations, because it seems to me that the younger generations very little know, unfortunately, about the events of World War II, and I don't think they even know that there was a camp for children in Jasenovac. All the criticisms that could be heard at the expense of this film were unfounded, untrue, inappropriate, political and not directed at the expense of the film. These criticisms were actually directed and aimed to challenge the right of Serbs to speak and to show the truth about the suffering of Serbs, Roma and Jews in Jasenovac after 75 years. The world needs to know the truth about these monstrous crimes. You know, there's a saying that says, I'm going to quote it, "True is the most sublime thing a man can have, to get to the truth, we shouldn't want any trouble or cause them to others. Arguing never brings progress, and chasing no one can convince himself. Do to others what you want others to do to you. The reprimand, in fact, kills, and the spirit gives life. "This is just one story. "The gift from Jasenovac" is one story. There are many other stories. To our great satisfaction in the SPS parliamentary group is also one woman who is 94 today, Smile Tishma. She survived Jasenovac, then she was 12 years old, lost her parents and her loved ones. I hope that Serbia and the world will be able to hear her story too, because she certainly deserves it. So one historical fact cannot be ignored, nor can one overlook where and when there was, who is where and what he built and created. It's the role of culture, and we can define it as a cultural diplomacy that can open many closed doors. I believe that Serbian cultural centres, which exist or will be formed in the world, will take this role seriously. Finally, to say that I want more culture, more traditions, more preserved heritage, more concern for our cultural heritage, more concern for our national identity. Without it, we're not us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-02-0.u3531	Thank you. Natasa Mihailović Vacic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-02-0.u3532	Thank you, Chairman. Fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament and People's Parliament, Ministers with Associates, I am pleased that our first regular session is beginning with a debate on the agreement concerning infrastructure projects in culture. I am also glad that the Development Bank of the Council of Europe recognized both the idea and the intention, but also the seriousness of the state and approved a 20m-euro loan. I know, now someone's gonna say it's like a loan from any other bank. But is that right? As the name itself says, the Development Bank of the Council of Europe, although a financial independent body exists and is working within the Council of Europe, therefore, following the agenda of the Council of Europe, is the main instrument of solidarity policy in Europe and helping countries achieve sustainable and balanced development. The Council of Europe's development bank is among the largest, if not the largest lender of Western Balkan countries with benefits not only from financial support but also from professional expertise during the implementation of the project. If there is a bright spot in everything that is happening to us these days in various fields and at many levels, from the pressures that come about negotiations on the status of the southern Serbian province, the frightening information about the functioning of the criminal clans and their helpers from state structures, false news, insinuation and speculation about this and other topics, up to the increase of the number of coronal infected, the threat of closure, and that I will stop, I think the support of infrastructure projects and the topic that we are talking about in parliament today is one bright spot. The bright spot is yesterday's agreement between the minister of education and education and the president of the state to take responsibility, which is the job of the state, to make textbooks from Serbian language, geography and history. Every time we discussed the laws in the field of education and education, the SDPS parliamentary group indicated that the education system must be improved. These are bright examples for every commendation. I wonder what it would be like to move our focus on what's good and to serve in the sea of what we serve daily in the media and pro-government and opposition, so-called. independent, find a good example, to be constructive critics, instead of real critics, to move from passive to proactive role and to recognize opportunities and space for contribution and to find motive and inspiration not only for personal, but also for the development of society in general. The Council of Europe's development bank is currently a social development bank and has a specific mandate. It promotes social cohesion in and between countries. As I said before, he's following the agenda of the Council of Europe, helping countries develop social infrastructure. These are, for example, the construction of hospitals and schools, kindergartens, the introduction of energy efficiency, etc. In addition, the Council of Europe Development Bank approved a 200m-euro loan to healthcare institutions last year, and the cost of the loan included the purchase of protective suits, masks, necessary medical equipment, as well as reconstruction and construction of new hospitals. The loan, as stated in the Agreement, is approved for redecoration, reconstruction, enlargement, construction of cultural centres and institutions. It will focus on improving and existing facilities, including improving the accessibility of cultural institutions. Culture is a mirror of society. In the broadest sense of culture and metaphorically spoken culture is an unsustainable source and an unstoppable river flow as long as human life exists on earth. I would very much like to have it here for you today, Minister, Minister of Culture, but I believe that there will be opportunities for when we discuss the 2020-2020 Strategy of Culture, to discuss the broader meaning of culture and what is the most important segment in the development of society and when we talk about improving both human rights and the overall state of society and the values of society. I gave myself a good clagworth, and we need a culture development strategy that will define cultural policy in the long run. Cultural content, and this is what in this House the SDPS parliamentary group has repeatedly advocated, must be available to all citizens. Culture must not be left to the market or not only to the market, because cultural institutions and cultural homes are then forced to adapt and to create instead of quality content quasi cultural content. Culture must also not be elitist, or available only to those who can afford it. We're not records of money being allocated to culture, but the truth is not even the amount of money guaranteed by the value of cultural content. I'd say it's just the other way around – the more quality the contents are, the more money they'll bring. That is why it is also important to define a long-term cultural policy, to ensure that the state provides the necessary conditions and funding. It is therefore important, Parliament Speaker, that we see the Culture Strategy from 2020 to 2029 as soon as possible. The adoption of this strategy has been promised since 2016. The government adopted it in February last year. The strategy has also passed the parent committee on culture and information, but we still haven't welcomed it on the agenda for some of the sessions. I believe that soon we will also adopt a culture development strategy and thus round what our goals are in the development of culture and what cultural policies and cultural models are. Systemic regulation and resolution, funding of institutions and individual projects in culture for collective raising of the spiritual and cultural consciousness of the people are of course of exceptional importance. Culture covers the entire fluid of civilization. Culture is the way of life. It identifies all the creations created as a result of human activity, an integrated pattern of human knowledge, beliefs, traditions, morals, and behavior. Culture requires constant and thorough research. It can help us to look at the remains of the past, to determine the existing and predicting future conditions, not only in our country, but globally. One of the basic issues that we should address as a society, the Ministry, in particular, which is within the scope of its work, is to explore cultural needs in a social environment that concerns comprehensive and systematic research of all the structures of society and their relationship to culture. The results of these researches should serve us as the basis for planning and preparation of cultural policies and cultural models. The basic setting for the financing of the project in culture and Europe is placed in a position of national importance, and in order for these two basic and very important functions to be achieved by each institution of culture to be creatively free, i.e. to be free of burdens and material difficulties. The state should provide all possible preconditions with its legal regulations, regulations, and facilitate the improvement of the state of culture. Definitely, culture must not be left to the market. It is necessary to create an atmosphere of mutual understanding and co-operation. Therefore, good will and cooperation in frameworks in which the state must not behave restrictively, and culture must not behave casually. The decentralisation of culture is also an extremely important project that we are talking about today, and it is an important issue, so the project envisions the construction of theatres, cultural homes in cities in Serbia. It is known that Serbia must meet certain standards on its way to the EU. These standards, of course, refer to culture. For example, according to UNESCO criteria for every 50,000 inhabitants, there should be one classical repertoire theater. According to that fact, it falls into the water of a finding that is often heard in our midst that we have many theatres, many theatre artists, etc. We actually have an insufficient number of cultural institutions. For the last 20 years in our midst, for famous reasons, nearly all systems in the field of spiritual activity have fallen apart, including cultural policy and cultural model. The cultural model earlier in Yugoslavia existed and was built on the foundations of a socialist view of culture, based on the culture that was touched. This system in some form existed and exists today in the European culture model. Culture must be defended against a market principle or exclusively a market principle. He may be a combination, but he's never just left behind. The basic user on which culture must be based is the middle class. It is not difficult to establish, we will all remember, that the decomposition of all systems earlier in Yugoslavia has resulted in the decomposition and disappearance of the middle class. It is also a well-known fact that the middle class is the cornerstone of civil, civil and democratic society. One of the essential elements for building a middle class is a culture which, among other things, contains cultural, educational, artistic, and sociological, and fun function. The establishment and improvement of the state of the institutions of culture, therefore, theatres, galleries, libraries, archives, cultural centres, etc., in regional centres would certainly initiate optimism on the initiative of artists, most of our artists are in creative depression today, the involvement of artists, writers, painters, actors, music artists, directors, costume designers, not to mention, would awaken the awareness, spiritual world of the user, the audience, and its expansion through family and social structure, citizenship, and would thus be triggered by a spiritual and moral renaissance that we need. Getting ready for the session, I read statistics from research into cultural needs, habits and cultural spending in Serbia. The results are devastating. I therefore believe that in the Ministry of Culture there would have to be a sector that would deal with the audience and whose task would be to draw attention to culture, to make sense of the need for it, to point out nicely in culture, to provide the one over the needed other view, because, according to Isidora Sekulic, cultural touches happiness are people. Culture and education ministers must together create an ambitious plan for art and culture in school programmes, also making school a central place for early encounters with cultural works and ways to form future cultural users. Cultural goods are not like any other good; they must avoid all traps and consumer societies and what we live globally at this point. Cultural goods justify their natural intervention of the state and its entry into the field of culture. So the single price of books, the system of financing cinematography, quotas in the distribution of domestic and foreign films, the protection of diversity of creation, and the diffusion of the laws of the market that can negatively affect what culture means otherwise, and especially in societies like ours, with societies that face huge challenges daily. That policy, of course, has its own price, but success would be immeasurable. Since you, sports ministers, are present today, the fact is known that culture and sport are two significant social activities that can positively affirm a nation and state. Sport has already taken a significant position in society and no question is being raised for the outing of athletes on the world arena. With culture, unfortunately, it's not the same condition. Of course, that condition must not lead to defetism, but to action. As a boost to this idea, we have experience from our earlier cultural history, and I mean the period of the 1960s and 1970s when our culture was present on European and world scenes. This very experience can also serve us as an inspiration, but also as a model for a new movement on the world's cultural map, especially with good results in the tourism area which, as we can see, is also implemented in the effects of the projects that we will finance thanks to the loan of the Council of Europe Development Bank. I know the Ministry of Culture is one of the most attractive, but maybe one of the hardest places. It requires passion, strong convictions and time to establish its own policy, but it also requires huge support from the entire government. It is commonly thought that cultural policy rests on three pillars, on cultural heritage, on creation and on the transmission of culture. It is a concept that covers specialized artistic education, as well as cultural democratisation actions. My time is slowly running out as authorized for this part of the agenda. To repeat once again, I am pleased that the First Regular Session in 2021, we are starting precisely on issues from culture and the parliamentary group of the Social Democratic Party of Serbia will give full support to the adoption of this Agreement in the day of the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-02-0.u3533	I thank the MP, Natasa Mihailovic Vacic, the authorised representative of the Social Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary group. Does the minister perhaps want to answer? No, I don't. Then let's move on. Authorised representative of the parliamentary group Aleksandar Vukic – For our children, MP Stefan Srbanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-02-0.u3534	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Dear Mr. Udovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, we have often had an opportunity to hear about the results recorded by the SNS in the years behind us, but also about plans for the future. These results, the plans have provided us with really great support for the citizens of Serbia, and this is something that obliges and makes it work even more. The difficult reforms we implemented in 2012 prevented bankruptcy and laid the groundwork for Serbia's rapid progress and development in all fields. We economically strengthened the country, reduced unemployment, became leaders in the region after attracting foreign direct investment and persisted in the fight for national and state interests. Serbia today is a huge construction site. It's a state that in just a few years' time will be rewired by highways, fast traffic and high-speed railways. Clinical centres and hospitals that have been completely neglected in the past have now been restored and we are continuing to rebuild hospitals and health homes. We're building new schools and new kindergartens. In addition to schools, kindergartens and hospitals, Serbia will obviously have to build new prisons in the future, as according to the announced arrests and the force the state has hit on organised crime, the existing capacities will likely soon be filled. We need to be careful and know that we won the battle, but not the war in the fight against organised crime, and that all the dominoes involved in all these processes, and which the Prime Minister has also designated as those people who worked for both the state and the mafia, until we bring them to justice, this fight will not be over. The mafia cannot and must not be stronger than the state and all those involved in this process must be sanctioned. There will also be a decision on the election of judges who are elected to office for the first time tomorrow. This way, I would like to wish them if they were chosen to do their job with honor, responsibility and in the interests of Serbian citizens, that is to say, to judge by the current laws of this country. All eyes are directed right into the judiciary after the latest events, because it is clear that only by co-operation and co-ordination of all state institutions from this battle can come out as a winner. Our goal is modern and strong Serbia, Serbia which also wins Serbia, which can and must be even better and even more successful. Today we are discussing a request for a loan to the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe, and it is, in particular, the modernisation of the infrastructure in culture. In his opening address, Minister Udovicic really detailed what the project means and which investments will be financed by these funds. It is very important that we are talking about this project at all, along with the economic, economic and infrastructure reconstruction of this country, it is very important that we also work on the spiritual and cultural reconstruction of the Serbian state. I will remind you that after 15 years, this government renovated and reopened the National Museum in Belgrade and reconstructed the Museum of Contemporary Art. The Vuk and Dosite Museum, sciences and techniques, the Mother of Serbia Gallery in Novi Sad and dozens of cultural homes throughout Serbia, including Priboj, have also been renovated. In the last three years alone, 46, 43m euros, or 43m euros, have been invested in the completion of works at the temple of the Holy Sava. The place is one of the largest and most important places for gathering both the Serbian people and all the other peoples. In this way, the temple has been after 86 years since the start of construction, becoming some new St. Sofia and the largest Serbian Orthodox temple and the largest Orthodox temple in the Balkans. The main objectives of this project we are talking about today are to continue investment by renovating, restoring and expanding cultural institutions and these investments will contribute to improving working conditions, increasing the number of visitors, thereby increasing revenues, contributing to their financial and organisational independence. This 20m-euro loan will finance investments in the National Theatre in Belgrade, the Yugoslavia Museum, the Niš Theatre, the digitisation of the cultural centre, the construction of the Art Gallery at Kosančić's wedding and the conversion of the old railway station into a museum. All these projects develop cultural tourism in Serbia and are an important detail in the mentioned cultural and spiritual restoration of the state and people. The strategic priorities of culture development, led by Minister Maja Gojkovic, have defined 20 cultural policy priorities that require special attention. As for the achievement of these priorities, with the right to manage and a clear phase, a cultural picture of Serbia will be significantly improved, and given how much energy and Elena of ministers invests in the management of this ministry, there is no doubt that it will be. The main pillars of development, among other things, concern the culture budget, which is never greater, the preservation of cultural and historical heritage, the decentralisation of cultural production in Serbia, the introduction of art and culture into schools, education and participation in cultural programmes, cultural diplomacy, the launch and setting up of major projects, the construction of important objects, as well as tax incentives for investing in culture, the economic dimension of culture, digitalisation, the development of cultural tourism, the improvement of the position of independent artists, cultural workers and professional associations of artists. All these plans have only one goal, and this is to strengthen awareness of their own cultural identity through the foundation of rich tradition and through the mastering of new modern methods and technologies for their transfer. Also, never more funds will be invested in the film industry. It also rejoices that the state does not forget both our countrymen and fellow citizens and that it provides unreserved support to the Serb people of KIM, where we are trying to preserve our cultural heritage. We must at all costs preserve our cultural heritage. Now, in the KiM area, Albanians will no longer destroy and destroy cultural heritage. They will try a much more dangerous methodology, and they already do, and that is a change in the identity characteristics of cultural heritage. That's what they've been trying to do for years. They no longer deny that it exists, but deny its Serbian character, insisting that it is the character of the Albanian state, that is, the Albanian nation. It is inalienable that every country, with full sovereignty, will be the heritage of its own unique cultural values that are the fruit of its entire history. It's in the 1976 UN Declaration of Vancouver. This right is, as we all know well, denied to the Republic of Serbia in KIM. Politicians, media, artists, historians, everyone seems to have put themselves in the service of politics, so the Middle Ages Serbian monasteries are defined as Byzantine or as monuments of Kosovo-visual style. It is not rare to hear that Serbian churches are built on the foundations of Albanian temples. What we have to do is, with the historical facts that are on our side, we try to take all these attacks that come from the opposite side and take advantage of it in the best possible way. No one in particular can take away our blasphemy, that's for sure, but there are real threats in terms of falsification of history. Of course there will be such attempts. It's obvious that's what the Albanians are trying to do. What we need to know is that if we bring a nation down to demographics, if we take away its sacred and hearth, it will simply disappear at one point. That's what Albanians know very well, and that's why they claim to be our monasteries, because it's exactly the foundations of our freedom and the seeds from which we constantly suck and cherish over and over again that Kosovo's vow that Serbs have a historical and moral right in Kosovo. Also, we must be a people who are aware of their responsibilities, aware of their cultural heritage. That cultural heritage is immeasurable. We need to be, first of all, aware that we are actually primal and true, identical to our cultural heritage, and these are primarily frescoes and temples like Gracanica. I must point out that during the previous period we opened the Serbian house in Podgorica, preserved our church and monasteries, defended our identity. It has once again shown on the case how strong the Serbian people are when they agree. The Serbian house is a symbol of everything the Serbian state has done in Montenegro in the past, and it is about helping the Serbian people. It shows Serbia's new face, which is growing stronger and stronger every day. The president of the state a few days ago, visiting on one television, mentioned that he would refer a proposal to the government of Serbia that Serbia in the future was writing textbooks from Serbian language, history and geography, which is indeed an exceptional proposal, because these are areas that the state should and must edit, in a way that is important and important in detail that our children gain knowledge that they did not or had to be sufficiently. The defeating data were conducted by surveys of our high school students and founders who show little knowledge of national history, because some topics were unfairly neglected, the native language that was attacked by foreigners who had the perfect pandan in words and expressions in Serbian. Of course there are words that are almost irreplaceable, but their overuse is sometimes truly unnatural and unnecessary. Speaking of culture, history, traditions, I can't help touching Stefan Nemanja's magnificent monument in Belgrade. For 800 years, Serbia has been waiting for some authority to honour and build a monument to the progenitor of Serbian medieval history. The whole place was almost a symbol of the downed, destroyed and ruined. Now, when we look at the monument, Belgrade on the water and with the adaptation of the old railway station building, it is a symbol of Serbia's success and progress. And the scepter and the cracked helmet talk about our history and culture, where we come from, and where we're from. In all ways, those who symbolized some past times, difficult, when they only cared about their own pocket, tried to dispute and degrade this project, and in their time culture and national consciousness did not exist in fragments either. In every detail, they were looking for a flaw, so it bothered them and what Nemanja looked like, because they probably had a picture of him in their family album, so they knew what he looked like. I wonder only when they were so smart, why didn't they build that monument during their reign? The only monuments they have left behind are the destroyed economy, poverty, national humiliation and countries without perspective. They also wondered why Nemanja held in her hand a sword, not a cross, probably not knowing that Nemanja had made his country with sword and fire, fighting both his brothers and Byzantium and Dubrovnik, trying to choose his country's independence and independence, that he was persecuting the bohemian heres by protecting Orthodoxism. At the end of his life, when he teaches the throne to his son Stefan, he becomes the monk Simeon, and later he is a saint. Again, if he held the cross in his hand, these great believers would probably have noticed that Serbia is a secular state and that the cross offends the religious feelings of those citizens who are other cultures and nationalities. It is indeed more degutant to talk about all the topics and texts that are placed in their media, because it is obvious that nothing is sacred to them, because they even tried to challenge the Serbian patriarch's choice by calling him Vukic's patriarch. Again, their potential presidential candidate is elected from the same church. You'll agree that's top hypocrisy, but we learned that when they attack us, they talk about themselves, there's nothing new to say. I could talk about them and their actions by tomorrow, but I promised myself that in my speeches, I would try to give as little time as possible to the former politicians, because I think that's how I give them meaning. Citizens know very well how to benefit from their policies, remember every false promise, every lost job, robbery privatisation, an affair of Serbia's international reputation at the time. Everything that has marked their rule and that has served to send these same citizens to the elections in political history. I am not proud, ladies and gentlemen, that some of my people have committed crimes, but I am that they have been brought to justice, because in this way, they are devoting themselves from the entire Serbian people. I'm proud that we all know about Srebrenica, and the Potocari, and the Strpce, and the North, and every site of other peoples, because that's how we cultivate the memory of evil times and of something that never again in this country and the environment can't happen again. I'm saying this for one simple reason, which is because my education never allowed me to distinguish between victims who were innocently injured only because they were other religions, nations and cultures. At the same time, I am saddened and disappointed by the enormous amount of autoschuvinism, that only after so many years, through a film that speaks of the horrors of Jasenovac, we are talking about this same Jasenovac and Gradišca. That so few of our people know more about the Prebylovites, the poor, the foresters and the buffalo hill. If you look a little bit better, you don't go to Jasenovac and Storm separately. We see the rumblings 80 and 30 years ago, which tells us only one thing, which is that we must not forget and live in error, that it is something that has happened and will never happen again, because nothing, dear colleagues, reminds us of it except this film and no one has paid the price of these bloody beers, but is celebrated as heroes. Pavelic was killed 15 years after the war, or died of an assassination in Buenos Aires. Max Luburic, also in Spain, is the hand of UDBA agent and Ustasha-killer's son Vinko Stanic. Some have slept through their trials because they were brought to Croatia just before the end of their lives to die. Only 13 years ago in Croatia, individuals who committed the most serious crimes were buried with the greatest honor. Cash, Markach and the rest of them are free people. No one cries over Serbian victims, and we have to accept it, turn to ourselves and guard our memory and remember our deaths, because if we forget it, no one else will remind us of it. Thanks to Mr Antonijevic, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and President Aleksandr Vukic, who was the only one who could and could, this film was made, and it is very important to do so, because it is talking about our victims and our multi-sufficient people. We won't stop there, I'm already convinced that this film will start an avalanche, and this way, with the help of the film industry, we will show, remind and learn about our history and the eternal struggle of our people in these areas. We also look forward to the construction of the Gradina Memorial Centre, which Serbia and Republika Srpska will build together. It shows our unity, because our people were never more unique. Never more united in the desire to mark certain dates together. It's proof that we're going to survive, and not only that, it's proof that we're going to be completely nationally consolidated, and that's something we shouldn't be ashamed of, but we should be proud of. We'll never be ashamed of a hero from Koshar again, but we'll talk about their sacrifice with pride. We won't let any Serb soldiers forget, no hero who gave his life for his country. They'll get streets, we'll build them monuments and a memorial board. These people laid down their lives for Serbia, so that Serbia today would be free and independent. Also, it must never be allowed to forget the fall of Jasenovac, "Storm", "Blash" or NATO aggression on our country. These dates will be marked, as they have been for all this time by the SNS authorities, because it is our duties and obligations both towards victims and generations to come. In the end, I would invite you all to vote in the voting day for this proposal, and I would like to conclude my address today with a quote from the book “The legacy of the great mayor Stefan Nemanja, to your son Saint Savi” and, where it is said, quote: “Keep my dear tongue as a country, order can be lost as a city, as a land, as a soul, and what is it that people lose their language, earth, soul? Don't take someone else's word in your mouth. If you take someone else's word, you know you didn't win it, but you made a difference. It is better for you to lose both the greatest and the strongest city of your country than the smallest and most ignorant word of your tongue. A people who lose their words cease to be a people. “ Thank you. Long live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-02-0.u3535	I thank the authorised representative of the parliamentary group Aleksandar Vukic – For our children. Honorable Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today even after 1800 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to bring in acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Since I no longer see registered authorised representatives in the system, we are moving on to the list of MPs. The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-02-0.u3536	I thank the chairman. Dear fellow MPs, Serbian citizens, respected ministers with associates, I am Milija Miletic, and I come from Svrljig, which is the most beautiful municipality in Serbia located near the town of Nis. It's the most beautiful city in Serbia. Otherwise, here in the Assembly I represent the United Peasant Party, selected from the list Alexander Vukic – For our children, where together we all do that everything that is quality, what is good comes to every part of our Serbia, to every man wherever he lives. Today we have a proposal for this agreement, because we are interested in investing in culture, in monuments, in everything our grandfathers gave their lives for, to know, not to forget. My colleague Stefan, who just said it right, said it exactly the same way, and I think that's why we were on the same list together, which is why we got the biggest support of the people in the 2020 parliamentary elections. Once again, this is a great thing. The infrastructure in culture, the most important thing about what, for me as a human being, is that we will have the opportunity to invest in Nis as well. Nis is, by the way, the centre of southeastern Serbia. They'll be in Nis. The National Theatre should be done. They'll be in Pirot. It would be a good idea to go through this project, which, where the Municipality of Srlig is from which I come, to do and there to do the reconstruction of the facility and to do something about it. Otherwise, I'm in the previous period when there was a minister of culture, Mrs. Maya, I invited her to visit the Srlig municipality, where we could go to our beauty, where there are a large number of monuments in that municipality, because there people were always loyal to their country, to their country, to war for our country, and that's why I'm always talking from the heart, talking about those things that were, but most importantly besides this is what's going to happen in the next period. Dear Ministers, even though you are the Minister of Sports, I would invite you to come and visit the Municipality of Srlig, to see sports facilities together there, because we have one sports hall that has been started there, so that it is not just another monument that is not finished, that we end that sports hall in Srlig and that we are working on every part of our beautiful Serbia being covered with all the things about sports, but also business and agriculture. Once again, I will vote for this bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-02-0.u3537	Thank you. I give my word to the People's Parliament to Vlad Glisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-02-0.u3538	Winston Churchill was under pressure to transfer the funds for culture into defense and into the military. It was a time when Britain was struck by Germany, but he refused the request in words: “What will we defend if we give up our culture? “ In line with the code of political jurisdiction and with this sentence by Winston Churchill, I support this loan, because I feel that it is necessary to invest in culture, institutions need to be restored, and my agreement with this ends. Simply because when you look at the loan structure, of these 20m euros, grotesque funds will be invested in institutions in Belgrade. We know that what will be invested in the National Theatre in Nis is good and what is good is also the Cultural Centre in Pirot and the story of 11 digitization, i.e. The digitisation of 11 cultural centres across Serbia. However, most of the funds will go to Belgrade and we will again, I know that the people of the Ministry of Culture are in a congested state and that they have to renew what they have and that the result of a centralisation that has been going on for decades has come toll. The centralisation leads to Serbia being an emptying place and that several urban centres, primarily Belgrade, but also Novi Sad, Kragujevac and Nis, are empty Serbia and that the right solution for Serbia and culture, but also in other areas of demographicisation. It is a specific form of decentralisation that implies, in addition to strengthening local environments, and investing in smaller municipalities and smaller towns, because they will thus, not only in culture, but in economy and in any other investment, allow the rural hinterland of these cities to be retained, to keep people and to stay in those areas. At this point, we have empty spaces across Serbia, which are rapidly empty. The large urban centres, as I mentioned earlier, primarily Belgrade, but also these other three, empty Serbia and bring people to these cities, to these large urban centres. If it wasn't good for Serbia, we know from several elements. It is best to see now that these urban centres are, in their nature, the focal point of the epidemic, that places where the environment is polluted and people are more affected by the polluted environments, that those places where the quality of life is weaker than that of Serbia have developed differently. At the same time, we find it impossible to prevent a demographic disaster in these places, i.e. as the people call the white plague. We need to demetropolise Serbia, invest in smaller municipalities and smaller cities and culture, as well as in all other areas. Of course, if we want to save Serbia and prevent this discharge of Serbia, we should not only do so in the fields of culture, because as much as you invest in culture, if the economy and other social and political elements of our social development do not support less municipalities, do not support demetropolisation, then culture will not be enough either. That's why I want to look at one more thing that is important for Serbia's decentralisation and demetatropolisation, which is what is happening these days in the negotiations on electoral conditions, the electoral system. Only one thing the ruling majority would accept, especially the biggest party, which is the SNS, would allow people living in smaller towns in Serbia to realize that they are seriously planning to do that and stay there. Based on what? If you choose municipal leaderships, and even the management of local communities, you work in such a way that it doesn't matter that there is a positive selection there and that these staffs are the best, no matter which foreigners they belong to, you send a message to people living in those places that are not expected to have a future. Our electoral rules in which people who are party leaders can be bearers of the list, and that they do not live in municipalities where they will be bearers of the list, that they may even be bearers of the list and in local communities in which they may never even appear, this sends a message to those who should live in those local communities and in these municipalities that no one intends to invest in them. Because, don't forget, when it comes to being someone who will rule tomorrow in some municipality whether you have gathered a number of capillaries and have managed to bring in some financial resources in the party register, it's not a confirmation that you're going to be a good president of the municipality. If your party leader covers all those on the list with his authority, then no party will have any interest in performing a positive selection and putting the most qualitative people from their ranks on the list. So, just that one change. It is normal for the leader of the largest party and the president of our country to be on the list when he is fighting for the presidency, it is normal for an MP to carry a parliamentary list, but it is not normal for him to carry a list in a municipality he will not live in or carry a list in a local community he doesn't even know where he is. I assume that the local community of Garashi, Mr. President of the SNS, and the president of Serbia does not know where it exists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-02-0.u3539	The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-02-0.u3540	Unlike the previous speaker, Serbia's president knows every local community and every village and every village and every section of our Serbian state, as well as our southern provinces, as well as many countries of the region, what we now call the region. But it's not a subject. The chairman, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the coincidence led to the fact that, preparing for today's session, Winston Churchill's famous response came to mind when Hitler attacked Great Britain, and after the minister's proposal to move the money for a culture through the budget and move to the war budget, what did he say: “If we abolish the separation for culture, what is it that we defend? “ I think that all of us present should keep that in mind today when we talk about culture, infrastructure projects from culture, the reconstruction of theatres, museums, galleries, cultural centres across Serbia, thus showing the determination and will of the state to invest in culture and that culture is high on our list of priorities. We also show that we have the strength and ability to solve all the accumulated problems that we have when we talk about the state of the infrastructure in culture. I think it is extremely important to cultivate a material and immaterial cultural heritage, in line with the 2020-2020 Development Strategy for Serbia, and to ensure a wider availability of culture through institutions and media. This will undoubtedly contribute to the development of cultural initiatives, economic activities, the creation of new jobs, as well as further development of tourism in Serbia. These are the concrete benefits this agreement will produce. Of course, to get to this point, we needed to pre-financial consolidation of the state, to heal the state of public finances, to recover the economy and put economy on healthy and stable feet. I am therefore pleased to point out that we are adding more attention and importance to culture and to successfully implement the recently mentioned strategy for the development of Serbia's culture, which defines the Serbian cultural core and, more importantly, the Serbian cultural space that does not only mean the territory of today's Serbia as we know it, but also the space where the Serbian people have left numerous traces of material and immaterial cultural heritage throughout history. But, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, don't be convinced that everyone in Serbia will support this, some will be against it. Some will find a reason and way to criticize even investment in culture, as they do when it comes to all other issues. So we have, you will notice, continuous hysteria and a negative campaign in some media even about the movie "Dara from Jasenovac". It is no longer known that they are in pain of the fact that the truth about the suffering of our people is shown after, I feel free to say, decades of silence on this subject, so does it hurt them more, which finally saw the light, or the fact that the state just on Alexander Vukic's initiative as president helped him to help make that film? Well, for these purposes of a negative campaign, for this purpose of hysteria that leads against this film, every day they call on various prominent ones, so to speak, second-serbs, known from earlier on for autoskilling, to speak on their shows all the worst and darkest about this film. They are in pain that the relationship with history has changed in Serbia. They are pained by the fact that today's Serbia, led by Aleksandar Vukic, cultivates and cultivates a memory culture of Jasenovac victims, is not ashamed of its victims from the past, that today Serbia does not forget the numerous crimes committed against Serbs in history and that we do not accept senseless thesis that Serbs are the only culprits for everything that has happened in our history. In this, ladies and gentlemen, the difference between today's Serbia led by Aleksandar Vucic and Serbia led by Tadic, Pajtic, Djilas, Marinika, Borko Stefanovic and everyone else who bowed their heads and apologized for what they needed and for what they didn't need, but much more often for what they didn't need but for what they needed. That, the chairman, spoke a few days ago of my esteemed colleague, Djordje Dabic, when he said that by 2012, the atmosphere was such that it should not be mentioned that crimes against Serbs had happened in the past. So it was literally forbidden to mention Serbian victims of crime in the period until 2012. You shouldn't have mentioned either Miljevaci plat, or Maslenica, or Medak's pocket, or Storm, or Flash, you shouldn't have mentioned Jastrebar, or Jasenovac, or Jadovno, or Stara Gradiška, any of it. The most common use of various euphemisms, such as NATO drips or such, was used for the monstrosity of NATO aggression. You shouldn't have called things your real name. It was only allowed to say that Serbs are criminals and that Serbs are responsible for everything that has happened in the past. If you stand up to such a narrative, the narrative that it once ruled, you are immediately declared a war-scraper, I don't know, uncivilized, retrograde in every sense, primitive, etc. Now, the same team, therefore, is the team that ruled at the time, and now that team is trying to black out the movie "The Gift from Jasenovac" and these are the same ones who attack even Stefan Nemanja's monument and run a campaign against everything that has even the sound of something patriotic in it. That's why, ladies and gentlemen, and I'm going to end it, the main and permanent topic right now, Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic, because his policy leads to the protection of Serbian national interests, which is in their eyes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-02-0.u3541	Thank you. The word has a folk MP Sanja Jefic Brankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-02-0.u3542	Thank you. The President-in-Office, ministers with co-workers, co-workers and fellow MPs, today we are discussing the proposal for a law confirming the loan framework agreement between the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe and the Republic of Serbia on the project loan of infrastructures in culture. We've heard a lot about it today from previous speakers. I would just point out that the main objectives of the project are, above all, the renovation, renewal and expansion of cultural institutions, and they are mainly located in historic or protected buildings and are thus categorized as cultural heritage and protected by the state. The state of many buildings in Serbia is as bad as it is, and I must say, there are many reasons for that. Local self-government units are often not able to allocate sufficient funds to address the renovation or upgrade of older buildings, and therefore state aid is more than necessary in this regard and this is all in favour of the full justification of this loan that we are talking about today. The above loan included the National Theatre in Nis, a fellow MP from Nis said earlier, and it implies the restoration of the existing National Theatre building, as well as the construction of the so-called National Theatre. Little scenes in Nis. Nis is one of the first cities to enter the history of the Serbian theatre and the first known theatre event was recorded in Nis back in 1883 and I think Nis deserves not only the renovation of the building, but also the construction of a long-awaited small hall that I want to talk about today. Nis has only one National Theatre and it is protected by the state as a monument to culture, and the idea of building a small scene exists for many years. A small scene for theatre fans, i.e. those who love theater and how they know what I'm talking about, is a small scene designed for the performances that were made to play on a small stage and it implies a completely different interaction with the audience itself and a completely different experience for those who enjoy plays played on a small stage. The current National Theatre in Nis has 390 seats in the parter and 156 on the balcony, and the construction of a small scene would allow all of those plays that from technical inability so far could not be played on one such scene. Nis has a rich cultural heritage. The festival of acting achievements, famous film meetings are the pride of all Nišli and has been held in the city since 1966 on the summer stage. In this context, I would mention that the recent summer stage was restored by the investment of as many as 15 million dinars provided by the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications, and that is what enables Nišlijam to enjoy in such a festival that is completely unique in this part of the Balkans. When we talk about cultural buildings, I also have to mention that Nis still doesn't have an adequate museum building, i.e. it seems that the largest number of separate objects is exactly the one located within the National Museum. Negotiations were launched with the Serbian Army on the violation of certain military facilities, which are owned by them, however, have not been completed. I think it'll be one of the next steps when it comes to this building. I have to go back to the subject of a small scene and improvised theatre scenes. Maybe the public isn't familiar with it enough, but Nis has a fantastic festival of international character called Urban Fest. It's a festival that plays on an open stage in June of every year, to say in the open sky, at various impromptu locations in the city. It's one of a kind we call a marathon, a theater marathon that we have in town, and then it's just a parole under which all these plays are played, the whole town is a theater and it really is. I wish you had a chance to come to Nis to participate in such an event, that is, to experience it in the way that we from Nis experience it. Although the entire project is planned to amount to around 30m euros, 20m euros actually involve the loan we are discussing today, and the remaining 10 are planned to be taken out of the Republic of Serbia's budget and despite Nis being on the framework list alone, I hope that there will be enough resources left for this project to be realised and when it comes to our theatre in Nis. I am sure that the Serbian government has a good intention of assessing the necessity that these facilities should be invested in, and I am here to ask on behalf of Nisli to simply take into account all these circumstances that I have cited when deciding which buildings to invest in. In the end, artists "The Fall of Sonata", "Herostat", "The Dead Souls", "The Violinist on the Roof", "The Ministers' Lady" and other major titles played at the National Theatre in Nis deserve to show their skills and talents in some new, renovated and changed light. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-02-0.u3543	I thank Parliamentarian Sanja Jeftic Brankovic. The word has the deputy president of the SPS parliamentary group National MP Snezana Paunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-02-0.u3544	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear fellow ministers, dear colleagues, citizens and citizens of Serbia, today we are talking about a loan provided by the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe, more specifically the National Assembly on the agenda has a bill to confirm the Framework Agreement on Loan between the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe and the Republic of Serbia on a project loan concerning infrastructure in culture. The agreement was signed in January of this year and unless I am mistaken by the finance minister. And it wouldn't be very important if I didn't say what I was going to say, which is that I support this agreement for at least two reasons. The first of them is that it clearly shows the government's definition that, apart from the budgets for culture, which are around 1% this year, they invest in culture and funds from other sources. That's the story we're going back to when we talked about the budget and commented that we needed to help culture, that maybe 1% wasn't enough, but that it was a good step. The second is that, in my opinion, there are several capital institutions of culture of national importance and the investment of an additional 20m euros in infrastructure, in renovation, reconstruction, modernisation and adaptation of existing institutions of culture, such as the National Theatre in Belgrade, Nis, such as the Yugoslav Museum and cultural centres across Serbia. What makes me particularly happy is that the building of the old railway station, which is part of the complex in Sava Square, will be a historical museum, which, if I'm not mistaken, exists in three locations, making it very difficult for its work, and thus taking care of the historical heritage that for every nation is part of its own identity, above all. If I understand correctly, most of the museum will be dedicated to medieval Serbia and that is very important. Keeping historical documents, presenting them to the public and constantly studying the past reduces the possibility of falsifying history, and Serbia has recently been hit countless times by any forgers. This topic is closely related to culture because unfortunately not only is history, but our cultural heritage is also the object of attempted forgeries. I will return to Kosovo and Metohija again, fully consciously, and say that I must warn that we must not allow what is ours to be adopted. It's the task of the Ministry of Culture to counter these attempts, which are hardly rare, and it seems to me, increasingly aggressive lately. The obligation to respect, safeguard and promote Serbia's history has other national institutions, and when I say so, I will mention first and foremost to SANU. It is indisputable that we can have a personal view of everything other than what is a historical heritage and cultural heritage, we must never allow ourselves to ignore and put into another plan because of any populism or moment that would bring us popularity. If we don't preserve the cultural heritage of Kosovo and Metohija, this is before me, it seems to me, a colleague Stefan told me, the legacy that St. Sava, Stefan Nemanja and other Serbian rulers from the German dynasty, that means that we gave up our ancestors, but to a good extent ourselves, and that we gave up our future as well. We just don't have the right to do that, because we have to have the awareness that it was and it's gonna be ours. When we talk about the restoration of important cultural institutions that need to preserve our cultural and historical heritage, I want to remind myself that many of our cultural treasures have been destroyed in the past 20 years in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija. The Vancouver UN declaration of 1976 states precisely: “It is inalienable for every country to be a heritage of its own cultural values that are the fruit of its entire history with full sovereignty. ” So our right to cultural heritage in Kosovo and Metohija stems from our historical rights, as well as from international documents, as you can see. Pristina has not long since tried to even enter UNESCO at the expense of Pecka Patriarchia, High Decana, Gracanica and Mother of Ljeviška. Fortunately, we recognized one such drive and an energetic and successful diplomatic action of the entire state summit, but above all, the foreign minister at the time, the current president of the Assembly, Ivica Dacic, prevented the attempt. Although, I must admit, none of us have heard of similar attempts by some self-proclaimed and unrecognized states that need to falsify their own history above all. What is the highlight of cynicism is the fact that these same monasteries based on which they tried to get membership in UNESCO were ruthlessly burned and destroyed in the past period. Just for a little while to get back to the fact that over 150 churches and monasteries are on fire. These are official UNESCO data, that more than 10,000 valuable icons have been stolen, that some 5,300 tombstones have been damaged at about 256 Serbian Orthodox cemeteries. How many documents and books of history have been stolen are still unknown, but it is clear that their ultimate goal is to undo everything that is Serbian in that territory, so that somehow they can prove that it has never been Serbian. What is nice is that the Turkish census in 1455 found that 46 Albanian families lived there in 23 villages, but it did not bother them to claim that the monasteries of the 12th, 13, 14th century were built by them. I won't pay any more attention to them. What I also want to draw attention to is a dangerous process, which is revitalising relations to Serbian national history, and thus to historical events and facts. We have the habit of increasingly using the term “needing a culture of memory, ” even at a formal level. What does "memory culture" mean when it comes to historical events? The memory is not binding, obliging memory and preservation, and it would be good to change one approach like this, because the new culture must not destroy the cultural heritage and destroy the foundations on which Serbia, our people and the Serbian Orthodox Church were first established as such. We are bound by the most recent attempts to falsify facts in Jasenovac, and this is what was said here, as a death camp for Serbs, Jews and Roma. We are partly responsible for claiming and circulating different interpretations, different figures. I'm sure it wouldn't have happened to the Jews. We saw a reaction from the public who rose and upset over the movie "Dar from Jasenovac" and I must stress that we in our parliamentary ranks have our Dara from Jasenovac, that is our Smile Tishma. She is a living witness to all these terrible crimes that mankind doesn't remember from the beginning. I don't know what can be compared to the Jasenovo camp for children. I don't think that even remembers history, and I hope it never happens in the future. It is up to us to cultivate “a culture of memory, ” to explore all the way to the end and preserve every evidence and every document, and to hear every story as shaken as it may be from that period. In the end, I'll go back to my own cultural infrastructure loan. I will symbolically say that these infrastructure projects that will be financed from the Bank's loan for the development of the World of Europe, we will hit even stronger and deeper foundations of our culture in both strategic segments and in the preservation of cultural heritage as well as in the creation of some new cultural content. Let us not forget that culture is one of the segments that preserves or loses the identity of a nation. Not to be misunderstood, because I don't want to, Serbia is a multicultural society and is equally concerned about the cultural achievements of all the national minorities living with us here, and that is our greatest wealth. The relation to this, respect for all of this, is to Serbia's pride. However, this does not mean that at any time it is necessary to allow its cultural, historical and national identity to be annulled. I really don't think that any of the national minorities who live in Serbia have such a tendency except for that attempt in the southern Serbian province, which, unfortunately, is partly a consequence and the fact that when you don't have your own history, and you want to belong to Europe, then you resort to everything and to thieving. It's a matter of morality, and there's no talking about morality for a long time. I will stress that the SPS parliamentary group will definitely support the draft loan law as much as possible in the voting day, and whenever we say the loan upsets the citizens who listen to us, this time it is indeed a loan that is for the benefit of the Serbian state and the citizens in it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-02-0.u3545	I thank you, deputy president of the SPS parliamentary group. The word has a People's Messenger, Samir Tandir. Here you go. The remaining time for your parliamentary group is three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-02-0.u3546	Thank you, Chairman. My fellow Members and fellow MPs, at first I would like to point out that the president of Serbia, today in Sarajevo, is handing out a donation of vaccines to local authorities, members of the presidency. I want to thank the president of Serbia, that this is a gesture that proves good neighbourly relations, which proves our country's desire to make the best possible relations between the peoples in the region and one of the parts of the agreement between the Justice and Reconciliation Party and the SNS is to improve the relationship between the Bosniak and Serbian, Serb Bosniak people, between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina. It is a gesture that every well-intentioned citizen and this country and region must greet. I sincerely hope that the donation will certainly come in handy for people in Bosnia and Herzegovina and that it will reach those who are most vulnerable. The law we are discussing today is a loan for cultural infrastructure funds, which is a very important law. We'll vote for him. I think it's necessary to allocate a much larger amount of resources when it comes to culture, especially parts of our country that we call the interior. I'm from Sandzak. The state of institutions in the field of culture, especially when it comes to infrastructure, is very bad. However, it is much easier to build one building than to change habits, affect education and culture of a generation. I call upon the Ministry of Culture whose portfolio and information is to pay a little more attention to the contents that our children view on TV and content available to them when we talk about education through textbooks, through all other teaching tools and through the contents available through the press. So we have to make clear if we want to have raised generations that know what culture is. I especially want to highlight the bad state in the area of culture in the Sanjay municipalities. The Municipality of Sjenica has no museum, no museum building and should be invested in it. There's no home building in Prepolje library. The roof of the House of Culture in Prepolje leaks. The Library in Sjenica operates at 45 m2. I think that these funds should be directed there, that all resources do not end in Belgrade, because if we want Serbia and our country as a whole not to remain empty, we must develop our country evenly. We can't invest everything in Belgrade. And our children in Prijepolje, Novi Pazar and Srlig must also have theatre and cinema and museum and library. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-02-0.u3547	I would like to thank the president of the MP Group of the Justice and Reconciliation Party -- the United Peasant Party. Next on the list is the vice-president of the National Assembly, Radovan Tvrdisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-02-0.u3548	The Honorable Chairman, dear fellow Members of the People. If anyone in Serbia ever suspected that culture was significant, it could be found to be very significant after the past few weeks. So she has this ability to touch that deepest line, the deepest core of our longer. What is happening, especially after showing the movie "The Dar from Jasenovac" and after the discovery of the monument to Stefan Nemanja, shows that culture is very important in Serbia. Why did she suddenly become so important? Because in these two examples, the state of Serbia has finally shown itself to go back to memory culture, finally to recognise the essential, fundamental points of its identity, and that is why the film "Dara from Jasenovac" produced such a reaction, causing so many negative and positive, every other reaction. Why? Because it showed that after 80 years, the Serb people who were not the only ones who had been killed were the only ones who hadn't talked about their deaths. And after 80 years, a film about the loss of the Serb people was finally made in the form of a film expression. It is a kind of amazing precedent that we belong to a people who did not have the strength or the ability to speak in their own language, to speak in Serbian about their own suffering. That's why the film has caused so many reactions, because it shows a kind of decision, a kind of ability to move towards the return of a memory culture. The same way was the reaction to the discovery of the monument to Stefan Nemanja. All the stories of aesthetics, all the stories of architecture, all the stories of what nuances we don't like are essentially the cover for the biggest problem this monument has presented, and that's the problem for some of the Serbian people and the Serbian state to turn to a memory culture. Here, a culture of memory should be well separated from a culture of memory, because memory is usually related to a generation. The memory culture in which the Jewish state built an identity and where it became what it is today is a kind of synchronised synthetic relationship to images, to films, to certain rituals that declare and explain that kind of relationship between a country. So, the memory culture is crucial, and even in this law that we are talking about today, and that is why after showing this film and after the opening of the monument to Stefan Nemanja, it is logical that this culture is being shed even after the initiative of the Serbian President to the government, that textbooks under the control of the state of history, geography and Serbian language are finally released to our children, that we finally have the right and the opportunity to have our own vision of our history, of our language and of what we consider key things related to geography. So that's where the memory culture continues. We come to today's bill of law, that is, a loan that is precisely that logic, following this story of memory culture, which is of course mentioned in the strategy, which we expect soon, which, following that logic, comes to what is very important, which is the infrastructure for keeping that memory. And in this proposal, too, it is very important to me very much that, apart from helping infrastructure facilities, at this point, they are vital to safeguard that memory, it is also said about digitisation, which shows as a state that we are conscious and ready to recognize the moment in which we live, that we recognize the world that is changing, that we recognize the key trends in this changing world, that we understand that digitalisation is a process that we cannot skip and that if the digitalisation is inevitable then we need to put it into our own hands. In this way, through the acceptance of the digitalisation process, through the acceptance of everything we may not have been sufficiently directed at, and as regards the work at the level of eGovernment, which I was not specifically addressed to until we were through the digitalisation subcommittee that we held the other day, I did not realize in which degree a kind of state sovereignty in the digitalisation space was carried out and through the formation of this Data Centre in Kragujevac which thus puts one kind of increased state sovereignty in the field of digitisation. So we keep spinning, I think it's a key point to keep repeating, a memory culture, and we can't talk about a memory culture if we don't mention Serbian. The Serbian language is the biggest victim of the market concept of value, slaved by trends, many times and political logic, the tiny tsar of the current ones. The Serbian language is unfortunately, which by working on some who had the goal of destroying it, and which by our failure to act was a major victim of the transition process. Here, that word transition, again a foreign word, such as foreign word and transparency instead of clarity, so on many levels, that Serbian language was attacked. Let's not talk about famous psychology, talk about how you have more trouble calling someone without insulting them, not talking about what really hurts me, and that's because we're adjective -- Serbian, we're starting to throw out as needed at all, because someone told us it's not politically useful. If the Serbian Academy of Science and Art puts an adjective in the first word of Serbian, which according to Vujaklia is a synonym for the Serbian people and the state, then why is it a problem that we do the same at each level? In my logic, going after the logic of people who are very professional, which is in fact the most professional institution, the Serbian Academy of Science and Arts, I personally believe should be the Serbian Football Union, the Serbian basketball alliance, but, I am not an expert, I am not a linguist, but there are people who are experts and we should leave them to define what is and what is wrong. This is how we come into a situation where the languages of all national minorities are protected, and they absolutely need to be protected in every way, and the Serbian language is not sufficiently protected. I am sure that, in line with the Culture Development Strategy, which we will soon, hopefully, welcome here in parliament, with the Charter of the Single Serbian Cultural Area, which is also signed, which indicates the need for a systematic struggle to preserve the sprawl language and letter, and, of course, with the Constitution as a key and fundamental point where it all comes from and where it all comes from. I hope that we will soon arrive at a situation where we can transfer this culture of memory to the Serbian language space in the hope that this present and present assembly will also be present for that kind of shift, of course I support that such a bill is passed and I will vote in the day of voting for this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-02-0.u3549	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Zarko Bogatinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-02-0.u3550	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected ministers with associates, in the town of Leskovac, the area of culture is highly and respected and represents connections between people, a collection of all parts of art and as very important for the development of a community and civilization is high on the list of priorities of our city's local self-government. Leskovac stands out of the budget for the important area and under the allocations is at the top among Serbia's cities and municipalities. The key principles on which the concept of the cultural policy of Leskovec is based are the promotion of the cultural identity of the city, decentralisation, the creation of ambience for the promotion of young talent, the preservation of cultural heritage, the creation of conditions for artistic production and creation, as well as the improvement of the spatial capacities of existing objects. To achieve these principles, the city of Leskovac from the budget is funding and co-financed by cultural institutions whose founder is and culture associations through competition for funding and co-financing of projects. The result of this cultural policy of the city are numerous awards and medals in culture. The cultural institutions in Leskovac are the Leskovac Cultural Centre, the Leskovac National Museum, the National Library "Radoje Domanović", the historical archive and homes of culture in Vučje, Grdelica, Pečevac and Brestovac, as well as the House of Culture of Roma. In 2019, she celebrated even a century and 40 years of existence. By guarding this temple of books, we always point out that we are proud of the tradition of this institution. The exhibition of the National Museum "The War Path of the Moravia Division" at the RTS Gallery, attended by the Ambassador of France Federiko Mondolina, as well as the exhibition "The Morats and the French, brothers of arms" at the Cultural Centre in Paris, showed that our museum is an institution that has an international reputation worth the attention and respect of. This also proves the "Mihailo Valtrovic" award for the best museum that has been awarded twice to this impasse institution in the last three years. The proud bearers of this confession are curators and archaeologists of the museum. The museum, after many years, changed its permanent position and now we can enjoy its two phases -- the Time machine of the Wooden End and the Serbian Manchester from 1878 to 1941. Actors of the National Theatre in Leskovac, after winning the Jubilee 50th Joachim Vujic festival, are becoming increasingly visible in TV shows and movies with national frequencies. In late 2020, the institution brought nine awards to its town of Leskovac from the same name festival. They managed to overcome the 2014 success mentioned, and we Leskovci are particularly proud of the fact that in 2021, when we celebrate 125 years of existence, they will again host this wonderful event. The Leskovac Cultural Centre was named an institution with the highest number of events in Serbia in 2018 by quality and quantity of content right after Belgrade. Thanks to the Life Film Festival, Leskovac has become recognizable on the map of the most important cultural events in our country and region. The Leskovac Cultural Centre is a gathering of artists, writers, filmmakers and cultural lovers whose leadership carefully selects the contents and organizes events that provide a wide range of opportunities for all our citizens. As you could hear from a few moments ago, the results of the cultural institution in our city can be assessed by the highest estimates. The National Museum, next to the winner of the "Mihailo Valtrović" award and proud holder of the Sretenjska Order III row, was awarded the "Golden Archive" award last year. In the end, all the leaders of these institutions consistently point out that these brilliant results could not have been achieved without the support of local self-government, the mayor of Leskovec and, of course, the Ministry of Culture and Information, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and, of course, the President of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Aleksandr Vukic, who visited Leskovac during the campaign "Future of Serbia", announced that the state would invest in the tourism development of Caric's work of threem euros, in the archaeological site of the VI century near Leban, but run by the Woodian National Museum and that it would make every effort to find its location on the UNESCO World Heritage List until 2023. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-02-0.u3551	I thank the People's MP, Zark Bogatinovic. The word is given by MP Branimir Jovanovic. The remaining time for your parliamentary group is four minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-02-0.u3552	Thank you. The respected chairman, respected ministers, representatives of the ministry today, when we are discussing an agreement to provide funds for the renovation, renewal and expansion of cultural institutions, I would like to point out several problems in this area. These are the problems, mostly, which are faced with employees in cultural institutions at the bar, but above all it seems that we ourselves sometimes pay a little attention, a little time, a little money when we talk about the question of culture. As proof of this, often when we are discussing the budget, we least touch this issue of how much we stand out for culture and how ready we are to improve this area. A large amount of money is directed from this agreement to cultural institutions that are in Belgrade, but I hope the portion will be defined as institutions of culture from within Serbia. I want to point out some of the conditions in which people work in culture, first of all, in my city, in the King. I'll talk first about the problems facing the theater in the King. These are the problems that haven't really been since yesterday. These are problems that last decades back. The theatre was housed in a building built 140 years ago, which was last seriously reconstructed in 1984 and until then no capital reconstruction of this space was made. The theatre works perfectly thanks to the understanding of the city's administration and thanks to the efficiency and enthusiasm of the employees and the management of the theatre, but additional difficulties also created an earthquake that in 2010 further destroyed the space in which the royal theatre is located. The Department for the Protection of Cultural Monuments has also assessed that this facility is at risk of destruction and is necessary to reconstruct itself as soon as possible. On the other hand, during the privatisation process, the building is owned by a private who has no real interest in investing in space and is willing to sell this facility at a more favourable price. They're not the only problems. The problem is also a stage technique that is quite outdated and indeed the royal theatre can neither produce nor host any other theatre with such a stage technique to meet standards that are at the level of the Republic of Serbia. Another institution of culture in the King has problems, and as far as accommodation is concerned, space. It is the historical archive in Kralje, which is now still in the building which was returned to Zic monastery in the process of restitution and thanks to the good will and understanding of the episcopes of Žički and the monastery itself, the historical archive functions effectively and is located in the same rooms. I must point out and understand the Ministry of Defence and good co-operation with the Ministry of Defence which has granted one object to the historical archive in the King, but it is necessary to reconstruct and adapt it to conditions in which the historical archive in the King can function and, according to an idea solution, about 45 million dinars are necessary. I will also remind you that the historical archive at the Royal Institute is not only of local importance, but of national importance, because it covers the territory of cities from Raška to Trstenik, and there is a good part of the historical archive from Pristina. Employees face another problem, which is the problem of lack of space in the depot, which is now owned by the Faculty of Engineering. I will also point out, of course, one good co-operation, good co-operation between the city of Prepolje, that is, the House of Culture in Prijepolje and the Ministry of Culture, and that may be an indication of how others behave in these times. Simply, the problems that exist in the House of Culture in Prepolje are not since yesterday and should be solved in time. The Ministry of Culture supported ten projects relating to the House of Culture in Prepolje and we hope that they will be directed in the right way and will be realised to the satisfaction of all citizens. Pointing to these problems and these questions from the locals, I want to just show that it's justifiable that today we're considering an agreement like this, that it's justified that we invest in culture. We from the Social Democratic Party of Serbia think investment in culture is not a cost, it is an excellent investment and we always point out that culture is the basis of spiritual life and the bridge between different social identities and different groups. The Social Democratic Party of Serbia will vote in favour of the proposed agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-02-0.u3553	I thank the president of the SDPS parliamentary group. The word has a national emissary, Jelica Sretenovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-02-0.u3554	Thank you, Chairman. Mr. Ministers with Associates, dear MPs, the draft law confirming the loan framework agreement between the Bank for Development of the Council of Europe and the Republic of Serbia for the project loan "Infrastructure in Culture". This loan is intended to improve the infrastructure of a group of the most significant cultural institutions, whose list is strictly set out in the Loan Agreement. The list of projects listed in the application for the approval of loans for the financing of the project is as follows: National Theatre in Belgrade - works on the restoration and maintenance of interiors, i.e. the eastern façade towards France Street and the Great Scene; the Museum of Yugoslavia in Belgrade; National Theatre in Nis – the rebuilding of the building and construction of the Male scene; the artistic pavilion “Cveta Zuzorić”; the digitisation of 11 cultural centres throughout Serbia; the reconstruction and conversion of the old Railway Station into a museum, the earlier bank of an old railway station in a pavilion for contemporary art; the Art Gallery at Kosančić's wedding in Belgrade, is about the construction and the Multi-national Cultural Centre in Piroth. This loan should restore the old glow to the institutions of culture, in order to maintain the importance they had. And it's the right idea to invest in such important buildings, but let's not forget that the collective consciousness of maintaining and keeping these institutions is important. It is known that our neglect of public well-being. There's no point in restoring them, not maintaining them. It takes respect and care for what's been restored, not to allow collapse and that every 15 to 20 years we start all over again. That kind of negligence should not be passed on to generations to come. It is necessary, in fact, to take a more careful approach to art buildings and works. This concern, attention, and behavior are an inseparable part of one nation's culture, and the only cure is culture against non-culture. For every nation, two strategic directions in culture are important – cultural policy and cultural strategy. Culture is a cultivation, and it has been created for centuries and has been created for centuries, and from before Nemanjic, so Nemanjeci, Hrebljanović, Lazarevic, to the royal dynasties. From then on, to this day, we are being built and our task is to preserve this heritage. That is why I am in favour of this loan, and I am particularly pleased that the old Railway Station will become a museum and that this construction work of the 19th century will be a space that will preserve the history of our state of Serbia, and the old bar will become an attractive space for different artistic content in which particularly young artists will be expressed. Today's debate is important because culture is given the place, and the restoration of cultural institutions in Belgrade, but also in Nis, Piroth and many local centres for culture, confirms that we have been defined for decentralisation and that culture is given the right place throughout Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-02-0.u3555	I thank the MP Jelica Sretenovic. The word is Anna Beloica's folk emissary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-02-0.u3556	I would like to point out that Serbia today is a modern, stable and prosperous economy. I would remind you that in 2020, we achieved the highest economic growth rate across Europe and that the dominant institutions in the area of finance stressed that Serbia will be the fastest growing economy in the next two years. I will also remind you that we have managed to maintain economic activity through extensive and timely measures and to achieve the lowest unemployment rate of 7.3%, and that we have succeeded in December 2020 in achieving the highest average earnings of 562 euros so far. We have shown really small steps, but we are going to realize what we promised our citizens in the past elections, which is that the average salary by the end of 2025 will be 900 euros and the average pension of 440 euros. It seems to me that at this point we are the only economy in Europe that invests in both salary and pension growth, on the one hand, and on the other hand, we find strength and invest in infrastructure, so that by the end of this year we will have as many as eight highways to be built at the same time, so eight highways that will network and connect the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia. However, at this point, it seems to me that more important topics than the pandemic of the coronary virus and of the health of our citizens are, unfortunately, no, but we have shown in this field how effective we are, how high we are and how ready we are to fight for the lives and health of all our citizens. We have managed to provide even four kinds of vaccines that our citizens can choose at this point and you will agree with me that at this point in the whole world, it is a luxury. On the other hand, we were able to reach the top of the world’s list by the number of people vaccinated from the population to the fifth place in the whole world. Although all world economies, as well as our own, unfortunately, are cut by the pandemic of the Coronal Virus, we still have the strength to invest in all segments of society, among other things, and culture, as this agreement today speaks of on the agenda. So it's an agreement to invest in the infrastructure in culture. The government of the Republic of Serbia recognized the importance of investing in culture, recognised the potential that culture has for the rapid growth and development of our economy, which is somewhere we are seeking. The accent has been put on numerous subprojects, such as the reconstruction of the Yugoslav Museum in Belgrade, then, the reconstruction of the National Theatre in Nis, the National Theatre in Belgrade and numerous other cultural institutions that are being reconstructed throughout our country. In this way, we want to ensure, above all, the preservation of this cultural and historical heritage that Serbia really needs to be proud of, and on the other hand, to ensure the rapid growth of income, then, the increase of the number of visitors, the growth of people employed in the field of culture, and thus to ensure rapid growth and development and a higher standard of living for our citizens, which is, again, the ultimate instance in which the Government of the Republic of Serbia is seeking. When we talk about culture, when we talk about history, I cannot not mention my municipality, the municipality of Raška, from which I come and whose citizens I represent in this Parliament, among other things, because the municipality of Raška is indeed a municipality with a rich cultural and historical heritage, with a rich tradition, so we invest significant resources in the area of culture. Just a few years ago, we started a project to build the Memorial Room of Milunke Savic, the great heroines of the Great War. Today it is a modern complex that presents Milunka's photographs, films that can be seen by reading on computers. Then the trenches of the Austro-Hungarian army were reconstructed on the one hand, on the other hand, by our army which clearly shows what conditions Milunka Savik fought. Nine million dinars were invested in the project, thanks to the funds of the Ministry of Culture, thanks to the funds of local self-government. We wanted in this way to present in a modern way this digitized cultural and historical heritage and to educate our children, not only children, but of course students and all citizens and the general public of the Republic of Serbia. The plan is also to build a Great War Museum to complete the entire Milunka Savik memorial complex. On the other hand, we plan to build a museum in the very center of town, when conditions are created for it. We want to create in this way a complete cultural and historical and tourist offer whereby Raška Municipality will be unique throughout the territory of the Republic of Serbia, and probably wider. When we talk about culture, it seems to me that in the last six years, and you, Mr. Minister, correct me if I'm wrong, have invested a lot more in the area of culture than we have in decades and decades ago. Just a few years ago, you had one country where the unemployment rate was over 25%, a country where hundreds and hundreds of thousands of people were unemployed. You had a country that didn't have the means to invest in elemental things, let alone when we talk about culture. So hundreds and hundreds of thousands of people lost their jobs at the same time, thanks to suspicious privatisations, are closed hundreds and hundreds of factories. At that time, you had a government that was absolutely not responsible and that took care of itself alone. We had a state that did not take care of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, Serbs in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Serbs in Croatia. So, one completely ruined and devastated state. In Belgrade, you had the Sava Square, which is characterized as the ugliest part of the city. Today, we have built a magnificent monument in the Sava Square, a monument to the Serbian medieval state, the modern Serbian state, Stefan Nemanja. It is this monument that has become a symbol of Serbia, a symbol of all Serbs, no matter where they live. Of course, we suffered a number of criticisms about it, one of them criticized the look, the other criticised the height, the third criticized the selection of the knights, and there were numerous and many pointless criticisms. Some even fantasized that the same monument was collapsing. So they had an idea, I'll quote -- that the train station would return to its original state and function and the monument would be buried in Prokop together with Nemanja. To bury the progeny of the Serbian medieval state, ladies and gentlemen the MPs, the respected citizens of Serbia. We answered the results, we answered them by finishing the temple of St. Sava in Vračar after a century, by building a monument to Milutin Milankovic, Borislav Pekic, because we want our children to leave some cultural and historical heritage behind. When we talk about history, when we talk about culture, I can't help but mention probably the greatest achievement of Serbian cinema in the past few years, and this is certainly the movie "The Dar from Jasenovac". The whole of Serbia cried with the broadcast of this film, cried over the fate of the Serbian people and crimes that were not remembered in the newer world history. For seventy-five years, Serbia has kept silent about the terrible crimes committed over its population, 75 years old, entire, respected colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, Serbia has kept quiet. The director of the film explained it nicely. Many of them couldn't, some couldn't, and Aleksandar Vukic was both bold and able. The government of the Republic of Serbia helped shoot this film at the initiative of the President of the Republic, and in this way we wanted, not to debate hatred, as many respect us. No, quite the contrary, we thus wanted to preserve Serbian victims from oblivion. We wanted to show that Serbian tears are no longer meaningless to us or to anyone else in the world. We wanted to show what it is that we must never allow ourselves again, which is that another child in Serbia should ever become a victim of war. That is why Serbia stands for peace, which is why we advocate stability and we are the hub of peace and stability throughout the Balkans. I will certainly take the opportunity to congratulate Mrs. Gojkovic on the rapid reactions when we talk about speculations related to the Natural History Museum, because in this way she has really prevented further spread of speculation and misinformation that is throwing away at her ministry completely needless. Of course, I will take the opportunity to point out to all the representatives of the government, Mrs. Ani Brnabic, also, that in the SNS, or the Electoral Group Aleksandar Vukic – our children really have an ally for all the good things we do. Among other things, and for this agreement, so we, therefore, will certainly accept it in the day of the vote, because no one can forbid us from fighting for what we believe, to fight for prosperity, to fight for progress, to fight for a better future. We had the strength to change Serbia when it was almost impossible. We believed in ideals, because we didn't care how long we'd be in power, but what it is that we're going to leave to our generations, what it is that we're going to leave to Serbia, what it is we're going to leave for a better future for our children. Long live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-02-0.u3557	Thank you. The word has a national emissary Jelena Mihailovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-02-0.u3558	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, representatives of the government, respected MPs, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, with a discussion on the topic of investment in culture, we have opened a very important era, given that both culture and its infrastructure have suffered a lot in recent times because of the lack of funds and investments in it, and everything is caused by other priorities in the country that have had to be resolved and culture is high on the list of priorities put into some other or third plan. As far as the loan agreement, which we are discussing today, is concerned, the SPS parliamentary group and I as its MP and by the interest of the artist, will, by default, be supported, both by this proposal and by everyone who represents a good initiative and a sign of greater investment in the cultural sector, which will result in positive changes and the very development of culture at different levels. In order for this type of activity, which implies long-term delayed investment in cultural infrastructure, to diversify, and to ultimately produce results in the development of culture, it is necessary, finally, after a longer public debate and improvement, in addition to the document of strategic objectives brought by the government in January of this year for the period from 2021 to 2025, to bring a long-term strategy for cultural development at national level for the period 2020/21. until 2029/30. In order to follow this strategy, it can work thoroughly on the development of culture at all levels and all directions synchronised. Some of the objectives set out in the draft strategy have already started activities, in the light of the definition of funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget. These are the Museum of naive and marginal art in Jagodina and the archaeological site Belo hill in Vinca. I'm not sure I can say what the priorities are when it comes to the cultural sector, because I feel that all the galleries, all the museums, all the cultural centres, the homes of culture, all the concert and theatre halls and all our cultural and artistic societies are equally important. I also put great emphasis on the importance of eating cultural content and on decentralisation of culture, in order to make art and culture available to everyone, not just elitist circles, large cities and more developed regions. Cultural life does not take place in all environments equally and it is necessary to activate cultural cells in smaller environments as well as to intensify cultural and artistic sectors within the framework of the school programme and education. In addition to all the capital projects mentioned in both documents that I have mentioned in this agreement as investment priorities, I consider it very important and necessary that, in the near future, we should start investing in both art schools and cultural and artistic societies as polygons for the creation and design of future artists and artistic figures, or cultural heritage keepers. I want to highlight the example of a school of musical talent in gurija, from which young virtuosi and formed artists have been coming out for decades, who at the best universities of the world and in the best orchestras of the world are proud of us and to open up a space to think about increased investment in such an institution. Given the quality of work and teaching where it is available, I believe that increased investment in such an art school of an international type would open the door for its greater international recognition in terms of the arrival of talented children from abroad to schooling in Serbia, which would certainly contribute enormously to the development of Cuprije and its environment in economic terms, as well as Serbia, which would become even more recognizable on the international map of music pedagogy. As an artist, musician and consumer of various and diverse cultural contents, I am extremely pleased to build a new concert hall, as well as to announce the construction of a new building of the Faculty of Music Art, whose student I was myself. I witnessed a cramped work space, i.e. lack of space, lack of good and quality instruments, as well as a witness to the indescribable resourcefulness of students and professors to put a maximum into their work and produce great results. The new building of the Faculty of Music Art is necessary, of course, as well as investments, as I have already mentioned, in music schools, which are also crowded with spaces. As an example, I will list the music school "Marco Tajevic" in Lazarevec, which I had recently also visited, which is why I quote it. For example, the solution to their problem would be to upgrade another floor. I also mentioned cultural and artistic societies as very important for investment, which are primarily cultural heritage keepers, but also a significant sport-recreative aspect of activities for young children. Deficit of exercise halls or their unconditionality, lack of training terms, wearing security, world tour financing and festival organisations, all this together is an investment in infrastructure for the future of our culture and art. Here, they are potentially intertwined with the competences of sports and culture resorts, and I am therefore glad that the Minister of Sport is here today, because I think it is important to open this space of intersectoral co-operation, so that cultural and artistic societies in the future will be financially strengthened and encouraged to work more successfully and ambitiously to preserve cultural heritage. Infrastructure investment in culture will contribute and must contribute to the development of content, quality of festivals and manifestations, development of tourism and cultural economy, but I would also point out that investment in infrastructure should also support non-institutional cultural platforms. One of the capital infrastructure projects that is currently being implemented, more specifically, in 2017 is "European Capital of Culture Novi Sad 2022." Although it sounds like a one-year title, "European Capital of Culture" is a project of national importance, not only because significant funds are already identified for this purpose from the budget of the Republic, AP, the city of Novi Sad and private sponsors and donors, the reminders, the planned investments were about 60m euros, but also for the reason that Novi Sad and Serbia as the first time in history and the most successful initiatives and ideas of the European Union, which is "European Capital of Culture", a title holder as a non-member country but a candidate country for EU accession. It is a great opportunity for Serbia, and above all Novi Sad, as a city and its region, and for all of us to confirm together that Serbia is a legitimate part of Europe, especially if I look back at the archaeological site in Vinca, which, according to experts' research, represents the first European civilization. The potential networking of this site within the "European Capital of Culture" and the visit to it, slightly lower down the Danube, would have contributed significantly to the illustration that the cradle of European culture was right in Serbia, which I think would always have to be pointed out, without straining. "European Capital of Culture" is not only one year of event and title bearing, but it is a stake and stock for our future. Personally, I have no doubt that the programme that the organizers have prepared will be of great quality and that the funds invested will contribute to this quality, but I believe that because of all this cultural content of the European Capital of Culture, we should open up for all our citizens and encourage and help all citizens to visit Novi Sad and the environment in the title year, in order for the EU's initial idea of "European Capitals of Culture" to be achieved, and this is the merger of people and the exchange of cultural energies, given that every "European Capital of Culture" annually visits several million people. The importance of providing visitors from all over the country is of great importance, given that the epidemic has left the number of tourists from Europe potentially unable to visit Novi Sad and Serbia in that year, so it is very important for all infrastructure investments to remain as a stock for the future and years that come after the title year, so that visitors can continue to consume advanced cultural content. The example for such a thing is Lil, a city that founded and formed the cultural platform "Lil 3000", facing the future through projects that maintain the tone, so that all investments will receive their planned and adequate vomiting. The results of "European Capitals of Culture" in economic terms depend on the city to the city to vary, consistent and divergence in cultural aspirations and presented programmes, but should be mentioned in Marseille and Liverpool, which by investing about 600m euros over the year after the title have recovered invested in billions of euros, as budgets for each euro return amounted to six. It should also be mentioned Esen, who has performed with the entire region as a cultural capital and as a consequence of the region has received 85,000 employees in cross-sectoral co-operation of culture, education and urban planning. Therefore, this project is both of national importance and a fantastic example of synchronised investment, both in infrastructure and in all cultural levels. The idea of the project "Serbian Capital of Culture", if investments are fairly distributed, projects entrusted to quality and capable personnel, can indeed develop and decentralised primarily in terms of their presence in the life of every citizen of our country. Investments in infrastructure presented both through this agreement, strategic objectives as well as a draft strategy for cultural development, which should finally be brought about, are the beginning of a bright period of investment in culture, but should be really just the beginning. It's important for us to increase cultural givings from year to year, so we seek the moment when culture and the creative industries will potentially become a self-sustainable resort, because when we don't have to borrow funds for such projects, we'll know that we're on the way to victory and real development. Certainly, it will not bring us to the level of several billion euros a year, how much culture and the creative industry make a trade in one rich Germany, but also the very drive towards such a way of functioning and financing projects in culture is huge progress. In addition to the already announced rationalisation in terms of distribution and distribution of funds from the budget for culture, I believe that we can achieve above all if we raise investment in culture per capita from the current 15 euros to countries in the region, such as Northern Macedonia, which singles out 28 euros, Montenegro 36 euros or, say, Croatia and Hungary, which singles out 43 and 39 euros per capita, respectively. As I have already pointed out, the SPS parliamentary group and I as its MP will support both this proposal and any other good initiative concerning the development and promotion of culture and cultural infrastructure, as well as development and positive changes in all sectors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-02-0.u3559	Thank you. The remaining time for your parliamentary group is five minutes. The word has a folk MP Ivana Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-02-0.u3560	Dear fellow Members of the Parliament, reading the materials we received for today's session, but also of course strategic priorities for the development of the culture of the Republic of Serbia for the period until 2025, what attracted me most is this one gold thread that passes through all these materials, which is exactly one word, or synchronisation. What we need to focus a great deal of attention on in the future is exactly the synchronous action of all ministries, in order to jointly implement all projects in the future in all segments, and of course within culture and information. Today, we have before us a bill to confirm the framework loan agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe. Here we also have a very obvious example where the Ministry of Finance is the bearer of this loan, where the Ministry of Culture and Information is actually a body that works on coordination, on implementation and actually acts as a body for project implementation. We have a third institution, which is the Public Investment Management Office, which acts as a project management unit. Without culture and preservation of this cultural historical heritage, there is no preservation of our national identity, but of course no further development of culture in Serbia. For decades back, we have witnessed the collapse of our cultural monuments, our cultural sanctuaries, and only in recent years have it begun with the restoration and development of our culture and certainly my colleagues and colleagues have previously praised our minister, Maja Gojkovic, who has indeed been very offensive since the beginning of her term of office with projects within culture and of course with this preservation of our national identity. We can certainly cite some of the examples in the previous period, such as the Museum of Contemporary Art or the Music and Ballet School with the Concerna Hall in Novi Sad, but what is very important to me, is that we are just through the plan of Serbia – 2025 in the coming period will continue intensively to invest in culture and we will have opportunities to witness both newly built and renovated and museums and archaeological sites and monuments from 2025. When we mention the monuments, we certainly can't, not to mention having the opportunity to witness the recent discovery of the monument to Stefan Nemanja, the great man for our people, the creator of the Serbian state. The very place where the monument was built is certainly an important location, because it was exactly that end, so it could be said, the mockery of our Belgrade until recently, but step by step, the project by project, it will turn and turn into actually the most beautiful part of our capital. It's exactly where we have a project to rebuild and redesign the railway station to the historical museum, where we're going to fill out this whole story somewhere, and I certainly can't when I mention this monument that I don't remember all those nonsense and ugly titles and ugly stories that we could read on the subject in the media. There is no doubt that this railway station and the new historical museum will follow similar events somewhere, but it certainly must not slow us down, and God forbid it stops, but rather gives us energy to keep our culture even stronger and stronger and to continue to rebuild and build our cultural monuments. By providing 400,000-euro grants, we had an initiation, i.e. the beginning of the project, the infrastructure in culture, and that is precisely in the segment of these eligibility studies for those projects. Certainly in the first place is the Nikola Tesla Museum, which will be moved to the new building of the Termopower plant, power and light at Dorcolo. There is, of course, a casino that will become a multi-purpose cultural centre in Sava Street, one of the creative headquarters of both Belgrade and Serbia. Then there's the project I mentioned, it's a train station that's going to become a museum, there's, of course, a workshop, a very interesting project, a building that the National Theatre used for its stage, which will become an alternative, multi-purpose performance space in the next period. I am really looking forward to all these future projects, and I am extremely pleased that the Ministry of Culture and Information is doing this powerfully, which has a precisely defined plan and that by that year 2025 we will really be witnessing major events when it comes to culture. While we are already in the spirit of this synchronization, it is necessary to mention this important thing, which is to synchronise and combine culture and tourism and of course decentralisation precisely in all segments. The best example is the "Towns in Focus" project, which I especially have to praise the Ministry for, because local self-government in smaller places has been given the opportunity perhaps for the first time by the state to be supported precisely on projects of infrastructure in culture. I think it has helped greatly to raise this national spirit, but also to empower these local self-governments. Krupanj, or the municipality I come from recently, has become one of 18 sites in Serbia with an epithet of a tourist destination, and perhaps we are a very good example, where in addition to large cities such as Belgrade, Novi Sad, a small place like Krupanj, in a short period of time we might be able to describe it in such a way, but with one offensive work, a systematic work, managed to earn such a title, or the title of one of the tourist sites in our country. Krupanj municipality is also very interesting because it is a rarity that we own our own theatre production and such production where we have earned the attention of our GDP somewhere, but also of the Zaječar Theatre and that, unfortunately, in this period before the crown, we also had signed agreements and protocols on co-operation with those theatres. What I would very much like to highlight as one good example of synchronous fact and tourism and culture is the project "The longest market in Serbia" that is being held right in our municipality, where tourists will be able to go through 300 km of walking, cycling and clivaric trails to pass through all these important points of our municipality, to visit all these ethnic villages and ethnic households, to try their products, but what is very important and what I insist on, it is precisely to visit all these cultural historical monuments that are not missing in our municipality. There is certainly a Cat's Stone, as one of the very important sites where a monument is erected in honor of fallen heroes in one of the bloodiest battles that took place in World War I and what I am particularly proud of is that today is much more known about it precisely because our citizens and their families are coming to visit this monument and to see and learn about these historical facts very important to our historical heritage. We also have one of the oldest churches in western Serbia and another very good example of the synchronous fact of religion, culture and tourism, because you can visit six museums dedicated to the way of life in our area, old crafts, beekeeping, children. Indeed magnificent examples, and I believe that there will be more and more at the level of the state, because this is something that strengthens our local self-government and strengthens our national identity, and in the best way these cultural potentials are used both in certain parts and in the whole of our country. What we must not forget to mention by bringing to an end is that it is necessary to combine education and culture. What's important is to pass on that national identity to our children and to them in the right way and through practical examples, for example. The programme activities of museums, galleries and libraries are familiar with all the achievements, discoveries from previous generations, and when we mention these previous generations, we certainly cannot mention the integration of culture and history. I am particularly proud that lately, much has been invested in the preservation of this Serbian cultural heritage. Through movies and shows today we have a series of Germans, we have films about World War I and II. My colleagues talked much more about it, a film that really left a mark on all of us, Dara from Jasenovac, but of course on other projects that are announced, such as "Operation Hallier" by Rados Bajic. So, I'm particularly proud that we're making films and shows on the subject of national history today, and that's why we're raising the Serbian national awareness, because we've had previous periods where, for example, it's been. Turkey has implemented a very good project, which is a series of "Sulajman the Great" where our people may have been historically defiled, for many years they knew a lot more about Turkey than they knew about ours, but it is no longer a situation. Today, we are working on that awareness of our national identity and getting acquainted with our history. Finally, I would like to emphasise that such projects should certainly remind us, but we should not be disputed with our neighbouring peoples, because the ultimate and most important synchronous effect of all our ministries and government and all other state institutions is that we preserve peace and stability in our country, because there is no further progress in the economy, nor in culture, nor in any other segment unless we have peace and stability. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-02-0.u3561	Thank you. Before I set a break, the word has a folk letter from Dr. Vesna Ivkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-02-0.u3562	Thank you. The President-in-Office, respected ministers with co-workers, respected colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, the agreement we are discussing today is about the approval of loans for a project of infrastructure in culture. A 20m-euro loan was granted to Serbia by the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe. The main objectives of this project include renovation, renovation and expansion of cultural institutions including museums, theatres, cultural centres and institutions with similar intentions, with the intention of renovating and improving existing buildings in accordance with all energy efficiency standards. Since cultural institutions are found in a frenzy in historical and protected buildings, they will be kept in order to preserve their original, architectural, historical value, but also to improve the working conditions of each of the cultural institutions covered by this loan. The proposed project is in line with the bank's policy when it comes to environmental protection, as well as with current domestic and European standards. The bill will contribute to increasing economic development, employment in the cultural sector, the affirmation of Serbia's cultural tourism, which has a rich cultural heritage, but also rich modern art creation. The project will also allow the creation of necessary conditions for museums and galleries to store and exhibit artistic exhibits to institutions of this purpose to expose their exhibits and qualify for international exhibitions that require strict control of micro-conditions. I'm glad that culture has come to order, that it is much more invested in it, because culture refers to the entire social heritage and it is it that has separated man from other tribes. It exists also in the spiritual and material form, that is, it is all that man created by his work and by his work. That is why, in order to preserve these material forms of culture and restore the issue in which they are kept and cherished, it is necessary to vote for this bill of law which will be done by the SPS parliamentary group in the day of the vote. Just as we will restore and renovate certain institutions of culture, we must cultivate a culture of memory that the SPS has always inherited and cherished, and preserve our history from oblivion, because if we forget the historical path, event and personality that built Serbia, then we give up our identity. But it seems that Serbian history today is more interesting to those who would like to adopt it, because they don't have one. I think we're on track to give culture and cultural institutions the place that belongs to them, because we started to raise monuments to the personalities that have marked our history, to make films with historical facts, such as "The Dar from Jasenovac". I would also like to remind you of the exhibition on Jasenovac, which organised the Ministry of Foreign Affairs at the UN headquarters in 2018 on the initiative of the then foreign minister and our President of the Assembly, Ivica Dacic. It was a Serbian-Jewish project called "Jasenovac - the Right to Remember", because we have to remember, mark dates of valuable historical memory. This calls for strengthening action, and all in order to ensure that nothing from our rich history is forgotten and that our historical, cultural heritage, history and culture is passed on to future generations. Minister Branko Ruzic mentioned in this home that it would be good for high school students to be shown the film "Dara from Jasenovac". My suggestion is that, besides these films, documentary historical films from our archives show up in history classes to bring our history closer to the young generations. I also want to commend the initiative that the state takes responsibility for the textbooks of history, geography and Serbian language and literature. We cannot allow our children to learn these subjects from textbooks written and printed by foreign publishers. To make it clear to everyone that we have nothing to be ashamed of, because our people never fought conquests, but liberation wars, because we never took others, but kept our own. We have this obligation both today and as individuals and as a society that is responsible for those who have founded Serbia. So, dear colleagues, we make monuments, we make historical films, we open museums of memory, and all with the goal of fostering tradition, history, culture, and preserving from oblivion. In voting day, the SPS parliamentary group will vote in favour of the agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-02-0.u3563	Thank you. Honorable Members of Parliament, in accordance with Article 87. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I now set a break of one hour. We continue work at 3:10 p.m. [[after breaks]] I suggest we go. We expect the minister to come. Before I give my word to Parliamentarian Natasa Jovanovic, I just want to tell you that we have just discussed the dynamics of our work and that we have concluded that it would be useful to use, as provided for in the Rules of Procedure, Thursday as a working day, so today we will work on the 1st point of the agenda, tomorrow on the 2nd item of the agenda, and on Thursday we will continue the parliamentary issues and then on the day of the vote, so you have in mind when it comes to planning your obligations. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-02-0.u3565	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear fellow Members of the People, today we are talking about the loan provided by the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe of 20m euros and I am very pleased that this is precisely from the area of infrastructure in culture. Since today is the first session and this is the 1st item of the agenda, I'm glad we're starting this spring session with such a nice subject. As you know, more colleagues had previously discussed the purpose of using this loan. One of the most important, in my opinion, is actually a museum that will be formed in a place where the current old train station is. It will be part of a complex in the Sava Square next to Stefan Nemanja's monument, Stefan Nemanja, who started and laid the foundations of the Serbian state, and it will represent one complex and one unique continent. As you know, you cannot tell the people what he will love or not like, so I am sure, given how many citizens there are to gather around, photograph around the monuments, that there will be just as many people who will visit this historic museum and that it will become one of the main tourist points in Belgrade and that Belgrade will be recognized as a city. Among other things, there are other projects, colleagues talked about them a little bit, but I'll talk about some other things. A lot of cultures have been neglected. For example, the Museum of Contemporary Art has not worked for over 10 years. In 2017 he was just released into work, completely renovated, completely renovated and in a beautiful park where Usce existed was destroyed one building that served nothing. This was also the case with the National Museum in the city’s epicenter, in the very centre of Belgrade, there was a building that had not worked for more than 10 years and here it is now released in 2018, but after 15 years. It was not a working museum, it served nothing, and after 15 years – in 2018 it was only open. As you can see, not only in Belgrade, but also in other cities, infrastructure projects in the area of culture are being restored. I would mention one that I loved very much in the centre of Šumadija, in the town of Kragujevac, made legate Niko Koki Jankovic, it is one of the most important winemakers in the second half of the 20th century. He left his works to his town and then in that place was created one legate, an impressive building now used by the University of Kragujevac and used for scientific and research work by the Serbian Academy of Sciences. This way I'd also like to say how nice it is to have something left for my city. In the past, in history, we know that there have been many rich, wealthy people who have just left their city with their fellow citizens some possessions. I wish the same practice would continue now, because we have a lot of wealthy people now, but unlike those who leave nothing to the people. Besides, for example, some small ones are being renovated in Kragujevac, such as the house in this case Radoj Domanović in the village of Ossište near Topola. That was 2015. As you can see, what I said in 2015, so we have legislation in 2018, then the National Museum in 2018, then the Museum of Contemporary Art in 2017. You see the periods where it's happening now. It is precisely SNS and Alexander Vukic that it is those who invest in culture. It's these people that some quasi-cellite calls a sandwich and they don't know what culture is. We see in these concrete examples that absolutely everything is the opposite. For example, in Mladenov, from where I came from, the City Museum has now worked in 2018, and it has been closed for 10 years. Now imagine a city that doesn't have a museum at all, and there's nowhere to store these things, and it's been a real shame, but we did it after a great deal of work and an effort to open the museum in 2018. Also, in our municipality there is the oldest monument in the territory of Serbia, which was restored by first King Milan Obrenovic, and then at the time of Alexander Vukic's rule, which is in fact a monument to the despot Stefan Lazarevic and the place where he died. There are many such examples throughout Serbia, and mostly my colleagues talked about the area where they live and who they know best. So we're full of cultural and historical objects that have been destroyed and we're slowly rebuilding one by one now. That's why I think this very first session and this first point is very nice to talk about exactly the infrastructure in culture. For the following, for example, the year is already planned for a library in Mladenov which was also in a derelict state, and for years it has been discussed, but again, at the time of this very government, there is a restoration and library. I would like to mention something, well, I'm sorry that there is not a culture minister, Maja Gojkovic, because I would certainly understand the importance of what I'm talking about, which is that I would also like in our area, and I think it would be very economic and touristic for our city, which is the creation of legislation, the Visitor's Centre or the renewal, to say, the home of Bata Živojinović. Bata Živojinović we know is an acting legend and ours is indeed happiness and advantage because his home house is located right in our municipality. It's been talking about it for a long time, and it wants to be this way or that, however, I think it's been a long time and that this realization should be done as soon as possible. Let's not forget, not only was he famous here, he received many awards at international festivals in the country, abroad, but his popularity in China is amazing. Whoever was in China he can see what his popularity was and that 80,000 Chinese bear the name Walter. This is what I'm saying from an economic point of view and a touristic point of view, which would mean a lot to us when it all works and when people start moving around the world, that the tourist can get a lot of prosperity from their tourists. So we see that culture centers, museums, theatres and what's very important are being restored, and now there's been a lot of work to preserve the very national identity itself, which seems to me to have been kind of neglected and slightly lost these years. To work to preserve our tradition and, in fact, to work on making sure that our history doesn't forget and that we learn from our mistakes. If you don't know, in fact, who you are, you don't even know where you're going, or where your family's future and your descendants will be. So, tradition and culture is, it's very important that we have a continuity where we connect today and what happened yesterday and what comes. It's, in fact, vision, strength and quality to create something good in the time you live and come. I am absolutely sure that our Culture Minister Maja Gojkovic has enough knowledge, has enough experience and will take advantage of this very time in this position, that he will do something very useful, very important that will remain not only for us, but also for generations to come. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-02-0.u3566	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Tomislav Jankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-02-0.u3567	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, “Culture is a collection of all kinds of art, love and thoughts that have made a man feel more free for centuries,” says French writer Andrea Monroe, who describes culture as an invisible bond that connects people. Culture affects our observation, shapes our thoughts and behavior, affects our personality, affects the business world, and some believe that it affects people’s health, even the way people heal. We as a state and as a people have a rich cultural historical heritage created over the centuries and year after year, from decade to decade is increasing. One simple, basic question is whether we are responsible enough for this important segment of life. In the 1990s, due to wars, sanctions, hyperinflation, we were unable to invest more in culture and how it usually becomes culture moves to the margins of everyday life. In 2000, those who had no hearing come to power, but no desire to invest in this area. Their arrival marked the burning of the House of National Assembly when several works and exhibits were stolen and destroyed. No wonder the National Museum in Belgrade is the oldest museum facility in Serbia, and I will remind you that it opened in 1844, since 2003 it has not had a permanent setting. After 10 years, an exhibition about 900 years since Stefan Nemanje was born in 2013 opened in one part of the facility. The museum was then renovated, and since Vidovdan 2018, it has reopened the door for all its visitors. Another example, the Museum of Contemporary Art, which has been studying, publishing, preserving Yugoslav and Serbian art since 1900. This museum was closed in 2007. Thanks above all to Alexander Vukic's initiative, which was then the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, is starting to rebuild and the museum begins again on 20 October 2017. These two examples are the best evidence of how dosovic authority referred to the cultural heritage of our country and everything that has been created throughout the centuries. Today, Serbia is led by people who are committed, who are industrious, who are responsible and want to make their contribution in all fields, especially in the field of culture, because I am President Aleksandar Vukic has repeatedly initiated which are important projects that we must invest both with our work and with our pawning of his cabinet and people who support him to provide certain resources that are necessary to establish themselves for the fields of culture, but the entire cultural and artistic treasure of protection and to present themselves to other people. Of course, I would also like to commend Minister Maja Gojkovic, who, at the beginning of her term, showed great desire, great energy and great commitment to address all the problems that have arisen in this area. The main objectives of this loan project are primarily the renovation, renovation and expansion of cultural institutions. It's museums, theaters, cultural centers, like all other institutions. The accent is placed on the renovation and improvement of the status of existing buildings in order to increase the accessibility of these buildings to both old persons and disabled persons. It takes care of energy efficiency, which is very important. There are several examples, positive examples of practices relating to the region and the city from which I come, which is the region of Srema and the town of Sremska Mitrovica. Two years ago, an energy recovery was carried out at a music school in Ruma, the facility passed from one energy class, from F class to energy class C. It is the first object in the space of Srema that received an energy passport and thus good energy and sound insulation was performed. This way, energy is saved primarily, but better conditions are being created for work as a student and as a teacher in this school. Of course, I can't help but mention the city of Sremska Mitrovica, the city from which I come. A city that has a very large cultural and historical heritage, a city that was the capital of the Roman Empire. The city that has two museum buildings has a large imperial palace, one building of 2570 square meters under the roof of the 4th century. We have more festivals, we are the city of tourism. We have a square that is indeed an excellent locality where the Mitrovicans gather, where certain musical and stage performances and certain festivals are performed. No wonder Mitrovica was Europe's first following tourist destination in 2018. Speaking of tourism, I can't mention the data they gave their seal, and they're tied to the year 2019 when there was a record number of people in our country both domestic and foreign guests. We had more than 3.6 million tourists, representing an increase of over 8% compared to 2018. Of these, the number million and 846 thousand were foreign guests and a million 843 thousand domestic guests. It is for the first time in Serbia that the number of foreign guests has exceeded the number of domestic guests. The figure of ten million overnights has been exceeded, ten million 73,000 which is an eighth-percent increase compared to 2018. The maximum number of overnight stays reached right here in Belgrade. Why am I saying this? I'm talking about why we have too much potential in tourism and when all of this is solved for the covid pandemic, when we get back to those old days, we can count on an increase in the number of guests both domestic and foreign, and hence the increase in income. When we talk about this loan, I will mention only the most important facilities where the funds will be invested, the National Theatre in Belgrade, the Yugoslav Museum in Belgrade, the restoration of the theatre in Nis, the Art Pavilion "Cveta Zuzoric", the reconstruction and conversion of the old railway station into a museum, as well as the construction of an art gallery on Kosančić's wreath and reconstruction of the Cultural Centre in Pirote. When we talk about the National Theatre in Belgrade, we need to know that it was a building from 1869, it was built by charity contributions, as my distinguished colleague Natasha said in the previous period, that is, centuries behind us, there were responsible people who, by their contribution, invested their work and their money in culture, i.e. objects that meant culture. As far as the National Theatre is concerned, it came first and foremost to the contributions made by Prince Aleksandar Karadjordjevic, who contributed at that time 1000 ducats, Misa Anastasijević 500 ducats, and the Serbian Principality Government donated land and a cash amount of 2,000 ducats. The most significant reconstruction of this facility was already in 1922 and 1989, through this project we will restore the interiors, the eastern facade and restore the scene of the National Theatre in Belgrade. The museums of Yugoslavia in Belgrade are a major institution that preserves and presents the cultural heritage of the former state, owns rich collections such as collections of applied art, collections of staff, ethnological collections, art collections, and archaeological collections. When we talk about Nis, we need to know that one city that had a theater back in the IVth century, and that the first theatre events were recorded back in 1883. The Niš theatre building itself was in 1939, and reconstructions were also long ago in 1967 and 2002. The project envisions the restoration of the entire building and the construction of a small scene. The art pavilion “Cveta Zuzorić” was built in 1928 on Kalegdan. At the proposal of Branislav Nusic, a charity ball was organised, and the contributions were made by wealthy individuals, Đorđe Vajfert, Luka Celovic, Mihailo Pupin, King Aleksandar Karadjordjevic. This action was joined by the National Bank, the Adriatic - Danube Bank and Viner Bank Ferrain. The last reconstruction was also a long time ago in 1975. As far as the railway station is concerned, we know it's a monumental building from 1885. It has the status of cultural monuments of great importance for our country. It was modelled by large European countries' railway stations and is a witness to a technical development in Serbia in the 19th century. It was in primary position until July 1st, 2018, and is now planned to become a museum for the creation of the Serbian state. Along with Stefan's monument Nemanje graces the Sava Square and represents a great attraction for tourists who come to our capital. Of course, both this active and only monument-lifting has contributed most to the engagement of President Alexander Vukic, but also to finance through the budget of the Republic of Serbia, so that we can secure funds, build a monument and repay ourselves in this way to the great ruler. As far as the Pirot Cultural Centre was concerned, it was built in 1986, and it did not have a significant reconstruction and investment recently. What does all this data tell us? That we have extremely old objects, that no regular rehabilitation of these objects has been performed and that they simply cry out for recovery, for investment. On the other hand, we must be proud of our glorious ancestors who, by example, helped build such objects, made an immeasurable contribution to the creation and preservation of cultural heritage. Through this project and through this kind of activity, we pay back a part of the debt to them, to them who were careless, but also to those who created works of art and let us enjoy them today. Finally, I will conclude my speech by quoting the great Ivo Andric "Culture is not only what we read, what we write, what we paint, what we build, but culture is both a view and a smile and behavior and gesture and speech. There is no doubt that she is in us, because there is a way when we say hello to someone, to a song, to pictures, to a building." Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-02-0.u3568	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Ivan Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-02-0.u3569	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament. Culture is the foundation of our future. That is why President Aleksandar Vukic, when talking about the "Serbia 2025" plan, stressed the importance of this topic and said that significant funds, over 300m euros, will be invested in culture and a new concert hall. Our plan is to have new museums, archaeological sites, monuments, galleries, libraries, new cultural centers by 2025. The leadership conducted by the Serbian Progressive Party programme wants to provide its children with as high-quality cultural facilities as possible. It is precisely this government that recognised the great importance of culture and cultural heritage and their potential for our country's development that has adopted a series of documents that will succeed in positioning Serbia in a better place on the world and Europe's cultural map. We are proud of the fact that the first government to be of international financial institutions, in this case the Council of Europe Development Bank has agreed a project of 20m euros to improve infrastructure projects in the field of culture. When respected Mrs Gojkovic spoke of the first 100 days of work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, among other things, she noted that strategic projects in the period from 2021 to 2025 were reaching a 1% budget for culture, preserving historical and cultural heritage, dealing with cultural diplomacy, but also opening cultural centres in the region, above all in Skopje, Podgorica, Zagreb, Ljubljana and Moscow. Speaking of the region, I must point out that today we have strong support for Serbia through the visit of President Aleksandr Vukic to neighbouring BiH. It is this situation with Kovid 19, with the acquisition of vaccines, that has shown how strong Serbia is. What makes a country successful in a time where the whole world has been in place for over a year is how it has managed to preserve and strengthen its health system, how much the vaccine has succeeded in obtaining and preserving its economy. Serbia is among the most successful countries in Europe and the world as regards vaccination, thanks solely to President Aleksandr Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. We showed great solidarity to the neighbors. Our economy had the slightest fall. We haven't stopped a single strategic project. On the contrary, we started new ones. Serbia is being respected today on the international stage more than ever. This is very important because the international reputation our president has is national good. Citizens recognize who works, who fights for them and who makes up results, and some of those who represent themselves as opposition in Serbia, they have nothing to offer, invent affairs, are there to destroy, manipulate and bring up lies. We all know, they're only united on Gilas' media. They promote conspiracy theories and these conspiracies that come from day to day worse and worse, on these very media. In their time, Serbia was on the verge of collapse. They had their chance and clear citizens say they don't deserve to get it back. They are already talking about the boycott and want to damage Serbia's reputation in the world. As the President of the Republic said a few days ago – what kind of conversations are they, if someone threatens you that if you don't respect their demands, they'll go out on the street, make riots, tear down institutions. So in that sense they are also united. The good majority of them are united in one more place, it's on the payroll of Dragan Gilas. These are some like former BIA head, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Director of the Agency for Public Procurement, and so at Gilas's company "Multicom" are working, here, some of them being Ljuban Panic, he was the chairman of the Executive Board of the Democratic Party, but is now appointed as Secretary-General Sasa Vukadinovic, former BIA Director, further, Dusan Nikezic, former Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, Aleksandar Bjelic, close to Djilasov's associate during the time he was mayor of Belgrade, Tatjana Pasic, assistant mayor of Belgrade, Dragan Djilas, Branko Jankovic, director of the Public Procurement Agency and Marinika Tepic, we no longer know with any information to import it. So, all those headed by Gilas act as one interesting business political community. "Multicom" is a wealthy company and Gilas can financially provide political opponents. It's a classic exchange of goods. It's very well known what any of them were doing while they were in power, and this is probably a reward for political loyalty through work at his firm. To be clear, it is not disputed, everyone can hire a private firm they want, but, let's say, in public, it raises legitimate doubts that wages may reward them for their silence or reward their attempt to make political action today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-02-0.u3570	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Luke Kebar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-02-0.u3571	Thank you. The Honorable President of the National Assembly, the Honorable Head of the National Assembly, the Honorable Ministers Udovic with fellow workers, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, dear citizens and citizens of Serbia. At today's session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, we are talking about a proposal for a law confirming the loan framework agreement between the Bank for Development and the Council of Europe and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, amounting to 20m euros, when it comes to the cultural infrastructure project. This project of infrastructure in culture is very important for our country. I would like to stress that the overall value of this Agreement is not only 20m euros, but it is 30m euros. Twenty million euros from the loan, and nearly 10m euros, since it is 400,000 euros from donations, almost 10m euros is directly from our budget. Our government invests money in culture, unlike those, let's just remember how members of the former yellow regime, how they honor us that, for example, the culture of the last hole was played by us. Let's just remember how they managed that money, what they did when it came to culture. Were such millions of dollars when investing in culture? Nothing. There were some symbolic projects, and that's it. We are the ones who invest in culture, in history and knowledge of our tradition, that's very important. When we talk about this project - Infrastructure in culture, the main objectives of this project include renovating, restoring and expanding capacities of already existing institutions, institutions and institutions of culture in our country, especially in Belgrade, with the goal of increasing their energy efficiency, which is a good shift in our European integration. Let's just remember the signed agreements with KfW Bank. Also, there are other objectives, of course, which is an increase, above all, in the income of these institutions of culture, these institutions and these institutions from the collection of tickets, the collection of various items to be sold there. Also, the work of these institutions will improve, but the number of visitors will increase, which is very significant. When we talk about this framework list of institutions that are covered by this large project - Culture Infrastructures, I will list the following sub-projects. These are, of course, theatres in Belgrade, that is, work on rebuilding the interior, rebuilding the eastern facade that looks at the French street. The stage of performing arts will also be reconstructed. The Yugoslavia Museum in Belgrade is one of those sub-projects. National Theatre in Nis, rebuilding the building and building a small scene, rebuilding the Art Pavilion "Cveta Zuzorić" on Calemegdan, digitising 11 cultural centres throughout Serbia, rebuilding and turning the old Railway Station on the Sava Square into a museum. The old railway station's earlier password in Belgrade will be restored. Of course, the reconstruction and construction of the Art Gallery on Kosančić's wreath and those old buildings and, of course, the construction of a cultural centre in Piroth. Of course, this list of sub-projects is not final and it is very important to note. Direct users of this project - Infrastructure in culture are, above all, citizens of Belgrade, about two million people, as well as about a thousand people who are employed in these institutions and in culture institutions. Of course, the target group, or indirect users, when we talk about them, we can talk about all of Serbia, or all of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, as well as, of course, about our diaspora, which will further contribute to the development of cultural tourism in our country. This project is important not only for the state to have that financial gain. So it's not just this financial moment that matters, but it's important that we invest in culture, invest in our history, invest in tradition, learn our history, and that's the most important thing. This means that our young people will be able to visit these museums, to look at all the exhibits that will be found in these museums, and in this way we will invest not only in getting to know the history and culture of our people, but in this way we are investing in our future, and all of this on the initiative of the President of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandr Vukic, Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia Ana Brnabic and, of course, Minister of Culture and Information Maja Gojkovic. Since I was talking about these future projects, i.e. sub-projects within a major project - Culture Infrastructure, I would like to look back on some of the key institutions or cultural monuments that we have reconstructed or built, which represent the success of our policy. Ladies and gentlemen, look at what our National Museum once looked like, and look what it looks like today completely reconstructed. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to introduce you now to the two perhaps most significant monuments of culture in our country in Belgrade, which are certainly a monument to the birthright of our largest, most famous German dynasty, Stefan Nemanja in the Sava Square. Of course, there's an old train station, which will become a museum. Look how magnificent this monument looks. Take a look at our beautiful temple of St. Sava on Vracar. Look at how these frescoes are painted. Look at Christ the Pantocrator, the Mother of God, and the heruvims that are presented in this magnificent edition. This is all thanks to our President Alexander Vukic. If it wasn't for him, this would never have been finished. Also, when we talk about culture, we have to keep in mind that movies are important elements of culture. I would like to mention two very important films that have recently been made, and these are certainly the films "Sleep for Soldiers" and "King Petar I" that talk about our famous army, about our military, heroic exploits in the great war, and I would talk about another very important film, perhaps most important, and this is the movie "Dara from Jasenovac". It's a film of truth, a film that speaks of the loss of the Serbian, Roma and Jewish people in Ustasha NDH, a film that faithfully depicts torture, the torments our people went through there, which shows our greatest strategy in history. It's been over 75 years since the end of World War II, and nobody's bothered to make a movie like this. Various communist ideologists and politicians, as well as those after them, those politicians reportedly, members of some democratic and liberal political demonstrations were not cadres that at least symbolically depict the death of our people. Thanks to President Alexander Vukic, a film about our tormented martyrs has been filmed and a torture has been shown through which our people have been passing through every day. I believe that although this film is very difficult to watch, it must become an integral part of school programmes in the Republic of Serbia, I believe that this film must be a legacy to our children, to our young people never to forget these crimes and never to repeat these crimes again. When we talk about culture, for the first time, President Alexander Vukic's initiative, our local authors will write and our home publishing houses will print Serbian textbooks, textbooks from Serbian language and literature, from history and geography. It's another very important project when it comes to culture, our history and our tradition. Culture is quite a broad term and as someone who had a score of 10 from the course of culture theory at the Faculty of Political Sciences, I must stress that culture involves not only literature, music, film, history, ethnology, anthropology, cultural institutions, institutions, seduction of culture, but culture as a broad concept of meaning and what was once called ethics, which is today called bonton, i.e. nice, polite behaviour, cultural, polite treatment of other people. Ladies and gentlemen, today we have an example of a number of former yellow regime members not to behave in society. They don't run away from anything. They attack our families, and this is the most sacred to every man, a family. They attack our institutions, they insult everyone. They constantly, every day, persistently attack, insult the children of President Alexander Vukic, his brother, his parents. Ladies and gentlemen, this Ms. Marinka Zivka Čobana Tepic, Mr. Djilas, Mr. Obradovic, Mr. Tadic, Mr. Jeremic, Mr. Alexic, ladies and gentlemen, they will never be the future of our country and they must end up in the political past. Long live Serbia!
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-02-0.u3572	Thank you. The word has a folk letter, Ana Miljanić. Just, before I give you my word, I only want to say in one sentence that I read Gilas's party statement, I don't know what his name is, which accuses both Nebojsa Bakarec and me that, in fact, by his speech, Mr. Bakarec's speech was threatened with murder, that it was a language of hate, etc. Mr. Nebojsa Bakarec, did anyone agree with him, when it comes to content, have not referred to any threat, no physical, no political, no one, nor the gentleman mentioned. This, on the other hand, does not mean that every day we are not confronted with the language of hate, mentioning and families and children of various political officials who are on the side of the prospect of speaking hate language. That's what I wanted to say because people may not have listened to what was said, and from the inscriptions that are now appearing, they say that the copper threatened to die, that the opposition should be killed, I quote, as they say, as in Russia. So, what I'm saying is that it's incorrect. If that were the case, of course they wouldn't let me, nor would Mr. Copper, I think, say such things. I'm not here to judge what an MP will say. We're only talking about the Codex that we adopted, where certain expressions and behaviors are forbidden. Of course, unfortunately, this Codex seems to be being applied in the Assembly, and "the witch hunt", under the quote, seems to be the basic motto and way of political behaviour of these political parties that make such statements. I'm sorry I said that, but I think it's very important to hear it on television. The word has a folk letter, Ana Miljanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-02-0.u3573	Thank you, Mr. President. Support, my fellow Baker, of course. (Nebojsa Bakarec: Thank you. ) Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, on today's agenda is an extremely important point for the development of the culture of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. raising infrastructure opportunities in this important area for the development of our society. The draft law confirming the loan framework agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe is the implementation of one of the priorities of our government's programme, which Prime Minister Ana Brnabic brought before us here. She said then – without culture and creation there is no strong state. President Aleksandar Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia recognized the great importance of culture and cultural heritage and their potential for our country's development. We, as MPs, have the task of making a decision on the borrowing of the Republic of Serbia through taking long-term loans, as well as to confirm the Framework Loan Agreement as an international contract. The law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2020 and 2021 approved the borrowing of the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe to implement a 20m-euro project for the modernisation of cultural infrastructure. How serious the countries are in order to raise the situation in culture to the deserved level, the fact that an additional 10m euros will be allocated in addition to this 20m-euro loan for these purposes from the Republika Srpska budget. Dear citizens, there are many projects that will be implemented with the help of this loan, some of which are: National Theatre in Belgrade, the Yugoslav Museum in Belgrade, the National Theatre in Nis, the restoration and conversion of the old Railway Station into a museum, the Cultural Centre in Pirote. The list of these projects is indicative, and the estimated amount for realisation is just these 30m euros. Since the respected Mrs. Maja Gojkovic's leadership of the Ministry of Culture, there has been an extremely increased activity of the ministry itself and a commitment to meeting the programme's outlined goal. The project envisions a number of activities for renovation, renovation, expansion of cultural institutions, including museums, theatres, cultural centres and similar institutions. The Ministry of Culture also shows its commitment to the above activities through various other projects that are designed to give a complete picture of the situation in culture in local self-government units. I am fortunate that my town of Pogorjevac is the birthplace of one of the greatest Serbian painters of all time Milena Pavlovic Barili and it is our duty to protect and cherish her character and work. That's why we're very proud. During a recent visit to the Milena Pavlovic Gallery in Pozarevec, Minister Gojkovic said she deserves the respect and care of the entire state, i.e. adequate national treatment. As the town of Požarevac with the Milena Pavlovic Foundation worked on obtaining a project-technical solution for the reconstruction of the existing gallery space and the addition of a new one, these words encourage us to finally, after 60 years, fulfill the donor's wish to have a gallery worthy of our world-renowned artist. Realisation of this project would build a new gallery space in which the works of our famous painter would be exhibited. The work will be chronologically organized from the works of her childhood to the works of art from the American period. Then there would be a reconstruction of the old part of the gallery, where, among other things, space would be made for our youngest citizens, i.e. to form a drawing school. In the last phase, it would be rescheduled and adapted to a part of the family home that is under the protection of the state and which will be a memorial space in which the exhibits found in the Legacy of the Milena Pavlovic Barili Foundation will be exposed. I am sure by realising this project, Pogorec will further strengthen his position on Serbia's cultural map. Finally, the importance of these investments and their social impact is excessive. What I would particularly apostrophe from this place is the fact that our country led by President Aleksandar Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, led by Ana Brnabic, is approaching the development of each area planfully, and this leads to Serbia and the results achieved on all fronts spreading a positive story both in the region and in Europe and the world. Finally, I am convinced that the implementation of this project, in synergy with the implementation of the "Serbia 2025" programme, relating to the part of Serbia that I come from, which is to build a fast roadway from Belgrade-Niš, to Golubac, and via Pozarec and Veliko Gradište, will enable further development of cultural and tourist opportunities and will help us to become more competitive and attractive for both domestic and foreign investors. All of this is aimed at raising standards from one side and nothing less important, preventing the outflows of our fellow citizens from this part of the country, on the other hand. I will finish this presentation with the words of Mr Gaga Antonijevic, who I congratulate on a remarkable film. I quote: “Some did not dare, others could not, and Vucic could also be bold. ” It's a finished quote. Alexander Vukic and SNS build and work for Serbia, we preserve culture, history, tradition, and with great satisfaction, as well as colleagues from my parliamentary group, in the day of voting, I will support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-02-0.u3574	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Lav-Grigorija Pajkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-02-0.u3575	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President Orlic. Dear Ministers, honourable MPs, citizens of Serbia, I must say, above all, that I absolutely support this initiative when we talk about the infrastructure in culture. I must say that I am not surprised by this positive fact, because this is only the continuity of the quality of the culture already established by President Vukic while he was head of the government and who continued to this day by Ana Brnabic and, of course, more specifically, by Maja Gojkovic, who is actually doing an excellent job in this field. In that sense, given how much of this has been done, in order to get the impression of what will only be done successfully in this field, it would be best to show in some ways what has been done in all of Serbia so far, because it has a special meaning why, because somehow we had the impression that only the culture in the circle of two is important, where it started and where the absolute cultural action of the former regime was ending, about where they drink coffee at Dorcol. So I want to show you and, now keep in mind that there's so much going on here, I'm just going to show you a piece of what's been done. We have in the Romanian House of Culture, which has been reconstructed, then the Gallery of the Mother of Serbs in Novi Sad, the Museum of Jovan Cvijic in Belgrade, the Vranj Theatre that was restored, the theatre in Užic which was also reconstructed, the Pavlovic house in Cačka and many more, the honourable MPs, which my colleagues in Belgrade talked about and so many important projects. I have to say, I want to have some objective attitude on this matter. As I was saying, so far we've had some kind of impression that the former regime is constantly talking about its results in culture, the loudest on the subject, they've always kind of self-proclaimed, like that so-called. intellectual elite, labeling all citizens who don't support them as uneducated, stupid, credentials. We all remember these terrible insults. In that sense, they labeled a large number of citizens because I don't know who supports them at all. I really want to be fair and I want to show some of their cultural works, one of many... I think I also don't have time and that MPs in the former term both Mr Martinovic and Orlic witnessed their cultural outflows. Let's say, let's remember Bosko Obradovic, who screams at RIK employees, he was probably unhappy with the result. This is one example of a cultural man, which is why I showed him, and it comes to you as some kind of opposition variant of Munk's scream. Also, let's not forget the burning of books in Prince Michael's, definitely the expansion of culture. All right, though, not possibly Serbian, perhaps national-socialist or fascist, but no less or less, spreading culture. Also, we don't have enough pictures, but we all remember how their predecessors from DOS were taking out works of art from the National Assembly selling them in the markets. Many have disappeared, and thanks to Culture Minister Maja Gojkovic, who launched the initiative to return the works. My God, maybe I got it wrong and it was kind of a way to spread culture among the people by selling them in the markets. Also, we must not forget what they're doing today, what cultural manifestations support. Let's remember the show where the actors stand on the flag of Serbia. This was an ideal performance for them, an example of what culture should look like in Serbia, while the movie "Dara from Jasenovac" is a bad, unserious film, but it is therefore a great initiative to step on the Serbian flag. I really don't know what kind of picture they want to leave about themselves. I am aware, and I believe that the citizens are also aware that the picture was well understood, that they had taken that picture into account and voted in the previous elections and showed that particular picture of themselves. What interests me and I am particularly happy about is the picture that today's government and President Vukic leave, which is a picture of Serbia's strong, modern, successful Serbia, Serbia that takes care of its interests, the interests of its citizens. It's a picture of a winning state, a picture of Serbia winning. Also, I have a wish, although many of my colleagues have looked back on it, I think it would be my turn to say something about it. Recently, we witnessed a capital piece, a cinematographic piece, of course, I'm talking about the movie "Dar from Jasenovac". The film is not only important for the Serbian state, but also for the Serbian people. I have to say, I'm extremely disgusted that in the media of the former regime they treated that film. Those hate spills haven't been noticed for a long time. I find it particularly interesting, in some ways I have to say funny, how they've tried their hate to camouflage the idea that they're criticizing it for some artistic, aesthetic, technical reasons, it's about not a well-mounted film or it's not beautifully recorded or anything like that. We all know and we all see that it's actually a politically inspired criticism and that there's a campaign going on, no one was fooled by it. But I don't think it takes much more to look back at them. We should support President Vukic maximumly, because without him there would be no such successful projects in Serbia, there would be no film I'm talking about. It is important that we fight for Serbian culture, to fight for Serbian art, to fight against the anti-Serbian non-culture promoted by the media, Dragan Gilas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-02-0.u3576	Thank you, Mr. Pike. The word is Vesna Nedovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-02-0.u3577	The Honorable Chairman, honourable ministers, guests, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, the aim of this project is to renovate, reconstruct, expand museums, theatres, cultural centres and improve access to the facility and their energy efficiency. These cultural monuments preserve the architectural, historical value and are protected by the state, but due to not worrying and not investing in the previous decades are in a very bad state. The project includes the National Theatre – the reconstruction of the interior, reconstruction of the eastern façade, the scene of performing art; the Museum of Yugoslavia in Belgrade; the National Theatre in Nis – the restoration of the building and expansion, the construction of a small scene; the artistic pavilion of Cvjeta Zuzorić; the digitisation of 11 cultural centres throughout Serbia; the restoration and conversion of the old railway station into a museum; the earlier lay-off of an old railway station in Belgrade – the reconstruction of the building and the redesign of a multi-functional cultural centre; the construction of an art gallery at Kosančić's wedding in Belgrade; a multi-functional cultural centre in Piroth. The estimated costs are 30m euros, the loan is 20m euros, and the other 10 will be provided from the Republic of Serbia's budget, as well as from other loans and donations. This would increase the number of visitors, which would increase the revenues of these institutions, as well as the development of cultural tourism in Serbia. By improving energy efficiency, the project will allow users to exhibit their collections, as well as international exhibitions that require strict control of temperature, humidity and security. The Zemuna National Museum was founded in 1954, and 16 years later it was opened to visitors. From 1971 to 2000, the Zemuna Museum was a permanent setting, the pride of Zemuna, a tourist asset. The reconstruction of the Spyrtina house is a joint project of the city's municipality of Zemun, the city of Belgrade, the Museum of the City of Belgrade and the Institute for the Protection of Monuments. The works on the 1855 complete building run in stages. The museum has received a renovated and intarized parquet over 165 years old. It was just an unequal setting of the parquet in 2002 that was damaged, and it was the main brake for the completion of the reconstruction of this monument of culture. Radiators have been set up, replacement pipes in the floor and rescheduled moisture. It all had to be done to get the parquet back. The painted wall surfaces are also restauranted, as well as hand-made wallpapers. The responsible government of the city of Belgrade and the municipality of Zemun will return this building to its Zemuns and will contain historical treasures ranging from Neolithics, as well as various cultural contents. In addition to the reconstruction of the Zavnica Museum building, a reconstruction of the military air force building that was hit by a NATO bomb was planned in 1999. The rebuilding of the building should begin the second half of the year. The city of Belgrade will finance the reconstruction project of the entire Air Force Square, while the Serbian government will allocate money to rebuild this unique facility. The work of architect Dragisa Brasovan was made in 1935. She's been waiting for two decades to resuscitate the building, and that's why she's in a bad and abandoned state. The initiative to rebuild the beauty of the country came from city leaders last year. The Air Force building was hit in the central side of the Main Street facility in the front yard tower. The facility was partially reconstructed from 2000 to 2001 in the part of the affected lateral wing, while the tower and part of it were damaged today. And not to forget -- the bombing of Serbia in 1999 and a famous action called "Mercy Angel", Kosare, Storm, Jasenovac. In the voting day, I will support this bill, as well as my parliamentary group "Alexander Vukic – For Our Children". Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-02-0.u3578	Thank you. The word is from the MP Nikola Radosavljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-02-0.u3579	Dear Vice-President, respected ministers, respected citizens of Serbia, the government of the Republic of Serbia recognized the great importance of culture and cultural heritage and their potential for the development of our country, adopting several documents that would contribute to Serbia's more successful positioning on the cultural map of Europe and the world. The government of the Republic of Serbia has therefore made a strategy in this area, where development priorities are defined, material and immaterial cultural heritage and the wider availability of culture through its institutions and through the media. The project provides for numerous renovations, renovations and extensions of cultural institutions, including museums, theatres, cultural centres and similar cultural institutions, to preserve their architectural and historical value. One of the most beautiful buildings in Serbia is located in the center of Pomoravski district, in Jagodina, in the town where I come from, and this is the Museum of naive and marginal art, the temple of the art of great self-taught visionaries, the luxurious architecture dating back to 1929. According to her speciality, she was declared a monument of culture. Thanks to the government of the Republic of Serbia and the respected ministry, and after decades, this museum welcomes the necessary reconstruction and expansion of space. The existing facility includes a significant increase in the exhibition space, deposits for disposal, rich labour fund and publications, conservatory and carpentry workshops, libraries, souvenir shops, cinema halls and everything that represents the imperative of modern museology. Upgrading the annex will provide a new space with lots of potential for multimedia projects and space to present large collections of works of art. The thing that has certainly been missing most all these years is, and it will now be built, inability or access to a disabled museum. This reconstruction provides communication within museums and accessibility to disabled persons on all floors and every corner of the exhibition space. During the decade of existence, the walls of this temple with the dynamic development of museum contents have become narrow, as heritage works by over 500 artists, also representing Serbia in the best light across European and non-European countries, such as Brazil, India, Japan, Iran, Australia, Portugal, America and others, as the best ambassador to Serbian tradition and art. Thanks to the Jagodina Museum of naive and marginal art, works by Serbian artists have been placed in continuity around the world, building bridges in this way and representing our country in the best possible way, in the language of unique, self-taught visionaries. International co-operation and the crown of the museum's work of the naive art museum in Jagodina, on which the team of experts and the management of museums, sign numerous memorandums of co-operation with international partners, certainly demonstrates that it has contributed significantly to its strategy and contributes every year to the increasingly successful image of Serbia in the world, as a free and multicultural country, which cherishes both the traditional, national culture of Serbia, as well as the culture of Slovak, Hungarian, Romanian, Roma and other ethnic minorities living in the Republic of Serbia. I would especially point out that the Museum is co-operating with developing children's education institutions, where various art colonies and workshops are organised. Therefore, this reconstruction and addition of a new space is of special importance, in order to preserve all these values. I must point out that the Jagodina Museum is one of the most important museums in Europe. He is also responsible for the protection of the work. In a draft new law on museum activity, which is to be passed, this status of the museum is compromised. We have confidence that the Ministry of Culture and Information of the Republic of Serbia, headed by distinguished Minister Maja Gojkovic, who is seriously, responsibly and in the best possible way, will manage this ministry and this time, as is earlier years, will have understanding and support the status of the parenting of our museum. I would like to say that we also have a reconstruction in Jagodina, next to the Museum of naive and marginal art, which is financed from the funds of the Ministry of Culture, the Centre for Culture in Jagodina, where most of it is financed from the city of Jagodina and the budget of the city, we have the National Museum, the National Library "Radio Nikcevic", as the oldest institution of culture. Jagodina owns a rare example of the most expensive Serbian books, such as the book "Citije Peter the Great", writer Zahari Orfelin, etc. These significant cultural institutions need a reconstruction, where the Ministry can help, in order to preserve a rich treasure and cultural treasure. In Pomorava County, the Ministry of Culture and Information had serious investments in cultural facilities. The Centre for Culture was completed in Rijeka, through the project "Towns in Focus". Also, in Despotovac, we had a serious investment, also related to the Centre for Culture. I would like, on this occasion, even though Minister Maja Gojkovic is not present here, to invite the minister to visit all these important institutions in Pomorava County. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-02-0.u3580	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Olja Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-02-0.u3581	Thank you. Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, distinguished ministers with associates, distinguished ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, today we have before us a proposal for a law confirming a framework loan agreement between the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe and the Republic of Serbia for a project loan of infrastructure in culture. At the very beginning, I cannot without commending the Government of the Republic of Serbia who recognised the great importance of culture and cultural heritage and their potential for our country's development by adopting several documents that will contribute to Serbia's more successful positioning on the cultural map of Europe and the world that define the priorities of development in this area, the care of material and immaterial cultural heritage and the wider availability of culture through its institutions and media. Under the project envisioned a total of 30m euros, the bank's loan covers 20m euros and 10m euros will be financed from the Republic of Serbia's budget and other loans and donations. The renovation, renewal and expansion of cultural institutions, including museums, theatres, cultural centres and similar institutions, are planned, with focus on renovating the situation of existing buildings. In addition, it will also work to improve access to buildings and energy efficiency. In addition, a 400 000-euro grant was provided in the form of technical assistance to finance a previous eligibility study for three sub-projects. The aim is to preserve their architectural and historical value by the institutions involved in the project, as they are mainly located in historic and protected buildings. To the exceptional satisfaction of my fellow citizens and me, next to the National Theatre in Belgrade, next to the museums of Yugoslavia and other institutions in Belgrade and across Serbia, which are on this list of institutions covered by the financing of the project, there is also a more functional Cultural Centre in Pirote, known as the House of the Army located in the very center of our city. The potential social impact of these investments is extremely high. By contributing to improving conditions in target facilities that will become more functional and operational, it will also increase the number of visitors and revenues achieved, which will contribute to their financial and organisational independence. Social projects also bring economic value to society. By improving the energy efficiency of buildings and applying modern construction practices, this project will allow institutions, i.e. users to exhibit their collections and qualify for international exhibitions that require strict control of temperature, humidity and security. By restoring functionality and increasing the capacity of cultural institutions and providing satisfactory technical and security conditions for cultural events, the project will contribute to the development of cultural initiatives, economic activities, employment and tourism, both domestic and regional and foreign. In the previous period in collaboration with the Public Investment Management Office, the town of Piroth also arranged three schools, the Holy Sava elementary school, worth 145 million dinars, the elementary school "8. September," where 120m dinars and the Youth School were invested in 32m dinars. In addition to these investments, it will continue despite the crisis that has hit the whole world, caused by Kovid 19 and with investments in road infrastructure across Serbia. So by the end of the year, seven highways and fast roads will be built. To do well, and that Serbia is a stable country is showing the best foreign direct investment, which despite this crisis has not stopped, so in a few days, a large German investment in Novi Sad will be presented, and a contract with a large Japanese investment company will be signed in the beginning of next month, as well in this city. Thanks to all the investments in our wish, I believe that after the end of the pandemic we will have more tourists than we had in 2019, which was record-breaking and by number of visitors and by number of overnight stays, and the year in which we first exceeded the number of foreign tourists by the number of domestics. Serbia has something to praise, what to show, how to attract guests, and I believe that after the pandemic there will be a serious tourist force and continue the 2019 moments, which will help greatly to realise this project that is on the agenda today. Until then, I have to point out that I am extremely proud of our fight against the coronary virus and that we are still the first to be re-vaccinated in Europe. President Aleksandar Vukic is making extraordinary efforts to preserve every human life, which shows the welcome of Russian vaccines. It is up to us to adhere to all measures and advice and to appeal to all citizens for collective responsibility. In addition, we have shown that we care not only about us, but also about our neighbours in the region, so besides Northern Macedonia and Montenegro today we donated vaccines to Bosnia and Herzegovina, which contributes to the preservation of their health systems in these times of crisis. Finally, I want to support President Alexander Vukic's initiative that the state can make textbooks of Serbian language, history and geography, because others should not interpret our history, whose pages we write ourselves. That is why the film "The Gift of Jasenovac" is very important for our children, because they knew little about it, the sufferings, the sufferings, the tears and the pains of our people that should not be forgotten. In the day of the vote, I will support this bill with the parliamentary group Aleksandar Vukic – For our children, to whom I belong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-02-0.u3582	Thank you. The word is made by the People's MP Janko Langura.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-02-0.u3583	Dear Mr. Orlic, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen MPs, before we really begin to give maximum support to our esteemed colleague Bakarec, because you know that he is unlike those who write these radical statements from Trieste, from Luxembourg, from the Netherlands, from Maldives, or from wherever, he fights daily for his fellow citizens, for his city and for his country of Serbia. As we all know very well, culture is the foundation of our future. By 2025 we will have new museums, cultural centres, galleries, libraries, archaeological sites and monuments. We're going to build a new Philharmonic building. Our children will learn about our roots in the new museum on Resavska Street, and the Museum of the 20th Century in Novi Sad will present to us events that marked the 20th century and we will invest over 900m euros and that is just the beginning. There are also the introduction of art into culture and schools, education and participation in cultural programmes, cultural diplomacy, the launch and continuation of major projects such as building important objects, tax incentives for investment in culture, economic dimension of culture, digitalisation, development of cultural tourism and the improvement of the position of independent artists, cultural workers and professional associations of artists. These plans aim to strengthen awareness of their own, cultural identity through the foundation of rich tradition and the mastering of new modern methods and technologies for their transfer. Serbia is today, as we all know, a strong country that can help the monument of its most significant medieval dynasty, Stefan Nemanja. That monument, as we all know it, has been waiting for centuries. How important it is for our culture, we are also told by the opinions of our citizens. We are also told daily visits by tourists and all parts of Europe. The city, once mocked and disgraced by Belgrade, is now becoming one of the most beautiful squares in our country. That's why I'm particularly glad because we're going to turn the old train station into a museum. Today we have a country that is strong enough to make a film such as "Dara from Jasenovac", which has been waiting for over 75 years, so I would like to know whether those who are the greatest critics of all good in Serbia can explain to us why we were forbidden to talk about the loss of the Serb people in World War II, especially if we consider that this notorious camp Jasenovac was the only camp that was also a camp for children? Why are we ashamed of our history, if we are all very aware that until reconciliation between the people can't come if we cover up other people's victims? That reconciliation can't happen between people if we end history the way that suits us. We must and it is our duty to talk daily about knowing future generations and never to repeat it to anyone in this room. The preservation of national identity begins with the care of cultural heritage, not by its destruction, not by the end of its history, not by forgetting its victims, because we have nothing to be ashamed of. Let others be ashamed of it, be ashamed of those who wanted to cover up such terrible crimes against Serbs. Let those who were in Croatia on 4 November 2010 be ashamed to apologize to those who killed Serbs throughout history. Let those on Croatian television be ashamed that they are not proud of coming from Serbia. Let those who trampled the most cruel on Serbian victims be ashamed of themselves as Boris Tadic did. We are all aware that one of the most important forms of culture is actually a health culture, and until just a few months ago, we were able to see the same as they say that Serbia is not able to obtain vaccines for its citizens, that Serbia is unable to carry out collective immunisation of its people, and already today we can see the same as the first ones running and standing in line that they are being vaccinated and probably to justify themselves, now they are telling us how it is Serbia, I don't know how they went through it, I'm really surprised, they said that Serbia has organised it well. As an eclectic example of their thieving and when it comes to culture, I can give you the reconstruction of the House of Culture in my municipality, the Municipality of Gornji Milanovac, when the former government invested more than five million euros in construction, although the real price with the complete infrastructure within the facility and around the House of Culture should not have crossed a million euros. Although more than fourm euros were kidnapped by citizens, although in the early opening of the famous home of culture, three days before the elections themselves to collect, of course, cheap political points, endangered the lives of over five hundred people, because that culture home did not have a building permit or a useful permit. They were willing to do anything just to win that election. I will also show you in the photos of what SNS met upon coming to power in Gornji Milanovac. I've already said that they and how conscious they've endangered the lives of over five hundred million people and I'm going to show you some of the photos, here you can see, I'm sorry, please zoom in. You can see open, unprotected electrical installations, and only a few inches below you can see a flood that was literally a centimeter away from contact with these electrical installations and you can imagine what kind of disaster that would lead to the collection of these cheap political points. Look, gentlemen, this has been invested, and this has been opened for over five million euros. Five times as much money as the real price wasn't enough for them. This clearly shows how much they care about our fellow citizens. Their only concern was how much money would end up in their deep pockets, but what if you were surprised by gentlemen when they were with these arrogant thieves, when they allowed them from the Public Roads Company, the Municipality of Gornji Milanovac to disappear one of the SKIP's working machines. You know, it's an eight-ton machine. It's not the key chain you lose today, and tomorrow you find it anyway. It's an eight-ton machine and they gentlemen managed to lose it overnight somehow. Of course, believe it or not, to this day neither for the home of culture nor for that Skip machine has been answered by anyone. The public prosecutor, as always, turned a blind eye in front of their blatant withdrawal of money from our citizens. I have to say for the end, unlike them, we want to provide our children with as much cultural content as possible, we want the generations that come to be proud of us, of their country, of their roots and history, because only such Serbia is the country where our children want to live. Thank you. Long live decent Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-02-0.u3584	Mr. Langura, thank you and congratulations. The word is Vesna Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-02-0.u3585	Thank you, Chairman. Since I have been dealing with a kind of art for more than 20 years myself, and I can freely say that I am familiar with the problems that artists in Serbia face, especially young people at the beginning of my career and how much effort and denial it takes to achieve a certain result. That is why I think it is important that the youth and sports ministers are present today, because we need to make more effort to bring cultural content closer to young people, not only in Belgrade, but throughout Serbia. But first, I would refer to everything that has been happening to us for the last year, and that is certainly the pandemic of Kovida – 19 and that, of course, made it difficult to function cultural activities. During that period, about 40% of events were cancelled, but regardless of the reduced salary revenues in cultural institutions were not reduced, as in Serbia, there are 10,816 people in the institutions of culture, meaning 520 registered institutions, and Belgrade artists working under labour contracts, and there are 309, aid paid last year for 90,000 dinars. Although the pandemic has the most impacted areas dependent on living performances, but also on cultural tourism, the film industry has also recorded huge losses, as around 30% of the creative industry's revenues come from cinematography, and the creative industry in Serbia contributes to the economy from 3.4% to 7.1% of GDP. In order to adapt to new circumstances and to ensure long-term survival by culture institutions, focus will certainly be placed on digitisation and new opportunities for cultural production, distribution and consumption. Regardless of the difficult circumstances for our economy in general, this year's budget for culture has increased by 10.67%, i.e. 12.708 billion dinars. The amounts have been increased, not only for the financing of cultural institutions, but also for projects in this area. The funds for culture and information are 1.1% of the total budget, which represents an increase of 0.79% compared to the 2020 budget rebalance. For example, before 2012, the culture budget was 0.6%. For example, 700 million dinars from the budget have been identified for incentives for filmmaking and series. A number of film and television performances, such as the film most recently talked about, "Dar from Jasenovac", "Nimjic", "King Petra", "The Root" series about Svetozar Miletic's life and many others, they contribute to the preservation of our history, because the film is one of the most significant and most popular educational means. Although numerous controversys about the movie "Dara from Jasenovac" have been conducted in the previous days, the message of this film is only one, and that is never to repeat such a thing to any people in the world again. I would now refer briefly to the 2020-2029 Culture Strategy of the Republic of Serbia which has identified and defined the problems that exist in this area, which is a low level of participation of citizens in cultural activities and as creators and as audiences, but not enough incentive environment for artistic creation. Cultural life does not take place in all environments equally, which prevents even and cultural development across Serbia's territory. The current situation requires the development of a stable system of culture that will allow for the improvement of contemporary creation with greater participation of young creators, with greater availability of cultural content for all Serbian citizens regardless of where they live. Each artistic area has a diverse and unique problem for itself. Greater availability of cultural content and promotion of creation is only possible, of course, with the development of the cultural infrastructure that I am talking about today and in which the investment of this 20m-euro agreement is planned. The colleagues have already mentioned which institutions are assigned that money, but I will repeat it once more. For the National Theatre in Belgrade, for the construction of the Art Gallery at Kosančić's Venice in Belgrade also, the Yugoslavia Museum in Belgrade, the National Theatre in Nis, the Art Pavilion "Cveta Zuzoric", the digitisation of 11 cultural centres throughout Serbia, then the restoration and conversion of the old railway into a museum, then investment in an old railway station in Belgrade, i.e. the restoration of a locatorium, a more functional Cultural Centre in Pirote. These investments only contribute to improving the state of cultural institutions in order to become more functional and operational, thus increasing the number of visitors and incomes these institutions make, as well as the development of cultural tourism in Serbia. I cited why I especially look forward to every investment in culture, because every invested dinar of course is worth a lot of money. One of the best promoters or ambassadors of our country are our artists, especially those who live and work around the world. I would like to give an example which is, of course, known to everyone, which is Marina Abramovic, the only artist from our region who is listed on the "Times" list among the hundred most important artists in the world. We had the opportunity to see in Belgrade the exhibition Marine Abramovic, which was last held in Belgrade in 1975. The exhibition was visited by 62,000 visitors from 21 September to 20 January, otherwise the museum is visited annually by 100,000 visitors. The exhibition contains 1,728 articles. The New York Times announced it is one of the 28 exhibitions to be visited. Serbia's president also decorated Marina Abramovic for outstanding merits in the area of culture. Otherwise, the Museum of Contemporary Art in which this exhibition was held was closed to the public in 2007 for renovation. It was opened after 10 years in 2017, and on this case I explained why it was important to open this museum. The National Museum, also one of the most important cultural institutions in Serbia, was closed for 15 years and opened the door for visitors on June 28th 2018. In the end, our country's culture is based on contemporary cultural creation and on the rich cultural heritage of the Serbian people and of all the peoples who lived or lived in our country, as well as the common cultural heritage. It is up to us to cultivate and preserve this cultural wealth and promote it in the right way. Of course it's impossible without investment and that's why I'm going to support this agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-02-0.u3586	Thank you. The word is Dušan Radojevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-02-0.u3587	The Honorable Chairman, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, certainly one of the key segments in every society is culture, tradition and cultural heritage. Our country is rich in history and rich in cultural heritage and our obligation is to invest in culture and to leave it with pride for our children tomorrow. The fact that the beginning of the 21st century our society encountered a series of challenges that hit two viruses. One of them is the coronary virus Serbia successfully fights and has shown that it can be an example of many countries in Europe and the world as collective immunisation is conducted, which is a prerequisite for us to return to normal frameworks and continue to invest in culture and live normally. The second virus, which has long-term harassed these areas and caused irreparable damage to our society, is a yellow virus that has left major consequences for our economy and culture from 2000 to 2012. What exactly is this about? We have found a chaotic state in infrastructure, when cultural objects are at stake, both in Cačka and so I see in Belgrade and across Serbia. What's interesting is that the vaccine for this virus was produced by the people and in 2012 carried out collective immunisation and created conditions for us to go into complete reorganization, consolidation of cultural institutions, regulation of public finances and everything that was a prerequisite for bringing culture back to the place it belonged to, and this is also a place for our young people, all of our fellow citizens to spend their free time in better-quality institutions. So you had the opportunity here in Belgrade to open the door after 15 years for all of us citizens, when it comes to the National Museum, and after 10 years to open the door for all of us when it comes to the Museum of Contemporary Art. This is what we Chacans were doing, so in 2016 we made a great effort to follow the guidelines of the Government of Serbia, we built one of the largest libraries in Serbia, we opened the City Theatre, we reconstructed the Risim Gallery, we reconstructed the facade of old principles, inter-municipal archives and museums, we continued to invest in cultural programs, in everything that we had no funds for in the previous period, and where the employees in cultural institutions couture. They left us with one general chaos, a lack of a clear strategy for the development of culture, lack of resources, unintended spending of funds, insufficiently defined quality and a programme of work of these institutions, led to the fact that the audience left those institutions and entertainment found in some other content, and today we are already using the opportunity to approach the audience with the help of digitization, especially younger generations, and thus we are really interested in completing the cultural offer in our own favor. I must say that I have had the honour and pleasure to perform my post as a member of the City Council in my city from 2016 to 2020, in full charge of the field of youth and culture. All the proposals that I have explained and that the city has been heartily supported have not been supported by individual opposition parties, you have had the opportunity to meet them in the previous term, this is Dveri and their leader, Bosko Obradovic. Why do I mention him? Because he worked in such a library in Chačka and had no problem not supporting the reconstruction and construction of a new library facility, although he worked in unconditional conditions, in a building located in the old Hadzic house, which had no room for exhibitions and for the private part, already used it in other institutions. We've put it all together in one place, but that's why he's been working very hard to promote something around here and do some damage to our citizens, Chacka, and introduce us in some bad light. I am responsible for telling you that we are not like this, and we have shown this in the elections, providing absolute support for the politics of Alexander Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia for another mandate, to continue to invest in culture, in addition. We had the honour to thank Minister Maja Gojkovic, who during the previous period as president of the Assembly, gave us unselfish support for the development of culture in our area, and she visited our town in December 2020 and said that after everything we did in the field of culture, we become serious candidates to bring the status of the capital of culture in Serbia in 2023. This is what bothers us more and more to continue to do and what gives us the task of justifying the minister's trust to endure it and to show that Cačak, besides having to offer in the economy, has and how to boast in culture. That is why in the voting day, I will certainly vote for this one proposal aimed at providing us with an additional 30m euros to invest in cultural infrastructure and become interesting tourists across Europe, to finally see that we Serbs have something to offer and not to be ashamed of and to be proud of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-02-0.u3588	Thank you, Mr. Radojevich. The word has a folk letter from Milica Dacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-02-0.u3589	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly Mr Orlic, distinguished fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, honourable ministers, distinguished assistants of the Minister of Culture and Information, and above all respected citizens of Serbia, it is well known that each country is built on the basis of which it is called culture. In order not to turn into a mass without identity, collective consciousness, tradition and future, we must in every way support and develop our culture. Today we are talking about a serious legal act whose main objectives, as pointed out in this explanation, are to renovate, restore and expand the capacities of cultural institutions, including museums, theatres, cultural centres and the like. However, when we look at the list of objects that are subject to the agreement, it also concerns what we were, what we are and what we plan to be, because all the institutions that this agreement refers to are a reminder of our tradition, history and culture. We are witnessing that in the previous period, since 2012, a lot of funding has been invested in culture. I will remind, as many of my colleagues today, that the core reconstruction of the National Museum began in 2014, so when Aleksandar Vukic became prime minister and ended on Vidovdan 2018. A museum that's been unreachable for 15 years for citizens who know when to wait for visitors if we hadn't finished this project. So, we end what others started, and out of their ignorance or inadequacy they didn't finish, but we end what we started. Take a look at the unique monument of culture of the exceptional importance of the Golubačka Fortress, whose reconstruction was started in 2014 and opened in March 2019, or the renovated building of the theatre in Vranj. In my Cačka, as my colleague Radojevic pointed out, a new library "Vladslav Petkovic Dis" opened in 2018. It was built by local self-government and is the largest library in Serbia under one roof. So, the attitude of the government, or the attitude of the SNS towards culture, is not by any means pushing into the seal of this exceptional social area, but on the contrary – looking at problems in the same and putting them on the list of priorities. Unlike a self-proclaimed and thus a false cultural elite that has worked hard over the past period, so in the pre-2012 period, to close cinemas, theatres, museums and libraries. We can't and we won't. That's why we've increased earnings for cultural institutions employees. That's why the 2021 budget for culture, despite the pandemic, is bigger than it was in 2020. There's a so-called The elite pained when famous Gaga Antonijevic told the film "Dara from Jasenovac": "Some couldn't, others couldn't, Vukic could and dared." They are probably hurt when Stefan Milenkovic returns to Serbia after his 30-year international career. But what makes them particularly angry seems to be setting up a monumental monument to Mayor Nemanja. Our capital has this way associated with medieval Serbian history and that personality from which it all began. I'm glad these steps go to my hometown, too. So, our wish is to set up a monument for the mayor of Stracimir, brother Stefan Nemanje, who is the founder of the then town and today's Chačka in the town square in Cačka. I'm glad these steps go to my hometown, too. So, our wish is to set up a monument for the mayor of Stracimir, brother Stefan Nemanje, who is the founder of the then Graco and today's Chačka in the town square at the end of this year. This agreement will save the historical and architectural value of cultural institutions, which is mainly located in protected historical buildings, restore their functionality and increase their capacity, i.e. the project will contribute to the development of cultural initiatives, economic activities, employment and tourism. When we talk about tourism, I am particularly proud and grateful that our country, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, has decided to invest large funds in the Ovčar-Cablar ravine, so-called. Serbia's Sveta Gora, which is not only a pearl of nature, but also contains cultural and historical values from its 11 monasteries. Finally, I would like to thank the Deputy Prime Minister, Mrs Gojkovic, and wish her success and happiness in the realization of all these projects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-02-0.u3590	Thank you, Mrs. Dacic. The word has been issued by MP Milan Jugovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-02-0.u3591	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman-in-Office, respected ministers, respected fellow Members and fellow MPs, respected fellow citizens, the state leadership of the SNS has repeatedly shown that the loan agreement between the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe and the Republic of Serbia for the "Infrastructure in Culture" project is just another proof, just another indicator of how much SNS pays attention to every segment of our society. The culture was somehow always, unfortunately, extreme, somehow always in the second plan, and that's the case decades ago, from the time of the Socialist Yugoslavia until the time of the DS regime and Dragan Gilas. We are also witnessing that in recent years Serbia has changed significantly in a positive way. From year to year, our economy is stronger. New jobs are being opened, wages and pensions are growing. What should especially make us all proud is the fact that we are increasingly investing in culture and that is one serious step when it comes to our country. Only when it comes to this project will Serbia invest 30m euros. So 10 million from the budget, 20 million from the loan to the modernisation of cultural infrastructure. So, through renovation, renovation, expansion of cultural institutions, museums, theatres, etc. and we will not only achieve a visual effect, because after these investments, we will provide better working conditions for these institutions, we will have more visitors, and therefore higher revenues. This is not the beginning, this is just a new step in the process that we started a few years ago, the process of reviving our culture, the process of promoting our culture, the process of modernising and rehabilitating our cultural institutions, which, as in the rest of the country, were devastated during the previous regime. I will give only one example, and there are many of them, about how our most significant cultural institutions were treated before 2012, and as the government, the state leadership led by the SNS today. So in 2003, the regime of Dragan Gilas under reconstruction closed the National Museum, so that 10 years later, when citizens were sent to the elections in history, both Dragan Gilas and DS were not yet completed. The doors of the National Museum were still closed to visitors. It's no wonder to me, what I expected more, because people were just too busy, too busy with personal wealth, filling their pockets, took time to steal 619m euros, and who's going to think about some National Museum there. A similar situation was with the Museum of Contemporary Art, which was closed for visitors in 2007, so that the National Museum and the Museum of Contemporary Art of State leadership, under the leadership of SNS and President Vukic, would only reconstruct and open up to the public. So our citizens today can enjoy the benefits of both these buildings. In addition to restoring already existing cultural institutions, we are building today, we are establishing new ones today. I'm just going to look back at the town I'm from, Loznik. In 2017, in Trsic, the birthplace of the father of Serbian literacy, Vuk Karadzic, opened a scientific and cultural centre called Vuk Karadzic, worth more than threem euros, which were jointly funded by the city of Loznica and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. So today both Loznica and Serbia have a cultural institution which is primarily a spring for young celebrities, but also other scientists in the field of social sciences whose superior goal is to cultivate Serbia's immaterial cultural heritage, cultivate Serbian culture, primarily Serbian language and Cyrillic letters and generally cultivate Serbian national identity. In addition to destroying and destroying the country economically, the regime of Dragan Gilas has left severe consequences for our people's spiritual being. The former regime has destroyed this nation's national pride. He destroyed the self-respect of this people. He made us feel it was a shame to be a Serb. We didn't have the courage, we had the courage to talk openly about our victims. They turned Serbia into a punching bag into a country that apologized to everyone and everything. We simply couldn't call things a real name in our country, and our greats, unfortunately, we neglected. Today in Serbia, the situation is completely different. We repay all the significant personalities of our history, all the significant people who have owed this country and this people. I'm going to say one example that we've heard several times today, but I think it's important and I think we should all do it again, because Stefan Nemanja has waited decades to get a monument in his country. And today in downtown Belgrade, we have a monumental building, a monument to Stefan Nemanja, which once again challenge those who were unable to reconstruct a museum for a decade and more. Today Serbia is strong enough, esteemed enough to say, to call things by the right name, that NATO aggression was aggression, that it was not a campaign. We can and may say that Storm was a crime. We are allowed to put our heroes from Koshar, we can, we can, and we want to record in the future series and movies that talk about the loss of our people, despite the disdain of certain countries that would minimise or even push away the crimes committed against the Serbian people. In the context of this, I would also express the absolute support of President Vukic's initiative that items of vital importance for our national identity, Serbian language, history, geography, so that textbooks from these items are printed in state-owned companies, state-owned companies, because in this way we will prevent them from ever repeating to us in our history textbook – that blood tax also had positive effects, that blood tax was an opportunity for Serbian boys to advance in the hierarchy of the Ottoman Empire. To prevent foreign capital from overcoming our history through our textbooks. At the very end, I will say that I will always, always and now, support all those good proposals, constructive proposals that come into this assembly, into this high house, which will improve the cultural life of our people that will enable a more versatile and richer cultural life, generally in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-02-0.u3592	Thank you. The word has a national emissary, Vesna Rankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-02-0.u3593	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with co-workers, respected fellow Members of the People's Parliament and MPs and respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Before us today is the Framework Agreement on the loan between the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe and the Republic of Serbia. I am someone who came to the National Assembly from the cultural sphere, felt the need to take part in the debate on this agenda. What I want to point out is that this agreement was signed in Belgrade and Paris in January 2021, while the loan was granted a year earlier and was approved as a project loan for infrastructure in culture. What does that mean? This involves the restoration and construction of new cultural institutions, i.e. objects that will be used to promote culture and its accompanying activities. Also, what's important to say is that it also implies the improvement of these objects, which means better accessibility, which is very important, because we are just trying to make everything available to everyone, and so is culture. What is important is to point out that the energy efficiency of these objects will also be improved, which automatically enables our cultural institutions that are covered by this project to qualify for international exhibitions that require special conditions, such as certain temperature and humidity, but also the security of exposed exhibits. It is also important to point out that the loan amounts to 20m euros, while 10m euros is secured from the Republic of Serbia's budget, but also from some loans and donations. 400,000 euros have also been provided to serve for technical assistance. It is very important to point out that this project will also have an impact on cultural tourism for the reason that we currently have, in fact, records that there are 2.5 million visitors recorded on the annual level in our country. When this is added, the number of visitors who will come to visit the institutions of culture and the exhibits that are in them, which are covered by this project, can also see multiple revenues from tourism, and this will further cause an additional number of jobs in the field of tourism and hospitality, which is one of the policy objectives that our President Aleksandar Vukic advocates, and we all together with him, increase the number of employment. With this project, we have heard today from many of my colleagues who have previously set out on this agenda, they will cover many cultural institutions, including the National Theatre in Belgrade and the Museum of Yugoslavia. That's what I'm going to isolate, because we've heard the entire list of institutions that will be covered by this project. Since I come from the Barajevo municipality, it is one peripheral municipality of the city of Belgrade, that we have not had in some previous period, I mean before 2012 and back so many cultural events and so much cultural accent as we have since 2012, and so on. Also since 2012, this trend has also been seen that culture is not promoting and investing in culture only in Belgrade, but also in the interior of our country. The best indication is that, apart from the National Museum, the Museum of Contemporary Art in Belgrade, other objects have been renovated that promote culture and art, such as the "Matice of Serbian" Gallery in Novi Sad, then the National Museum in Zrenjanin, the shabačka library, etc. Of course, she's been feeling a great accent on culture ever since our new minister, Mother Gojkovic, took that role. Maja Gojkovic is someone who is actually in this Parliament where we all are today, has suffered great insults, malpractice, misbehavior, and she has been in fact all along claiming that there is this culture in parliament between colleagues and fellow MPs, regardless of the parliamentary group they belong to, and that is something that Maja Gojkovic is probably qualified to lead the Resort Ministry of Culture. She also advocated the adoption of the Code of Conduct of People's MPs, which we brought, however, at the moment she was no longer in parliament, but was at that moment a minister of culture. Of course, none of this would have been if we had not had Alexander Vukic, who began in 2012, major reforms, which of course later gave positive results. These positive results, i.e. increased wages, also increased contributions and taxes, which are now significantly higher, among other things, for culture. What I still want to point out is that, apart from the separations in terms of the Republic of Serbia's culture budget, they are bigger in the area of cinematography. I would not have owed it because many of my colleagues and previous weeks, and even today during their presentations mentioned the film "Dar from Jasenovac", but I would still like to take a brief look at it, because it is our legacy for the future. Finally, after 75 years, we had the opportunity to get familiar with our history through this film, who was not familiar, and I see by the reactions of some people in my environment that not everyone was familiar. I am very glad that the state, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and our President Alexander Vukic, had actually heard of such a thing. Simply, the past shouldn't burden our future, but I also think that we would have a good future that we should never forget our past. That is why I will support this Framework Agreement in the voting day, as well as my colleagues from the Legislative Group Aleksandar Vukic – To our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-02-0.u3594	Thank you. The word is from MP Zoran Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-02-0.u3595	Thank you, Vice President Vladimir Orlic. Dear colleagues and fellow Members of the people, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, our history, culture and heritage is something we should be proud of, boasting and trying to be visible and recognizable to everyone. This is why investing in culture in its further development, but also the process of digitisation of the very culture, is an important segment of the Government of Serbia programme in this mandate, but also in the previous mandates of this same government. Unlike the period of the dosmanium, when they were trying, of course, to shut down factories, to cauterize people into the streets, to erase our history, to overturn some new one, which probably suits them or their employers, but, fortunately, there is no more and will never be. With pride today we can see all the successes of our country through the history that has been achieved, but also the suffering of our people through history, both in cinematographic content and in scientific works, and in other cultural events that are being organised, because as the Latin proverb says, "History is a teacher of life. “ History is something that we need to remember and is the basis for further development. As a result, investment in culture is also one of the essential items, as I said, of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the improvement of culture itself and the basis for its further development. Otherwise, it is also a characteristic of this government that projects that are running to end, but also that projects that the predecessors started, but they didn't know how to complete or didn't know or know. We've had opportunities to hear about it from fellow Members of the People's Parliament. We remember only the National Museum that they started with reconstruction, they couldn't finish, but fortunately, we managed to finish it and on June 28th 2018 the National Museum was open to the public and then Prime Minister Ana Brnabić said that we are starting and finishing our jobs, and that the National Museum is returning to the people and we need to keep it together and invest in it. This sentence applies not only to the National Museum, but also to all other segments in culture, but also to other segments important to the life of Serbian citizens, because it is a policy led by the SNS, a policy established by President Aleksandar Vukic. The time for closing museums, neglecting culture is behind us and now it's time for it to invest in culture, because it's said that investment in culture is investment in the country. Speaking of culture, I will mention something from my hometown of Kruševec. So, in 2019, after 50 years in Kruševec, a new permanent position of the museum was opened, thanks to which Kruševljani, i.e. Charapani, also a large number of tourists and guests have the opportunity to get to know each other in a much better, more accessible, quality way with the history of our imperial city, which this year will mark 650 years since its founding, so it is one of the significant evidence of how this government struggles to bring our history, our culture and heritage closer to our citizens. In addition, besides, of course, the museum itself, it's invested a lot in the National Theatre, it's also invested in the Cultural Centre. What is important is to point out that in the previous period we have erected monuments to both Princess Milic and Despot Stefan Lazarevic and that we will raise the monument to Prince Lazar, which will be in the settlement of Old Airport, which will be a symbol of the new Kruševec and its progress and prosperity. We had the opportunity to hear from distinguished fellow MPs a number of successes led by Alexander Vukic during the previous period when it comes to culture, its development in this country, but unfortunately we cannot help but notice that whenever we talk about some successes, the haters of the same ones who are trying, but only trying to undo all of this with their lies that they place, of course, through their own media. So last week we were able to see the covered lies about the closure of the Natural History Museum in Belgrade, where they, in fact, not only were they making a lie that the facility closed, but they identified the facility with the building, and the Natural History Museum itself, any museum in Serbia, is much more than the building itself, but what they forgot to mention and did not notice, which is that these same people, who ruled Serbia by 2012, did not bother to solve a problem in that museum, and that is exactly the building where these permanent settings could be found, which could be enriched with various content, to be more accessible to citizens, but probably in their time just tried to give a certain church to make the museum work. What this government is going to fight for is certain that this big problem, when it comes to the Natural History Museum, is solved. Of course, thanks to the efforts that the Deputy Prime Minister and Culture Minister Maja Gojkovic, who has shown in the previous period that the woman who is trying and doing it, that what she promises to fulfill, another argument against their lies is exactly the draft law on museums, i.e. museum activities, whose public hearing we have had the opportunity to attend here in the National Assembly, where it is clearly said in one of the members that the Natural Museum exists one of the parent museums in Serbia. If you are the law, or draft law, to be found before the National Assembly, that is to say to the MPs, how can someone claim to plan to shut down the museum, or as they say, that it becomes some kind of organisational unit? When we talk about this financial agreement, I just want to say that this is another step in the progress, i.e. the realisation of plans when it comes to further promotion of culture in Serbia, because thanks to it, we will allow the culture to be even more recognizable and accessible to our citizens, so that, thanks to the funds that we will receive from the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe worth 20m euros and from the funds provided by the Republic of Serbia's budget of 10m euros, we have had the opportunity to hear that the reconstruction of the National Theatre in Belgrade, the Museum of Yugoslavia, the National Theatre in Nis, the Art Pavilion "Cveta Zuzoric", the conversion of the old railway station into a museum, which we already see, based on the funds and works, has restored its old glow and that, after not knowing how many years, finally and the hour at that museum has worked. Then, the renovation of the railway station, the Art Gallery at Kosančić's wedding and the construction of a multi-functional cultural centre in Piroth, which we also had the opportunity to hear about. Also, last week, we had the same opportunity here in the National Assembly to attend public listening when it comes to the digitalisation process in Serbia, as far as the process has gone, what results have been achieved. We have actually seen in this debate that it has really gone a long way and that digitisation in many spheres of life has managed to improve quality itself and to help solve problems, specifically when we are talking about the pandemic of the virus's coronary. Also, I will say that one of the priorities of the Government of the Republic of Serbia in the previous period was also the process of digitisation when it comes to culture, so that much has been done to digitise our cultural heritage, literary works, so that they are also available today in digital format. In particular, this agreement, or project - Infrastructure in culture, will provide funds for the digitisation of 11 cultural centres in Serbia, which will further raise the level, content and quality of content these cultural centres offer to the wider audience. In addition to what we have heard, in addition to investment and in the energy efficiency segment, we will also benefit economically from all this because this will bring additional revenue and profits to the cultural sector, improve the development of tourism in our country. What is very important is that users themselves will have a really high quality of what these facilities offer to see and, of course, will allow institutions and users to exhibit their collections and qualify for international exhibitions that require and strict control of temperature, humidity and security of works themselves. Based on everything said and on what fellow MPs said, in the day of the vote, together with them from the Electoral Group Aleksandar Vukic - For our children, support this agreement and, hopefully, give a modest contribution to the further development of culture in the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-02-0.u3596	Thank you. The word is Milica Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-02-0.u3597	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the draft law on the agenda today is only one of the indicators that our highest authorities recognize is, in fact, the importance of preserving a country's culture and cultural identity. The adoption of this agreement will allow for a number of activities to be renovated, renovated and expanded by cultural institutions, including museums and theatres and numerous other cultural institutions. Access to cultural buildings will be improved, their energy efficiency improved, and what is most important, their historical and architectural value will be preserved. Newly built and reconstructed cultural institutions will contribute to new employment, a larger number of visitors, and thus to higher revenues, and also to the further development of cultural tourism in Serbia. The agreement therefore covers the reconstruction of two national theatres, one in Belgrade, the other in Nis, the reconstruction of the Yugoslav Museum in Belgrade, the reconstruction of numerous cultural centres across Serbia, as well as the conversion of the old railway station into a museum. So these are just some of the projects that will be done in the context of the cultural sphere in the next period. They are an indication that besides hundreds of newly built miles of roads, besides new hospitals, new schools, new kindergartens, the current government, with the support of Aleksandr Vukic, cares about the cultural life of its citizens. That this practice of reconstruction of cultural institutions has not now started evidence is also a number of restored monuments across Serbia, restored two museums in Belgrade, as well as over 500 renovated facades on numerous cultural monuments throughout Serbia. In 2019, in Vranj, after seven years of rest, the Boris Stankovic Theatre was reopened. During 2020, as many as 22 projects from the same cities and municipalities were supported through the project "Towns in Focus", which is funded by the Ministry of Culture and Information, and some 83 million dinars were allocated. The funds allocated under this project create an environment for better quality conditions for the work of numerous homes of culture, archives, libraries and other cultural institutions across Serbia. Thanks to this project, the municipality of Raca, the municipality from which I come, was built in 2020, a project technical documentation for the recovery of the roof, the restoration of the facade, as well as the replacement of the carpentry of the Karadjordjev home, a cultural monument that was erected in 1933 thanks to Queen Maria Karadjordjevic. Since this monument has not been reconstructed since its creation, I sincerely hope, as well as the citizens of the Rač municipality, that by further co-operation with the Government of the Republic of Serbia, we will prevent the destruction of this forest castle from being destroyed, that we will put it in the Serbian Castle Register as soon as possible, and that we will find a suitable purpose for it together. As one of the largest castles south of Belgrade, I am sure that this home can be found on the path of a tourist tour from Orasac, via Topola, Visevac, and all the way to Pokajnica, representing the birth, life and death of the leader of Karajord, the story of the first Serbian uprising, as well as the awakening of statehood. So it's obvious that in the last eight years in the field of culture there's really been a lot of work done, and there's a lot of work to be done. However, all these successes are very often the subject of criticism and ridicule in the low-end opposition tabloids. They are troubled by Serbia, which treats itself with dignity, which respects its people, its tradition and its history. The most recent example of what I'm talking about is the numerous statements by some academics there about the monument of the medieval Serbian state's birthstone, Stefan Nemanja. They think this monument should be torn down or removed. I just don't understand why they have so much trouble with such a magnificent monument, is it just because it was done during the power of Alexander Vukic? I'm sure that's why it bothers them, because they've never been able to do anything like this. They never cared about Serbia, our people, our tradition, our history, anything but their own pocket. Well, dear citizens of Serbia, today is no longer possible. Today it's about you and the better life of each and every one of you. Every dinar in the Republic budget is spent on making your lives better and easier, whether it's through building new roads, new hospitals, new schools, kindergartens, and new theatres. Accordingly, and directed to all those who want to fill their pockets with money from the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, at the very end I will quote our President Alexander Vukic: "If you don't have a tiger's eye, if you don't want to fight, if you don't have emotions, if you don't have ambition, if you don't need to work, if you have to dream about tracks, roads, theatres, museums that you're opening, if you're not able to fantasize about higher wages and pensions and make it happen, and you have to do a lot of work, don't even be there." Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-02-0.u3598	Thank you and congratulations. The word has been made by MP Milimir Vujadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-02-0.u3599	Thank you. Dear colleagues, distinguished members of the government, dear Vice President Orlic, I know that you are a responsible man who does his job well, but I also know that you will forgive me if I step out of the topic a little, taking into account the importance of the political moment and everything that is happening today in Serbia. Dear Minister, this proposal that you have put before us today is not just about its value expressed in millions of euros. Its value is much wider. He, above all, speaks of the government's intention to fulfill what was said when the current prime minister exhibited her exposés in this distinguished House. He talks about the definition of guarding and developing cultural institutions and ultimately fulfilling what was promised, and that is also the most important part of the job when it comes to the work of any political structure, the fulfillment of the promised. Here, this document today is, in fact, the fulfillment of something that has already been promised and shows that you take care of the institutions of culture, as you promised, and all of them here are individually, at least the biggest ones, listed. These are cultural institutions located within the borders of the Republic of Serbia. However, sometimes in this political action, there may be a case for political actors to do more than they have been promised. It seems to me that this government has succeeded more than that, following continuity since 2014. In fact, you also took care of the institutions of our people's culture in the environment, especially when it comes to Republika Srpska. I'm just going to say one example. Here, I know that in Nevesinj, in a small municipality in the south of Republika Srpska, this government, whose part you are, has funded the construction of a home of culture and is not even worth it, in those 14 million dinars, how much it cost, but in the message that a stable and strong Serbia is taking care of its countrymen wherever they live. No one in the exposé has promised that today we will be able to help some of our neighbours who do not belong to the Serbian ethnic Corps. No one in the exposé has promised to take today's president of the state 5,000 vaccines to Sarajevo for health workers in the Federation of BiH. But when you wait for something like that, there's nothing else you can do to support it, and you're heartily behind it, both the president and the government. The same is true when it comes to this document, or agreement that you have brought into this National Assembly today. We'll certainly support him. I'll take advantage of the opportunity to talk with you as a resolute sports minister to help you cultivate a memory culture yourself, especially when it comes to our victims' places in the region and start, i.e. Let's continue the conversation on the topic of sports playground in the settlement Prebilovci in the south of the Federation of BiH. In the end, I can't help but look back at what's been marked today, Copper. Another great Ducic said – the first feature of the receiver is that he fears what he does not understand, and in the first place he is afraid of the mind. And who is the recipient and the bully, has had the opportunity to see Serbia throughout the year, unfortunately, in the last decade. That'd be for last. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-02-0.u3600	Thank you, Mr. Vujadinović. Although you sent a warning, I didn't notice you were coming out of the theme frame. The word is Juliana Sakic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-02-0.u3601	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with associates, fellow Members of the People's Parliament, citizens and citizens of Serbia, our country claims to move forward with all its potentials with the world, and this will not be possible unless we are identified on the cultural map of Europe and the world. That is why I am particularly pleased today to talk about a 30m-euro cultural infrastructure modernisation project, of which 20m euros are provided through the bank's loan, and 10m euros is funded from the Republic of Serbia's budget. As a professor of Serbian language and literature, I am particularly pleased to draw up a strategy for the development of the culture of the Republic of Serbia for the period from 2020 to 2025 and the action plan as an integral part of the strategy, which defines priorities, refer to the care of material and immaterial cultural heritage, but also the greater presence of culture through all its institutions and media. This strategy also shows the direction in which Serbia is seeking to develop in the next period, evidence of the responsibility and leadership of the state in setting priorities, as well as an indicator of long-term and meaningful investment in Serbia's future, our children and all of us. All of them have the right to culture, and this project will carry out a number of activities to build and renovate, restore and expand cultural institutions. The project aims to improve access to buildings, which makes culture accessible to people with disabilities, improve energy efficiency, but above all to preserve the architectural and historical values of these buildings. All together will result in an increase in the capacity of cultural institutions and the provision of satisfactory technical and security conditions for organising cultural events. More widely, the project will contribute to a greater number of cultural initiatives, increasing economic activity, new employment and better tourism development, both regional and local. I have the privilege of coming from a town of giants such as Vuk Karadzic, Jovan Cvijic, Mica Popović, and under the slopes of Mount Gučevo and Cer there have been famous battles, which, complete with the beauty of Drin, the royal spa, Banja Koviljač, the monastery of Tronos near the famous town of Trsic, makes it serious, both cultural and tourist capital and the potential of the town of Loznica, its surroundings and the entire western Serbia. In order not to get away from the topic, I will return to the cultural institutions covered by this project, with particular emphasis on those institutions that are past Belgrade, because, as I said, everyone has the right to culture. I am particularly pleased with investing in the National Theatre in Nis, rebuilding the building and building a small scene, digitising 11 cultural centres throughout Serbia, then a multi-functional cultural centre in Piroth. I must stress that my city is preceding this one project, because we in Loznica, more specifically in Trsic 2017, have already received a scientific and cultural education centre bearing the name of the reformer of Serbian language and letter. It is important to note that 400 000 euros in grants are provided in the form of technical assistance to finance previous eligibility studies and sub-projects, and the date of implementation of all these projects covers the period from September 2020 to December 2024. I am convinced that, with the recently restored National Museum and the newly built music and ballet school with a concert hall in Novi Sad, this is only the beginning of a return to self-renaissance in our culture and that the leadership of our country, first of all the president of the state, all the ministries, all the cultural workers, but also other enthusiasts will continue with this practice and in the years to come, and that abandoned and abandoned objects and cultural institutions will remain part of our ugly past. Therefore, as a letter from the list Aleksandar Vukic – For our children, I will support the bill and invite other colleagues to do the same, because the future belongs to those who believe in it, and the seeds we sow today will be the fruit of our future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-02-0.u3602	Thank you, Mrs. Sakic. The remaining time for the parliamentary group is just over 29 minutes. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-02-0.u3603	I hope, ladies and gentlemen, my speech will fit into those 29 minutes. We're talking about the loan here. It's easy to raise loans and loans especially when the economy works. These before us were taking out loans, and the credit didn't make the export to pay off the debt. That's not the case in this situation. So there is a debt return export and the state can devote itself to culture with 30m euros, because the economy will make money for this 30m and other needs. While the economy is working, it's easy to defend against the covids. Ladies and gentlemen, the almost general belief is that our culture is corrupting reality. I think that's partly true, but look at the series on RTS. In my opinion, a series dedicated to drug dealers, a lot of violence, drug abuse, sex scene, etc. are a far greater problem than the reality of "Pink", "Hepija" etc. Even some drug dealers in shows recorded on RTS are trying to present themselves in some positive light. In the last two years, not on a regular basis, I've watched two such shows where drugs are packed in large mills, etc., while actors who swear, kill, break up drugs in these series, they talk about reality the most, as if they've experienced it as some kind of competition. I'd like some of these cultural projects to invest some of that money or some other money in small-scale folklore societies. So, what cultivates the cultural tradition of our people and by games and by costume and by singing societies. So, I'd like maximum attention to be paid to folk societies in small communities, and even if there were some central considerations for that kind of folklore society, because I think it's worth it if our people knew what the costumes were like, what games were played. I think it's very important for culture, or to transfer culture from one generation to another. Ladies and gentlemen, this is where you talked about the movie "Dara from Jasenovac". I will try to get those who spoke most against the film, and live mostly in Belgrade and Novi Sad, to compare it to a film that was not made, which was called "Mezica". But before that, I want to say that the loudest cultural workers, directors and actors got huge money from the Republic of Serbia's budget, and that I didn't really see any cultural achievements. For example, Bjelogric received over 110m dinars from Serbia's Film Centre, whose budget is charged from the Republic of Serbia's budget. Nikola Kojo got 20. Mrs. Karanovic got 30 million. Srdjan Dragojevic got 30 million. Srdan Golubovic received 30 million. So, all those who throw themselves at this power by mud, thanks to this government having organized the state to have extra money and to be able to finance films have benefited, and not saving by throwing that mud. I've already said I'm going to say a little bit about the movie "Mezica" that wasn't recorded, fortunately, because the producer pulled the project from Serbia's Film Centre. So, all those who threw mud at "The gift from Jasenovac", the film "Mezica" wanted to make the next film – that Serbian doctors from the Serbian Clinical Centre with the help of the corrupt Serbian police were pulling out foreign citizens' organs and selling on the black market. I guess that's what they wanted to amnesty the "Yellow House" and to present the extraction of organs as an act that happens in Serbia, thereby causing immeasurable damage. The screenwriter who called his name didn't even want to rewrite that kind of script, and the producer was forced to withdraw such a project. All those who were against "Dara from Jasenovac" then said that Serbia's film centre had performed censorship, although the producer himself withdrew the project. So, all those who were in favour of showing Serbs as villains were against the fact that part of the Croatian people, the infamous ones, stood up only partially in the light of what they really were. Finally, to conclude that the Socialist Communist Yugoslavia was only a transition to Croatia from one NDH to another NDH and we have the right to remind people and future generations of that fact. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-02-0.u3604	Thank you, Mr. Ristichevich. The word is Biljana Jakovljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-02-0.u3605	Dear Vice President, Mr Orlic, distinguished ministers with associates, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, draft law confirming a framework loan agreement between the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe and the Republic of Serbia for the "Cultural Infrastructure" project means that our country is leading a responsible policy towards our cultural assets and our Serbian identity. Our identity is a letter, language, Orthodoxy, our customs, our tradition. Unless we are responsible for our cultural institutions, we cannot expect to preserve our cultural assets. For the past eight years, our country led by President Alexander Vukic has been responsible for our institutions of culture. A large number of museums, galleries, homes of culture, both in the city and in the rural area, a large number of monuments were erected, we witnessed the newly discovered monument to Stefan Nemanja, which is a symbol of our history, our religion and our further progress. In this Agreement we have also seen a project to turn our old railway station into a museum and in this way we will complete the King's square with content for our tourist visitors. Also, this Agreement confirms further infrastructure investments. The main objectives of the project include renovation, renovation and expansion of cultural institutions, including museums, theatres, cultural centres and other institutions. Investment in digitisation in 11 cities across our country is also foreseen, and I think it is very commendable, given that we are in an era of modernisation and digitisation. When digitisation enters all sectors, it is commendable that digitalisation also enters the culture sector. We Cacans like to point out when we talk about culture all the significant personalities that have in some way marked and left their mark in the field of culture, and that they lived or were born in our town of Cačka, such as Nadežda Petrovic, Vladislav Petkovic Dis, Branko V. Radčević, the artists of rock and rock and roll, Bora Djordjevic and Točak, then the brothers Theofilović, the opera giant Radmila Bakočević, the folk singer Miroslav Ilic, actress Sonja Savić and many others. I think it's very important in this place and everywhere to mention the names that have left their mark in our culture. I'm just going to briefly look back at the contribution to cultural development to us in Chačka. Thanks to the Fund of the Republic, but also through the funds of local self-government, we have managed to do a lot of large-scale projects in the field of culture over the past six years. In 2018 we opened one of the most modern and largest libraries under one roof – the Library “Vladslav Petković Dis”, the Roman Terme Square, and the restoration of Roman Terme is under way and it is one of the important sites for our tourist visitors. Also, three years ago, we set up a monument to Tanasko Rajić on the very entrance to our city, at the beginning of Bulevar Tanasak Rajić, and the project is under way for the appointment of the Monuments to Prince Stracimir, brother Stefan Nemanje, to whom our city is bound and founded. As in other cities, the City Theatre was founded in our city and in this way we completed the content for acting fans and theatre scene. More than ever, it has invested in cultural infrastructure and we continue to do so in the coming period. Every year, funds for the culture sector are increasing, which was not significant in the period prior to 2012. In Serbia, there are a large number of cultural art societies and associations and organisations dealing with amateurism, which number hundreds of thousands of cultural amateurism members and I hope that they too will find space to compete for their infrastructure. With great satisfaction in the end, I will support this proposal in the voting day, with the desire to do as much as possible to preserve our Serbian tradition and our Serbian culture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-02-0.u3606	Thank you, Mrs. Jakovljevic. We still have 19 minutes to discuss. The word is Wolf Mircetic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-02-0.u3607	The Honorable Chairman, Vice-President of the National Assembly, Mr Orlic, respected ministers with associates, distinguished fellow Members and fellow MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, is on the agenda today of the loan agreement between the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe and the Republic of Serbia concerning the cultural infrastructure. The previous colleagues and fellow MPs talked a lot about it, so I will try to make my speech as brief as possible, so that other colleagues and colleagues have time to say something on this subject. The government of the Republic of Serbia has shown and proved that it recognises the importance of culture. Prime Minister Ana Brnabic also presented here in her exposé that there is no strong state without culture. I will be reminded of one of the five principles of SNS that says – the orientation of Serbian society and politics towards the future, which is based on raising awareness of past and culture, tradition and Serbian identity. You, Minister Udovic, spoke about the framework agreement this morning and listed certain infrastructure projects and sub-projects to be supported. I will list only some, they are located in the city of Belgrade, which is the National Theatre in Belgrade and the Yugoslav Museum in Belgrade. Of course, other projects across Serbia should not be ignored. It may be interesting to mention the digitisation of 11 cultural centers. It is very important for the people of the Republic of Serbia to remind us that during the previous period, so during the period of SNS rule, the National Museum in Belgrade was restored, as well as the Museum of Contemporary Art in Belgrade. What many have failed to do, and maybe they didn't, we have managed to do, and now it's important that we keep going in the same direction. This morning, fellow MP Stefan Srbanovic, who was today an authorised promoter in front of the parliamentary group "Alexandar Vukic – To our children" said that this way further development of cultural tourism in Serbia is possible, and then the opening of new jobs, as stated by our fellow MP Aleksandar Markovic. I believe that the adoption of this Framework Agreement will further contribute to the improvement of culture in the Republic of Serbia, as well as indirect tourism, job creation, so-called economy, etc. And for all this, in the voting day, I will vote for this proposal. I also call on colleagues and colleagues, MPs and MPs to also vote in favour of this proposal. Long live Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-02-0.u3608	National MP, Dr Dragana Barisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-02-0.u3609	I thank, honourable chairman, respected ministers with associates, respected fellow Members and fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, when it comes to the draft law on a framework agreement, I will be happy to support this proposal in the voting day because it concerns revitalising infrastructure in the field of culture. My colleagues have said a lot so far, and I really think it's a lot said, so I wouldn't repeat myself, but what I want to say is, since I'm coming from Kruševec, my city this year celebrates six and a half centuries since the founding. Indeed, a jubilee with many small towns in Serbia, but also in Europe to boast. I am proud that all cultural institutions in my city have taken part in the organization of this significant jubilee. You will agree that there is indeed one significant jubilee, and among other things there has been a recent meeting of the Organising Committee chaired by the prominent Kruševljanin, Mr Bratislav Gasic, and within the framework of this Committee is Culture Minister Maja Gojkovic, Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government Mrs Marija Obradovic and, among other things, Minister of Labour and Combat Rights Daria Kisic Tepavcevic. What I can proudly say is that on Vidovdan 2021, as my colleague has already said, he will raise himself, until then and solemnly open a monument to Prince Lazarus, but also a reconstructed square of Kosovo heroes. In recent days, controversy has indeed been fought among some of our local opposition politicians, otherwise they want to introduce themselves to some new faces, which are actually the same ones, from the same party that this new politician belonged to, allegedly, who is now promoting his own party, which is Dragan Gilas. They must have forgotten that by 2012, they had been harassing Serbia and not only Serbia but also devastationing all other cities. (President: I just need to correct you. You've made a big material mistake, a new politician. Because that's how they introduce themselves. (President: Take care, not a new politician. ) Of course, but you know how, they want to introduce themselves to the citizens that they are some new faces, at least our local ones in Kruševec. They appear to be some new faces for the Krushevac, and in fact we know them well. Many of them were reporters of the very Democratic Party that turned us black even though it was yellow. Now they're complaining, I guess, because we removed those tiles that were in the central square. The only thing they were left with, I guess they didn't mind that we just removed them, because it reminds them of that yellow color of theirs. They didn't do anything else in Kruševec, and in Rasin County you can hear it from my colleagues. The only thing they put on all those factories that worked until then was Kruševac, who was in the fourth position in the old Yugoslavia in the 1990s, led to the brink of destruction. Now they're bothered by Bratislav Gasic who returned the glow to Krusevec and all of us advances who fight for Kruševac to be in that place he deserves. I have to point out that they're trying to do everything and everything and, of course, make-up and assaults and more these attacks don't resist even their own children. Indeed, for every conviction and for all the worst I can say at this point is that a few days ago, they attacked one more Mr. Gasic and not only him, but me and all the other people who represent Kruševac in this high house, inventing and placing lies. I really want to say from this place, and I am responsible, and I will hope so in court and prove, that their politicians from Kruševac are just using their inventions, I suppose, by modeling their leader, and probably they are, as counterpart Nikolic said, on the payroll of his company, because as far as I know, many have no employment, and they live much better than all of us. So they just use lies and try to degrade everything that's been done. To leave time and time to my colleagues who applied after me, I would have had a lot of things and I don't think any more sessions would be enough to apologize for what was done in Kruševec. After all, I hope that the government of the Republic of Serbia session will also be held right in Krusevec on the day we mark six and a half centuries, of course if the epidemiological measures permit it, so you will see how much has been done for the city. That is why they are bothered by Bratislav Gasic and all of us advances and Aleksandar Vucic, because we are working and building Serbia, and they were only working for their pockets and so on, because these days in Krusevec they are conducting some surveys with some of their flying circuses, so let the next one be the type of poll whether their employer and the financier will give some of those 619 million and of those 35 apartments, at least open one hospital or take care of one endangered social family. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-02-0.u3610	Thank you. I apologize for this intrusion. I wanted to do it well. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-02-0.u3611	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the loan we are discussing today at the session is related to the infrastructure in the field of culture and I can already imagine certain tabloids of the former regime as well as the government of the Republic of Serbia and the president of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic and the National Assembly, why we are in charge of a country for such an area and will always mention that it is better that we used this money to build schools, children's hospitals, kindergartens, roads. They're going to attack us for everything we've already done that they haven't done while they've been in power. It seems to me that a serious problem in their heads is how to show that they are better, and that we are wasteful and seem to have a desire for the whole people to show that they are not enough to live in Serbia and that they are not worthy and that they are entitled to one normal life. Here, if you look at just some of the topics they have opened on various social networks, they mention that Dejan Atanacković, so they say – artist from Florence. So they say, we repeat an artist from Florence, a professor from Florence. So what? Are our teachers and our artists living here in Serbia less valuable than they are? No, they're not. Is he more valuable than any man in this hall or in any village, village, settlement in Serbia? It's not. But they needed to attack one part of our cultural and historical heritage, and it's not about the money, it's about that legacy. We would like a legacy that has a cultural and historical that the Serbian people have to preserve. There's a lot of reasons. They'd like to destroy it. What the communists did not destroy, failed in 50 years, should now be done by those who once ruled Serbia, the former regime Dragan Gilas and the rest of the team, to stop, through the vision of civil democracy, Serbs, from being Serbs, from giving up everything. We are the only people from the former Yugoslavia, the one who has no problem with their cultural heritage or their history. We don't have to make it up, we don't have to make it up, we don't have to prove what's proven and known in the scientific world. Why would they give it up? Well, if we keep that tradition, it's our cultural heritage, we strengthen the national spirit and the collective spirit of the people, and such a people have a great chance of survival in this cruel world. If he gives up his culture, his traditions, his history, he will disappear, and so many have disappeared. No one has the right under the pretext of a world order, of some new society, of some other arrangement, to force us to do so, and that's what the former regime does, and not just for the sake of its own interests, and not only for the sake of its own interests, many are bothered by the fact that the Serbian people are scientifically and historically proven. Everyone wants to take something from the Serbian people. They're trying to steal our tongue. They're trying to take away our letter, so the Latin one they're writing to is Wolf's Latin. They're trying to take away our scientists. Nikola Tesla can be a scientist from today's Croatian territory, but he's a Serb. Would Michael Pupin possibly be from Austria then? That's why Dejan Atanackovic, Gilas and other companies are reporting that the monument to Stefan Nemanja is a mockery of Belgrade, that 23m euros were spent to launder money and steal something. They stole and devastated Serbia. They only cared about their pockets, it doesn't matter that the Serbian state began to form 600, 700, 800 years ago, it doesn't matter. It doesn't matter that we can prove that we've been in these places a lot longer than some would want us to be and that we've survived a lot longer than many others have, and then we'll always have in that civic option, that story that we're not worthy of caring for our culture and history. We have a newer time to boast about. My colleague from Požerevec spoke about Milena Pavlovic's gallery Barili. It's just one part, one part, and all you can remember is what was their culture, and I'll say it. When we passed the Public Procurement Act in 2012, they were most concerned about the implementation of the Law on Public Procurement in the field of culture. You know why? Because they wanted the law not to be implemented not because of culture, but because of the halls they spent money on renovating, and they were destroyed. It was their area of culture. Whoever of them reached the culture area, he was increasingly uncultured under the pretext that his people were his people, did not deserve to have a better culture relationship with that same people and that same education of our children. I'm quite certain that this law too will experience the same attacks as a monument to Stefan Nemanja and will always at anything possible, whatever we do, attack us. Imagine, absurd, that when the first Clinical Center was built in Serbia and Nis, they tell us that money should be invested in hospitals. When we built more highways than any other government before us and all together, those who stole the state told us, made stealth roads, how money should be invested in roads. Those who tell us that we need to take care of our healthcare professionals, and our healthcare workers in 2012 were on their knees on the verge of poverty, and we made two hospitals in less than six months because of this pandemic and they are now teaching us how to lead Serbia. Whatever part of social life they touched, they ruined it and became richer. Serbia needs first to cultivate, except by restoring the country, to cultivate the history of culture, memories, cultural development and preserve its own history in order to preserve its national, cultural and any other identity. So, in any case, whatever the former regime is saying, this should be voted out, it should be invested in the area of culture just for the very reason that we keep ourselves as we are and that we endure in all these times that are coming into the future.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-02-0.u3612	Since there's one more minute, do I give you my word or not? Boris Bursac if you want, you got another minute? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-02-0.u3613	The respected chairman, respected fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, faces us today a set of very important and constructive draft laws. I would personally refer to the bill relating to this project loan for cultural infrastructure. Investment in culture policy is a very cost-effective strategy, because it always creates a positive effect. It's culture that shapes our thoughts and our behavior. Every investment in culture is a kind of investment in our future generations. Art, folklore, tradition, language define our personality, and culture is the one that gives us identity and helps us build our character. Culture unites and gives us a sense of security. The language we speak, art, literature and heritage that we are proud of, customs, traditions together make up our culture. They become part of our daily life and influence us in many ways, so every investment in culture is justified and free to say that without culture and creation there is no strong country, there is no strong Serbia. Our country and our government recognized it. Despite the health crisis that has hit the whole world and Serbia, the culture and information sector has not remained on the side, but the budget is significantly higher than in 2020, and this is up by 10%, at 12.7 billion dinars. So the culture budget is developmental. Financial progress has been seen compared to previous years. We will have a stable financing of cultural institutions, and for almost all competitions in this area of culture and information, they have been significantly increased. When we talk about a framework agreement between the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe and the Republic of Serbia on the project loan of infrastructure in culture, we must note that this is the first government that has taken from international financial institutions, in this case from the Council of Europe Development Bank a 20m-euro loan only and exclusively for investing in the infrastructure in culture and improving the working conditions for our artists in general. If we add that this loan provides for the implementation of a number of activities on the renovation, renewal and expansion of cultural institutions, including museums, theatres, cultural centres and similar institutions with a focus on the renovation and improvement of existing buildings, we can freely say that this is investment and justifiable. So, the loan envisions the renewal of the National Theatre in Belgrade, the Yugoslav Museum in Belgrade, the National Theatre in Nis, the Art Pavilion "Cveta Zuzoric", the digitisation of 11 cultural centres throughout Serbia, the reconstruction and conversion of the old railway station into a museum, the restoration of the old railway station's casino in Belgrade, the construction of the Art Gallery at Kosančić's wedding in Belgrade, as well as a more functional Cultural Centre in Pirote. I would also take this opportunity, as we mention cultural centres, that the Serbian people from Krajina, whose own member I am, have long waited and cried for a serious regional cultural centre. We Serbs, who lead the origins of Republika Srpska, had a thorny and violent history, a suppressed culture, a severed spirituality. So I hope you have strength, will and hearing for us, Mr. Minister. We all need to make a little effort and do a lot of it. By building such a cultural centre, for example in Zemun, we join wise peoples who preserve their history, customs and tradition. As far as the deal I was talking about...
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-02-0.u3614	Can I just ask you, since the stop time is up...
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-02-0.u3615	What do you say?
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-02-0.u3616	I said one minute, and three minutes passed.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-02-0.u3617	I thank you personally.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-02-0.u3618	It's so-called. Stop time in football.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-02-0.u3619	Shall I continue? As for the agreement I spoke about a few times, it is an important agreement for Serbia, because it contributes, not only to improve the state of cultural institutions, but also to develop culture and cultural tourism in Serbia and at all. That's why I personally and hopefully my colleagues, we support and we will vote for this, as well as standing proposals, in the hope that they will be the support in the fight for strong and modern Serbia. I couldn't go any faster. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-02-0.u3620	You could've just read this in the end. I'm kidding a little bit, of course. Since we have exhausted the list of applicants for the discussion, I would like to ask – is there anyone else on behalf of the MPs' clubs that wants to speak to you or a proposing representative? Minister, are you going to say something? (No) Thank you for your contribution. Since the lists of MPs are no longer registered, there are no more representatives of the promoters, nor of the rapporteurs, before I conclude a unique search, I just want to say that there may be people in our country who think that our work is not so important, but I really want each of us of the MPs, but every citizen of Serbia to be convinced that we are doing a job that is of great importance to the state and that, among other things, what we have done today is of great importance to the state, although I doubt that the public, unless it was watching a direct television transmission, but if it was informed by Gilas's media, it was only that Bakarec threatened Gilas and others, that I supported it because I didn't mention it, and that Palm and I were on blood and knife. Not even the copper threatened, and just because Palma and I sometimes have different opinions doesn't mean we use blood and a knife. It may be the tool of those who like to put such headlines. I just want to further encourage you in this sense to continue to do our job, which is why I felt it was important that we continue, to be part of a general state and social policy that, as you can see, delivers good results in the fight for public health, but also in the fight against crime and corruption, as well as today's gesture of the President of the Republic of Serbia, which, on behalf of the Republic of Serbia, donated a number of vaccines to Bosnia and Herzegovina, providing the hand of good neighbouring and co-operation, perhaps with those who do not want to accept that hand, but this is the one Serbia we want to contribute to. That's why I felt it was important that in these difficult times and I think, and that's the opinion and people I work with at the National Assembly College, that the National Assembly should continue to work, because neither here were any major sources of infection, we respect all the measures that exist, from wearing protective masks to these plexiglasses that are between the MPs and we will of course continue our work. I would once again like to thank Minister Udovic and his associates or from other ministries, to thank all of you, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament. This concludes a unique search of the bill. We'll continue tomorrow at 10:00. Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the First Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2021. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that 93 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the MPs' units. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 121 MPs are present in the hall, which means that there are at least 84 MPs present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. We continue to work and move on to a single search on the 2nd item of the agenda – THE PROPOSAL OF THE JUDGE OF THE JUDGES FIRST TIME TO THE JUDGE FUNCTION, acting unanimously in accordance with Article 90(1). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the sittings are attended by Ivan Jovicic, election member of the High Council of the Judges and Deputy President of the High Council of the Judiciary and Natasa Djelic, head of the Department for Status Affairs of the Judges of the High Council of the judiciary. You have received a proposal for a decision submitted by the High Judicial Council, as well as a report by the Committee on Justice, State Administration and local self-government. I ask the MPs' groups, unless they've already done so to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. According to Article 192, paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search into the motion for a decision on the election of judges who are first elected to office. I just want to remind you once again, that we will be working to the end of this point today, that tomorrow we will continue with parliamentary issues, and then there will be an appointment, or a day of voting. Does the Proposer's representative, Ivan Jovicic, want a word? Here you go.
