ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-28-0.u10082	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fourth Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2021. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 88 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 107 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation, in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-28-0.u10083	I thank you, dear Vice President of the National Assembly, Academyman Zukorlic. Dear colleagues, I will ask a few questions concerning practical problems in the field, and these are the problems that occur during the transport of patients. In particular, emergency assistance driven by facial powers, drivers who have severe patients in their vehicles, whether during Kovid or after Kovid, it's not important, but when they're driving heavy patients, when they have sound and light signals, and they're going through the road multiple times to be stopped by police officers, traffic police, and when they're having a conversation with them, and they're driving really difficult patients, they happen to write down penalties for them. He punishes those people who drive an ambulance, who drive the heavy patients whose life hangs in the end. Besides paying their fines, they have those penalty points that are taken from them. After that, they could lose their license, then lose their job. My question is addressed to the Ministry of the Interior – is there a possibility that there is a member of the law that would allow these people who are driving an ambulance with all these prescribed things, such as light and sound signalling, that when they drive heavy patients, which can normally be checked, that they are not stopped, that they can go uninterrupted, go to the clinical center, to these major clinical centres or institutes where help could be provided to those patients? I think it's very important. The co-ordination between the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of the Interior is very important, that is why. I'm saying this because I've talked to people more than once, with my neighbors working in a health care facility as ambulance drivers, and it's happened to them. It even happened the same way when you drive a pregnant woman who has problems, when you drive more people like that who have had heart attacks, strokes. The police departments stop them, and they have light and sound signals on. My question is, is that by the rules of service? If so, I would like to find the possibility of either changing the law in that part or bringing in some sublegal act that would give these people who drive an ambulance to ensure that they work uninterruptedly, drive and save lives. It's a very important question for those people who do it, because tomorrow they lose their jobs when their license is taken away. I'd like to thank the Ministry of the Interior again from this place, which I was just talking about. Otherwise, I would also like to thank Minister Vulin, Vladimir Ilic, the people of the Nis, who, along with the people of the Ministry of Interior from Aleksinc, have managed to find the criminals, the monster killers who killed the family in Aleksinac, with the help of their colleagues from Belgrade. Father, mother and daughter were killed. This monster crime has really been done in a way that has never been seen in that area before, in that area where a really large number of citizens have been scared. Therefore, once again support our police officers to do their job and fight for every citizen so that he can sleep peacefully. One more big thing, the same thing to the Ministry of Health, I have to say, big praises to Mr. Loncar, to the people who run the Ministry, the directors of the health homes, the institutes, the doctors, the nurses, those drivers who were driving that ambulance that I was just talking about, I'd really appreciate it if they were really fighting for every patient, fighting for every man. That's why I think it's necessary for these people to be given greater support to this kind of media, but on the other hand and financially because they're really giving themselves to every citizen of ours. Once again, I thank everyone, and I would like to, I don't know which way to get as many people vaccinated as possible, because only vaccination will save all of us from the crown. Thank you once again and great support for all our people fighting for every citizen here in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-28-0.u10084	Thank you. The People's Messenger, George Milicevic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-28-0.u10085	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Zukorlic. Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, allow me to congratulate, before I ask a question, a year of work by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, selected by parliament on 28 October 2020, which is the government of continuity. The government that has continued economic and social reforms in Serbia and should bring Serbia into the world and bring Serbia into a world of developed countries. This is certainly the reform government, as we said in the constitution and formation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the reform government for a difficult time, a government that has shown that when the hardest system can work and deliver good results. It is certainly today's priority and leadership of Serbia and the government to defend ourselves against the continuous and increasingly brutal attacks on our state integrity and sovereignty, above all. These days by Pristina, but also from other parts of the region, pressure is being placed on Serbia to give up the works of its territory and allow Albanian separatists, which leads only to indescribable hatred for everything that is Serbia today and that Serbia will be in perspective. Who knows which time Vjos Osmani, who no longer in any statement can conceal his hatred. She said yesterday that Serbia is the cancer of Europe and that their impromptu state of Kosovo does not think of changing its constitution to establish a community of Serb municipalities and that the Serb community could possibly be an NGO. Osmani's brutal verbal march on everything that's Serbian goes on. The war-to-human rhetoric publicly urges NATO's pact and other European allies to Kosovo's Albanians to defend against Serbs and Russians, saying the region should be defended from the influence of the Russian Federation. It is clear that Osmani's performances want to be presented as the most important defender of the interest of the West in this space. I guess he thinks any decision on Serbia can be made without Serbia, which as a sovereign state has its own interests. As much as all this is Pristina doing just to distract attention from all the crimes committed to Serbs throughout the region, this is unacceptable and cannot even be allowed to remain silent on this day-to-day attack on Serbia and the Serbian people. Albanian media also orchestrated through the media are attacking Serbia. The freshest example of this is an event related to, say, the choice for the mass of the world, when representatives of Albania, Serbia and the false state of Kosovo showed a sign of Albania's two-headed eagle, the Albanian press did not react, but when they showed three fingers as a Serb symbol, the media there condemned them by saying that the three fingers were a symbol of hatred for Croats, Albanians and Bosniaks. Only sick minds can think of such a thing. That's why we have to show complexity at every moment and where we represent Serbia, it's dignified and patriotic. Two days ago, I was talking about today's gathering of Albanians, Croats and Bosniaks outside the Council of the Republic of Serbia in New York, which is a kind of diplomatic scandal. Neither this assembly nor the war crimes statements of Osmani, unfortunately, have been reported by the international community until today. It is unacceptable to keep the new provocation of Croatia yesterday, or the government in Vukovar, which yesterday did not allow the Serb minority to use Cyrillic. At the same time, the song "Oj, the Croatian mother, the Serbs will be slaughtered" by fans of the "Dinamo" Football Club in Zagreb. Unfortunately, Croatia has not come forward for today's protest in New York, whose outcome we will see during the day. All of this is inadmissible, especially when these reasons are not advertised by the international community and prevent this kind of savagery, which only brings back all our attempts to lead a peaceful policy in the region, to preserve peace and stability in the region, and often we are for the sake of peace and stability in the region making compromises, which other peoples would not make. On the other hand, Serbia is openly and secretly asked to give up its national interests, to allow the destruction of its own state integrity and sovereignty, which Serbia will never accept as blackmail. We are for dialogue, others aren't. What is visible is that the stronger Serbia is, the more brutal the attacks on Serbia. And who is bothered by a state that, despite all the blows from all sides of the region, still provides a hand of reconciliation and openly strengthens regional co-operation, above all, in all segments of society, which is confirmed in the legislative activity of our parliament. With regard to these orchestrated attacks on Serbia, I would ask the government the following question – are diplomatic and other government activities planned, in order to reaffirm respect for international documents, above all I mean UN Security Council Resolution 1244, which many would forget, but of course, the Brussels Agreement, which only Serbia is meeting for now? What would be the political steps and could be even more energetically asked by the international community and the UN and the EU, or Brussels, to side with international law and show the power and ability to agree to the other side, or Pristina, to stop with war crimes, with open attacks on Serbs and blackmails? (WHISPERING: A colleague of Milicevic, please remember the time, please.) I'm just finishing one more sentence. Thank you. This is what I am asking in the context of Pristina's announcement that on November 6th, it will take over the "Serb Red Line", which would have been a red line for Serbs, following a terrorist incursion to northern Cosmet ten days ago. Thank you, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-28-0.u10086	The People's Messenger, Nebojsa Bakarec, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-28-0.u10087	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, respected citizens, I will be on the trail yesterday, I think it's important that these people weren't, unfortunately, here in the assembly yesterday. So, I request a notice from the Citizens' Protector and the Trustee on what they can do and what they will do about the threatened and neglected rights of the President of the Republic, his son Daniel, brother Andrej and other members of the Vukic family, because this is also in the jurisdiction of the Trustee and Protector. Therefore, the President of the Republic and members of his family are victims of years of dehumanisation, inequality and discrimination based on party membership, state functions or relatedness. I will ask the question - who protects the threatened and neglected rights and freedoms of the president and his family? Perhaps representatives of these regulatory and supervisory bodies will tell us – the human rights and freedoms of the president and his family must be collateral damage to the position of the President of the Republic. No one in their right mind will agree to this claim. The president and his family are most protected by MPs, SNS officials and individual government ministers, headed by Ana Brnabic. The competent institutions don't do that. As a result of the silence of the institutions, we have a four-year hickey and dehumanization, primarily Alexander, Daniel and Andrey. In doing so, their only fault is that they exist, that they are the president, son and brother, and that they are not at the will of the Gilasian opposition and the media. So they have nothing to do with criminals, they're not rich. The president deals with politics, I will remind you, for 27 years, and during that time, politics has not literally acquired anything, nor its family members, and Vukic and his family are as clean as tears. The attacks, threats, slanders, insults and dehumanisation are so much more striking and illogical that Serbia has seen economic progress over the past nine years, leading a peaceful policy, primarily external, of course, internal, and social tensions have been reduced to the least possible extent. So, by the logic and nature of things, the great popularity of Vukic and the successes would have to lead to a drastic reduction of attacks, slander, dehumanization and everything, therefore, by nature and logic of things, but that is not the case. So, then we can conclude that only someone, by all accounts, artificially encourages this whole process. When we look at who the bearers of these phenomena are, therefore, corrupt and compromised part of the opposition and their even worse leaders Đilas, Jeremic, Marinika etc., strategically linked to the part of Western structures, the compromised media that are once again owned by tycoon Gilas and Šolak and some compromised NGO under the influence of the West, it is clear. Then it is no coincidence that the attacks on Vucica and the Vucic family have been compromised since the moment Gilas returned to politics, i.e. since 2018. The extreme opposition and its media are also working at the same time during this period to prepare the terrain for the attempt to violently shoot down power in Serbia, which has been tried, I will remind you again, in April 2019 by attacking the Serbian Parliament, by attempting to invade the City Assembly, by attacking the presidency and finally in 2020 by that terrible attack on the Serbian Parliament, the most important institution in Serbia, when injured by violent police officers 140, many of which are difficult, and one police officer was broken by both of them. We remember the constant threat of murder, the accusations of fascism and treason, the threat of the destruction of the authorities in the streets in the blood, the persecution of the streets, the threat of being thrown into the river, the threat of courts, revolutions and calls for rebellion. The fight against dehumanisation is a task which, of course, should be dealt with by the Protector of Citizens and Trustees. We have come to an absurd situation to ask the question – is society based on respect for human rights, tolerance and respect for diversity, and what Serbia is, does this include Daniel, Andrey and Alexander? Do the three have the right to achieve equality and protection against discrimination? Do other family members enjoy these rights? Does Alexander Vukic's mother have human rights? Serbia, thanks to President Vukic, has become a decent, civilised and just society. And if the president of the Republic was at risk, he testified a while ago and former Citizens' Protector Sasa Jankovic. Unless the Protector and the Trustee believe that the president is at risk at all, let alone dehumanised, just to remind them of the murder of Prime Minister Djindjic, of the attempted murder of Aleksandar Vukic in Srebrenica, of a weapon hidden in Jajinci as an assassination attempt on Vukic, the testimony of Cabe Der, soon ended, that they offered him enormous money to kill Vukic, the statement by the UN chief, Mr Bogdan Pusic, that the Belivuk clan prepared an assassination on 27 January this year against the Serbian president. I'm done. It is unnecessary, but I will repeat, Angelina, Angelko, Tamara, Ksenija, Milica, Danilo, Andrey, Alexander and Vukan have the same human rights as everyone else. They say human rights are based on human dignity. Human dignity is an ideal worth fighting for and dying for. We will fight for all the rights of the Vucic family, but we will remain alive and win the elections in 2022. Long live Serbia! Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-28-0.u10088	Thank you. Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, answer for word, we continue to work. I would like to inform you that she has been prevented from attending the session of the People's MP Justin Pupin Koscal. We continue to work and move on to a common principled and uniform search on the draft laws referred to in paragraphs 4 to 6 of the agenda. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that they are invited to attend the meetings of Prof. Dr. Zoran Mihajlović, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Mining and Energy, Siniša Mali, Minister of Finance, Angelka Atanasković, Minister of Industry, Gordana Komic, Minister of Human and Minority Rights and Social Dialogue, Dusan Vučković, Assistant Minister of Industry, Zoran Ilic, Deputy Assistant Minister of Mining and Energy, Ana Tripović, Director of Public Debt at the Ministry of Finance, Jelica Trninić Šišović, Head of Department of Industry, Gordana Savic and Sandra Tasic, Head of Department of the Ministry of Economy, Miladin Maglov, Register of Business Entries at the Agency for Business Registers and Ružica Macukut. In agreement with the National Assembly's decision to carry out a joint principled single search on drafts of the agenda law, under points 4, 5 and 6, and before the opening of a joint principled single search, I remind you that according to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, for parliamentary groups, is five hours. I ask the parliamentary groups, as long as they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word, with the order of MPs, Article 90(4). Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Article 157(2) and Article 170(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint principled single search on the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on registration procedure at the Agency for Commercial Registers, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Central Recording of Real Owners, and the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Guarantee Treaty "Smart Counts", between the Republic of Serbia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Do the representatives of the motionor want a word? Yeah. Minister Gordana Komic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-28-0.u10089	Thank you. On behalf of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Minister of Economy, we are before you today to defend the idea of amendments and additions to the law, which should prove that Serbia is firm, both on the path of transformative overall transformative work, when it comes to records, such as the Agency for Business Registers or the joint fight against corruption, money laundering, such as the Central Register of Owners, but also on "smart numbers", means about its own digitisation, which should be our everyday home, routine feature in months and years ahead. This is the essence of these three amendments and the addition of the law, as well as the Law on Confirmation of the Guarantee Treaty "smart numbers", between the Republic of Serbia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. How and in what way did the Government adopt these amendments and amendments to the law, based on the application of the Law on the Plane System, i.e. the voluntary obligation of the Government in the application of the law, to be an ex-sost analysis, i.e. With a thorough analysis of what is right, and what is wrong, from the application of existing and existing rules, they find reasons why the application is bad, find ways to propose solutions that will be better and, of course, to make it much clearer for you, the MPs, to come up with arguments, in a debate that hopefully ultimately and in principle discussions and discussions in particular, in the public of Serbia and the citizens of Serbia, which is why we are doing this. Why it is good to have a contract between the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the European Investment Bank on Smart Measurement Systems, why it is good to amend the Law on the Registration Procedure of the Agency for Business Registers, and why it is necessary to clarify the provisions of the Law on the Central Record of Real Owners. So, with the awareness that this assembly is fundamental and through the parent board, the Incas discussed what is wrong and what is wrong and that during the debate, we will hear from you everything that might improve the existing amendments and additions of the law, as soon as we can about all the three acts that are before you. Therefore, a contract on the replacement of the device, i.e. a contract on smart measurement systems. All of us, as my grandfather used to say, "a long time ago," whenever someone tells him that he's old, he said -- the horse is old, and we're long ago, so we all know how much trouble we've had among citizens, when it comes to reading electronic numbers, how much trouble it is to establish modern management of electrical distribution systems, how much work is ahead of us, when it comes to replacing energy sources and everything about energy efficiency, what we've taken, as a commitment, because of the better and healthier life of all of us, because of cheaper, I hope, the purchase of electricity and how important it is that, in a simple way, digital technologies, every citizen, the user of electricity is given daily insight into consumption, into the obligation and the way electricity is delivered to him. This is essentially a contract worth 80m euros, in two stages, before you are approved. Therefore, to increase the efficiency, management and control of distribution. Just anecdotic to add, why this isn't just some words that always sound like a phrase to people, because we, who have long sat down often with various people in the EU, helped and knowledge and means to improve the system of electricity distribution, which they could understand, to translate into any language, but they couldn't understand what wild connections are, nor could we explain to them, nor could they understand what wrong electricians are. That's because the difference between the regulation of this sector in society between us and them may be a few decades or less, but that's not why we continue to be late, but that's exactly why we should get to them as soon as possible and speak the same language when it comes to efficiency and management and control of distribution. Smart numbers should enable all of us to spend safer, more insight into what and how we spend, and our hope is that it will help and that everyone in their household is thinking, and that they can save energy if they are aware that they are spending perhaps more than necessary. I'm just going to give you an example without smart numbers, that we all looked at electricity bills this summer that were much bigger because of the necessary consumption of cooling devices, but it's so dramatic when you see it. The use of smart numbers will allow you to save every day, because it is beneficial to us in every household, but with the awareness that we also save for the overall energy balance of the entire society. The second goal is to reduce losses, which are now occurring, and the third objective is to reduce operational costs. With the hope that we will understand both as Government and as Assembly, that this is an important job, we also expect your remarks, criticisms, perhaps better solutions with consultation, hopefully also acceptance of what after the ex-analysis was made as an oversight. The second act before us are amendments and additions to the registration procedure in the APR. In all, it has several groups of changes, changes or additions. So it's about an extended circle of persons authorized to file an application. This is another one of the provisions that emerged from the ex-post analysis, so what appeared to be the observation of those who are users of the APR service, but also the very profession that works in the APR. The second goal is to comply with the Law on Administrative Procedure, and this is one of the objectives that will happen very often in our Assembly as the objective described, because we cannot change and supplement all laws at the same time, but we have some laws relating to matter, such as the Law on Administrative Procedure, which will require amendments and additions to other laws. To make a move, for the laws of the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights and Social Dialogue, there will be a series of laws to be amended because of your will to adopt the Law on Gender Equality. What we want to achieve with the changes and additions that are ahead of you is that we have an improvement in the conditions for starting a business. It was very often a serious remark and those who measure how we treat people as an administration, as a state administration, towards people who want to start business, whether it's a friendly environment or not. One of these provisions was just designed to improve the conditions for starting business. The second is to comply with the provisions of the law with the existing laws on electronic identification and trust services and to harmonize what is otherwise the digitalisation process in this area. I've already said that we who are long ago know what both initial difficulties and major obstacles to digitization are, in electronic communications with the APR, but also what are the obstacles that come from our habits. And it's all a perfectly normal process. It happened in other societies until they circled their system of electronic business and business out of trust, so anyone who wants to use APR services, feels like he's in a friendly environment, to do their jobs right, and so, learning from others, but using the creative potential of the profession that's currently being dealt with by the APR, regardless of who's in which ministry, so to achieve what's the goal of transphomative energy in the country, which is to create a friendly environment for everyone in the country, for whoever accesss the APR, for whoever accesss the claim to justice, for those who access the traffic. So the rule of law comes down to you as having a friendly environment for all the users we care about today in this room, wanting the best possible legal framework to meet their services. The last act before you is the law on amendments to the Law on the Central Record of Real Owners. This is one of the laws that is a book example of what it means to transform society with the help of European integration, planning and measuring everything that happens through an ex-post analysis of existing rules and trying to make an ex-ante analysis of what it is to bring as a legal framework in order to really meet all the objectives concerning the content of the Law on the Central Record of Real Owners. It is therefore part of the measures set out in the 2020-2022 Action Plan, when it comes to infringements in the event of establishment and is aimed at preventing the entry into the register of any property acquired by crime. For the end, as well as the laws that are before us, and any other law does not bear with it gold and infallible solutions and does not create a friendly environment for the rule of law, without the effort of all of us, in every place, from the budgets paid to actually happen. With the hope that all three laws today through the search will improve your contribution, your ideas and your work, thanks for your patience and associates and I stand at your disposal for every question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-28-0.u10090	Thank you. The word now has Dr. Aleksandra Tomic, the Financial Committee, the Republic budget and the control of public spending. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-28-0.u10091	I thank you, Your Honor. Dear Minister, fellow MPs, we have also adopted the draft law on the confirmation of the guarantee agreement on one of the points of the agenda after the budget rebalancing. Smart numbers. In fact, the state has also defined itself in accordance with Cluster 4, when it comes to the Green Agenda and with all the laws that we have voted here as one package of green laws, to introduce smart numbers as one of the new functional systems when it comes to electricity readings. What is very important is that the agreement, i.e. the guarantee of a total project of 80m euros, at the first stage of 40m euros, will guarantee the state, which means that specifically for the citizens of Serbia – Chačka, Nisa and Kralje, 205,000 users will get the possibility of electronic monitoring of their accounts, i.e. the competent power distribution units will monitor the consumption of electricity through the use of smart numbers, of course, with the help of certain software to be obtained through this project. What is most important, and this is the minister, and she pointed out, that the IBRD, together with the Serbian government, has concluded this contract, but that this introduction of smart numbers, that is, as part of a smart network of so-called, essentially, we are entering a new era and digital and energy transition, and in fact we are saving, above all, the losses that occurred earlier on the networks due to the use of the old model of counting. The savings amount to some, the energy minister said, at an annual level of around 200m euros, which is not a small figure. Secondly, we save the same amount of CO2 emissions, which is 5,000 tons per year. You know that we are very careful on this path to European integration when it comes to CO2 emissions precisely because certain payment quotas are being introduced. By the way, we here have multiple benefits for the Republic of Serbia's budget. That's why I think the board members are happy to accept a proposal like this. Another thing, this project isn't in a year. It is something that will also be implemented with Serbia's 2025 programme, which means it will apply to all Serbia and will go city by city, users per user, exactly phase, so the last period of completion and this withdrawal and these credit lines is about 2027. Serbia is on the way to economic growth and development. All of this is in the function of that, for the benefit of all Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-28-0.u10092	The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-28-0.u10093	Thank you. Short notice. I thank the People's MP, Aleksandra Tomic. My associates warned me that I made a lapus lingu with 80 million projects. That guarantees 40 million. I thank and it's right as Parliamentwoman Tomic said.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-28-0.u10094	Thank you. The word is from MP Veroljub Arsic, president of the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-28-0.u10095	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I fully agree that as rapporteur of the Committee on Finance, colleague Aleksandra Tomic said about this Law on the task of obtaining electrical numbers, so-called smart numbers, especially as it is within the competence of the Committee which I am currently chairing and certainly is in the interest of both the EPS and citizens of the Republic of Serbia to replace already quite outdated numbers that generate certain costs and do not show real electricity consumption in order to improve our energy efficiency. He also recommended the Committee on Business, accepted the draft laws in principle concerning amendments and amendments to the Law on registration procedure at the Agency for Economic Registers. It is clear to all that we live in the 21st century, that already when there is the possibility of electronic administration that many of our citizens are exercising certain rights without going to the counters anymore, that they are not wasting valuable time, that at some point we should provide for the possibility that economic operators are also established in a certain way by electronic means and that legislation is therefore required, which is certainly the amendments to the Law on the registration of economic operators. However, in order for everything to be complete, it was also necessary to do a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on the Central Record of Real Owners, for a number of reasons. The first one's because... Unless we had one of these Central Registers so we could have situations where there is no legal regulations to prevent money laundering and funding organised crime and terrorism. It is so important that such a law is constantly being promoted and the fact that only a few months ago we had one situation that investigative journalists found that Dragan Gilas, the leader of the former regime, had just hidden close to 60m euros, perhaps 70m euros in various ways, by exotic destinations. I have to tell the citizens of Serbia that because of the very regulation that the Republic of Serbia has these money flows have not gone beyond our accounts at all, they have somehow always started their way into these exotic destinations, and the same ones in the former regime have attacked us here in the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia that the Republic of Serbia does not have legislation to prevent money laundering and terrorist financing. There's one more thing I need to point out. I hope that in some future period... When it comes to companies, there is no property in Serbia to sell, and the money from that property ends up in one of the exotic accounts. We had this situation just when Miskovic sold "Maksi" "Deleza" and ended up in Cyprus, he ended up in one part in Bulgaria and in one part in Slovenia. The dinar was not left in Serbia, and the former regime has shown it as the largest foreign investment in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, and we have not seen the dinar. Of course, we also need a law that would determine the real owners of certain companies, because this manguparia, which ruled Serbia from 2001 to 2012 and which was enormously rich while in power, will try to get the money out of the Republic of Serbia or bring it back to the Republic of Serbia and legalize it. Our legal regulations need to prevent that. Anyone who has acquired something that doesn't belong to him by law needs to answer and dirty money cannot possibly enter legal flows. Now imagine if a person were to start a business company, a business company formed another company, the second established a third, and the third established a fourth, and then the second went into bankruptcy. Who owns the third and fourth companies? In fact, it loses track and owners, and if it goes wrong and someone comes under attack by the law, they'll use the lack of legal regulations to protect themselves. The Republic of Serbia is primarily a serious state, it has serious legislation and we will not allow anyone on either side, and neither of ours to launder money or finance terrorism or to finance organised crime. For these reasons, the Committee on Economy has supported these two laws and recommends that the National Assembly adopt them.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-28-0.u10096	Thank you. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word is given by MP Branimir Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-28-0.u10097	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues, amendments and additions to the Law on registration procedure at the Agency for Business Registers, as well as amendments to the Law on the Central Record of Real Owners in one part rely on each other and it is important that we discuss these amendments at the same time today and it is important to adopt both laws, i.e. amendments and amendments to the law in the day of the vote. Both laws have the same goal, which is to improve the business environment in which our businessmen work. It's been 17 years since the founding of the Agency for Business Registers, and it really has multiple meanings. This can be seen in practice, especially in business entities, above all, because of information we can get from the Agency for Business Registers. In this way, by entering the database, we can see in some way not only the blood count of our economy, but also the most basic data of every company, which makes it easier to work with each other, they can have insight into how their partner is doing business, whether he is in debt, what his market status is, and in any case facilitates further evaluations for mutual co-operation. Official data on the structure, annual work reports, regulations are always available on the internet, but as I said, basic data from all businesses in Serbia. It is therefore important that we constantly work on the modernisation of the Agency for Economic Registers and have just been amended and supplemented by the Law on the registration procedure of the Agency for Economic Registers directed towards that objective. One of the objectives of amending and supplementing the law also refers to the fact that the application for the establishment of a company in the future is submitted by electronic means, i.e. electronic means only, and this is in line with the concept of eGovernment and in line with the digitisation relating to the business of our business entities. I'll provide the information published by the World Bank. The World Bank has done one research, one analysis that relates to our area. In order for a beginner, someone who wants to sail into entrepreneurial waters only to open an enterprise, to carry out a registration procedure, to register with the Republic Health and Social Insurance Fund, to obtain confirmation of the FIB, to open an account in a bank, for all of this, it is necessary for him to spend two days in this first step. When switching to an electronic form of business, specifically to an electronic application, in that case it takes half the time. So in one day, all of this can be done in a simpler and more cultural way, not two days from the counter to the counter, to collect documents and then access the company's application. Amendments and additions to this law give beginners and other reliefs in some other segments. I shall indicate that, when documents are submitted for the establishment of an undertaking, the data obtained in documents kept on official records may also be obtained by requesting official data from the Agency for Economic Registers and by the competent authorities. It's certainly a relief for all entrepreneurs when they move, when they take that first step. However, the law also had to make use of a deadline relating to the application, i.e. a deadline for deciding whether to apply or not to reject the application for the establishment of a new company. That period has remained as it has been - five working days. So the registrar has time for five working days to decide whether or not to accept the application. But what's changing? Under the new law, the deadline has changed since the application begins to be considered. Therefore, it was now considered that from the moment of the application, there were five working days for the application to be accepted or rejected, and according to the new amendments and amendments to the law, that time limit shall begin when all necessary data are obtained, i.e. when all necessary documents are obtained. Why does it matter? It is important for businessmen in case a state authority does not provide the registrar with certain information in time, then the future entrepreneur, the applicant, will not suffer the consequences of someone else's irresponsibility, so for someone's unsupervisedness or for breaking a certain deadline. Where are the problems observed in practice? The problem is most often located with those state bodies that do not keep electronic records, otherwise under the General Administrative Procedure Act they are obliged to supply all data to the registrar. In practice, the most frequent courts with a delay in delivering certain information on whether or not someone was convicted, whether criminal proceedings are being conducted against him, and in such a way that it is possible to exceed the legal deadline and it is good that changes have been made in this part and they are indeed going to the hands of the founders of the company. The law also complies with other laws governing the area of electronic business, particularly with the Law on Electronic Document, Electronic Identification and Trust Services in Electronic Business. However, although we do notice that confidence in the form of electronic business is growing gradually, the situation on the ground shows that this confidence does not grow at what speed is expected and still exists somewhere and doubts about future entrepreneurs in this kind of business, therefore in electronic business. Of course, there are other obstacles, as there once was, that is, there is actually Internet access, but it is limited. It is sometimes necessary for all of us to improve knowledge in this area, because it is really modern technologies and logically that we slowly move from traditional to modern forms of business. The possession and use of an electronic signature has not yet taken place to the necessary extent. And when we talk about the very process of registering enterprises, citizens usually choose to come personally to the Agency for Business and Registers and do this part of the job. It's also important that 18 months are due, so we're going to have a year and a half from the adoption of the law to implement all of this in practice. This is also important for registries users, but it is equally important to leave time for a quality software that will be able to support everything in practice, what we are talking about today. That way we'll make savings, as I said in time, but we're making savings in money. It is known that the electronic form of business brings savings for a quarter more than when we talk about traditional forms of business. So, if someone wants to do an electronic company application, I think his expenses are 25% lower than when he traditionally goes and does paperwork. We need legal changes to ensure conditions for the improvement of the business system, namely that our country is better ranked and that it assumes the status of a favourable investment destination. To preserve one trend that is now in place, but I will remind you that more than half of the investments coming into the region end in Serbia, meaning foreign, direct investments. Any changes and additions to the law, every new law that goes in that direction is welcome for our entrepreneurs, but it gives a good signal to foreign investors that we are one stable business area. I just mentioned an analysis of the World Bank and I have to go back to having the World Bank monitor business in 190 economies through 10 different areas. One of these areas is the one relating to the company's application and above all to certain criteria such as the number of procedures, the time it takes to report businesses, costs, minimum capital needed to start doing business, and as I said, we really send these amendments and additions to the law a good message to both our domestic and future businesses, but also to foreign investors. This overall procedure applies primarily to small and medium-sized enterprises because they account for about 99% in the participation of our economy and are employed by more than half of the workers. Also, in small and medium-sized enterprises, they are mainly orientations on the domestic market, but I note that even exports are not insignificant since large companies and exports of small and medium-sized enterprises are 46%, which is not very small for this area. We in the SDPS most often point out and worry about the position of employees, that they have the better status, that they have better salaries, that they have better working conditions, but we also take care of small entrepreneurship, of medium-sized enterprises, and we know how important it is for further economic development, that this is perhaps, at the moment, the most important lever of Serbia's economic development. There are good examples, although small and medium-sized enterprises often have certain restrictions, yet they have the capacity to achieve constant growth, to produce a quality product, and it is for us to really ensure the best conditions for successful companies to turn into one large company that will have significant participation in foreign markets. When I say that there are good examples here, I will give an example in the area of small and medium-sized enterprises in our country, and it refers to the wood furniture sector that reaches a 70% share in the total exports of the sector. Companies in this activity have a low productivity problem, which is also logical, and with the financing of new technologies, but where is their competitive advantage on the market? It is that they use their knowledge well, that they are competitive with prices and, of course, with brands compete on a foreign market relying on tradition. This sector is a good example that can serve others to improve their business, to engage in international flows, which contributes to the adoption of new knowledge, new technologies, safe placement of goods, and, of course, better charge. For a long time, it was also felt that large enterprises were the only reliable driver of economic and social development. For 20 years now, however, there has been a very different belief, a different trend, which makes sense. We are still not at that percentage that is in the EU when we talk about the participation of small and medium-sized enterprises in the overall economy, but in any case, it is very important for us above all, although small and medium-sized enterprises often shut down, establish new ones, to which the amendments and additions of this law are specifically concerned. Practice has shown that it's usually young people who start new businesses, who have new ideas and they bring fresh blood to the market. Finally, to highlight the importance of amending the Law on the Central Recording of Foreign Owners, and this is indeed a global theme when we talk about the work aimed at improving the system of timely money laundering and terrorist financing. It seems every time we talk about terrorism that it's someone else's problem. Unfortunately, events from several months ago in Vienna, and we remember earlier both Paris and Brussels and in other European countries, say terrorism is a problem at the world level, that we all have to deal with it. It is very important to determine who owns the capital, so that there is no chance of bringing such a single money into the financial system and that such money is used to fund terrorism. Simply, all security services, all laws when we are talking specifically about the EU need to be harmonised and co-operation is necessary in this area. All these changes are in the context of the modernisation of the work of the public administration and the development of the digitalisation process. Citizens should have full confidence in this kind of business because data is intended to be accessed through qualified electronic signature or when spoken and determined identification. There are two, and in some cases three levels of security. So there's no reason for mistrust when we're talking about electronic business. Also, MPs of the Social Democratic Party of Serbia will support the bill to confirm the Treaty on Guarantee between the Republic of Serbia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, because we think that this way we will be able to count on the 40m-euro funds that Serbia's Elektroprivreda will invest in introducing smart systems for measuring electricity consumption. And indeed, it's one investment in the future, and now we're investing in long-term benefits. So over 200,000 households will in one modern way, in real time be able to monitor the costs incurred in the name of electricity consumption. This, of course, also has positive effects, first of all, that a large number of households still have obsolete numbers, resulting in a slowdown in the work of the distribution system, and sometimes an incorrect display of the actual electricity consumption. I think we're going to improve efficiency primarily this way, but we're going to have better control over the distribution system of electricity and, most importantly, it's going to reduce the level of loss in the distribution network, which is generally more painful when we talk about the supply of electricity. Once again to conclude that the Social Democratic Party of Serbia MPs will support all amendments and additions to the laws we are discussing today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-28-0.u10098	I thank Mr. Jovanovic. The next MP is the vice-president of the National Assembly, Dr. Muamer Zukorlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-28-0.u10099	The Honorable Chairman, distinguished ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, respected citizens, above all, I would like to thank Minister Komic for today's acceptance to bear a burden that is not hers, to report on laws that are not from her sector, which is for every commendation, but certainly we cannot ignore and the need to comment on the resolution ministers, rapporteurs or holders of responsibility for proposing their laws to be before the National Assembly and to explain their laws and answer any questions for their laws. We know that ministers are busy, but what we also know is that their priority is what their job description is, and one of their top priorities is actually proposing laws, or one of the most serious jobs they do. Besides, it's not a frequency where, over the years, they can have one or two or maximum of three laws, so I think the National Assembly deserves this issue not to be ignored, but to have ministers try to be before us MPs. You see, we're in a much harder position because we have to deal with all the laws, and they have one or two laws and they're not in front of us again. This is also a recommendation and a request, but I would like those who can influence it from the position not only of the pleas but also of insisting that we simply strengthen the seriousness of the relationship with the law in the future, because what seriousness we MPs will deal with here, unless we have a real minister who has been dealing with the law for months to offer us good solutions here, change and supplement, and then there is none between us to answer the questions we need, to hear our objections, suggestions, because only then do we have the right environment and the right atmosphere to discuss. So there are three topics in front of us today, certainly important, not so inspiring for some big speeches, registers are registers, but it does not diminish their importance, so we are obliged to give full importance and attention to these laws, no matter how much space there is for us from the register to move on to some of our daily-political topic, which is otherwise a treat for our MPs. However, registers usually represent that boring but very important part of the state order, because by the quality of the register you can actually assess the quality of the overall order in one country, or state. So if you have orderly registers, then that actually means you have a neat and orderly state, and the role of the state or state apparatus is to establish and maintain order in the state apparatus, administration, or in the entire system of the state. It is the registers that are also the base for keeping order in the state apparatus and administration, but also the mirror and the administration itself. And today we're talking about the sidings of the so-called sidings. from the Ottoman period that was made in the 17th century, which was so neat that historians today and how they use these sages and they represent an example of orderliness and orderliness. So while one system and one state have such high-quality registers, that means that it stands well on its feet. As regards the procedure for enrolment in the APR registry, that is, the Agency for Business Registers, what we have today is to improve this procedure and the register itself. I have to admit, although I don't do it directly, but according to the data I have and a certain practice and touch I've had, that otherwise the register of the Agency for Economic Registers was good. So this should be said, especially because I have experience with some countries in our environment where there are still registers in the old times of socialist Yugoslavia. Well, let's say, in one of our neighboring countries and today when you want to register an association, it's like establishing a mini state. It's such a procedure that it takes such approvals, where people when registering their own association organize celebrations because they've managed to register. It still exists, just so you know, in our immediate vicinity. It's been solved here long ago and it works pretty well. But what we have now is a further improvement in the process itself and the register itself. That's very important. So it is also important to encourage, in particular, young people, to dare to establish their business entities, because if it starts all of this, from the very registration and establishment process, because if someone is afraid to have a company, to start their business entity, to engage in all the risks that it carries, and it all starts from the registration itself, if you make it difficult for them to register, i.e. the registration procedure in that register, then you've already scared him. He says -- come on, that's impossible, look at what I need paper to start my own little firm, and I'm just dealing with it all. It doesn't seem relevant at first sight, but psychologically, it's very important. Those first steps of dare to go into private business activities, to be the bearers of that responsibility, begin with the register itself, from the registration process itself. We have had this quite well and efficiently so far, and now we are promoting it and it is certainly to welcome and support and we will support the adoption of amendments and additions to this law. When it comes to the Central Register of Real Owners, respecting all of what I've said and what generally applies to registers, so I don't repeat, but what makes this register significant is also the essential intensity that makes it established and has this register, which is the state's insistence to avoid certain machinations, certain hypocrisis, certain concealment of the real owner. The real owner is something that has no reason to be hidden if everything is right, and if it's not right, then it needs to be hidden. Now, mostly the reasons for hiding ownership over a certain wealth, a certain economic operator, a particular business are mostly with the intention of avoiding certain obligations, tax obligations or other legal obligations. However, there is no need to bypass or ignore other reasons why someone hides his property over something. It's something that gets into the kind of socio-psychology of our space and, in my opinion, it's the consequence of some of the earlier ideologies that ruled here and that made us feel like it's a shame to be rich, that it's a shame to be successful and that it's not good to have certain companies, certain assets, and if you already have, then it's better to hide. So that's what's gray or black in the background of such intentions and that's a culture of opinion that we should change. So it's a culture of opinion that we should change to simply raise awareness that it's neither shame nor sin to be successful and to be rich. What it is and shame and sin is to be a thief, to be illegally rich, to steal from the state, to steal from the people, to steal from someone else. So that's what we'd have to do in the long run, though, because that consciousness can't change so fast. What has gotten in between us politicians about someone, let's say, a populist course or a discourse that, behold, is the easiest or we think it's the easiest thing to get votes by introducing ourselves to the poor. So we politicians, like, well, I'm poor, I have nothing, and then the people should trust me and give me their votes. I don't know, although many people tell me that I'm not some kind of politician with regard to these populists, let's say, acrobatics and I'm not expected to have a bright career in this regard, I've tried to reanalyze or something, but I can't change there. Is it because it's too late to change at this age or because I have certain ethical barriers to being hypocritical? I've never succumbed to hypocrisy in my life, and it cost me a lot, but I haven't repented, and that's why in politics I'll do what I can. I see my political offer as a Swedish table that is not imposed, which is offered. Now, to recognize what's good and healthy on the Swedish table isn't enough that it's a good offer, it's also necessary to taste and know what you want to choose. So it's not just about the one side, it's not just about politicians, it's about, God, not about citizens. That, of course, is my approach. He's more elitist and he doesn't bring too many votes. I'm aware of that, but even in politics that is irrational, I dare or decide on quality, because it's just as good to me and I have no intention of changing it. I hope it's good to have one today. It is simple, let the offer be richer, let the sophras be more luxurious, and let him take whatever he wants. I'm one of those who had the courage to even talk here and about the salaries of the MPs, which is, like, one of the strongest taboos in front of the microphone, but not in the hallway. So, here, I dared, so a reporter told me -- you're not normal, where are you going to talk about it now, that's what votes are getting lost on? So naive, I—people, so he didn't really see things. Come on, now I'm a little quiet, not to repeat all that, because I'd risk it if the pay went up without taking a chance without getting it up, then it doesn't make any sense to me, especially. I'm saying nothing, and I'm going to be a little wise, not much, but a little, as much as necessary. But that's what I was talking about. It's all part of our culture to hide something, etc. I think we should strive for a new time in which it will be honorable and honest and commendable to be successful and rich, but correctly, with a register written down in real property. That's why it's gonna take time. It won't take long. Or, at least, if you want it to be successful in business, stay out of politics, because you won't have any votes. So for now, that's it. I don't think that's good, but it's not as important in politics as I think it is, it's much more important what voters think because they eventually decide and give as much support as they want, or trust. In the end, whether we like it or not, we have to respect it because the system is so set up that in fact the number of votes is measured and the trust that you have to manage the state or some of its bodies. But I'm sure it's good to have this register done and eliminated, therefore, the possibility of machination. Someone also mentioned terrorism, how with this register we're going to prevent the introduction into a land of dirty capital. There is this danger and it needs to be controlled, but with us, it's much more noticeable to carry out an entry. So, for our condition and this registry will have more significant effects to prevent capital from being exported from the country. So, in this case, it's more interesting for us, but of course, based on the register, we'll be able to reduce the possibilities of any abuse. When it comes to smart numbers, it certainly is about technology. Otherwise, when something is new always, however many protagonists you have for new and new, you have those who have reserves. There will always be. The other day at that debate on RTS, we spent an hour on lithium and lignite, but I remembered when I was a boy, so I helped my father cut the lawns, and then motor mowers appeared. These were big debates in the country, whether or not how much the motor mower threatens the grass, because it changes the smell of grass with oil and oil and does not want cattle to eat grass. I think that for almost ten years somewhere, we continued to cut our hair manually until we realized, that is, when they realized those who should decide to buy a lawn mower, that it was pointless, and that the motor mower would make it easier to cut. Not to mention other examples, whenever something new appears, it has its opponents and its protagonists, but those who decide it is important to understand what it is that will significantly modernise, facilitate the technology that is needed in this case. In this case, these numbers are necessary for many reasons, which is due to the effectiveness of monitoring, recording, reading, loading of numbers, which is due to the reduction of the possibilities of various manipulations. I mean, I don't know if that phenomenon is present in other parts, but we really have a lot of complaints and complaints about incorrect readings, about oscillations on numbers. So these are huge numbers in terms of oscillation. What's going on here, obviously it can't just be a mistake, that there can be other backgrounds. So this electronic improvement in electricity consumption reading will certainly improve both accuracy and efficiency and should certainly be supported. However, in order for all these numbers to make sense, we need to speed up the recovery of the power grid, especially in Sandzak space. I've talked about it several times and every time I want to talk about it, I wonder if I should talk about it again or not, if it's better to remind myself, and leave the impression that I'm worried about it, and if nothing is done, then it turns out that we're just talking here, and there's no way, or I'm gonna shut up and I'm saying, I've said twice enough. Unfortunately, we have to talk, but in some parts of our country, like the Sandzak area, there really is an electrical network in a desperate state. Here, yesterday we had, or yesterday, Tuesday, the centre of the New Market was without electricity all day long. However, this coincided with a visit from the Minister of Education who had a very rich visit to Novi Pazar and schools and universities, with his very rich delegation. So, after dark, the visit took place. Now you've had that impression in the city with 120,000 inhabitants in broad daylight, etc., and out cloudy, it's not even a centimeter of snow. When it's a centimeter of snow, it's known to run out of electricity. So, to make sense of what we're doing in modernization, we need those classic things, the ones that are necessary, in this case it's an electrical network and the power grid towards the Sjenica and the power line towards Tutin, which are really in desperate condition, something is going on with that big traphostation in Tutin, we're following and we're looking forward to it, but we need to run all the political arrangements that we've achieved with regard to the reconstruction of the power grid from New Pazar to Pajor. We will insist on it and certainly make sense of all of this in its completeness, including electronic counting and all of what we are doing, that is, we are adopting these laws today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-28-0.u10100	Thank you, Mr. Zukorlic. Madam Minister, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-28-0.u10101	Thank you. I thank the MP for his remarks on the culture of responsibility and constitutional behaviour when it comes to executive power and legislative authority. People's MPs, the National Assembly can, all can do as they please, and the executive power is well known. What's my wish is to inform you that Minister Angelka Atanaskovic and I would be happier if she were here, but she hasn't recovered from her illness yet and that's the key reason. This way I want her to take her place here before you as soon as possible, answer all your questions. There is a trivia for at least one law, since in this case you have a member of the government who knows how to make a circuit of weak consumption from the objects that were in this room and to demonstrate to you through it and how an electrician works, and I also know how to unplug and fix an electric meter. About personality and everything else not to talk about. I could probably be a lot more interesting to you by talking about voltage, resistance, electricity and the ways in which and through what coefficient of useful action you get electrical energy from any source, rather than talking about these laws, but it's really trivia. What is actually my desire to answer you is that you have devoted a great deal of your exposure essentially to culture for change or lack of culture for change, which is an important problem in every law. What I know about the other two laws, since I have participated in the preparations for one of them, is that in societies like ours it is always the most difficult to find the right measure between making a law that will make a friendly environment for the user of this law, while at the same time preventing abuses, fraud, anything that we are inclined to look for famous holes in the law, because there is one culture of pride in our society – well, I found a hole, so I've fooled it, to find harmony between it or to work on a culture of change, and then to give you solutions that come from the analysis of the situation why some regulation needs to be natural to accept it. Either way, you need time. So the Agency for Business Registers had today, saying ridiculous obstacles in 2004, 2005 or 2007, as well as the Central Register of Real Owners. There are other problems now. What is important is that together we from the Government and you from the Assembly tell people that measuring whether members of the law, supervision of those who apply the law directly and analysis of the effects of law enforcement, is a job that never stops. My request would be that the committees in which you work, in which you chair, be analysed and supervised by each of the laws for which you vote. It may be one of the mechanisms, not strong enough, as you say – I will say, so what if, I fully understand it, but follow through the work of the board just one topic, let's say, follow this great idea that you have one number of households that will have smart numbers, share information about it, it is a small contribution and a step towards changing that sloth in the culture of change. I repeat, as far as the rest is concerned, the culture of responsibility of government members and constitutional behaviour of government members, I absolutely understand you and I will convey to all those who do not have to be here as ministers and willingly submit to the supervision and control of the Constitution as they say and as our system in Serbia requires.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-28-0.u10102	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Zukorlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-28-0.u10103	I don't even doubt it, whoever decided to send you here today to be a reporter didn't make a mistake at all, and I suggest that whenever they need to send someone who isn't competent to send you, I congratulate you on that, too. What you said you knew with electricity I didn't know, but when I think about it, I totally believe you, I think you know more than that, that when you want to do a power surge, you can have a short circuit in a rhetorical-political sense. You've proven this to us while you were a member of the Parliament, not just now while you're a minister. Now, while I was preside over the entire page I had before me ministers and their services, I got tired of reading who was invited, and then we got down you and your associates. Of course, it's perfectly understandable that someone is prevented because of the disease and it's not something that we would criticise in any way, but there's a whole team of those who certainly don't have such a serious reason. Therefore, I thank you for understanding that this is something to insist on both of us and that this is not a matter of personal or party attitude. We agree on this second, that it is very important to work on improving consciousness to change the culture of understanding, including the very culture of change for the better. It is something that can, of course, be done and operated through committees, but there is a very important complete system of education and very important media, as well as our public political discourse. The more we talk about it, even in the National Assembly, the more those who do so through the media or education will at least understand or introduce that something important is involved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-28-0.u10104	Thank you. The next is MP Vojislav Vujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-28-0.u10105	Thank you, Your Honor. A respected minister with associates, when an MP covering all issues in parliament becomes a minister, then I am sure that he can easily cover all the resolutions in the government. The experience you have here is absolutely not small. Although, I heard something today, too, I didn't know that you really understood the current, that you could make that circuit circuit, but given your resolution that you're leading, with a piece of that resistor, I certainly wouldn't have caught myself in that wheel. When it comes to these laws, I'll take the order you've come to. The first is the draft law confirming the Treaty on Guarantee between the Republic of Serbia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. I'd agree with my colleagues that today really these topics are a little dry, but, of course, they're not irrelevant and they don't matter, we have to deal with the same topics. And it's also our job to bring this down to some level while we're having this discussion with you that every citizen can understand more easily what we're talking about and what we're talking about here today. In particular, we as a state provide a guarantee for a job that the electricity industry will do, a job worth 80m euros. In particular, today we are talking about the 40m-euro tranche. It refers to procurement, installation, installation and software and hardware that is directly related to smart numbers. In this case, 205,000 smart numbers will be installed, referring to the cities of Nis, Cachak and the King. What's very important why we in JS support this law is that this is the data I found from 2019 -- net losses, I'm talking about low voltage current, they were more than 11%. If we were to make a nominal statement here, that's more than 200m euros per year. So we have some losses, different things are at stake. If we need to compare ourselves to some European standards, because there are losses everywhere, that's a normal thing, simply, such matter is, we have a situation where they record losses of up to 4% and that's considered a legitimate loss. So on our 11%, what we're doing today and what Elektroprivreda is going to do anyway is in our favor. If these losses I talked about earlier were compared to the production of the "Costoc" Termopower Plant, they would be reduced to the same number. What does that mean? For better savings, for one host behavior, which we in the JS advocate, not only create great savings with such projects, but we also have ecological benefits, which in the beginning may not be visible, but if we consider how much one thermopower plant needs to pollute our air, and with this kind of project, we bring this plant's needs to a minimum, then this is another one of the arguments why we support this law. What, Minister, which we must never forget, has something to do with this subject, certainly, is the bombing we survived, I'm talking about this last bombing that went to the benefit of the terrorists who made us, and today they're making us, and the problems in our southern province. One bombing that made us all suffer so much together. The victims and the damage to this bombing are hard to talk about today, because the victims are big, I don't just think about military casualties, I'm talking about civilian victims first. But what's about this subject, that's the damage, the material damage we've suffered when it comes to the energy grid. At that time, especially for us in Serbia for the first time, these graphite bombs were tested, and I once said it here while the Energy Minister was there, and the bombs were designed purposely to destroy Serbia's energy system. What young people would say, at that moment after the bombing, Serbia's energy system was restored to factory settings. It literally leveled everything then with the ground. Of course, and such a country, with primarily professional people, engineers we had, today is not with us Mr. Mrkonjic here, for justifiable reasons, and he was then one of the synonyms for something done before the deadline. The state managed in a very short time to revitalise both the economy and the energy system. What we learned then, and that was, which must always be ahead of us like a guide, that we have to try not to depend on anyone to energy. So, this energy independence is actually something that will preserve our economy, so I'm sorry that today is not the Minister of Economy with us, and I had some particular issues, so don't get me wrong, I don't doubt your expertise, I said that at first, but just, well, she's not there, so I'm going to take my speech differently. Here, I'll go back to these numbers. So there are two ways in which that current is lost on a low-voltage network. These are technical and non-technical losses. When we talk about non-technical losses, we come to “smart numbers, ” because these non-technical losses are divided into three parts, they're divided into exactly one piece of direct numbers, one section of electricity theft and misreading. So, not to repeat everything I've said, this is a good thing, what we're voting on today needs to be voted more and more often and not only three cities covered with such numbers, investments are big, but in some near future, a larger number of cities should go this way. Minister of Mining and Energy Zorana Mihajlovic said a few days ago that some of the necessary investments to be absolutely energy independent are moving up to 17 billion euros, it is a huge amount, but if we take just one of the losses that I made here at the beginning, these are not the means to avoid, we should definitely have a conversation with both the IMF and the World Bank. What is, when it comes to this energy independence, now the situation from which we can hardly find a solution, I'm sure the next few days will be more and more often talked about, and that's artificial fertilizer. All the factories in Europe that are in the production of artificial fertilisers have stopped their production due to this gas situation and prices, which are currently as they are. That's what they wanted, they didn't want, if it doesn't have a direct connection with us, the indirect will, because our peasants in the manufacturing process have to use artificial fertilizer, that is. They don't have to use it, but then the yields in the organized agricultural production are significantly smaller. We're in the rebalancing of the budget that we adopted yesterday gave an additional 2.7 billion dinars for agriculture, so the amount of subsidies in different ways in agriculture exceeds 60 billion, but no one expected that we would have this situation with artificial fertilizer. I'm sure the good hosts and farmers will manage this autumn's set, that they will somehow bridge it. What I wanted to say to the Minister of Economy, that today he's here with us, or the Minister of Agriculture, when I see him here in Parliament, is that we have to think about how to help the villagers, that is. Mr. Peasant, as Dragan Markovic Palma, president of my parliamentary group, would like to welcome that spring more easily and allow him or at least to reduce the damage, when it comes to artificial manure. Not to spread this topic much, the JS MP group certainly supports this law. These two are really dry right now, but we need to talk about them, too. It is the Law on registration procedure at the Agency for Economic Registers. When it comes to the Agency for Economic Registers, this problem we had with the pandemic that hit us must have left great consequences on them. Why do I say that? Because the business performed by the Business Registers Agency is extremely large. We're treating only one small part of their obligations today, but the Agency for Business Registers really has a large range of operations and jobs that it does. You're going to let me, because there are a lot of numbers, this is simply not possible to remember everything, and I took the intersection there again, in 2019, before this pandemic, when some other things were slightly measurable and when we could follow the rhythm of what happens in continuity. So, in Serbia 9,157 companies were founded in 2019, which at that time was 3,82% more than before the year, and 37,160 enterprises were founded. Of the more than 46,000 newly registered companies via e-registration, 359 companies and 2,031 entrepreneurs were created at that time. What does that mean? That now it will all be with percentages compared to that year 2019, because now it is the only way to register a company by electronic means. In that previous year, i.e. 2018, 303 cooperatives, 77 branches of foreign enterprises, 37 representative offices, etc. were established. The most registered company is for non-specialised trade in large, building buildings, consulting business activities, then open restaurants, cafes, road transport companies, computer programming, car shops, hair salons and beauty salons. Among entrepreneurs, most were registered for computer programming, catering, consulting activities, followed by the owners of hairdressers and beauty salons. This isn't bad when it's mentioned because it's just for some things that I was surprised to read, so there's simply people who want to deal with some entrepreneurship, some private business of this kind of statistics that are easily available that can give some new idea. In 2019, 27,163 companies were wiped out of business, most of which, about 22,400 companies, were wiped out after an emergency liquidation procedure was carried out. This will also have to do with the next point I'm going to talk about. On the first day of 2019, which I took as a rapper, 119,557 companies and 271,210 entrepreneurs were registered in Serbia. According to APR data, the number of established companies in Serbia has increased by 19.94% over the last five years, entrepreneurs by 11.14%. What does that mean? On the one hand, if we rationally now approach a subject that's on the agenda, we'll definitely make it easier for everyone. It is indisputable that we will cut costs. What I want to ask you now, I have to ask you, because I don't have a talker from the specific ministry, one of the topics we opened on the Finance Committee at that point, we had ministers, we had people from the Agency, and what we all praised are those deadlines that were moved, i.e. for the receipt of regular annual financial reports, so deadlines have been moved, and that's where economic operators meet, and that's good, because deadlines primarily concern their obligations. I'll just ask you to escort out. So, when the obligations of companies are at stake that they have to carry out undisputedly, because it's in accordance with the law, the deadlines are relaxed. That's good, but where I see one flaw now, and we've been talking about it in our MP group, so please at least try to find some rational explanation, or to take a closer look at it in some future period than the effects we're going to have in the course of electronic reporting, which is the next thing. Since now the only way to register a businessman is by electronic means. A colleague earlier talked about his town where he said there was a situation where the power went out, which isn't an impossible thing, but there are a few other situations that I don't have to list right now, and yet it's about how I can simply say, this technical or hardware piece, that a very easy minister, we can bring a legal person into a situation that there's no possibility of registering his legal face. Let me just finish the question, so maybe the minister doesn't need any help. So, what's the situation now? We would thus endanger someone's right to work, because if for technical reasons we would prevent him from opening up a company, an enterprise store, or whatever, then we, like those who need to pass laws and bring things to the right state, then we would, with changes that would not be adopted on this issue, violate the law. So we wouldn't have given someone the right to work. Please think about it, I see there's a colleague from the Agency. I didn't want to react to this, I just think we're acting very correctly as MP groups. We've had very good communication with the rest of the departments so far, so take this into account, you don't have to react right now, but through the implementation of this law if you see that what I'm saying makes sense, then let's do something that doesn't cause us any problems. When it comes to the Central Recording Act of Real Owners. It's a young law, it's been passed, it's perfected, and I'm sure he'll come here a few more times because situations that are a little different in the field dictate business conditions, and then people who don't come from the most honorable intentions of forming a business society that consciously establish companies to launder some money in order to deal with the simplest way of crime, we need to find a way to get in their way. Today, a colleague of Bane said that when we talk about someone, it's not about someone, it's a serious problem of modern society about terrorism, here when we say money laundering, it's kind of immediately up to the point, so it's called terrorism. To be honest, I'm not sure that in Serbia, money is primarily pumped in this way to deal with terrorism, it's more about bribery, corruption, some abuses, etc. But unlike these terrorists that my colleague talked about that kind of money could bring into Serbia, I have no fear that terrorists will bring money into Serbia. What's obvious with us is that terrorists from Serbia are bringing money to different offshore companies, to different destinations, and that's what we, by constant harmonisation of this and similar law, must at some point prevent. Unfortunately, I've had an ugly experience and my family, when it comes to these phantom firms, so even with this law, we're correcting things, but the imagination of those, how can I tell you, there's no fear of dealing with crime they can always find, as you simply say, a hole in the law. This is a good thing that we are doing today, which is why we in the Single Serbia parliamentary group support this, but we must certainly, first of all, you and I, together with you, always be ready to find and intercept these ideas and make every time the law gets better and better. I repeat once again the Single Serbia parliamentary group in the voting day will support all three laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-28-0.u10106	Thank you, Mr. Vujic. Madam Minister, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-28-0.u10107	To continue with the trivia for my presence here is why I know how to explain everything about electromagneticism, not being a physicist, and that's also why I might be able to explain to you your doubts about it, if it's all electronic whether it's going to prevent some from doing business at all. In physics you have one size that is usually magical for cosmology, which is called entropy. The entropy gives you everything you need to know about the extent of the system's disorder. When you pass it on to human society, then you get that disorder is spontaneous. You don't need to invest any energy, no knowledge, nothing to mess up, the mess is spontaneous, like your negligence spontaneously. In contrast, order is something that requires energy, which takes time, requires effort, requires knowledge, requires explanation, but is good order. We say in Vojvodina, we're from Vojvodina, we're from Vojvodina, and when we're alone, we're in line. So when you look at the development of regulations on economic registers, it was measured immediately whether people would ever accept order here. When you introduce a bus payment system, it's something I didn't understand, when a bus plus obligation and a ticket payment was introduced in Belgrade. I see people protesting and asking – why? They say - because they have to go in one door. I don't understand why people protest. He says they have to pay for the bus ticket. But that's proof of my ignorance because I came from a town where the vass was getting in the front, going out to high school and paying for the ticket. That's how it is with the APR, so you need to measure what it is that people you want to create, how can I say, accept a friendly environment. Always by the nature of things entropy to it tends, function S, to look for many significant solutions with the hope that the system itself will reject you best. From here on out and in this regulation and in many others, you can offer electronically, you can walk to the counter, you don't have to, you don't have to. What's the outcome? In all and one document, a very small percentage of people accept a change that is better for them. You can measure that, watch the issue of electronic documents, the use of electronic signatures, the use of electronic bank services, electronic communication for children at school, here us and the electronic system, wherever you want. That's the entropy in us. We're inclined because we know the mess we're in, we're more inclined to keep it that way. Then you have hybrid solutions, this law is one of the examples where there was a hybrid solution. Well, he says -- give something that has to be electronic, and this one has to choose. Then suddenly you have that if you choose to access yourself electronically or in person or in the mail, then you will choose older ones, but if you can only electronically submit financial reports, then no problem doing it electronically. Now it's a step, ready for everything to be electronic. I'm giving you this kind of explanation that you might disagree with neither your associates nor your ministry, but it's more of an explanation from what is a post-analysis of the regulations of this kind and similar species. It will be very serious and the ministry and I will convey your concern that the measure that we want to allow everyone to use for everything they already use for financial reports will not give the expected outcome. In this sense, the debate in the congregation is precious and there is always a special protocol to be watched as the percentage rises, whether it grows, and if there is a stalemate just because everything is electronic? For the Central Register Act, you know, I'll just repeat a sentence, you know, when you want to edit a system, so what do you want with the Central Register of Real Owners, you want justice to people, someone who has property, who legally earned a tax pay, and he can be angry, hurt, angry, anything, because someone who, no one knows where his property came from and doesn't pay taxes. So, you make the law system order, so everyone can report the property and they can prove it's their property and pay the tax. There are no exceptions to laws, because in all countries, even in Serbia, violations of laws are exceptions. The laws pretend to edit the system by making it easy for you to get information on who the real owners are. Will there always be someone who will use some channels for their own good reason? Of course he will, no one, as I say, naive, so he believes that changes and additions will be made under the Action Plan of the Central Register of Real Owners Act and eliminate problems. He won't. Is money financed from terrorism, is money going from legal sources? And how can I tell you where, but not in Serbia? You can't set a theoretical and equality for what's being financed by terrorism, because different states define terrorism differently. You have states that very legally define what we call terrorism, rightly, but we have clear definitions and we want to combat terrorism because it is garbage, waste of globalisation, and evil is for every society and it produces injustice and death and produces suffering. That's why it's important that we also make it impossible to fund terrorism, because we missed where they got that money. These are my explanations to you from the level of someone who looks at an analysis of the effect, the law, or exactly to assess how this law, what good it will do for people in Serbia, and I repeat very carefully will be passed along with our proposal to follow one law, whether it disturbs anyone in the APR by registering whatever, small, medium-sized enterprises, companies, whatever it has.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-28-0.u10108	Thank you. The next People's Messenger, Amos Ujhelji.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-28-0.u10109	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Vice-President, the Presidency, Mrs. Comic, with his associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the SVM parliamentary group, will support a set of proposals for the law, which are in front of us in the day to vote. I will, in my presentation as an authorised representative of the SVM parliamentary group, focus most on the proposal for a guarantee agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Dear People's MPs, let me introduce you to the most important data relating to electricity, before I explain why our MP group will support so-called. The smart numbers law, because it's easier to understand the importance of this law, through prism numbers. The security of electricity supply, natural gas and oil derivatives in 2020 was satisfactory, which was of particular importance in the pandemic conditions. Total electricity consumption in 2020 was at consumption level, in 2019. In 2020, electricity exports were 264 gigawatt hours higher than imports. The energy development strategy for the period up to 2025 has forecasted a growth in electricity consumption of less than 1% per year. During that period, this consumption should be covered by the extension of the working century and by increasing the power of existing and building new power plants. There was no connection of new wind power plants to the transmission network during 2020, so at the end of the year the total installed wind power plants connected to the transmission network remained unchanged and amounted to 373 megawatts, while 328 new power plants, 212 megawatts, were connected to the distribution network at the end of 2020. In 2020, the production of electricity from renewable sources connected to the transmission distribution system was 10,872 gigawatt hours, which is 32% gross electricity consumption. Dear People's MPs, as you know, the Republic of Serbia Budget Act for 2021, envisions giving a guarantee to the Republic of Serbia, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, up to 40m euros, on the basis of the responsibility of the Power Distribution of Serbia, as a borrower for the financing of the smart numbers project. The introduction of smart measurement systems into the energy sector is one of the most important objectives, the energy policy of the Republic of Serbia. Improving measuring infrastructure and communication with electricity customers, in order to make more efficient use of it, is a priority in modernising the transmission system, and distribution of electricity. In the Republic of Serbia, a large number of households have outdated numbers, which for many years have not been replaced or bazaared, resulting in a slowdown in the work of the distribution system and an incorrect display of the actual electricity consumption. For these reasons, it is necessary to restore and modernise the distribution network and improve the functionality of the numbers in order to establish a more efficient consumption of electricity. With the strategy of developing the energy of the Republic of Serbia by 2025, with projections by 2030, the government has defined the importance of replacing existing measuring devices with modern digital measuring devices, which will enable the implementation of so-called "D" smartsmithing, which means remote reading, remote exclusion, management, consumption and other. It is also necessary to take other steps towards introducing a smart network concept that uses digital numbers, to monitor electricity consumption, in real time, in addition to contributing to reducing losses in the distribution system, introducing smart measurement systems, will also enable new electricity producers from renewable energy sources to be connected to the distribution network. The estimated value of the project to be implemented in two phases is 80m euros, it is planned to finance phase 1a, the project will be secured by the EBRD bank loan, with a state guarantee, while phase 1b would be financed by the European Investment Bank's loan, also with a state guarantee. The guarantee contract provides for the Republic of Serbia to guarantee unconditionally as a primary debtor, not only as a guarantee, pay all the amounts it has received and to fulfil the commitments undertaken by the borrower, in accordance with the loan agreement. In addition to these funds, a 40m-euro loan to finance phase 1a, the Republic of Serbia has proposed a smart number project for co-financing from grants, an investment framework for the Western Balkans, amounting to 15m euros, which would be used to co-finance the investment costs of the project. Dear People's MPs, our MP group supports the Guarantee Treaty Act, between the Republic of Serbia and the ERBD, because in this year the price of energy has risen rapidly and by realising the above mentioned project, and by introducing smart numbers, it will allow for improving energy efficiency, governance and control of the distribution system of electricity, reducing operating costs, as well as commercial and technical losses. In addition to accurate and rapid readings, customers will be given daily insight into the exact consumption of electricity at their measurement sites, which can stimulate customers to use electricity more rationally. Also, benefits expected from the use of smart numbers and automatic reading and consumption management systems are the reduction of unauthorized electricity consumption, the automation of readings, the detection of power outages, the increase of the operational efficiency of the company, the warning of measurement interference, better impulses for planning electricity production, better planning of power outages in the refurbishment of electricity facilities, etc. These benefits will establish a better quality management of electricity consumption, which means a more balanced production that brings more savings. Due to the trend in the price of energy in the world market, our parliamentary group supports the initiative of the country's president, Mr. Alexander Vukic, to make our country a co-owner of the nuclear power plant in Paks, as this ensures our country's energy security. Dear People's MPs, once again, the SVM parliamentary group will support all draft laws on the agenda of the session in the voting day. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-28-0.u10110	Thank you. The next is MP Hadji Milorad Stosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-28-0.u10111	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, on the agenda of today's session in the joint debate are these three draft laws, which are very important for our citizens, which are, above all, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the registration procedure of the Agency for Commercial Registers, which was submitted by the Government, the second is the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Central Recording of Real Owners, which was also submitted by the Government and under three, the proposal for a law confirming the Treaty on Guarantee between the Republic of Serbia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. At the very beginning, I would point out that the PUPS parliamentary group -- "Three P" in the voting day will support these laws and other proposals from this session and vote for their adoption. The two laws we are discussing today concern minor changes and additions of legal regulations related to the various registers being conducted by the Agency for Economic Registers. In the first instance, the roof law on registration procedure at the Agency for Economic Registers is amended. The main intention of the proposed amendments is to further speed up the process of registering the establishment of companies, partner companies, limited liability companies and companies of action, and to carry out from the moment of full application of these amendments for a year and a half exclusively in the electronic procedure through the Agency's authority, as provided for in the proposed supplement in Article 4 of the existing law. Such an intention represents a very large and important step in further improving the business environment of digitisation and speeding up the procedure before the state authorities, and this should result in capital attraction and new investment and further positive results in our country's economic development. The change planned would be done by making a legal basis for the application procedure to be accompanied by the necessary digitalised act, and the procedure could be carried out by lawyers in accordance with the rules of electronic business. The written removal of the registrar’s solution would also be delivered by e-mail or a unique electronic mailbox. In addition to these major changes, some minor corrections have been made in the existing legal text in order to avoid existing ambiguities in some situations. The second law refers to the central register of real owners. And this record is also run by the APR, with it tied to preventing money laundering and financing terrorism. That's a lot of words I don't want to say again. These changes are linked to those submitted for the registration procedure in the APR and are foreseen when companies are registered by electronic means, also recorded by real owners and that the accuracy of the application will also apply to them. And if that possibility is not used when submitting an electronic application, then there will be a valid provision for the actual owners to register within 15 days of the day of registration in the APR. In addition to these two laws, in today's united debate there is confirmation of an international agreement – the Guarantee Treaty for so-called smart numbers, which our country has accepted to be a guarantee of a 40m-euro loan, which Belgrade Elektrodicija has raised at the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, and in order to replace old numbers for electricity with new remote reading models. This is a very important investment, because in recent reports of the Energy Agency, which we have considered, we have been able to see data that a good part of the energy is lost through all standards in the transmission network due to unconscious individuals who illegally join the network or illegally damage the numbers of the old mechanical type in order to show less electricity consumption. I believe this system of these smart numbers will make it impossible or less conscious. With new numbers, such things will be reduced to the minimum, and it will also allow remote reading of values, and will also achieve savings in faster and more efficient charges, lower costs and lower waitings for end-users to collect. It is good that this process of technological modernisation of the system began in Belgrade, where it can be done as quickly as possible and at the lowest cost, and should work in perspective to start with replacements in other cities, above all, bigger cities and other cities and municipalities across Serbia. Dear People's MPs, this law is a double modernisation. On the one hand, they are doing a simplification of administrative procedures in the economy, and on the other, technical modernisation in segments of practical life. But both have the ultimate goal of improving the lives of our citizens. Therefore, our PUPS parliamentary group – "Tri P" in the voting day will give its support for the adoption of these draft laws. Also, the PUPS parliamentary group – "Tri P" will support other proposals and legal solutions discussed at this session in the voting day and vote in favour. Dear friends, distinguished citizens of Serbia, dear minister, I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-28-0.u10112	Thank you. The word is Snow White Paunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-28-0.u10113	Thank you. Dear fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, distinguished Minister Comic, representatives of the resolution ministries, indicated confidence in Prime Minister Brnabic's cabinet on this day a year ago. Circumstance wanted us to see the government that we trusted and talk to them, first of all, about success. A large number of laws have been passed over the past year on a proposal from the government, one percent and on a proposal from the MPs themselves. And I have to express my satisfaction first and foremost that you are here, that the Law on Gender Equality, which we have worked on for seven years and that we have been waiting for. If we'd just done it, that would have been enough, let alone. An important set of laws, supremacy, said counterpart Vujic, and I agree here somewhere, but it seems crucial to me when it comes to economy. I fully understand all the dilemmas and fears on the subject of these changes, which are not small, but I understand you well in one explanation that is very understandable, very nicely said, very fluent Serbian. Therefore, amendments and additions to the Law on registration procedure at the Agency for Economic Registers and the Law on the Central Recording of Real Owners, as well as the Treaty on Guarantee between the Republic of Serbia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, relating to smart numbers. I will really, in my discussion, look first of all at the Amendments and Supplements of the Law on registration procedure at the Agency for Commercial Registers, not because I think the other two proposals are not important, but because after me my distinguished young colleague, Uglješa Marković, will certainly say as much as I do, and somewhere I am convinced - and more than that. The changes ahead of us are a promotion primarily of the legal framework and are essentially a consequence, so I understood you, so I understood the law, the Serbia's commitment to advance the business space so that it would also be motivated by domestic, but especially for foreign investors. Most of the time, potential foreign investors are the main obstacle to this complicated administrative procedure that they had the opportunity to meet when they were founded and registered. These face-to-face administrations can take a long time, they take some valuable time, they can at one point act and demote and bring in some uncertainty, and from that, I would say, first of all, draws on the need to improve and simplify these procedures, especially in a more efficient public administration that we talked about yesterday, when we held a debate on the Citizens' Protector and the Trustee on information of public importance. Somehow everything is tied up or all the laws are the result of what we have promised, and I do not think I am wrong, in the vote of confidence and the past government, which is a step towards the digitalisation of Serbia, which was important and now we are somewhere in the finals, so one law at a time we adapt first to that ambition. In order to stimulate the business space by establishing new business entities from independent trade operations to those large enterprises and to stimulate, above all, foreign investors, I am returning consciously to it, it is very important to improve these procedures relating to the registration of legal entities as a first step towards the start of business. A good registration procedure is one of the necessary conditions to stimulate economic development and globally, which is also followed by the World Bank, assesses and ranks on its Duing business list based on the assessment of procedures, cost and time of the implementation of registration procedures relating to the business of the private sector. The Duing Business List Methodology observes domestic, small and medium-sized companies and measures on the ease of business through compliance with regulations and their application. What does that mean? This means that countries on this list are ranked precisely through comprehensive data that can be compared to both the aspect of the quality of the regulations and the aspect of practical application of these regulations. According to the latest data, Serbia placed 73th in the list of 190 countries in 2020, whose business is measured by the World Bank methodology, and in 2019 we were in the 40th place, so improving the administrative conditions of registration is a necessary condition for Serbia's progress on this list. So that I wouldn't sound like someone who's talking about a crash compared to the year 2019, who's being recorded, he's to a good extent and the consequence of Kovid - 19, not to say that the primary consequence is Kovid - 19 and to point out once again that in times that are difficult like these, we really have to make an effort and do everything to make it work. Serbia has shown its ability to deal preventively with all possible problems that would happen today, and today it defines this energy crisis, to our great happiness. Not to mention what success is, because I don't want to sound like a praise right now, but I'm trying to explain why this change might be necessary, although I agree and understand all the fears on the subject. Otherwise, the ranking of countries under the World Bank's methodological rules aims to encourage, above all, the modernisation of administration, the creation of better legal frameworks and the practical improvement of business conditions and thus motivate investors to make it easier for the country in which they will invest. Serbia has an unequivocally intended to take a better position on this list, which will represent both stimulant and foreign investors, and that is the goal that we are meeting with the amendments to this law, because the need to improve the registration procedure of business entities and reduce the time needed to implement these procedures. It is also a requirement for this process to be digitised and we have in practice had more examples when we have also had other regulations and not only regulations on the registration of economic operators changing, speeding up and uniting and administrative procedures. We talk about this type of improvement in the work of state authorities and all public services all the time, realizing that we have reached a higher level of quality of services and have achieved this through years of investment primarily in digitisation, I have said that, by using new technologies in the public sector. In 2020, Serbia also adopted a Programme to improve the position of the Republic of Serbia on the World Bank's balance sheet on business conditions for the 2020-2023 period, through all ten areas monitored by the World Bank reference list. Therefore, from the start of business, obtaining a building permit, obtaining connections to the distribution system of electricity, registering property, obtaining credit, protecting minority shareholders, paying taxes, cross-border trade, executing contracts and resolving bankruptcy. One of these areas is the improvement of business conditions. The indicators to be followed are the number of procedures, time, costs and minimum capital paid for the start of a limited liability company. So it is very specific administrative procedures that must be at a high level of efficiency in order to be a desirable destination for foreign investment or the opening of representative offices and factories of large and respected world companies. Serbia has just such a development goal that has been successfully realised in the past few years. To remind us that as early as 2017, we were the world's first direct greenfield investment, thanks to regulatory reforms, low labour prices and access to the European market. Serbia has a great position of the third market platform and should be kept. Our further progress on the world's Duing Business List depends at this time on the effectiveness of registration procedures, and in this direction the proposed amendments and additions to the Law on registration procedure at the Agency for Economic Registers, as it is prescribed that the application for the establishment of a company is submitted to the Agency for Economic Registers in electronic form. The process is being accelerated, and procedural administrative errors are being reduced to a minimum. At the same time, this law allows for corrections, data changes, if there has been a failure of the party or registrar. Otherwise, the World Bank noted when establishing Serbia's position that registration in the Republic of the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund and the Republic of the Health Insurance Fund, the form of certified signatures and the opening of a bank account took two days to complete the application and obtain a solution on the establishment, obtaining a tax identification number, a known PIB, a certificate of registration in the Republic of the Pension and Disabilities Fund and a Republic Health Insurance Fund, a form of certified signatures and two days to open a bank account. From this draws the fact that it is necessary to shorten all these procedures for one day, which would be an optimal time somewhere. The only way to achieve this degree of efficiency is to include electronic procedures, as only such accelerations of administration in the process of registering economic operators can become an even more competitive investment destination. We always point out that the state administration is a mirror of a legally regulated state, so that this legal change is a qualitative step forward with the standardisation of services provided by legal authorities and organisations, and in this case by the Agency for Economic Registers. It is important to point out that this amendment is a harmonisation of the law with the programme to improve Serbia's position on this list, which was adopted last year, therefore, following the adoption of a valid APR law. It is important to say that the Agency for Economic Registers since 2018 allows electronic registration in the establishment of a limited liability society, so that this practice is now confirmed and extended by law to other forms of companies and in this sense I really think there is room to praise the more efficient work of the Agency for Business Registers. A very important guarantee treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the European Bank for Development. I said already, my colleague, Uglješa Markovic, will talk more about this, but I would say that investing in smart counted one of the important steps towards achieving energy efficiency and reducing losses in the process and supplying and reading consumption. The power distribution, which is worth 40m euros for which guarantees are provided by the European Bank for Exploitation, will spend precisely on the acquisition and installation of smart numbers that will essentially improve the functioning of our energy system. When all this is gathered, there is no dilemma that the SPS MPs will support all three proposed laws, with of course understanding and what are anxious and possibly ready that if, in practice, such a change shows its impracticality or that it may need to be further promoted, we are absolutely at our disposal to talk about it, because it seems to me, and you said in your reply to colleague Vujic, you are absolutely right, the tide always allows us to talk about everything in one more quality way and to come to the best solutions in the interest and for the benefit of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia who owe us the opportunity to talk about anything here at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-28-0.u10114	Thank you. The next is National MP Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-28-0.u10115	Thank you, Vice President of the National Assembly. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the Agency for Business Registers is a very important link in the chain that works in our country, which aims to make the best and best business environment and business climate for which we have had benefits both as state and as citizens over the past few years, given that in 2014 we have actually done the most in this plan to improve the business climate and improve business opportunities both domestic and foreign investors. As a result, in just a few years from the country that was in 2012, we are in a situation where there is a huge fiscal deficit, a huge public debt, a number of new businesses much, much smaller than those that are opening up, so we have earned a clear, high-level strategy, an economic strategy that this business climate and business environment be exactly the same that all those who want to invest, all those who want to fertilise their capital see Serbia as one of the most favourable investment destinations not only in the Western Balkans region, not only in the region of Southeast Europe, but also in all Europe, so the whole world as well. That's why Serbia today has investors from the People's Republic of China, South Korea, investors from the Middle East, the United States, so from all the world's meridians. What is the business of the Agency for Business Registers, which is to enable procedures that are easy and relaxing to open new businesses, I think that the Agency is doing a very good job, that these procedures are very favourable and good and what is most important motivation for those who want to start their own business, to start their own business or society with limited responsibility, and it is also not a problem for a foreign investor to open a company here in Serbia and to start their business as quickly as possible. So, the APR is one of the important links in that chain. What is very important is that the digitalisation process itself, which is the subject of these amendments and the addition of the law, will be maximumly advanced and it will be easier for companies to open up and some procedures in the APR to relax on the appointment of representatives and responsible persons in certain companies. Therefore, the work of the APR over the past few years can be considered to be very effective and very effective and should be supported by such work in the next period and work, of course, on why not, to change legislation, to change legislative solutions so that we have the best and easiest and simplest procedures for opening firms throughout Europe. We have many good and quality examples that we have followed over the past few years when it comes to opening a company, when it comes to this relaxation and potential and motivation, especially those who want to open their new, own business, to make it easy, to make it simple. That's why we have a situation today, my colleague Vujic was talking about having a much larger number of those companies opening up over the past two or three years than companies closing down. This represents one of the key and main results of our economy and, of course, our economic policy. Because of this work, we were able to see this, and our position in the due business list at one point was much better than in the period seven or eight years ago, and by improving the work of the APR, we can count on all those who want to invest in the Republic of Serbia to be one of the parameters, given that their efficiency is one of the parameters that is defined and which is one of the very important parts and the report concerning the duking business lists, and I can freely say that many globally serious investors are thinking about where they will invest their capital where they will invest their money in the long term and how they look at the debt business list, and how they see what the business climate is and whether it is simply to run a business, to open people, to complete one economic policy, labour policy, labour law, the whole corpus of these laws and legislation that definitely needs to be more liberal, to create new jobs, and to create new jobs for new people, to create new jobs, to create new jobs, to create new jobs, to create new jobs, to create new jobs, to create new jobs. We have made sure that in Serbia it simply works when you have people who have visions, when you have someone like our President Aleksandar Vukic who clearly knew what he wanted to do with Serbia and that the economy and growth of the economy is something that will define the overall development, social development of this country and its modernisation and have a situation that in this economic plan and at the economic level and growth level, you have huge results in just a few years. Now I would also touch on these amendments and the addition of laws concerning the fight against money laundering, and that is not just a question that you spoke of in your opening address, control and fight against terrorism. It is therefore a more complex policy of combat and protection of national security, given that for one economy and one country is of strategic importance who invests it in that country, who comes to invest here and what money is invested here. It is these changes and additions of this law that go towards that process being transparent and that not only politicians, not only people who are in charge of controlling these processes in the APR, at the Ministry of Finance, at the Department of Money Laundering control this process, but that it is transparent and that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia themselves simply know who these people are who are bringing money, who are investing here, who are building plants, building factories, and that is the thing that should be definitely open and transparent, and that is why we of the SNS have been at stake for years and there I would have made a clear distinction between what was done by 2012, and I would say some examples of what it looks like when an economy is being led in one way that does not exactly the knowledge and absence of these processes. You have in the period from 2000 to 2012 in the privatisation process the state sold about 1800 companies that were state-owned or social-owned, and the amount of money that was received, which amounted to the country's budget of the 1800 companies, was about two billion euros. On the other hand, in 2006, you have a sale of "Mobtel", sold to Norway's Telenor for 1.6 billion euros. One mixed-owned company, mostly private, was sold for 1.6 billion euros, so almost the sum for which all the companies sold in the privatisation process were sold for 12 years. We are all witnessing how bad it is for the economy, how catastrophic it is for the development of a country when speculant capital comes in, when you don't control the process of who's going to invest in certain industries, who's bringing that money, what's the origin of that money. The summary of all this in 2012 is that entire industrial branches have fallen completely to their knees. Those industrial branches where Serbia is traditionally strong, the textile industry is wiped off the face of the earth, energy and mining wiped off the face of the earth. In 2010, or 2011, the Americans left Juestil, or Zelizar, in Smederev, the state bought it for one euro. I will remind our citizens and my esteemed colleagues that at that time he looked like the Bor Mining Melting Basen, who, even then, hired about three, four thousand people and was the source of employment, life and the existence of a good part of Bor and the surrounding cities. So, almost an engine of development throughout eastern Serbia. The government then failed to sell it, and today we have, because of just one wise and thoughtful foreign policy, but also one offensive and aggressive economic diplomacy situation that all the companies that were on their knees have taken over serious investors, that these companies are seriously invested, and I am free to say, Aleksandar Vucic saved Smederevo and the whole region, five and a half thousand people working in Želizara Smederevo, but it's not five and a half thousand people, it's about five and a half thousand families, it's about hundreds of small and medium-sized enterprises whose destiny is related to the functioning of the Ironium in Smederevo. To point out now that, with the construction of infrastructure and the revitalisation of RTB Bor, the development of eastern Serbia, which everyone had forgotten, of which the state unfortunately raised its hands, which had grown into weeds and which was a source of poverty and personification for poverty, a lack of infrastructure and misery that has hit this country since 2000-2012. So today, on this case of commitment to improving the business environment, we can see that those industrial sectors, those industrial branches, that maybe a few years ago we couldn't even dream of, how they could rise and as they could positively affect GDP growth. Just look at the tourism industry, for the first time, we earned from tourism 1.4 billion euros during this prepandemic period in 2019, we exceeded one billion of information technologies and information technologies. I know, Minister, that you know very well that industry branch and you know how important it is for us to be this innovation hub, for the development of technology parks, and how important it is to strengthen and preserve the demographic characteristics of our country in the domain to succeed in that intention that young people stay here, that they can work in their profession, as highly educated, highly qualified personnel. So what this government did, what President Aleksandar Vukic did, it's very important to mention, to point out, he gave opportunities, gave many opportunities from those who are craftsmen, locksmiths, carpenters, people who work in the automotive industry on production tapes to those who have the highest schools, PhDs, engineers, those who deal with new technologies. We made Serbia a country in which every citizen, every man can find his place. Anyone can live with dignity from their work. We've promoted the entire Corps and the package and the solid infrastructure. So we're talking about highways, railways, even regional development. We were engaged in investments in Belgrade, with the same strength, same commitment with investments in Surdulica, Vladicino Han, Gadjin Han, Krupanj, Koceljevi, the city and the municipality, whether there are three, four, five, 15,000 residents or a city that has 150, 200 or 300 thousand people. We'll take care of it for sure, and I think we'll do it by the end of the next term, that the highway and that a good road and that a quick road gets to every municipality, every place in this country, because we recognize it. Of course, Alexander Vukic made sure that we had one big choice of those people who invested in our infrastructure and highways to develop that part first. That's why foreign investors are coming to us. They come because we're one stable country, they come because we're in a very favourable geopolitical space. They come because we have great relations with both political and economic and with China, and with Russia, both with America and with EU countries, and we represent a stable country where, when they invest their money, they don't need to think about whether certain public policy will change from today to tomorrow, whether we're going to suddenly think of someone, changing the tax rate, or inflation going wild and becoming galloping from someone who was normal and in some normal frames yesterday, and inflation is considered to be within normal frameworks if it's up to 10%. So we've taken care of every segment of economic policy and the creation of a really good investment and investment environment in this country. Of course we'll do it in the next period, considering that it is the key to politics and our party and this government and the president of our country, and that is to ensure everyone has the opportunity to have a job. You know, while he was in power in Brazil, about 20 years ago, known to their activist, he was also a union activist and presidential candidate, President of Brazil for a time, Lula da Silva, said he would never calm down and never sleep peacefully if he knew that even one Brazilian would lose three meals in one day. So we from the SNS will not calm down, and we will not stop at unemployment in Serbia being 10%, although it was 26% in 2012, we are not satisfied with that. We want to make out of all of Serbia what is today Belgrade, where the unemployment rate is 6% or 7%, where anyone who wants to find a job can find it in the profession, can find it in the factory, can find it in some IT company, domestic, foreign. So we want to be a country of opportunity where everyone can find their happiness, improve their careers and live honestly and with dignity from their work. This is what represents the core of Alexander Vukic's policy and our party, which is prosperity and improvement when it comes to the citizens of our country, given that for the first time perhaps in modern history we have a single state that manages its own resources and its own institutions, and as a first priority of its policy has its citizens, the well-being of its citizens and the protection of its own interests, and not some other people's interests. We are no longer a country that is suitable for manipulation, we are no longer a country that is the subject of manipulation and realization of the interests of some others in the region or of some major foreign power centres, but a country that is respectable, which thanks to President Vukic, deserves an eagle state that is reliable in international relations, which is a reliable partner and, of course, is reflected in both economic policy and investment. I'm going to finish by commenting on this fight against terrorism. As far as our citizens may be concerned that terrorism is far from Serbia, that it's somewhere in the Middle East or in Central Asia, or the Far East, we behave, when it comes to security culture, when it comes to fighting for national security, in a very, very serious way and we take this seriously. That is why we are counting, not only on economic interests, who invests money in Serbia, who opens firms in Serbia, so that they can primarily, as a priority, this government and this country have, to protect and that our people have security and that they can live peacefully, work and sleep peacefully. What I must also point out is that although the threat of classical terrorism may be far from us, we have a situation that in KIM territory, here in just the past few weeks we have the appearance of people who have fought and who have been part of the Islamic state, in Iraq and Syria. Well, isn't that a threat to our national security? It is, not only the national security of Serbia, but the national security of the entire region, but also the entire Europe. We should talk openly with our partners and from the region, and from the Western Balkan countries, but also with our partners from the EU and work together to coordinate the work of our services in order to fight together in a better way, as best way and with the greater results, as we have been, in the fight against terrorism and all those who fight that fight. We will, of course, join every serious initiative, and in addition, as we have always done, thanks to our president, we will also lead you to how it counts and we will focus especially on economic growth, on economic development. I believe that, after this year, although there is a crisis at global level, I end up with respected vice presidents, we also see about supply chains and the collection of certain goods and services, the energy crisis, whether you all notice that Serbia is very serious and successfully dealing with all these problems. We didn't put too much pressure on our citizens, because we can deal with the crisis, we can work and we can act seriously in crisis situations and we'll overcome this crisis and I'm sure in 2022 we'll have more economic growth than we had this year, and we'll have the biggest economic growth, meaning a country with the biggest economic growth in Europe, and we'll continue to follow the policy of our President Alexander Vukic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-28-0.u10116	I thank you, authorised representative of the parliamentary group Aleksandar Vukic – For our children. Since we no longer have authorised representatives or president of parliamentary groups, we are moving on to the list of speakers. He has the first word, MP Prof. Dr. Jahja Fehratovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-28-0.u10117	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. Dear Minister, with associates, if energy is one of the key resources to launch the entire industrial system of the state, then energy stability over is needed to develop, improve and improve all progress in one society. In order to have energy stability we also need production, but also saving that production, anywhere it goes irrationally or where we do not have enough awareness of how much we spend and how ready we are to save, and especially to prevent unrealistic losses. That is why this proposal on smart numbers is very important and represents one of the steps that should contribute to the overall economic prosperity and, above all, to our country's energy stability. In particular, this energy stability is important in these winter periods, when unfortunately we do not have enough or equal infrastructure network to provide enough energy for all households, let alone for industrial plants and for all that represents the future, which represents production, which represents something which is a step forward. That is why we are very pleased that these smart numbers will go in this regard of saving electricity, and we also insist on those projects that will contribute to increasing energy resources. That is why the party to Justice and Reconciliation in an agreement with the party, the ruling SNS party, has put such projects into priorities and for these reasons, one of the most modern solar power plants in our country, but also in the whole region, or the Balkans, will be created in the coming period. It's also important to us. in this agreement, that the low voltage network in the whole country, especially those areas where it has not increased for decades, and consumption capacities have been greatly increased, increased from day to day due to expansion of housing construction, due to a large number of industrial entities and through the need to provide energy security in order for households, but also industry to be able to order, produce and increase the economic profits of its end, as well as the whole of the country. We have had experience that in previous years, unfortunately because of the unstable energy system, different plants fall industrially, but also many households suffer, and therefore we use this as an opportunity to react in time that it would not happen as in previous years to collapse the system with the first rainfalls, that certain large cities or rural areas, especially mountainous areas, cannot be returned to elementary electricity for weeks so that they can function normally. So it's time for everything that was a loss, it's this enormous loss in some unknown electricity routes due to the increase and capacity, but also the low voltage network in the entire country to redecorate what's alarming, and alarming are big cities, so they're done that simply this low voltage network can cover the needs of all citizens, but with these smart numbers so that we can simply have a real picture of both production and consumption and so that we can as a state or as state enterprises to meet the demands of both businesses and citizens. Today, we have in Novi Pazar that in the last three or four decades nothing has been done on a low voltage network, and that the number of consumers has increased enormously and that in very fast or relatively short periods it causes different collapses of the electrical system and that in this way citizens suffer, but suffer and industry. That is why projects like this are important to us, which is why we are calling for the ministry, but also for Serbia's Elektro-distribution to show greater attention to this area to warn all that may be or what happened in previous years regarding the fall of the electrosystem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-28-0.u10118	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Daniela Veljovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-28-0.u10119	Thank you, Chairman. The Honorable Minister with his associates, colleagues and fellow MPs, amends and complements of the Law on registration in the APR before the Assembly are necessary if we want to keep Serbia's economy competitive, flexible, and to make it into the market and enter into entrepreneurial waters as easy as possible for all citizens who want to open their own company. The work on modernising the work of the APR and amending and supplementing the Law on registration procedures is precisely the reforms leading to this. Basically, this proposal is related to the efficiency of the APR work and to improving and simplifying the registration process of a new company. So far, according to the World Bank, only to carry out the application procedure and obtain a solution to the establishment of a registration certificate and the opening of an account in a bank person who wants to open the company took two days. This means that before someone opens a company, they have to walk from the counter to the counter for the first two days and collect paperwork. The amendments adopted by this amendment and the addition of the Law on registration in the APR will help those who establish the company in several ways. The first is that future applications for the establishment of a company will be submitted only in electronic form. According to the World Bank, it is said that when you move on to the electronic application procedure, the time for all these jobs is twice as short, and of course it also leads to significant savings. This solution is also in line with the drive for reforms towards digitisation and allowing as many solutions for citizens as possible to find online and in electronic form. The second solution that introduces these changes and additions that help all those who, for the first time, want to engage in entrepreneurial waters is that when applying for the establishment of enterprises, they will be allowed not to have to submit documents and data already kept by the official records of the competent authorities, i.e. the APR will, under the official duty of the competent authorities, require those documents which are necessary for the application. The third solution I would point out is to change the deadline for deciding on registration applications. As is known, the deadline has so far been five working days, i.e. the APR had five working days to decide on the submission. These changes and additions keep this deadline, but it's changed since it started to run. These changes provide that the five working days start to run only from the moment the APR receives its necessary documentation. This solves the fact that the APR had to make a decision on refusal due to incomplete registration documentation, although in certain cases the reason for the delay was someone else's failure to provide the documentation. It happened, for example. that the courts were late with the delivery of information on whether anyone was convicted and whether a criminal case was being prosecuted, and thus the deadline was exceeded. A significant newspaper, as I have already said, is an improvement in the volume of electronic business. However, although citizens today are increasingly using and believing in the electronic form of business, this level is still not too high, both because some citizens have insufficient internet connections and because of lack of knowledge for managing necessary applications or computers and smartphones. It is therefore good that a period of 18 months for the application of these legal amendments has been given and that sufficient time has been left to prepare both the user of the register and to build appropriate IT infrastructures and applications to support the work of these systems. These changes deserve our support because they facilitate the establishment of small and medium-sized enterprises that make up the backbone of our economy, because they employ almost half of our workers, and their success is significant even in foreign markets and it makes up almost half of our exports. The business climate in Serbia must encourage a entrepreneurial spirit and allow all who want to deal with business in Serbia to do so in the easiest way possible, so that they can devote themselves to developing their business, building business and trade networks and finding and developing new markets. Growth in the economy is not possible without strong small and medium-sized enterprises, and without growth in the economy it will not be possible to develop the necessary social protection network for our most vulnerable citizens, continue significant investment in infrastructure and other public capital investments and, of course, without growth in the economy there are no new jobs and there is no growth in wages and pensions. These changes will contribute to the creation of a healthy entrepreneurial climate that will make it easier for us to achieve all these objectives, and therefore SDPS MPs will support this law in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-28-0.u10120	Thank you. The word is by MP Nenad Filipovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-28-0.u10121	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Minister with an associate, given that three laws are on the agenda today and their amendments and additions, I will focus more on the Law on confirming the Treaty on Guarantee between the Republic of Serbia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. I'd stay here a little longer, considering it's smart numbers. First, we should say that the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development has granted a 40m-euro loan to the Elektrodistribution of Serbia for the first phase of the so-called "Smart Counts" project. This project, among other things, needs to replace around 205,000 of the old and the numbers that change with these new smart numbers and to install, in addition, the entire system with accompanying software in order to have remote measurement, remote reading and networking if necessary. I would like to focus here on what I think is also very important, and that is to select a consultant who has a task to analyse the already existing measuring infrastructure, and to participate in the preparation of tender documentation and the conduct of the procurement itself. I'll explain later why it's important. I want to say, first of all, that there are a number of good effects, i.e. aspects, and that's the first so-called economic benefit that all of society has, depending on how much we take advantage of, as far as we know, we will, or we can take advantage of these benefits. Secondly, the energy system itself has benefits that are reflected in the additional energy that is actually created from the very savings. The third benefit that this project can be is that distributors have certain savings seen through these operating savings themselves. Fourthly, citizens themselves have certain benefits that I will, of course, talk about today. So, as far as the first aspect is concerned, The so-called economic benefits of the whole society, I must remind you that we now have in this first phase a replacement of about 205,000 numbers, and in the second stage it will be 260 thousand numbers. To remind me that the Republic of Serbia has more than three million numbers that will have to come to their replacement in the next period, and the whole project is worth about half a billion euros. This fact itself presents one great challenge for our own minds and for our people, for our companies, for them to participate in this whole project. So companies to be directly involved, not to be subcontractors, but to perform these works themselves. Of course I'm not saying this by accident. We know that in 2015 we already had a similar project where it should have been, and it was announced as a project for a decade, to replace all counts in the Republic of Serbia. However, this job has been cut short and I do not want to talk about it now, but our domestic companies were not originally scheduled to do so. So what I'm saying is that, although the technology has progressed from 2015 to 2021 and of course we're going to have better numbers and probably better software to regulate all of this, I think if there's an even real chance that our companies, our domestic firms, will be involved in this whole business, we need to support it as much as possible. The job will not be in the next year, two, but will take ten and more years, and it is estimated to take about 1,500 new workers. So the tender documentation itself should be so defined, that the real chance for our businesses, not as in 2015 when they were automatically excluded from it. The second aspect is saving the energy system itself. That's very important now, because we're getting extra electricity through the savings itself. If we are wondering how much this savings is and where we can see it, I must remind you that two weeks ago we passed a law, or report by the Energy Agency, which, in addition to its work report, gives a report on the state of the Republic of Serbia's energy sector. I think it's a good document that we can use for this, so I'm using it today. That is why I say that, above all, the loss of electricity in the distribution network, we can see from this document, were 11.95% in 2020, which was a large number, in previous 2019 there were 11.75%, which we can see is also an increase in the losses themselves, etc. So we have these losses, as they translate into euro, into dinars, we can say that they're about 200 to 300 million euros a year, and if we say now that we're reducing these losses to only 2%, it means they're not about 12% anymore, but about 10%, which is very real, then we get a 30 to 40 million euro savings, which, you'll agree with that money, we can already cover this 40 million loan that we're talking about today. So, if you had this kind of savings, that's what we need to ask ourselves, and the very reductions can happen, so these technical losses that exist, they're technical, not technical or commercial losses. Technical losses may, therefore, be caused by reductions in the transmission and distribution system as a result of a reduction in the loss resulting from greater energy efficiency, i.e. a even load of the electricity system due to better voltage management and, of course, a reduction in the loss of the measuring device itself. The estimate is that the three-phase induction number has a five watt loss power, and this new smart number has a loss of 1.5 watts. However, much greater loss reduction is commercial losses that are much greater in our country due to a decrease in the theft of electricity, because the numbers themselves have a so-called "antipeuer system", or function that prevents further theft in electricity. It should also be mentioned here that experience in Western countries that in the final phase of these smart numbers give experience of reducing the consumption of electricity in households that have such numbers from 1% to 1.5%. So these are all the benefits that we have and the very replacement of these current numbers with new smart numbers are evident and I don't think we should even talk about it anymore. But if we know that this smart one, these current numbers that are currently their bazaars, i.e. the change, went very slowly from this report on the state of the Republic of Serbia's energy sector, we can see that in 2020, that was only 5%, and last year there were 4,58% of the numbers were bazaar. So with this project itself I think we're coming up with those justified results and that's why I think this is all in place. The third aspect is benefit for distributors. These are recorded benefits, the cost reduction in readings, we had 12 times a year to read electricity and also maintain measuring devices, and these measuring devices are being maintained much simpler, and I just said how slow this has been going for us over the past two years. The fourth aspect is citizens' benefit and we only have that users can manage their own consumption better because this system allows them to provide additional information on electricity consumption. So, they're going to have a cost reduction precisely because of the reduction in electricity consumption, and the reading errors that are evident in which colleagues have spoken here, the electricity reading errors are going to go now to the extent of a statistical error, so they're almost gone or not at all, so the citizens are going to have big benefits here, etc. I think that is enough of what I have said, all of which are benefits and that is why the parliamentary group will also vote in the day of voting and support these laws my colleague Vujislav Vujic spoke of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-28-0.u10122	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Ugljesa Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-28-0.u10123	I thank you, Chairman. In today's discussion, I will focus on the proposal for a law confirming the Treaty on Guarantee between the Republic of Serbia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. I must really commend my colleague, Filipovic, who has already said a lot in his comprehensive address, so I will try to add something to his discussion, more or less in everything I agree on what my colleague Filipovic said before me in his discussion. So at the very beginning of my exposure, I can't help but look back at the energy crisis in which the whole of Europe is due to a series of factors that have just led to this crisis. A few months ago, we passed a set of laws relating to the mining and energy sector, recognising the development chances and potential of this sector. That's when we introduced new instruments and possibilities with these laws. This opens new chapters, development opportunities in the field of energy. Only such a continuous plan and realistic approach can we continue to preserve our energy independence and security. That is why today Serbia and its citizens with far less uncertainty than the citizens of other countries are welcoming the coming winter when it comes to deliveries, but also the price of the energy plants themselves. We did not give up the thermal power plant, but therefore we invested in ecological projects and filters and thus extended their use in terms of environmental standards and environmental protection, thus preserving independence. In addition, with a wise and persistent approach, we managed to complete a project known as the Turkish Stream, i.e. the Balkan Stream, which allowed Serbia to be more than just an importing country of gas, but also a transit country, which in many ways changes both our strategic and political position. Of course, renewable energy sources are the future, but also the present, because we've been developing in this direction, and it's just planning to develop all of our potentials, but of course, again, I'm stressing in all this is very important planning, continuity and objective approach to our capabilities. That is why today we are talking about a smart-counted project worth 80m euros and which will be implemented in two phases. The first will include 205,000 numbers whose installation will begin in the cities of Cačak, Nis and Kraljevo. There are numerous benefits that will lead to the introduction and use of these numbers both for consumers, operators, producers but from the aspect of data security supply and protection. What is important, looking from the corner of the consumer, is that this will enable direct reading of the numbers by the consumers themselves, as well as any third party, which can further significantly affect the rational consumption of electricity. Other significant benefits, updating reading at sufficient frequent intervals to allow energy savings based on information received. It is recommended that the advanced measurement system has the ability to store data so that the consumer can see the consumption over the past period. From the angle of the measuring operator, remote reading of the advanced measurement system will be enabled. Also, a two-way communication between the measurement system and the operator will be established, and measuring and reading data that can later be used to plan the development and improvement of the network itself will be enabled. This last, in particular, refers to supply and demand data, as well as production and consumption of electricity. When we talk about supply, it is very important that advanced measurement systems have the opportunity to adapt to tariff structures by changing the tariff in time and possessing remote tariff control. This functionality, together with those related to consumers, is crucial for strengthening the role of consumers in the electricity market and for increasing energy efficiency. Data security and a high level of security of the same, all of this is an important topic to which more and more importance is being added. With this in mind, it is very important to ensure data security and secure communication. What is also important is preventing and removing the theft of electricity itself. At the very end of this related series of production aspects on the distribution network, we also point to the possibility of a two-way measurement and measurement of reactive energy, which is particularly important for consumers who have a function of consumers, but are also producers of electricity. What I want to point out at the very end is that in the realisation of this project, a chance should be given to our companies and companies that make such numbers, because this can be an impulse and an incentive for their further development. They showed the current current expo 2020. Dubai exhibitions, yes and how they have what to offer and can compete and their quality mate to all other producers in the world, but we will thus as a state to develop and support our economy. From all of this, in voting day, we will support this contract. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-28-0.u10124	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-28-0.u10125	Dear Vice-Presidents of Mrs Kovaca's National Assembly, the distinguished Ms. Comic and her associates, of course I support these three legislative proposals and will vote in favour of them in the day of voting, as my colleagues and colleagues from the SNS. As you can see, honourable MPs, we are moving on to digitising the state administration, because that is the basic condition of fighting corruption. These three legislative proposals will allow us to modernise our country more, better and faster. The engine and symbol of the reconstruction of our country's construction and modernisation is our President Alexander Vukic. Respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, honourable MPs, continue the media attacks on the president of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandr Vukic, on his family, his brother and his parents. The aim of the special media and political attack is to cause chaos and instability in our country to come to power, with the help of foreign centres, Gilasov, Jeremic's friends who have already been in power and brought the country to the brink of bankruptcy. They aim at generating daily fake affairs, Satanising the president of the Republic of Serbia, his family, causing chaos to prepare the ground for a new 5 October election because elections can never come to power, because they really don't have any programme. I will list only a few imaginary affairs concerning the President of the Republic of Aleksandr Vukic and his family and his parents. They invented the fake kidnapping of journalist Stefan Cvetkovic from the White Church on the basis of which the president of the Republic should have been a suspect as a criminal, who kidnaps and kills unspeakable journalists, and that would be an excuse for the protests, and as you could see, it was a truly fabricated lie. Let's move on, they have falsely accused President Andrej's brother of trying to recruit a well-known host, Lajos Chakanja, and bought from him a famous restaurant called "Bos" for a million euros. For evidence, behold wonders, they listed the famous musician and famous singer Zvonko Bodan. Honorable and congratulatory Zvonko Bogdan has publicly denied it by calling it simple nonsense and fiction. Furthermore, they lied and invented that President's brother Andrej took over a famous restaurant in Belgrade, France, from longtime owner Nikola Dimitrijevic. Mr. Dimitrijevic came forward and stated that it was an faceless lie and showed papers without the president's brother, but nothing at all. Let's move on, they made up a false accusation against the president of the state and his brother, Andre, that they took some basement in Zemun and asked him to falsely accuse Rodic and that they gave him 120 euros, of course it was fiction and nothing. Furthermore, they falsely accused President Vukic of electing a water pump company on the Tamnava-West Polje in Obrenovac during the 2014 flood. Look at the wonders, so it was even denied by the World Bank and, of course, accused Zoran Zivkovic of making up floods in Obrenovac on 30 May 2014. That's when he said I'm quoting -- floods are artificially invented manipulation, and I have to admit that I've bought that propaganda, and I've finished my quote. You see, respected citizens yourself were eyewitnesses, not just you, but the whole world. Moving on, they lied that the water in the water line in Belgrade and Serbia was poisoned, and the truth is that the water was perfectly clean and correct for drink. Furthermore, they lied that the roadblock, when it was implemented, because of the fuel price, was the most expensive in Europe, and the truth was that you saw that even in 26 countries of Europe, it had a higher fuel price than the Republic of Serbia. They invented that the president's son Danilo was involved in an abortion fight and, of course, they lied about it. They lied that Alexander Vukic planned riots in the north of KiM, although Mr. Pecoli said that Hashim Thaci himself planned to realize that act. They falsely accused the president's brother of Jovanica and, of course, that the president's brother had nothing to do with her. Furthermore, Marinika Tepic, agreed that the Farms of the Morovic Military Institute, the secret state plantation of marijuana, when journalists went and visited the military facility, found chickens, chickens and eggs ready to sell, and even our political opponents, indignant Dragan Sutanovac and Goran Jesic, said there was a farm of chicken and eggs, and tow chickens that existed for more than 40 years. And, of course, they lied also shamelessly and insolently, that the mother of President Vukic, during the NATO bombing, on 23 April 1999, when the attack was carried out, knew about it and that in time she had pulled her son, Alexander Vukic. Dear citizens, the mother of Alexander Vukic, during the bombing of the RTS building, was in the building that evening, and this was witnessed by the largest two political opponents, Aleksandr Vukic, from SNS, Mr Slavisa Lekic and Željko Pantic, bitter opponents of Aleksandr Vukic. President NUNS, Slavisa Lekic, said – people who were in the building of RTS and others alive, claim that the mother of President Vukic was in the building of RTS that night, the truth, and it is true, and Željko Pantelić, quote – I sat across from that evening in RTS, across from her. Why am I telling you this, the honourable citizens and the MPs, and by tomorrow I could list to you the lies of Gilas and Jeremic, fiction, and their goal is only one, because they are doing it every day, to mentally break President Vukic, so that he himself will leave the office of president, and of course they have cheated. President Vukic, as it continues today, will build stronger and better daily and modernize the Republic of Serbia, build factories daily, build homes of health, highways, etc. with the help of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Why? Citizens of the Republic of Serbia, they send him positive energy, which he claims for the good of the people and for the good of the Republic of Serbia. Dear Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly, in voting day, we will support these three draft laws, because they are modernising the Republic of Serbia, and as you know, the engine of the modernisation of the Republic of Serbia is our President Aleksandar Vukic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-28-0.u10126	The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-28-0.u10127	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Minister, fellow MPs, citizens of Serbia, I am Milija Miletic, coming from Svrlig. It is the most beautiful municipality in Serbia located near the town of Nis, which is the most beautiful city in Serbia. Otherwise, here in the Assembly I represent the United Peasant Party, selected from the list "Alexander Vukic - For Our Children". As so far, all these agreements and proposals of these laws are something that gives progress to our country, I'm just going to say something concrete about these smart numbers. It's something very important about all of us, but in that part where we do this, and that's one little anomaly, one little problem, when we go forward, when those smart numbers are done, a lot of those people who are doing reading now are going to be out of a job. Therefore, modernization is something that is good, which we need to move forward, but, on the other hand, we are losing jobs because a lot of our fellow citizens are working for the needs of distribution, and that way they will lose their jobs tomorrow. We have to move forward, but we have to think for these people. I will normally support all of these bill proposals, but as far as this distribution part is concerned and these tiny things that are very important, a large number of our environments, in our southeast Serbia, the Srlig municipality, the White Palanka municipality, Gajin Han, a large number of these municipalities have a low voltage problem and we have to work on it more, we have to put a bigger accent there, to do that low-voltage network, everywhere to be the same voltage, and that tomorrow, when it comes to the situation that some agricultural producer who wants to deal with more seriously agricultural production, wants to have a larger number of cattle, he wants to do something for his cattle, some food, when he turns on that mill hammerer, then the power runs out because it's low voltage. I say all this figuratively, because those people who do this they understand me, I say it for them. Once again, I will support the draft laws and these agreements, because this is progress for our country, but, on the other hand, I want to make it clear that it's very important for these people who are partly full of the budget, to provide them with compensation that they can continue to do something else. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-28-0.u10128	Thank you. The time foreseen for your parliamentary group has been spent. The word has a folk MP, Samira Ćosovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-28-0.u10129	Dear Minister with Associates, Honorable fellow Members of Parliament, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on registration procedure at the Agency for Economic Registers aims to improve the conditions for starting up business according to the concept of eGovernment and digitalisation of business. The most significant newspaper this bill adopts is the electronic form of application for the establishment of a company. The introduction of an electronic application is necessary in order to comply with the General Administrative Procedure Act, the provisions of the Law on Electronic Administration and Services against Trust and a series of other laws, as well as the removal of legal gaps and problems observed. The electronic application will have a number of positive effects. The registration process will primarily be accelerated. Then, the costs of registering business entities if they are submitted in paper, in that classical form, are 5,900 dinars, and by amending this law the amount of electronic registration fee will be as much as 24% lower, i.e. 4,500 dinars. Another benefit is that business operators will not have to verify the notification of the notaries. A period of 18 months has been set for the preparation of the law in the field of submission of applications in electronic form. I believe that this deadline is appropriate and necessary for the information and education of economic operators in order to prepare themselves in time for a new way of doing business. This will result in full application of the law, thus fulfilling its purpose. Why do I say that? You will agree with me that electronic literacy in business entities is not yet satisfactory, nor is the information and training of public administration officers or other institutions. For example, in some banks officials still insist that the party attach the original request for a seal solution, although it is available in the APR class. Finally, I would like to draw attention to the APR units that are 14 at the level of the Republic of Serbia, but are not evenly distributed, making it difficult for economic operators to carry out day-to-day administrative work. For example, if the economic operator from, for example, the New Market urgently needs a copy of the register or a copy of the solution or a copy of the tender register, he must travel to the Kingdom. I believe that Novi Pazar as a regional economic centre with a large number of economic operators should have an organisational unit in which advisory assistance would be provided. Also, when it comes to municipal offices that it has, it seems to me that every local self-government in the Republic of Serbia, they are also unable to provide the necessary advisory legal assistance to economic operators, but most often provide assistance to remove the registration form from the APR site, etc. I think hiring lawyers in these offices would greatly improve and help economic operators in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-28-0.u10130	Thank you. The word has been made by the People's Messenger Dejan Kesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-28-0.u10131	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the minister, the respected citizens of Serbia, is in front of us today's proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the registration procedure of the Agency for Business Registers. This draft law regulates the procedure for the registration, recording and publication of data and documents which are in accordance with the specific law of the subject matter of registration. Only amendments and additions to the law are due to the need to comply with the measures set out in the Action Plan on the conditions of business "Duing Business List" for the period from 2020 to 2023. And this "Duing Business List" was a proof of our country's first success when we talk about the process of digitising and improving the work of public administration. You will remember that for the first time since the arrival of SNS at the head of the state, with Aleksandra Vukic, Serbia took the ninth place on the "Duing Business List", when we talk about the speed and method of issuing building permits. This was just the first indicator that we wanted to make a complete difference compared to the period until 2012, when our construction industry was in the last place about the increase in GDP and in this way we wanted to show that we wanted to make a difference with the regime of the then DS, when building permits were issued only to those persons who were close to the leaders of the DS. It is this progress that has provided us with the development of our construction infrastructure, in order to achieve the growth of our economy. The amendments and additions to the law, when we talk about the registration process in the APR, will contribute to the faster opening of small and medium-sized enterprises, which will contribute to our more intense economic growth, and which will later contribute to higher wage and pension growth and the possibility of investing more money in our capital projects, in infrastructure, which will eventually lead to GDP growth. The best example of this growth in economic practice, i.e. business activities and good economic practices, also shows reports from reputed financial institutions. This is where I would like to mention the IMF report, which I say again, since the pre-2012 period, only came to Serbia with good and positive comments. By 2012, and most in the period 2009-2012, IMF representatives were coming to Serbia to tell us that we should cut salaries, how we should reduce pensions, how we should restructure public enterprises, because at that point we do not have a household policy when we talk about finance, and we do not have the opportunity to invest that much money in infrastructure projects, and we do not have the opportunity to allocate more money for salaries and pensions, because then DS representatives were taking non-domestic loans, to ensure the fluctuation of money in our country and to ensure that we pay salaries and pensions beyond what we have earned at that time. The best example is a loan that was returned several weeks ago by the state of the Republic of Serbia to financial institutions, which was taken at 7.5% by the former regime. This is the best example of the economic policy that was then implemented, and thanks to SNS and Alexander Vukic, we have changed that economic policy by 180 degrees and today we can praise these economic results. Certainly, these good comments and these praises come not only from the International Monetary Fund, but also from the European Commission which published a report in the previous days saying that the Republic of Serbia has made progress in many areas, that it has made progress in the area of justice and has made progress in the area of economy. It best shows which way we're going today. This economic activity, as I said, is affecting our GDP. We expected, during the beginning of this year and throughout the year, that our GDP will be between 6% and 6.5%, and now we have certain indications and assurances that this GDP will be 7.5% by the end of the year. This in practice tells us that we will be able to allocate certain funds at the end of the year to further increase wages and pensions, but at the same time we will allow our infrastructure, that our construction infrastructure is growing, that we can allocate more money for capital projects, which we showed at the end of 2019 and in 2020 when we were faced with the pandemic of the coronary virus. Then the state took serious steps and recognised that the private sector was facing certain consequences of the coronary pandemic virus, and then we decided to come up with a solution so that the pressure from the private sector could be taken over by the state. We have provided three financial assistance packages, totalling eight billion euros by 2021, which is rarely what the country has done in the environment and in Europe. We have systematically helped the economy, we have also helped the population of the Republic of Serbia. The best way to do this is to invest in our infrastructure, to build highways, to build fast cars, to build hospitals. We can see those results today. We've been marking the year since the government began. I really think that over the past year we have managed to achieve most of the things that were in Prime Minister Ana Brnabic's exposé which was read here at the House of the National Assembly in October of last year. We have indeed done a lot when it comes to the economy and when it comes to the protection of the environment and the fight against organised crime and corruption and to the protection of certain fundamental rights guaranteed by the Constitution and the law. That is not just what we are talking about in the House of the National Assembly, but these results are also seen in practice. I really need to, when we talk about those successes that we have achieved in the field of health, it is that we were in the last place in 2009 and 210 when we were talking about the area of health care. On that health care list, we were in the last place, so that ten years later we would have the opportunity to build three covids of hospitals in just four months, provide four types of vaccines and provide the best, and I could say perhaps the most expensive medicines of all countries in the environment for our fellow citizens. These results are also seen when President Aleksandar Vukic opens factories throughout the country, in all those places where representatives of the former regime shut down those same factories. The number of factories has increased to nearly 200 today. We had a few days ago opening, i.e. setting up a cornerstone for the Hans Grohe factory, which will employ over 1,000 people and we had an opening of a plant in Alexinac that will employ 700 people, but this may not be so accompanied by media because it happens to us almost every day. We almost every day have new news about setting up a cornerstone for a new factory, that will start building a certain fast traffic station. Here, the best example is that in almost a year we started rehabilitating and building nearly 1,200km of traffic across Serbia and amending and supplementing this law will certainly contribute to giving us, as a legislative authority, the possibility of further economic growth in order to allow for further investment and to allow for a better life for all citizens of Serbia. What I wanted to say is that today, in 2021, we would have made significant progress if we hadn't had such a pest control as before 2012. I truly believe that we have succeeded in just eight years, thanks to SNS and Alexander Vukic's policies, that we are transforming this country in the best possible way and becoming one of the countries that is not only a leader in the environment, but when we talk about economy, one of the fast growing countries in today's Europe's territory. This is thanks, first of all, to the responsible, hardworking policy of Alexander Vukic and the fiscal consolidation that we have implemented, and the greatest burden is borne by our oldest citizens, and I thank them from this place. When we talk about the representatives of the opposition that made us come to that position in 2012, I would like to say a few words. I won't take much time for my dear colleagues who want to take part in this debate. We're expected elections in just over 150 days. Representatives of opposition parties today promise citizens all those things they have promised in the period since 2012 and how they will do so as soon as they come to power, but the only condition is if these representatives of opposition parties could not go to elections, if they did not get the vote of citizens and if someone could decree them today. Today we have a situation on our political scene that we have the announcement of several columns a year after the boycott and these columns look more like an attempt to unify the former DS resets. You have on one side, I hope, Mrs. Comic, that you will not be angry with me when I say DS, Dragan Gilas and Vuk Jeremic who say – we will go to power to make one list, and these are two people who were former DS leaders, then you have on the other side of the list so-called. Greens, and there are Dobrica Veseinovic, Lazovic, Zelenovic, again a man who is close to DS, and certain movements that behave as branches of certain political parties in this election campaign that cannot be supported today by their citizens. On the one hand, you have a former tycoon, and that's not what I'm saying, that's not what SNS MPs say, says Verica Baric's report. It was found that his companies, i.e. Dragan Gilas, were using his official position at that time as director of the Office of the President of the Republic and later mayor to provide the best jobs for his firms. On the other hand, you have Vuk Jeremic who, after not being re-elected as UN Secretary General, came here to fight to come to power and to be able to preserve, or regain all the benefits he had until 2012. I would like to say that it is inconceivable to me that someone a year ago is talking about how the electoral conditions in Serbia are not good, how the electoral conditions were better in their time, and then when they call on the Europarliamentaries to help them and when these MEPs see what kind of diletaries they are dealing with, that is, Dragan Gilas, a few days ago, held a conference in front of the Parliament in King Milan, and said that he was bitter about the behaviour of the MEPs, those same diletaries he called on, he was bitter about their behaviour and he would fight for freedom with his means. When we talk about these funds, I think he's going to call again for some riots in front of us, certain protests, as it was in July 2020. When we talk about these green movements, and I kept talking about it, and my colleagues from the Legislative Group Aleksandar Vuk Vukic – for our children have often talked about it, you will have the case that all the green movements, all the green parties, will have the same political mantra as the SP, as the People's Party of Vuk Jeremic has, because they saw that they can't get support from citizens, that they can't cross that magical censorship of 3%, although they in their research, which they give through newspapers that are printed in Croatia, or in Osijek, constantly talk about how they have support of more than 20 or 30%, they'll be making protests all the time, inviting people to violent changes, so that these same people, retlls of the former DS, ensure that they come to power without the will of citizens. I hope, finally, that in the upcoming elections we will support the policy of Alexander Vukic and SNS, because this is the only way we can continue a policy that will ensure rapid economic growth, bring us new direct foreign investment that we are today leaders in the Western Balkans, and a policy that will provide a better life for all our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-28-0.u10132	The word is made by Minister Comic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-28-0.u10133	Thank you. Dear People's MP, when there is an exhibit in the National Assembly that has nothing to do with the points of the agenda for which I am obliged to address you and to answer you, then they are not my responsibilities, but the responsibilities of the chairmanial session of the National Assembly. For everything that's on the agenda, for the draft laws that I'm bound to do here, I'm at your disposal, but for all the content that has nothing to do with the agenda, I'm not. The vice president's here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-28-0.u10134	We're moving on. The word has a folk MP Ivana Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-28-0.u10135	I thank the chairman. Dear Minister, distinguished fellow Members of Parliament, being an entrepreneur is not easy, not easy today, it wasn't easy 100 years ago for those old craftsmen, the old esnafi. To start a business on your own, to fight the daily problems that every entrepreneur faces and to be your own boss is certainly not easy. So I would disagree with some of my previous speakers, colleagues, MPs when they said that these laws that may have, as they said, are supremacy and in that name I would refer to the statistics that we had in this law as being able to read, which tells us that at the moment, one-member societies are filed personally in 78% of cases, and as regards electronic application only 8.33% and when the multi-member society is even less 3.9%. So, these changes, changes like these laws that we have on the agenda today, for businessmen, for entrepreneurs, are a big step forward, huge changes and I, as an entrepreneur, also fully support all of these laws that are on the agenda today. What's important to say is that today the state is behind its economy, behind its own, to say, entrepreneurs, hardworking and working people of our country, and we were best able to see it through a aid package that is worth as much as eight billion euros, directed right towards our population and directed right towards our economy. We had the opportunity to hear about Minister Sinisha Mali, when he presented us with a budget rebalancing for 2021, and we could see that despite the crisis, our country has also shown a timely and very strong reaction this time and helped our economy. I really don't want to take up a lot of time right now, and I'd like to list all the help we've had in 2020, directed, but I'm going to focus exclusively on a few of them, which is three times the 50% minimum earnings, which we've had in the course of this year, we've had two full salaries for free artists, we've had two full salaries that are directed to employees in tourism and catering, we've had six months' help from 600 euros to all our car carriers, we've had assistance to hotelers at 350 euros for each room and 150 euros for each bed. You will agree with me, it is certainly a great help and it is huge money and what I am particularly proud of is that we have had the opportunity to hear and from Minister Cynthia Malo that despite all these aid packages our macro-economy has not shaken at all. On the contrary, we are currently at a stable level below the mastrict 58.2% is our public debt at the moment. Of course, a stable economy at this point is also telling us the fact that in August, we had an average salary of over 64 thousand dinars and that by the end of the year we will have 618 euros in December. Our country is truly moving forward and what I am extremely proud of is that all those promises that we make to our citizens and we keep thanks to one responsible, economically responsible policy implemented by President Aleksandar Vukic and the Government of our country. Such a policy, of course, creates also very suitable conditions for foreign direct investment, creates very good conditions because we are trying to strengthen and intensify public capital investments and we can also see that in the first eight months of this year only 2.6 billion euros inflows were precisely from these foreign direct investments, which is 52% more than in the previous year, and we can say, of course, that this crisis is still present among us and that certainly the economy at global level is not easy. You will admit, in our country, success is not forgiven and we can best see it in these opposition tycoon political waters and their brotherhood because as far as we can see it, it bothers them that our Serbia today is economically strong, and it bothers them that we have a stable macroeconomic economy, which is what our salaries are growing, which is building roads, factories, which is opening new jobs. They would love without a programme, without a clearly defined plan for our country's future to get the authorities to defile what we really have done with hard work and very difficult reforms in the previous period, and thanks to a very wise policy carried out by President Aleksandar Vukic. This policy takes care of all segments of our society, takes care of all parts of our country, hence digitisation, changes, the medernisation of our state, and in addition to that there are certainly laws on the agenda today, and this is certainly the Law on registration procedure at the Agency for Economic Registers, as well as the Law on the Central Recording of Real Owners. We are now witnessing the fact that we hold these mobile phones almost per day in our hands and that it is no longer just devices with which we make calls or exchange SMS messages, it has become apparatus that represent small bases or these data banks, our various some applications without which we today cannot imagine our own life, and for this reason we need to move forward with time and it is necessary to support the entire digital progress of legal forms, and therefore again I am glad that through these laws we have made it easier for our businessmen, both our own and foreign businesses, foreign investors in our country. We have a situation where the company registration process is now considerably simplified. With almost one click in one day, you can start a company and develop your ideas and visions somewhere else. It's something we really need to be proud of and we can do it, of course we expect our country's rating on the Duing Business List to jump as well. As we could hear from my esteemed colleague, Vladimir Marinkovic, exactly the position of our country on the Duing Business List is something that is extremely important to foreign investors when they come to our country. This shows that we are once again running this responsible, economic policy and creating suitable conditions for our country's business. What's extremely important to me, and it's about one topic, which is remarkable these days and not just these days, but lately very updated, and that's exactly the environment and ecology, we through this little, non-essential law, as some colleagues have said, we have this item that we've been thinking about. So this law will reduce the amount of this paper documentation, which is necessary to surrender to the Agency for Economic Registers and thus safeguard our forests and protect our environment. Also, about this responsible policy that I belong to, we have a situation where more legal changes and different new laws, which come, do not damage our citizens. So we're not going to put some new burden on our citizens, but rather, we're going to cut those costs they have. Even 24% will be the tariff to start the company, meaning to submit, to open a new company smaller and so instead of this paper format, which was 5,900 dinars, it will now amount to 4,500 dinars, which you will agree with me, to open one company, to legalize the entire business process, to make your tomorrow progress and to develop, really represents an extremely small contribution and a small amount. I remember very well, how it was before and how complicated it was for you, how much documentation it took you and how much you had to walk from the institution to the institution, to collect all the necessary documentation, and to take the time to go to the APR, and then until these documents are processed and everything else, but today you can do it very elegantly, from your home, or from any position where you are, literally by one click. What's important is that we have this centralization of data, so the APR is pulling some data into automation. What I am extremely pleased about in this whole thing is that you will be able and if you are outside the borders of our country, if you are a citizen of another country, that in one day you can open a company in the Republic of Serbia and start investing your money, where, in our opinion, it is the best. What gives me once again the strength to fight every day is just these visions and ideas, are just you our citizens, and I'm extremely glad when we can help them with these legal forms and they're just people who at least build with us that better future of our country. We can best see through the opening of a large number of new companies. They fight to have their big or small ideas and visions packed in multitudes, accomplished and done great works, which are important to our country and important to our economy, because it is necessary that we all work together. What I would repeat once again is that I am glad that the state is behind its businessmen today, is behind its citizens and provides all these necessary preconditions that they can function, one stable macroeconomic, one healthy and economically responsible policy, which we must stress, is led by our President Aleksandar Vukic, who has a clearly defined vision of Serbia's stable and successful Serbia, Serbia that is constantly moving forward and Serbia that cares for the future of its citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-28-0.u10136	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-28-0.u10137	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs. According to some, we have a small and one formal debate on the adoption of two laws in the area of registration of economic operators, one law on giving the guarantee of the Republic of Serbia. I wouldn't characterise it, though, as something of a formal nature, and I'd very much like to, in these topics and some of our experiences, which we've had in the past, to discuss exactly this kind of bill. Here's a rather interesting detail, before I go any further, since the Polish continues to be run in our public, about famous bank fees, whether banks have the right, don't have the right, we even have the strikes of the bar, etc. I'd just like to say what it says in one part of this bill, that the elements of the contract, so it says -- the amount of 40m euros in debt, the period of loan availability, the date of payment of commitments, the payment of funds, the loan for payment of 18, the application of variable interest rates, but one more thing, we'll finally read the access fee paid to the bank, from the loan funds of 1%. People, this is an international agreement and we can see that neither the Republic of Serbia nor anyone else, nor any other state, nor any other legal person, a natural person to avoid this obligation, this decision by the banks to do so. It's not just any business bank, which is more ruthless, but a Bank for Reconstruction and Development that has a special purpose for what projects it will finance. This is about how it seems to me that everything is very easy in Serbia to turn into a political issue and a matter of life and death, because if this is allowed, and our courts continue to argue that it is not, be assured that someone will seek protection from international legal institutions, and then the damage that will result for the Republic of Serbia will not be paid either by the Bar Association or by lawyers, but by the Republic of Serbia, by charging taxes from the same lawyers who are allegedly seeking to protect them. So much for bank fees. It's in international agreements. The other thing, Madam Minister, is not the first time we've had one of these laws, with one of these kind of reasonings. We were also in 2010. I don't want to mention the bank and the EDB, it seems to me that there were 90,000 counts. In my view, some of the provisions in that contract were not to be found, there should be no place where the funds of our Deposit Agency should be deposited, in which banks, but that was precise. In the end, it turned out that we had to deposit our funds with banks that were connected to the lender, or the bank from which we were in debt, so we actually borrowed from ourselves, but that doesn't matter either. We agreed to it. No one's to blame. I can't blame the bank for agreeing to that. I can blame us. For example, the problem arises in the realisation of the contract itself. According to the realisation of the contract, during the former regime, one count was about 150 to 160 euros, the type. Our EDB, after giving the consent of the Republic of Serbia, or the National Assembly, is calling public procurement and says that all the numbers must be found at the time of the conclusion of the contract at the disposal of the EDB. The price at that time shall be determined, etc. some special opportunities and conveniences, where it is evident that the procurement process itself has counted for a particular person involved in this activity. He doesn't lie to the devil, there were a lot of interested people and those who wanted to work fair and those who wanted to be gods, I think his nickname is God, that's what they call him, who wanted to be gods and make extra profits. The public procurement process has been taking a pretty long time. We had a commission that decided on the second-degree procurement procedures, which didn't even take care of it, so on and so on. After a few years of various legal, economic and any other peri-peetal contracts were finally concluded, the number was succesfully delivered, according to the standardisation that was in the original public procurement, only Mrs. Ministers, the figure was no longer 150 euros, costing 60 euros on the market, for suppliers significantly less. So Mr. God put a pretty big amount of money in his pocket. If he shared it with anyone, I believe he did. Why? Because everything was predetermined that he had to get that job. Because you know what? If he is asked to have all 90,000 counts available, and he does not document anywhere that he has these numbers, nor all 90,000 numbers delivered to him in one day, but succesively, it means that it was only a discriminatory, illegal condition for him to receive public procurement. Let's accept that, but why did we pay something three times what it really cost? Now, that's the problem. I am convinced that because of this experience now, "Electrition of Serbia" will not do this kind of thing. No one can mess with the citizens anymore. There is no crazy decision in this Treaty where our state authorities should deposit their resources, in which business banks, which categorizations etc. But unfortunately, it was in some past, and then we wonder how it came out here and there for some million on some exotic destinations from the former regime, plus there's Dragan Gilas, who knows what we're going to find for Solak, maybe he was in this number business too, I can't say that, but I know he was stealing electricity. Stealing electricity is Solak, with him Gilas, the two of them are the same as nail and meat. Now, let's do this by stealing electricity from the "Electro-distribution of Serbia" illegally, unfairly, for every conviction, they also stole from public enterprises, it seems to me that Toplificija, but people also steal from residential communities, the congregation of tenants, so that's the highlight of insolence and thieving. You know how much you need to be, how big a thief, how much you need to be rude, be careful, rich, not poor, not the poor, the poor who steals, but the rich thief who steals from the common light, Solak and Gilas. Imagine how they would steal now if they had the kind of Serbia they had before. They have more money, that's why they fight so much for power and they don't choose the funds, whether they know they can't win the elections, they're the only ones or bring them to power, they hoped it would be the European Union, the European Parliament, they saw the plan fail. Now they're probably making deals and thinking about it being a violent path, not being helped by the Cypriot terrorists, they're only concerned about the government, they don't care about Serbia. As far as the law is concerned, I have already spoken something at the beginning of this debate, the law on amendments and additions to the Law on registration procedure in the APR, certainly that Serbia as a country that speeds up reforming not only its economy, reforming its legislation, reforming the conditions for carrying out economic activity and ambience, and certainly this law goes in that direction. This is for every praise, showing that something that we were laughed at just a few years ago in Serbia is really becoming a serious reality. Just remember how they mocked Ana Brnabic in 2017 when she spoke about digitisation, how important she is for the Republic of Serbia in her first exhibition of the government of Serbia, as Prime Minister for the assembly of the government. You mocked, as is possible in another country, in Serbia you did not. In the Serbia they led, it was not possible. They pushed Serbia into the 18th century. In this Serbia that is in the 21st century and as far as possible. This digitalization of the public administration has also helped us to vaccinate our population caused by the pandemic and by providing assistance, one-time aid. We were examples, we were still, many more developed and richer countries, so that a good state electronic administration could work. Far from stopping at this, we need to continue to reform it even further and never again allow someone to try to bring us back to the 19th century as they did. Let me remind you, "Telecom" as an Internet provider during their government did not even exist. If you had contracts with Telecom, the rate of flow that was very important was very modest. The property "Telecoma", which had one piece of Telecom, another part of the "Post of Serbia", was owned by Solak. Where he sold online flow through SBB and misused state resources, that is, the resources of our public enterprises, that he was abnormally rich, and that same service was not provided by our public companies that were registered for it and that was a major activity for them. No wonder we couldn't have electronics. Imagine that, close the contract with Telecom, your neighbor closes the contract with SBB. "Telecom" reduces your flow so your neighbor who has a lease with SBB will have an unlimited internet. When they sucked everything out of Telecom, they wanted to sell it. It's a famous sale in 2011. They were willing to sell it allegedly for 700m euros, 800m euros. They wanted to buy it over connected faces and continue the robbery. When a little more dust went up in public about it and we from the SNS warned them that we would not agree with whoever concluded the contract, it at least temporarily gave up. That's why Telecom was brought to the beggar stick. When it comes to amending and supplementing the Law on the Central Record of Real Owners, it is a continuation of this previous law, but again I would like to remind the citizens, why did we not have this law in 2010, 2011? Why wasn't that? Because it was a period of dubious completion of privatisation. Let me remind you that travel companies in Serbia have been robbed. It couldn't have done it without the help of the state. Not that privatisation minister, not without those in the D.A.'s office and the executive. It wasn't possible. So the capital was transferred between several owners, between several legal entities where the ownership structure was not fully defined, where Miskovic said – well, I have the right, I own one company, I own another, I can transfer property. Oh, you can't transfer property. Everyone is a legal person to themselves, and that's why this record is needed. One more thing, I would like to hear from anyone in the former regime how is it possible to sell property located in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, that the money from the sale of that property is not paid to any form of society, natural person, legal person in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, but to end up in Cyprus, Bulgaria and Slovenia, and to present it as the greatest foreign investment ever in Serbia? I was deaf from former regime MPs across from me, about how the biggest foreign investment was the sale of Delesu's "Maxi" company by Delta. What kind of investment is that? Has Serbia seen one euro of its assets? To remind myself, "Maxie" was not bought from privatisation, "Maxie" was bought in a very suspicious manner, out of bankruptcy. When you're buying something out of bankruptcy, it's very good for you, because the state has cleared everything up, all the debts, if something illegal has taken place on itself and you're getting rid of the company. I think he bought it for about 300, 350 million and sold it for two billion. It's a little And that's the biggest foreign investment? I think we're done with that kind of practice. Why would we bring that up? Well, because, first of all, we do not want to be responsible for their misdemeanors, and we want to show that our citizens of Serbia know the difference between us and them and that whenever elections are called for, they decide on these differences. Do they want a Serbian who will go to the 21st century, who will develop, who will grow richer, or will vote for a former regime that wants to return to Serbia in the 19th century, to make Serbia more and more poorer and richer? That's why the problem is, and that's why the former regime is afraid of every choice and begs God not to come to them?
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-28-0.u10138	The word has been made by MP Alexander Mirkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-28-0.u10139	The esteemed chairperson, respected minister with associates, respected fellow Members of Parliament and fellow MPs, whenever we talk about the economy, when we talk about numbers, we cannot not point out how much we, above all, are members of the SNS, not to say to the officials, proud that we have the opportunity to participate in everything that is happening today, but also in recent years and that we are finally making Serbia an even better place for the lives of citizens, but also because we are able to take part in the wrong policy, the disastrous, which was led by 2012, finally creating a country for the purpose of all its citizens. Also, we can't help but look back that everything that's been going on in recent years isn't a big success. You know, when you inherit a country that is on the verge of bankruptcy, when you get an empty register from the representatives of the DS regime at every level and when you come into the situation that because of the catastrophic privatisations, but also the disastrous business of the representative of that DS-like regime in Dragan Gilas, Vuk Jeremic, Boris Tadic, all those people who were part of the DS, more than 500,000 people were out of work, realistically when you see, the government of the SNS and the people who then took responsibility for our country's leadership had a very difficult task. We have to be proud of everything we've achieved today, where we've been from a country that's been on our knees, where nothing has been done except fill the pockets of those officials, become a developing country, which is being built, which is being built and where new hospitals are being built, new homes of health, highways, where there's not a single part of our country that doesn't work or develop. The best evidence is the discussion we had last week when Minister Sinisa Mali explained to us the rebalancing, where only in some exact data and some prime figures you can see that in the first nine months we have a better result than planned for as many as 180 billion dinars, that our income tax has increased more precisely, by 4.5 billion, the corporate tax by 44 billion almost, while the value added tax is 54 billion dinar. All these numbers that are just numbers for someone clearly show how responsible politics are during this difficult period, when the whole world is struggling with the coronary virus, things are progressing in us and going the way up. What's very important to emphasize is that because of the crown of the crisis we didn't even have mass layoffs, people didn't lose their jobs, but that's how strong and powerful we are, the fact that, while the whole world struggles to keep their jobs, with great pain in our country, new factories, new plants and people are opening up. This is all very proud of all of us who have promised such a thing in 2012 and 2013. We're proud to keep our promises. What's very important to emphasize when we talk about the economy, it's the money again, is the fact that in recent weeks, months, so for God and for the past year we've spent hearing that the people who have ruined our country and were part of the Democratic Party have told us that we are in debt, that we don't know what we are doing and how we are going to ruin our country, and the data shows that even today after this rebalance we are below 60% of participation in public debt in GDP, which is once again the best evidence of how many people in the absence of any arguments, policies, programmes, but first of all, when they were in power, they serve the truths and are trying to cast a shadow of everything that is good and what happens today in our country. I am convinced that with these proposals and the laws being passed, not only this week, but throughout this mandate, we will improve the lives of Serbian citizens and will make their lives easier in every respect and sense. But I am also a supporter of what my colleague Kesar mentioned in his presentation, that we still have to look back at some segments that in the not so long ago led us to fight as a country and fight with all the problems that the SNS inherited as some party who is responsible and wants to fight for the interests of the citizens, not the tycoon and not our own personal interest. A colleague, Kesar, mentioned only a few things that were happening, and it concerns Dragan Gilas, a man who today tries to cheer and dress only with the help of the money he has collected from Serbian citizens. I think in that presentation he was, more or less, in my humble opinion, mild. You know, we've been elected here to sit in these citizens' benches in the election. I think that every MP must have the freedom to protect the interests of the citizens of Serbia, the people who voted for him and those people who didn't go to elections at all or voted for someone else, be honest, honest and fight for the interests of those citizens. I think in our discussions, we, as MPs, have the right to say everything we are interested in, to ask everything we are interested in, but also to convey what the citizens are asking of us. I think in these years, as far as we're MPs are concerned, there's a little too much of that disciplining us as MPs. I don't think that's good, because if we are disciplined by various NGOs, if every journalist in the media under the direct control of Dragan Gilas has the right and allows himself the right to insult us in the worst possible way, niproves us, I don't think it's a good thing that the people we've chosen to help Serbian citizens and work in their interest discipline us as MPs. With all due respect, first of all to you Ministers, I think that my colleague Kesar, but not a single MP says anything for his own personal interest or for his conviction that I don't know what to do or bring. We are representatives of the citizens here, so this discussion Mr. Kesar had was in the interest of just making a parallel of what was going on in the previous years, and what is the situation today. I am sorry, the Honorable Chairman, this part applies to you, I know that the minister may have had the best intentions, but also to you was the part that at one point the discussion that was led, Minister Comic was not in charge, so you as chairman had to warn Mr Kesar and return him to the agenda topic. We can't agree on that, because everything about money, businesses, budgets, our country's development is closely linked to what we inherited. I know that during the period 2008, and I believe that you may have, perhaps, strayed a little from the topic of today's agenda and, in your performance as minister, acted as speaker of the Assembly, from the period when you distanced the entire parliamentary groups from the session, I don't think it's a good thing that from the minister's position, i.e. Minister, it is now politically correct to address a people's MP who has not said anything ugly, which is more than just the truth. I'll get it over with. Yes, everything that Dragan Gilas has done in the past has been reflected in everything that we inherited, and in the debts, and in the problems, and in the struggle with doing something at every end of our country. You know it well, because you were in power then, you know how much nothing was done in Serbia's well-being, for the benefit of Serbian citizens. Yes, it is important that we know, finally, why Dragan Gilas has destroyed 68m euros in accounts around the world. Why does it matter? Well, because we could do something for that money, which was collected from the citizens of Serbia, in the period when the DS was in power. I had to say this first of all as a folk MP, because for a year now we've been suffering various disciplines of people on social networks. It's not a problem in the media, under the direct control of Dragan Gilas, but you know it's a bit of a problem when ministers who have to be on the same path, who have to work together as one big team in the interests of Serbian citizens, discipline us and suggest what they can, what we as MPs should, or should we say or not. With all due respect, I don't think that this job is a minister, but that it deals with everything that's within his ministry's jurisdiction, and that when he comes here, he presents or replaces the Secretary of State, but that in this discussion we are constructive, not that everything comes down just to the point of criticism because of something we liked or didn't like in the presentation of the MP, who, by the way, only told the truth that you were part of DS in that period, which was no secret, no news. So I ask you, the Honorable President and Honorable Minister, with all due respect, to avoid this kind of thing in the next period, because you as Government, you as Minister of Government, which we voted here, unlike you citizens directly, please only have a little more respect and respect, because we all as one team must work in the interests of Serbian citizens, in the interest of Serbia itself, the next responsible policy of President Aleksandr Vukic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-28-0.u10140	Dear Members of the People, it is not up to me, nor to the Minister, nor to any of you, to assess who will talk about what during his discussion, I believe that you are all sufficiently politically subdued and I have assessed this during the previous discussion, or discussion several earlier, that a colleague connected the subject of the agenda with what he was saying and beyond the fact, that he was speaking outside the subject of the agenda, but the fact that he also directly addressed the minister who is present and who certainly as someone who defends this law at any moment has the right to seek word from the Rules of Procedure. I gave her, just like I'm gonna do now. Minister Komic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-28-0.u10141	Thank you. Our misunderstanding is banal, but deep. Called directly, I said quite simply an easily verifiable thing. My place here and my commitment as members of the Government is on the agenda topics, for everything that is said in this National Assembly outside the agenda is the chairman of the National Assembly, or vice president of the National Assembly. It is verifiable in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. It's verifiable with the chairman, as she said earlier, and therefore our misunderstanding is banal, but deep. I will never allow myself to come out of what is the framework and jurisdiction of a member of the Government who voluntarily submits to the supervision and control of the National Assembly. As I will never allow myself to violate any provision of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and they oblige me to give a direct answer if I am directly called by the MPs. For all the other objections you have on the work of the ministry or myself, you are free to initiate the Constitution of a prescribed procedure on the responsibility of a member of the Government for conduct in the National Assembly. Everything I'm going to do in this assembly, the government will be strictly respectful of the provisions that oblige me as a member of the government that says, if you've called me, I don't have the authority to speak here beyond the agenda. When you speak beyond the agenda, that is what the chairman of the National Assembly is responsible for. Thank you, with the hope that we will continue to lively discuss misunderstandings that are banal but deep. If I were you, I would use this time for very detailed questions about the laws that are on the agenda, with the hope that the member of the government you consider undesirable in the National Assembly will be unable to answer you. That would be much more interesting, more lively, and joyful for the work of the National Assembly session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-28-0.u10142	Thank you. I see Alexander Mirkovic is in the system, I assume you're looking for a two-minute replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-28-0.u10143	Thank you. I'll make sure I'm brief and my exposure stops in two minutes. The Honorable Chairman, I think right now, if you followed the presentation of the distinguished Minister Komic, you could hear how difficult your views are. So it's okay that colleague Kesar was in the topic, you said it yourself, so he got a little distant, but then we heard it wasn't good and that Mrs. Comic reacted to it for what he had gone away from the topic. The other thing is, we've got a little bit of contradiction here right now. The second thing, Mr. Kesar did not mention you by name and last name or asked you for an explanation, asked you for any comment on everything he said and said, he only mentioned that, as I mentioned, you were part of the DS authorities during that period. One more thing, I was hoping that we would understand each other and that this misunderstanding would end up on this or that understanding in your opinion, but at the end of your presentation, you're still trying to discipline us and you're suggesting to us again. Allow us our freedom as representatives of citizens, as people who voted directly for us, that in our speech we plead and talk about what we think is best for the citizens of Serbia. Allow us at least as much rights as the MPs. I really don't see the need for you to suggest what's good and what's not, how do we improve our exposure? Again with all due respect to the Minister, I hope that you will spend all this energy and desire to discuss all this during another period when we come to some other reasoning. I just hope that, and there will be opportunities for us to discuss, when specific things apply to the work of your ministry and your ministry's engagement, we will be so prepared to respond when it comes to the protection of some other people's MPs, above all. Once again, I will not go too far, I think that the MPs have the right to their opinion, on their own word, and that they have a very good right to attach all the topics that are of general interest to the citizens of Serbia with the agenda theme, which Mr. Kesar has done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-28-0.u10144	Dear Members of the People, I am truly sorry that this misunderstanding has taken place, but it is also a good thing that we speak very openly. We agree on a lot of things, and I don't see any difference between what the minister and I said. The fact is that the MP referred directly to the last name and last name, or, more specifically, the last name minister, about its former political option, which is not the topic of the agenda. I'm so sorry we wasted our time on this. I'll give the minister my word, very briefly to answer, because she has a right to do so, but to know that due to the technical preparations of the session with the government, we have to take a break by 15.00 hours, which means the next speaker won't be able to speak.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-28-0.u10145	I thank you, MP, for I now use the right to reply. And when a member of the government uses the right to reply, he doesn't have to talk about the subject of the agenda. That's great when it comes to replicas. As the chairman has the right to close a circle of replicas when the chairman assesses that it is good for the assembly session. I will use my replica to repeat, quite by the Constitution defined, the Law on the Ministry, written by the Rules of Procedure of the Government - if I were you, I would launch a process for a member of the Government that you consider unworthy work at a session of the National Assembly. When I am a representative of the government and any MP mentions me, asking for anything, I am obliged to answer, but only if this is about the subject of the agenda. Except when it's a replica. And now it's a replica. And thank you for that, given that we have helped each other together to keep the misunderstanding a little bit more banal, but it's not that deep anymore. And what you wanted as a People's Messenger, we made it possible for you to accomplish. Every time you want to criticize the work of the ministry I run, you're more than welcome. Every time you feel unwary listening to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and a lively rhetoric, you can win the space that is otherwise inaccessible to you, you are deeply mistaken. Only by knowing, by respecting the rules, by respecting the Rules of Procedure and by respecting what we are and what we are all responsible for can you have achieved results. Whoever disciplines you, I certainly don't. Do you have the right to be engrossed because of the public's attitude about the people's messengers - and how, because very often the National Assembly and the MPs are petty change to everyone and everyone. Is that why I break what obliges me to behave in the National Assembly - never. And I'll never have any comment on anyone's performance that's not about the agenda, because I have no right to do that. This is the only right of the chairmanship or chair of the National Assembly. Thank you for this conversation, and I'll help you next time.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-28-0.u10146	Thank you. I see you're both in the system, and you know we should take a break. You'll both get a replica in two minutes, preferably shorter. National MP Aleksandar Mirkovic has a word. Here you go. The Caesar has given up.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-28-0.u10147	Thank you. With all due respect, I don't need any help from you, and I thank you for that. The second thing, I think you're the essence of everything that I've discussed, you've said now, mentioning the terms -- I don't know who's disciplining you, but it's certainly not me. Why do you think we're being disciplined by someone other than what I set as an example? Third thing, I'm not bitter and I don't think there's any need for you to assign such qualifications to anyone. The criticisms that I have possibly brought to your work or the work of your ministry, I will present when the time comes or when we are on the occasion, but I certainly ask you to understand that in this three-minute presentation, you said the essence and proved that I was right, after all, when I responded to your behaviour towards the MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-28-0.u10148	Honorable MPs, a few formal things. I hereby conclude a joint principle and uniform search on the proposals of the law at issue. 4, 5 and 6 of the agenda. I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Article 27 and Article 87(2) and (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, we will, in accordance with Article 27 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, be in agreement with Article 87 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and with Article 2 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly work today even after 1800 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to bring the acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Consensually. 27th and 205th. Rules of Procedure, I set a break until 4:00 p.m., when we continue to work in the session's session on asking parliamentary questions to the government on the last Thursday of the month.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-28-0.u10149	Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, under Rule 205, we approach the question of MPs in time from 16 to 19 hours. Before we move on to asking parliamentary questions, allow me to remind you once again of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the way MPs are asked. The presentation of the MP asking the question cannot last longer than three minutes. Following an answer to the MP's question, the MP who asked the question has the right to comment for a maximum period of three minutes on the answer to his question or to ask an additional question. Upon receipt of an answer to the additional question, the MP shall have the right to declare his reply, for a maximum period of two minutes. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure shall apply during the duration of asking questions and answering, by not allowing replication and reference to the breach of the Rules of Procedure. I welcome the members of the government present. Prime Minister Ana Brnabic, along with several ministers and government members, has been officially prevented from being present. We're moving on to asking MPs questions. The word has a folk MP, Vladan Glisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-28-0.u10150	Dear government representatives, I know that your concept of Serbia's development in economic and other terms and what people I belong to differ radically, but I want to ask a question about the company's "Rio Tinto". I think some of the facts I'd like to make here, regardless of the differences in the concept, both for you and for those who ask these questions, are a match, and there are doubts that are seriously opening up. First of all, the company Rio Tinto, which is a bit of a public potential, is a company that I understand is Australian-British. Australia and Britain are allies of the Kosovo administration. I know that "Rio Tinto" as well as all corporations, foreign banks and those who have come here will look at as little profit as possible to leave in Serbia and that as little as possible pay tax authorities what Serbia needs, but somewhere, some tax authorities will have to pay it, most likely to the tax authorities of Australia or Britain. Will the money they draw from Serbia through these tax authorities end up helping Albanian KIM special forces to help arm them so they can try that weapon on our people at KIM tomorrow? If so, is it reasonable that we give such a company to earn by creating major environmental problems in Serbia? The other thing we also need to know is the company's identity card, which is that in Papua New Guinea, where she had a mine, she left a fried country and an ecological disaster of inexplicable proportions? The fact is that the company in Australia destroyed the cultural heritage, the ethnic heritage of Aburijin by digging up the mine treasure, and thus merely continued the centuries-old genocide policy of its royal highness in Great Britain towards the Aboriginals. So, are we going to open the door of our country to a corporation like that? When we know all this, those questions are raised that we didn't get an answer, and I would like one of the government's representatives to answer that question, which is whether they finally found this third way of extracting lithium from the sails, because the first two ways we've asked them in previous government sessions are allegedly not going to be used, and both of them involve large amounts of water, large amounts of sulphuric acid and huge amounts of waste water that will have to go somewhere, in some streams of some rivers and gaps that, in a strange way, will remain in the river basin and open to possible floods. So that's not what we got the answer to. Apparently, they're doing some third economic, environmental, and ultimately a technological process that won't do it, but when you look at all their mines, they're everywhere outside the inhabited areas. So, all these questions are still open, and especially the question is, are they using their lobbying potential to corrupt some of our institutions that will need to control their work tomorrow? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-28-0.u10151	Vlad, it's been three minutes. I didn't just figure out who you asked the question to?
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-28-0.u10152	I don't know, I thought there was going to be Prime Minister Brnabic here, but who's essentially from the mining resort, there's no Mrs. Mihajlovic. So perhaps the Minister of Agriculture, since it's agricultural land in the valley.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-28-0.u10153	Okay. Any of the government's representatives may come forward, but there's also the Minister for Environmental Protection.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-28-0.u10154	Of course. Here, who wants on behalf of the government? The word has Minister Irena Vujovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-28-0.u10155	Certainly related to Rio Tinto, we've already dated several times in public. So you shouldn't have any bad intentions or, God forbid, mentioning that anyone's corrupt. We're just the ones who don't play any study easily. So before the official study on environmental protection, it was about the scope and content of the study. These are all transparent documents in which the public participates exclusively because of interest in this topic and all that is meaningful and legally justified, we accept all these suggestions. So, after the scope and content of which we have had some objections, only then does the company study on environmental impact assessment, and we have already said that many times, and that study when it is handed over by them will also be transparent and will be subject to discussion. What you mentioned now is that everything based on the assumptions about water pollution, the country, about the wastewater treatment plant, whether or not they have them, we'll figure it out through the study. So we can't condemn the project in advance, we can't talk about a negative impact on the environment until we have, therefore, a study that we can talk about. The Ministry of Environmental Protection and the entire team of people working on it has daily communication with company representatives and the Ministry of Everyone's door has been opened, not just for Rio Tinto, but for everyone who wants to deal with the economy, and that it can have a negative impact on the environment. So we're here to give instructions and what's in accordance with the law. So as long as we don't have a study in front of us, we can't handle any levels of pollution, because maybe there won't be any, but we can't judge anyone, and I think we should wait for the documents. Of course, all eyes are against the public and that no one wants to do any things that can harm the environment and people's health. I think we should wait for that, and we don't need to judge anyone in advance. So we follow every step. I think we'll soon have some new information about the solution, that's the scope and content, which is one step ahead of the study. There have been certain complaints, and now according to these complaints, it responds to the administrative commission, and only when all these procedures have been completed, administrative procedures, will we be able to give a final solution to the scope and content of the study, which is a step ahead of the study, so that we are also at the beginning, related to these evaluations, and therefore I ask that we do not condemn the project in advance and that we do not talk in advance about pollution, whether it is aero-contamination, pollution of the country or water. Of course, all the things that need to be owned by such a huge project, when you talk about wastewater purifiers, I think they'll have it, and they've predicted it, and that's the least in relation to everything else that's planned for the project. I would like you to participate in every process, all of you who are interested, and who have any doubts, and of course that it participates and the general public, so that any suggestions that are significant, can be included and considered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-28-0.u10156	Thank you. Ambassador Glisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-28-0.u10157	As for the corrupt functioning of their lobbyists, I didn't mean the government people, because I don't have any proof of it. I'm not even saying that corrupting is what I'm going to say, but I think it can be a conflict of interest, and that should be taken into account when it's involved in this whole elaborate and when some competent institutions are going to check whether it's meaningful and in line with the general interest. I suppose one of the institutions that will be included will also be the University of Belgrade Mining Faculty. There is information that the Faculty of Rio Tint has received 100 million grants lately, and I think that might be a reason to pay attention to a possible conflict of interest. On the other hand, if it turns out that the level of ecological action, not to say the endangerment of our environment, is at a much higher level than Jadar himself, will what the president of Serbia has promised as a referendum also apply to all citizens of Serbia, and not only to the people of that region? Because, don't forget, the people of that neighborhood, through the purchase of property, and in some ways, that they are moving out of that neighborhood, Rio Tinto, can influence themselves. However, it is hard for all of Serbia to do so. So, this is a more political issue for you as representatives of the ruling party, will the referendum then be at the level of the entire country, and not just at the level of people in the region, on the issue of "Rio Tint" and the project?
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-28-0.u10158	Thank you. Can I get someone to answer that? Deputy Prime Minister Branislav Nedimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-28-0.u10159	Dear President, honourable peoples of MPs, I just want to say a few words about this topic from another angle independently of the environmental impact. There are some regulations and procedures that have been predicted to be handled in these cases by the state. My colleague Irena just explained about the coverage of previous things that must be done before the environmental impact assessment. But I have to say one thing, not just colleges, not just the professional public, not us, but every citizen of Serbia in the course of public insight, when a study of environmental impact is presented, will have participation. So, by the government of the Republic of Serbia, full transparency of the whole process will be ensured, and don't have any doubts about it. In a few minutes there will be a Minister of Education and Science, Mr Ruzic, and he will be able to tell you more about the Faculty of Mines. But every insinuation, this reminds me of what would happen if it were. At this point, we have not seen a study on the environmental impact assessment, in which technological processes must be contained, how to regulate any problems that may occur as factors. So when it's on the agenda, then we can talk about concrete things. On the other hand, yes, as announced, so will be, and will happen, when the study is in front of us, then a time will be set for holding the referendum, and don't be in any dilemma at all, this will be the first time in the territory of the Republic of Serbia to decide on one such project and all citizens will be involved. As far as the angle of agriculture is concerned, of course, every area where any industrial plant is being built must include the Ministry of Agriculture, primarily through its Agriculture Land Administration, with regard to any repercusion that can have on the very land on which any facility, its environment, is being built, closer and further, and in general how it can possibly affect water streams. Do not forget that, without the consent of science in this part, there cannot be any realisation until all relevant institutions have answered the questions that will be raised through a study on environmental impact assessment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-28-0.u10160	Ambassador Glisic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-28-0.u10161	It takes caution when it comes to "Rio Tinto" and that's why I introduced this part of the introduction to their personal map, what they did in other places in the world, which is why we have reason to be very careful, at least when they promise something, whether they influence some of our institutions somewhere, and especially considering that they belong to a political bloc that works directly against us against KIM. I mean, they're part of those states and that concept that proved to be hostile to us. So, of course, we're in a position to ask if our country will be able to control everything they promised? I am sorry that Minister Mihajlovic is not here, because in previous talks with Prime Minister Brnabic, I asked a question that I did not get an answer, about whether it is true that we in the mining industry only have five mining inspectors who are now functionally controlling over 300 mining companies operating in Serbia? That's because we're trapped with the idea of a weak state, that the state shouldn't be strong and present. That's the concept we've had here for 30 years instead of building a strong state that will protect the interests of citizens. So if we don't have inspectors, if we let our institutions run the "Rio Tinta" lobbyists, which showed how they relate to environmentalism and people in the world, then we're in a big problem and I think the red alarm has to be lit and we have to take care of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-28-0.u10162	Thank you. Mr. Nedimovic, you can't now, since this is the end. I just want to add that what Mr Glisic was talking about, we are preparing, there is Minister Marija Obradovic, her Ministry of Preparation, in agreement with the Venice Commission, the Law on Referendum, apropo of what you asked. True, this referendum, above all, concerned us because of the change in the Constitution, but it certainly concerns all other issues that will be current. As for your question, about lithium, Jadar and everything else, let me just make one remark. I've been in politics for years. As you know, I was also active at the time when they came and the world news was that we had great capacities in that part of Serbia. I just can't believe that in 10, 15 years, anything has changed in world science, so now it's become harmful? How do those who have praised all these projects now suddenly say that this is extremely harmful to our country? I mean, anything is possible, but I think a little bit more has changed the political position of some people when they talk about it all. All in all, I remember, I was prime minister, when this was discussed, and I was also the first Deputy Prime Minister from 2008 to 2012, and I guess the activities on this one have started even earlier. In any case, of course you need to protect the environment. I don't have any dilemmas about all this, but we need to separate what politics is and what really is environmental protection. I took advantage of the office of President of the Assembly, but here I am in that position, what to do. The word has the People's Messenger Samir Tandir.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-28-0.u10163	Dear President of the National Assembly, honourable Vice-Presidents, fellow Members of the People's Parliament, Honored Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Honored Ministers, at the beginning I would like to congratulate the members of the Government, the Prime Ministers and the Vice-Presidents and all ministers for a year of successful functioning. My first question is going that way right now. The question was addressed to the first Deputy Prime Minister, who I assume is changing the president and the finance minister. So what's your impression after a year, and we can make a cross-section, we've been doing more or less in emergency circumstances because of the pandemic caused by the covid virus, are you satisfied? What has been the greatest success of the Government of the Republic of Serbia in the past year? What is it with which we who voted for this government, as well as citizens and citizens can be satisfied? And is there anything we've missed, something we might have been able to react faster and better? My second question was also addressed to the first Deputy Prime Minister or to someone else in charge, as well as to the finance minister. So what's most interesting about citizens and citizens right now is how things are going with the bird? What are the projections? We have a so-called introduction. I'll take a pass. How is that going to affect the economy? The other day, we adopted a budget rebalancing that was caused by our economic growth here, can we expect further growth by the end of the year, or might the introduction of some new amounts of measures stop us in this economic growth? Simply, what are the expectations, and what will the government do about it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-28-0.u10164	Thank you, Mr. Tandir. Which one of the government's representatives is answering for a word? The word has Minister Ruzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-28-0.u10165	Thank you, People's Messenger. So, as far as your question is concerned about this past year and how much the Government of the Republic of Serbia has done in relation to what the objectives have been declared in all spheres of society, I could give, not the flat-rate, but I would say an objective assessment that, in the circumstances in which we were in society, we have done a lot. If we are talking about foreign policy, I think we have just continued to affirm a state-of-the-art policy with a clear and reasoned struggle in the international arena to preserve the state's interest and respect a state-level reason that is very important to the Republic of Serbia. As far as all the other resolutions are concerned, I would say that a lot, although we were aware in advance that practically this mandate would be carried out, no one had left it to the case, but thanks to the Prime Minister and, of course, to the entire team, we had very dynamically approached the realization of many important projects, not to speak now on behalf of the other colleagues in all other resolutions. When we talk about our economic growth and what Minister Mali said in the previous days, explaining budget rebalancing, I think that we are one of the few countries that, just at the time of the coves of the pandemic, we manage to record obvious growth, and if I am not mistaken for over 70% of direct investment in the Western Balkans region, it is now waste in the Republic of Serbia. So we are one of the most attractive investment destinations. As far as your second question is concerned, since I am convinced that my colleagues, especially Mr. Mali, will explain this part of his portfolio, as regards the other questions of the Coronal virus, and what are the plans, which are the measures we are proposing. What I can certainly say is that the crisis staff is very thorough in considering all the models that are complementary to the need to deal with this plague. We try to take care of economic growth, but above all, we try to take care of the health of the nation. It's something that's the priority of all priorities. In this respect, the measures proposed and the measures previously proposed and which are in force above all must be respected. Innovating these measures by introducing a covid of passes is certainly a reflection of the state in which we are, where we see practically by numbers that there is a deterioration in this sense and unfortunately a greater maneuver for the mutation of the virus itself, given that still this percentage of immunisation, i.e. vaccinations or vaccinated citizens and citizens in the general population is not high enough that we could go out on some green branch. From the perspective of the Minister of Education, Science and Technological Development, I can say that the education system is still very vital, resistant to this virus and that in the previous days and colleagues of Loncar, of course we at the ministry and representatives of Batuta and the school team have had a series of meetings regarding possible measures that will be the subject of debate at the crisis headquarters session early next week. As much as and how this pandemic reflects on our economic growth and in general on the economy and on the social one, I would say life itself, we are all witnesses of that, but I think the Government of the Republic of Serbia is doing everything, above all, the Ministry of Health, of course, and the RFZO, and all those who are referenced to deal with this problem, to respond in the best possible way to these challenges. The only way to rightly respond to the challenges is to have a much higher degree of individual responsibility, solidarity with others, and to raise awareness of how much the vaccine is, in fact, the only way to deal with this plague. We always use that opportunity and every opportunity to appeal to all citizens who have not so far been vaccinated to do so.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-28-0.u10166	Thank you. The word now has Minister Mali.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-28-0.u10167	Thank you very much. Dear People's MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, the question was what we think we have done best in the area of economics, in the area of economy over the past year, so for a year of government work. I think it's a very good question, given that the circumstances in which it was found, not only Serbian, but the entire economy, the economy of the whole world. So, ever since the Kovida 19 pandemic started, the whole world has been in a global crisis that has never been recorded in the history of mass layoffs, stopping all production processes, a health pandemic caused by Kovid 19. So, in these most difficult terms, I would also say to the most challenging conditions, President Vukic defined if you remember, even half last year, two priorities and two fronts, a struggle for Serbia's citizens' health and a struggle to preserve our economy. When the crisis started caused by the coronary virus, if you remember Serbia was one of the first countries in the world to provide enough respirators, drugs, equipment. When the vaccines started, we were the first country in Europe to offer all four vaccines to Serbian citizens. So we've done everything we can to preserve people's health and lives. I'll also remind you that, as never before, we've built three brand-new bird hospitals. Each of them, construction lasted about four months. I do not remember that it has ever been that Serbia reacts so quickly and that in such a short period of time it builds the necessary capacities that in this case probably saved thousands of lives. We shouldn't even be talking about it in the light of the fact that, as you know, we talked about it during budget rebalancing two days ago, so we're currently building the first in the only one, I'd like to cancer, the vaccine factory in the region. We will be the only country in the region to produce its vaccines from March next year. So that tells you enough with how serious we have come to the problem of solving Kovid 19. What I'm not an expert at, say various doctors, after all we can all read is that Kovid 19 is something we should learn to live with and what we do, we do with the desire to in the long run mitigate the negative consequences of this Kovid 19 in terms of and the acquisition of the necessary drugs, the purchase of the necessary equipment, the construction of hospitals. We in the budget rebalancing provided money for both the completion and the complete equipment of Serbia's Clinical Centre here in Belgrade, which will be over in a few weeks. So, in the long run, the most important is this vaccine factory that will give us and provide us, not only stability, but also one over the necessary sovereignty when, not God, some next crisis comes. What is different when the economy is in relation to all previous authorities, I would say, or any previous crisis that we have faced, is that determination and speed that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which President Vukic and all of us ultimately reacted to when the pandemic of the coronary virus appeared and when the most important thing was to preserve jobs, to preserve production capacities, to avoid these black scenarios, which you had the opportunity to see in much more developed countries than Serbia. So in America, where dozens of millions of people are out of work, closed firms, lost jobs, cost an economy, one collapse of an economy or an economy you wouldn't expect, given that they're more developed than ours, that they fall in such a way, they fell. They fell on the first blow of the coronary virus in the first half of last year. It didn't happen in Serbia. If you remember that, in my opinion, the biggest success of this government in the past year, at least when it comes to the economy, which is the first, second and third package of support and economy and citizens, the total value of over eight billion euros, that is almost 18% of our annual GDP, so with eight billion euros, we also supported our economy, supported our citizens, to remind you last year by paying you 100 euros, paying you six or seven minimum profits for the private sector, so for those who were the most vulnerable, micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, entrepreneurs. This year, too, if you look at it, it's still our third package, which we're running. So now on November 1st, we will pay off all pensioners with these promised 30 euros on Monday, November 2nd and 3rd, we will pay all citizens who applied for aid of 30 plus 30 euros and we will open another application for 20 euros in December, which will also be paid to all of Serbia's full-time citizens. What is particularly important to me is that you are ultimately Members of Parliament and voted two days ago, that money is in the budget, that is, the budget rebalancing you adopted. When you look at how Serbia reacted absolutely at the right time in the right way, targeted, targeted and looked at the effects we have achieved, we will have a GDP growth rate of over 7% this year. We started with six, then six and a half, and now we're already on about that our economy's growth will be over 7%, taking into account minus 0.9 from last year, which was one of the best results in Europe. We will, when we add up last year and this year, surely have and be positioned as one of the best or fastest growing economies in Europe. Honorable MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, and when was Serbia a winner in the economy? So it almost didn't happen. We are now. On the one hand, it showed how much more resilient our economy is, how strong the factories have been opened, and President Vukic has only opened them for almost 250 over the past few years, how much more resistant they are to the crisis, how much healthier they are made. We didn't have those black scenarios that we had tens of thousands of people who were out of a job. Our unemployment rate today is the same as in 2019 before the crisis. We have a rate of growth that is never higher, never higher, and in doing so we have every promise we have made in the day and in the dinar. It wasn't easy to react in the right way, try to be better than other developed countries. We have also succeeded in painting our economy, the image of our country today is completely different than just a few years ago. Of course, it's not an accident. This is the result of one responsible economic policy that still President Vukic began when he was Prime Minister. We've all been through heavy reforms since 2014. We've been through reforms of fiscal consolidation, at one point the pay cuts, pension cuts because the previous government left us with chaos in the public system. We didn't even have the pensions to pay off that month and then look at these difficult measures, difficult reforms, changes to the Labour Act, etc. which led us four years in a row by 2020 to have a surplus in the budget. We cut and paid off those old expensive loans someone used to take before us. We created a sufficient reserve so that we can react to the crisis as if we knew that the crisis would come and then look at 2020 – there was a crisis, unfortunately, but Serbia reacted very resolutely with enough reserves, showed that we have money in the account, that we have sound public finances, that we have been much stronger than we have ever been and despite the eight billion euros we have invested, supported our economy to reduce the negative consequences of Kovida 19 we have no problem in any macroeconomic indicator. So, by the end of this year, and for that, the honourable MPs voted two days ago, the budget rebalancing clearly states that our share of public debt in GDP at the end of the year will be 58.2%, well below 60%, which is the level of the mastrict, and much more developed countries have long crossed that level. Germany is already at 80, 90%, Croatia too, Montenegro has crossed 100%, France, Italy, Spain 120, 130, 160% of public debt compared to GDP, and we have taken care of each dinar. We took care of every measure we took, every promise we made we fulfilled in the day and in the dinar without in any way jeopardizing macroeconomic stability. It is before you, honourable MPs, in a few days to be also the budget for 2022. In that budget, we said we were going further down the deficit. So we're going to go somewhere to 3% of the deficit. The share of public debt in GDP by the end of next year is set to be 55.5%. By the end of this year 58.2%, next year even lower, and only those from previous authorities remember when the public debt was, which we inherited, and over 70%, when some of the bonds they issued cost Serbian citizens 7.25% annually. One green interest paid by the Republic of Serbia, paid by the citizens of Serbia, and at the time, to remind you of some of the authorities also put money in their pockets and they got rich, and at the expense and burden of Serbian citizens. We had a discussion here two days ago, just to remind you, both about course and inflation. To remind you once again of Serbia's citizens – from 2008 to 2012, inflation was a two-digit, annual 10, 11, 12%, since January 2008, with 81 euros for the euro in August 2012, if I'm not mistaken, the rate has increased to 119 dinars. It's a completely irresponsible economic policy, whatever someone got from an increase in wages and an increase in pensions has lost through high inflation and through a drop in the rate, or a drop in the value of dinars. You don't have a case like that today. You don't have that kind of economic policy today. If you look at the last seven years course is completely stable. You no longer have reason to trade dinars into euros like you had just 10 years ago. If you look at inflation, it's also 1% to 2%. Now global inflation has grown slightly. Everyone says it's short-term, not because of high consumption, but because of supply chains. On the side of the costs comes this inflation and what the IMF says – at the end of the second quarter next year, the calming price also, but for that we have prepared ourselves. We in January of this year, if you remember January of the month – the pandemic of the crown, solved and decided to increase pensions by 5.9%, to raise salaries by 5%, to increase the minimum earnings by 6.6%. This January nine months ago, and we made a decision in September of this year to increase the minimum earnings by 9.4% on 1 January 2022. Now look at the conditions where the largest number of countries' economies are trying to somehow cope with the herd. We do not forget what is the priority of our government, which is to raise the standard of living of citizens of Serbia, where you have year by year, despite the Kovid 19 pandemic, raise wages, increase pensions, increase minimum earnings. With the increase in minimum earnings since January 2022, we are going for the first time to over 35,000 dinars. That's 300 euros. In 2011 and 2012, the minimum earnings in Serbia were 15,700 dinars, so more than double for here for only ten years, and we had years of fiscal consolidation, we had floods, if you remember 2014, we now have this pandemic Kovida 19. Nevertheless, we took care of every man, we took care of every citizen in Serbia, and we showed how he can and should react when it comes to the crisis. And I think that's the biggest success of this government when it comes to the economy. I can talk here for hours now if what the IMF says about it, what the World Bank says about it, what the European Commission says about it. I can also talk about what Minister Vujovic is likely to say, and these are green bonds. So believe it or not, at a time when there is still a global economic crisis, we went to the capital market, we broadcast so-called. Green bonds, we've secured money. So, not only are we talking about wanting wastewater treatment plants, we want to invest in energy-efficient projects, we want to invest in sustainable energy development, but just even provide money for it. And again in next year's budget, we'll never have more money that's focused on ecology, towards what needs to be done in the future to make our country cleaner and better for life. That's what the IMF says - cap down, good job. I also had a conversation before coming to the Assembly with the World Bank Vice-President who also says - Serbia is ahead of everyone, when it comes to the green agenda and when it comes to this region. Why am I saying this? Because priorities are different. So the priorities that are related to saving lives, to the health of our citizens are present, but we want to disappear, and no matter what, we continue to fight for a better economy, to fight for better business conditions and to fight for every new job, for bigger salaries, for bigger pensions. Here's another example. Since we can talk and need to talk about the projects the Serbian government has done over the past year. Now, tell me, when was it built more than now? And at a time of the world's greatest economic crisis ever. So at this point, we have seven highways and fast traffic that are being built. The Moravski Corridor is being built, you voted on the honourable MPs to allocate more money by the end of the year, as the works go faster than planned and we will have the highway from Pojat to Kruševec by March next year. Preljina – Požega, part of "Corridora 11", is built Valjevo – Lajkovac, the building of Ruma – Šabac – Loznica, the building of the Fruskogorski Corridor, that is the fifth, Ruma – Novi Sad, we are building a fast traffic from Surcin to New Belgrade, we are also building the highway from Nis to Merdarima via Pločnik. We expect in the next few days, literally, to go to the Danube Highway. In the rebalancing of the budget you voted for two days ago, we provided money and to get that traffic from Pogorets to the east of Serbia, towards Golubec. We expect that Belgrade – Zrenjanin – Novi Sad will also be on the highway very quickly. By March of the month we end the fast track of Belgrade – Novi Sad, so we will be driving 200 per hour with fast trains in 30 minutes to Novi Sad. I just said, we've built three brand-new covid hospitals, a clinic center in Nis, new, open. By the end of the year, Serbia's Clinical Centre in Belgrade was also completed. In the budget rebalancing, honourable MPs, if you remember, you also voted to single out the money and to reconstruct the House for Children and Youth in Zvecanska, but also to reconstruct the House for the Accommodation of Old "Kulin" in Aleksinac. So the projects that no one's been doing for the past 40, 50 years, that many have thought about or done, or we've already done, or we've provided money and we need to start working. We've been in Belgrade for decades, hearing about this subway we're going to build. Next Wednesday, we'll sign a contract to start building the subway and we'll head into construction in the next few weeks. The budget rebalance that you voted for is the money for it. So the money was provided for it. So my message to the citizens of Serbia, my answer to you, honourable MP, is that in the area of the economy, the very fact that we have saved our economy is not said by Siniša, Dacic, or Vukic, or anyone, but also by the IMF, the World Bank and all relevant factors and institutions in the world. In the end, the European Commission and the European Commission responded in time that we had not been scared, had not withdrawn, had provided enough vaccines and hospital accommodation for Serbian citizens, respirators, medicines, the necessary equipment, whatever was needed, and we even helped others. It is a picture of a completely different Serbia and, in my view, a symbol of one great success, our economic strength, the growing economic power. A short while ago, someone said that 65%, 70% of all foreign direct investments coming into the Western Balkans region, come to the Republic of Serbia. Well, they don't come by accident. They come because our country proved credible, we created confidence that every promise we made and fulfilled in the day. It is simply no accident that you have 250 new factories that have been opened in Serbia over the past few years. Are we satisfied? We're part of it, but there's still a lot of work ahead of us. As you know, the basic policy, at least when it comes to the economy and investment of this government, is exactly the programme "Serbia 20-25". We will have an average salary in Serbia of 618 euros in December this year. If you remember, they laughed at us when President Vukic promised that the average salary by the end of 2019 would be 500 euros. That's the goal we've achieved, that promise we've fulfilled, and that's a long time ago behind us. In December 618 euros, "Serbia 20-25" envisions 900 euros in average earnings in Serbia in December 2025 and an average pension of 420, 430 euros, along with hundreds of kilometers of completed highways, fast roads, built sewage systems, waste water treatment plants, schools, hospitals, hospitals, and for the quality of life of Serbian citizens, for the standard of living, of course, but it is important for our children, for our future. So, we don't want future generations to know what a deficit is, or to know what a public debt is compared to GDP, or to know the name of fiscal consolidation, but to deal with school, education, to make their dreams come true here in Serbia, to start their families here, to worry about whether they're going to move to a better firm and what a better firm, where they can make more money. So these are the dreams we live for, it's a picture of a more orderly, better and more successful Serbia. To conclude, the message is to move on, with the stability we have managed to create, with the credibility we have also created, the credibility we created, especially during this crisis. I think that the door is open to the even faster growth of our economy, of course it means salary growth, pension growth, living standards growth, but for all the space to make these dreams, especially the dreams of our young people our beautiful country and come true. Thank you very much. I'm sorry if I made it too long.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-28-0.u10168	Thank you. Minister Marija Obradovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-28-0.u10169	Thank you, Chairman. MP, you asked a question about both Kovid and how the state responded to this emergency situation. I would like, as chairman of the Co-ordination Commission for Inspection Control, therefore, someone with responsibility for inspection control of the application against epidemiological measures, to present you with some information. I think it'll be interesting to the public. Indeed, I will rely on Minister Mali's discussion that at this point in the whole world, it is estimated that about 80% of all jobs in the world have been hit hard by a covid pandemic, in this situation where many governments in the world have not fallen apart, but in some segments have completely stopped their activities, the Government of the Republic of Serbia has firmly responded and everything Minister Mali has talked about, all of our economic successes can truly be called successes. It sounds a little absurd that at a time when the world's economies are struggling to keep their noses above water, that at that point we've produced these results. Indeed, as Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government, on a daily basis, I would not say daily, but monthly in contact with the IMF and the World Bank, because we are also talking about wage reform, which is something very important for the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I hear daily praises, primarily on account of the results of the work of the Ministry of Finance and then the entire Government of the Republic of Serbia. It's something that can easily be checked, because it's the attitudes of international institutions. Why did I repeat all this, what did Minister Mali talk about? Because it's very important that you understand the context in which some figures are mentioned. It's not the same thing when we talk about some results, factory openings, some new economic successes and reforms, it's not the same as today when Kovid is our number one theme. We're also talking about mental health. So it's not easy under this pressure that's been going on for over a year and a half now, it's not easy to function. I believe the citizens understand that. On the other hand, I just wanted to step up what Sinisha Mali was talking about, to see that it wasn't so easy to function and that these successes, and it seems that you're used to Minister Mali mostly talking about successes, support for citizens and businesses, and that is true, it's not that easy. So a lot of effort and work, a lot of brains and abilities, previous savings and rationalization is behind it so that we can behave like this today. And now, in this situation, Kovid, which we certainly can't influence because it's a worldwide pandemic, we need to talk about how the state responded when it comes to citizens. I'm just going to remind you of one thing that seems to you today in everyday life. We forgot that reporting for vaccination, issuing digital green certificates via eGovernment, somehow became our daily routine, and only until a year ago, the mention of eGovernment was unknown. She was a daily for a number of people who were informatively written, and the public in Serbia did not do much. Now, look, a year later the e-Government is our daily life. On the portal eudavi.gov.rs you can get a few dozen electronic services and what is very important, now digital green certification. Now people will say, well, yes, but I don't have a computer, it's hard for me to get a green certificate. And that's where the state was thinking. On all mail counters in Serbia you can get a digital green certificate. It's what's very simple today, and it's necessary to function. At the moment, the first Deputy Prime Minister, Ruzic, also spoke of the crisis staff wanting to respond at this time to this crisis, daily consultations are under way, particularly Prime Minister Brnabic with the medical work of the Crisis Headquarters. All the measures currently in force in Serbia are, regardless of the comments, and I would like to say the ominous comments, I will also tell you why, all the measures are well-determined and in line with all the information that the Prime Minister of the Medical Part of the Crisis Staff has planned. I would like to restore the confidence of Serbian citizens in the crisis headquarters. I know that everyone's trying in every way possible to do damage to the CID. But you won't do any harm to any of us who are in that crisis headquarters, because I'm going to repeat, no dinars, and that's what's supposed to happen, because some of us have said big benefits for membership in the crisis staff, which is a shame, all of us members of the crisis headquarters and the medical and political part of the crisis staff should never get compensation, nor have they got compensation. We work every day, every one of us in our area. My obligation as members of the Crisis Staff is to coordinate inspection surveillance. I'll tell you that in the past year, as many as there are the Working Group for the Control of the measure in Serbia, 2400 inspectors in 46 inspections have carried out millions of surveillance, about 30,000 irregularities have been recorded, tens of thousands of violations have been written. What is good, it speaks of discipline, and it is likely that the Minister of Small will work, one hundred percent of the charges of violations when violations of irregularities over the application of the measure are at stake. When we talk about inspectors and control covid measures, we should say that these 2400 inspectors are now the minimum we're working with. At this point, respect for the measures is a priority, but remember that we must not ignore the control of all those services, the quality of air, food, services of all other types of controls that normally carry out inspections and which provide one quality of life that is necessary in Serbia. So we need a thousand more inspectors at this point in some ideal situation. We are not in a situation right now to provide thousands of inspectors very quickly for some objective reasons, but it is important that we recognize what is necessary for us. Fifteen days ago, I addressed all the ministries in the government of the Republic of Serbia to ask them to activate and launch all competitions for the inspector's posts in their ministries. Why does it matter? In our talks with the Ministry of Finance, we have come to the conclusion that it is important to give special consent to hire new inspectors in all ministries. We could hear that MP Glisic asked about the inspector at the Ministry of Mining. It is really necessary to increase the number of inspectors and we will work on all of this. In addition to increasing the number of inspectors, it is important for citizens to understand that it is necessary to share responsibility when it comes to fighting Kovid. I have said this several times that when we talk about the division of responsibility around Kovid, somehow citizens expect the state, members of the government, President Vukic, to have a magic wand that will take Kovid beyond Serbia's borders overnight. I don't mean to sound pathetic, but sharing responsibility is something that's necessary. What did I do to help fight Kovid? When it comes to the covid passports, I see these three elements. So, the caterer, because right now we're just controlling after 2200 hours in the catering facilities, possession of coves of certificates. So after 10:00, we have three key elements: the caterer, the guest and the inspector. Shall we be a team? Shall we share the responsibility that the guest explain to the guests why it is important for them to have a copy of the certificate, so that the guest realizes that without a single certificate, he cannot be in a closed catering facility and that the inspector is someone who counsels and who is someone who is only a supervisor when the guest is already in collaboration with the guest I have ensured that everyone has a certificate? I know this is an ideal story and I know that I am now seen by the guests who say – Mrs. Obradović, come to me after 22:00 hours to see what it looks like when a guest should be kicked out of the building because he has no covid pass or doesn't want to communicate with me at that time or to explain whether he has a covid pass or not. That's why I'm telling you about this division of responsibility between the guest, the caterer and the inspector. Will the flock of passports extend to a longer period of time, will we extend the spaces in which we will look for a pin of passes? These are the models we're going to think about and where it's very important to us what the medical department says. But on the other hand, we're also doing that balance, we're actually worried about the balance that both business and economy and that all the rights of people in Serbia are respected, whether they're vaccinated or not. Just one more thing, let me explain around the green threads of the certificate. It's not just confirmation that you are vaccinated. The green covid certificate allows you to be indoord even though you are only tested if you have a PCR test, serological or antigen test. So it's not about persecuting people, we don't want to be a police state. Simply, green certificates will be our future. The sooner we get used to it, the sooner we get organized, the easier it'll be for us to function in new normality. And I don't see this great guilt of the state, I see only great concerns of the state that it is difficult to balance between what is the health of citizens and respect for basic human rights and freedoms in Serbia. It's not easy, but if we're a team -- citizens, states, we can make a good result, and we can have a significant impact on the reduction in the number of victims of birds in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-28-0.u10170	Thank you again. The word has the People's Messenger Samir Tandir.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-28-0.u10171	Thank you first Deputy Prime Minister Ruzic, Minister Malom, Minister Obradovic for his detailed answers. It's just that in human psychology, it's that the problem is seen, and the moment he decides that no one ever mentions it anymore, because that's just what it means. That's right when it comes to economics, infrastructure and all other problems. The next set of questions I would like to refer to Minister of European Integration Jadranka Joksimovic. So, the European Commission published a Progress Report on the Western Balkan countries. Two new clusters were recommended for Serbia. Do we have reason to rejoice? What are our European perspectives, given that we have also had a number of European leaders' summits of member states of the European Union? We had a summit at Kranj, and we couldn't hear some messages that go away with optimism. Simply, the European Union, although our most important foreign policy priority, is currently busy with some internal challenges. My next question was to the Minister for Family Care and Demography. So we have a year since the constitution of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I think it's a subject that needs to be dominant today, how are you satisfied with the work of your ministry and what are some projects that we who live in our country's edged municipalities, or in the interior, meaning, the Sanjak municipalities, the east of Serbia, the Shumadi, etc., what are you going to put on a special accent? Of course, the minister without the portfolio, Tonchev, too, can answer this question. Your ministries are very important to us, because we're talking about investment for nothing if people, the youngest part of our population, are gone. We all know the situation. I've often said that from all the Sanjay municipalities we have direct buses or van lines towards Western Europe and that's some trend we have to stop. I'm just interested in the citizens, and I'm interested in what you're going to put your accent on next. I would also ask the Ministers of Human and Minority Rights -- how are you satisfied with your co-operation with national councils, and can we expect greater allocations for national councils of national minorities in the coming financial year? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-28-0.u10172	Thank you, Mr. Tandir. The word is made by Minister Joksimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-28-0.u10173	I appreciate the question. A lot has also been said about the Annual Progress Report, which is now called the Country Report, is no longer a Progress Report, but actually notes the country's progress in all areas, especially political criteria, rule of law, economic criteria, etc. And today we've just had, I've attended, there's been an online video conference of the Parliamentary Committee on Stabilisation and Association of our Parliament here, MPs in Parliament, and the European Parliament, so we've been there, I think, and with MPs enough about the report. I think we're going to have and it's in the plan to call a very certain special session where we can talk about the report. I think it deserves this and that this has already become a practice that we introduced last year, that even in Parliament, as the highest legislative body, given that Parliament has indeed many and important powers within the accession process itself, that we will have and then we will be able to talk more in detail about everything. However, your question was whether we had reason to rejoice. I don't view it in a way of joy or grief, I view it as a process that's quite complex, it takes a long time, not just for us, I even think it's changed a lot compared to the previous ten years, maybe less, compared to the way we negotiate, we have a new methodology for accession. Many are geopolitical, and I would say other circumstances have changed, from a migrant crisis that has led to a somewhat economic crisis, not to mention the pandemic of the Kovids, that we are not talking about the disturbed relations of the European Union with other non-European actors. All of this reflected, of course, the process itself and the unpopularity of the enlargement policy. But what we can be happy about this year, that might be the subject. It is that this year's report really is in line with the principles of the new methodology, made up so that in a very balanced, objective way, it recognized what the Serbian government had done. When I say the Government, it is not only the Government, it is Parliament, it is all other actors in society who have played their part in this process, without which we cannot implement a number of reforms and in this sense it has been recognised and achieved through one assessment that is going through the entire report, which is somewhere greater progress, somewhere smaller, depending on which area is defined, therefore, as limited progress or good progress or only progress, but in any case, all areas recorded as areas where Serbia in the previous reporting period, so from last year's report to this year, has made little or greater progress. Do we need to be content with the report? Well, in part given some previous reports, I think that the new methodology has given new momentum to both the European Union and the European Commission that it seems to me that it may be more stringent, but in this case, I would say one more objective way, really assessing everything that was done in the previous year, but above all, I think that they should be satisfied citizens, because all of these reforms that we have implemented in the ultimate line they concern what we want for our citizens, and that is also a more effective judiciary and easier and better access to justice and justice for every citizen anywhere in Serbia to live both of course freedoms and media and minority and all others, because Serbia is a serious, responsible, democratic country. So, of course, there are jobs in a number of areas, but I think that even during the pandemic, we have shown that we have managed to preserve the substrate of the democratic functioning of the country in the best way, to preserve both freedoms and rights, although obviously, as my colleagues had previously said, it has not always been always, it seems to me, an effective response to some pandemic challenges, but we have preserved everyone's freedom and right, which I think was a test for all countries in the European Union, not just for us in the region, but at the same time to show such an elasticity of the economy and to protect our fiscal stability, Minister Mali said much more and more professionally, but in any case, to succeed and to us on that, among other things, because we can't separate just political and economic criteria, they hand in hand with each other. The rule of law means that, among other things, there is a more predictable investment environment and certainly that Serbia has attracted the largest number of foreign direct investments from all Southeast European countries in the last year or even two years, no doubt saying that progress in the rule of law has been achieved in that segment, which of course does not mean that there is not much work left. You know very well, as an MP, how many jobs Parliament is waiting for when it comes to constitutional amendments and following laws that will lead to amendments, when adopted, and when new provisions that citizens will vote in a referendum, how to be implemented in full capacity. It'll be a new set of laws we'll have to pass. So, the process is ahead of us, there's a lot of work to do, but it's doubtless that at a time of really difficult crisis for the whole world and the European Union, we proved not to be a country that complained and rebelled because in the middle of the game, the rules of the game, or the new methodology introduced. If we were irresponsible, we could say, like, I'm not going to name some other countries, because we really support everything in the process of European integration, but we could say, right now, in the middle of our process, the rules change, they're much stricter, they're much stricter, and we could use it as an excuse for unhappiness, for inaction and one lethargy. Not that we didn't do it, but we're the only country in the region, and with full credibility, I can say, which has actively accepted the new rules of the game. We did not object, but went to work, reorganised our structures, reorganised our negotiating structures, and, most importantly, with the active support of the President of the Republic, Vukic, and Prime Minister Brnabic, as the new methodology also requires, and the new methodology requires that everyone enter the process and that everyone at the highest political level, therefore, participate in the accession process. They are fully actively involved, which has given me great motivation and momentum, I think, and the rest of the administration that others seem to be more enthusiastically involved in the reform process. Of course, this has produced results, starting with that that all the resolution ministries are really in an effective way, with the coordination of the European Integration Ministry, which is my simple role and job as a key coordinator, but indeed everyone contributed. The Ministry of Finance on Taxation Policy, Ministry of Mining and Energy about the energy sector that was very important to us in Cluster 4, Ministry of Culture for the section on the information and media and, of course, other ministries that have really contributed greatly to meeting the criteria for those chapters in the clusters of new ones that were necessary. This resulted in the fact that we are fully prepared for cluster 2, which is a cluster of inclusive growth and competitiveness in which there are as many as eight negotiating chapters. So, fully prepared to be open and cluster 4, this is the Green Agenda and a sustainable link in which there are four negotiating chapters fully prepared to be opened as the Report and notified. So we're ready for cluster 3, eight chapters, cluster 4, four chapters. It's a total of 12 chapters in two clusters. The European Commission has recognised that Serbia is fully prepared, that it has taken an up-to-date approach and that a key step can be taken that you have discussed and asked if we can expect it to happen. All of this would not have been if this second part of our big job, the huge work, where everyone took part, and especially the president, the prime minister and of course the Ministry of Justice, but all of us together, and that is this part of the progress in Cluster 1, i.e. in the rule of law. As I was saying, there has been little or greater progress in all areas. Whether this will happen, so whether we will open clusters recommended by the Commission now depends on the decision of the Member States. What's important is that we certainly don't sit on our hands, but on all levels we talk to all the countries that have possibly additional reserves and dilemmas to do everything that is up to us, although the ball is now, as the Commission said, more on their field, even Commissioner Varhej said – Serbia has done its part of the job, it is now up to us to deliver what we deserve. I've been listening a lot the last few days after the report from all the various on-call critics who said-- well, what kind of positive report is that? That is because Commissioner Varhej Hungarian, who, for God's sake, favors Serbia, has therefore received a positive intonation report. It's a synergy of such ignorance and malignancy that I really don't want to keep quiet about, because it's absolutely incorrect. This report is written on the principles of a new methodology, and by these principles the report is written by taking most of its contributions from the Member States in their findings and their analyses of the reform process, plus, of course, the academic public, the non-governmental sector. All are invited to contribute to this report, in preparation for this report. Then all this goes to all the competent directorates in the European Commission. So, both the Director of Justice and the Directorate on Energy and the Directorate on, for example, competitiveness. Well, then when all this is interinstitutionally agreed then the Director for Neighbouring Policy and Enlargement and Enlargement Policy, where Commissioner Varhay is actually in charge, then they unite all these findings and make up one report. I just wanted to clarify this one, I would say, a really perfidious message that has been implemented through on-call theorists that Serbia is actually financing reforms and that this report is also just a product of someone's affection. Not that it's not a product of someone's affection, it's a product of our serious and valuable work. Therefore, dedicated work under difficult circumstances and of course support of citizens who are doubtless of this kind of responsible policy which, in the end, with all the problems you said, the EU has and is facing itself. This does not mean that the EU is not our natural choice, that it is not our biggest investor, the largest bilateral donor, that it is not everything that we really, after all, share as one fate on the European continent, of course with the diversity of certain countries that always exist, and throughout history. It is indeed quite clear that Serbia is recognised as an entirely modern, European, resilient state, a resilient country, a serious people, a serious citizen. Indeed, I must tell you that in all conversations with top officials only have really words of praise, of course, and with criticism from time to time, that we can move faster, that we can do better, that we are late for some reforms. There are sometimes truths, and we've seen it, and that's why we've accelerated the pace, but I really think it's a serious way of saying it, and that's what this report showed. In that sense, if you're asking if we can be satisfied, I think we can be satisfied and that this is just an incentive and motivation to do more for our country, for our people, for our citizens, not just to ask what they're going to say. Of course, we care about the European Commission, but let's put all this into what the citizens will recognize as a improvement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-28-0.u10174	Thank you. The word has a minister, Tonchev.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-28-0.u10175	Dear Vice-President of the Assembly, honourable MPs, respected fellow ministers, honourable MP, I'm glad you said you were coming and living in an undeveloped municipality. I can tell you that I live in an undeveloped municipality, and I've even been president for six years in such a municipality, and I know how much help it means and any means from the Republic budget when it comes to such municipalities. By forming such a ministry, the government of Serbia and the president of the state certainly thought about underdeveloped municipalities in Serbia, and we have 44 such municipalities, and this ministry is therefore formed to make one-by-one municipalities come out of the order of the underdeveloped areas of our municipality. I always point out that, everyone says that the average salaries are much higher in Belgrade and the larger cities, and less, and that is why they are underdeveloped, but I can say from experience that costs and lives are much higher in smaller environments than in Belgrade and larger cities. Through this ministry last year, and since we have this new ministry, that we didn't even know what projects the municipalities and local self-government would have, 320 million were spent and already in May and June of the month, and these funds were transferred to all municipalities. So, as I recall, in your area they received funds and the municipalities of Sjenica, Tutin, all the municipalities received for the development of infrastructure projects, but they also got another part of the money to make new projects that we will finance in the course of 2022. Whether there will be more money in 2022, there is our finance minister, so we expect that we will have more money and that the real state should take care of underdeveloped areas, as you said, to keep both our children and our youth and everyone who wants to live and work in those parts. We have another problem with investors bypassing these municipalities, more for larger cities, but also for the government of Serbia and my ministry to work, to get investors to come and create jobs and less developed municipalities. Thank you for asking such a question, and I am very pleased that the government of Serbia and you MPs who voted for this ministry and for me as minister, take care of underdeveloped areas and that Serbia should develop evenly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-28-0.u10176	Thank you, Mr. Tandir. You have the right to plead for two minutes, if you wish. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-28-0.u10177	Thank you...
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-28-0.u10178	Excuse me, Mr. Tandir. Minister Dmitrović.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-28-0.u10179	Mr. Tandir, thank you, to repeat myself, as Tonchev said, for this drink, but thank you very much for this question. Because I have a feeling all the time, maybe he's the product of doing what I do and what else, unlike others, I'm too busy with this subject, and that's the question of demographics. I get the feeling every day that we're slowly pushing that question back on the sidelines and not paying attention to it enough, and that's the question of all the questions. That's more important, so this whole full responsibility thing I'm going to say, that's more important than what we're talking about today. Why? Because that question, we can't influence that problem, as we can affect other species' problems, as we can, take on road construction, bridges, etc., there we have deadlines, there we have financial structures, that we know when we're going to start, when we're going to finish. Here and tomorrow, to bring the measures that are on the table, and I'll say something about them, the period when those fathers give results from five to ten years, and the situation is creepy, we disappear. We're disappearing at a high speed. Someone will tell Dmitrović the same story all the time. I don't have any other option to distract myself than to repeat this. We're back at 1.4, we were at 1.53, I'm talking about the fertility rate, now we're back to 1.4 and something. I don't really know how much, since this is what the crown is doing and all the other elements are, something that no one expected. Last year, I will repeat that, last year in Serbia, a town the size of Sapca and the size of Užica disappeared in relation to the born and the dead. That's 55,000, I regret this year, so, which I'm going to assume at all, but I have to distract, it's going to be a lot more. A much greater negative result will be this year, because the fewer children are having babies, and the more they die, for various reasons. And I'm going to do this again, and I'm going to answer what you asked specifically, because you have to talk about it. It's not the question of birth rate, it's not the question of money. It's the question of consciousness. We entered a period a few decades ago that it was no longer a matter of money, but of consciousness, and changing consciousness is the hardest. It's the new Ministry, of course, I'm not saying this to complain, or justify, we've had a few months of building up and reporting to the minority as a new company, people think the government can do anything. No, if you respect the law, then you have to act and time it to respect it. Around the current state, one more sentence, what came in the first 10 months, exceeded all negative expectations. I'm talking about results. It is no better, or even in some countries in Europe, the EU, and worse, but it is no consolation. I know what you said that buses leave every night or every morning and young people, even people in years leave, for a better life. The same situation is in BiH, the same situation is in Croatia. But now look, somebody's gonna say and go back to what I said, they're gonna go there, they're gonna have more kids or they're gonna live better. That's not true. The birth rate in the richest European countries is almost the same as in Serbia. Our people, young people, I can name two names, it wouldn't be correct, some of them even my cousins, young people who went to the Western countries, very rich, and they created a family there, you know how many kids they have, they've been there for 10 years, they have one. They live incomparably better than they live here. None of the elements listed here as problematic there exist. An unsettled state, a legal system that isn't built, etc., everything here is resentful. It's not true, of course, what they're saying here in Serbia, but when they say they're looking for a quasi argument, then they mention it. And then she goes to a state that's perfectly decorated, so she can't object to anything. Not theoretically, he has one or two children. What can be done now? Someone's gonna say, "Wait, we don't stand a chance here." I'm not going to say, of course, we don't have a chance, because he wouldn't sit there, I don't have a right to tell you, I just lived better before I was a minister, I felt different, I spent so many years in journalism and I never had an imperative, nor a dream of being a minister, but now that I'm here, then I have to deal with it, I want to do it and I want to do it right to the end. When I use some formulations, then I do it very deliberately, crossing slowly and line to draw attention to the depth of this problem. It's a great success of this country and economics, and what Sinish was talking about and building so many roads and highways, but what if one day there's no vehicle, there's no one to drive there. We have some parts of Serbia, and you mentioned, of course, the area from which you come, at an extra speed, empty. It is no problem to say, it is a state issue, borderline places towards which every state, which is perfectly normal for geostrategic reasons, takes care of and watches what to do and how and how to strengthen and in a safe sense and it is not a rebus, and there are problems, again are not just Serbia, but also other, global problems, especially the problem of Europe, and to move on to measures and to cut short. If we don't do something to stop, not go up, it's big, it would be a colossal success, we'll meet like some peoples now, not to mention them, they're close to the line, which, if they cross, there's no turning back. It exists in demographics and mathematics of demographics, a line that when it passes, no more salvation, and that people disappear. We're not that close, and we're not that far from that line and it wouldn't be anything spectacular. In history we learned about the people who were, so there are none. Let's do everything we can not be witnesses one day, or our distant descendants to be or those who want to study the history of this region, textbooks, so to say, here they lived, I apologize to national minorities, and to them, of course, as citizens, some Serbs lived here, no more. There's some artifacts, there's some remains, and that's all. As far as the measure is concerned, my Ministry, or I, on behalf of the Ministry, handed over a set of measures that I believe, if I didn't believe, I wouldn't be here again or teaching them, to the president of the State and the Prime Minister. That's a very difficult question. Here's Sinisha here, and that's, of course, about finance, and now someone's going to say, "Oh, yeah, Dmitri, it's important money, and it's important money because it's about the budget in this case." So, I'm not talking about the macro situation, not the micro situation, the family and the individual, but I'm talking about whether the budget can withstand these measures and not this year until the end, not next year, but for a long time, whether we're in a situation, so, what's proposed, I won't, I'm sorry, I can't mention any of these measures, but hopefully it's very fast, we'll talk again in continuity, we'll go out and see in public what is sustainable, and we'll announce what those measures are, which we believe can ease the situation, and on the demographic plan, as we say on other plans here several times, for Serbia to be seen, for Serbia to be recognized in Europe as someone with such an extremely difficult problem to deal with in a special way and with some special ideas. And so, to say the same thing, we studied other people's experiences and we talked to a large number of young couples, with people looking at it their way, and so far we've visited about 75 municipalities of local communities, self-government, by the end of the year, about 100, 110, so we're in the field all the time, and there are examples that never occurred to any of us, and then you see that people really live with that problem, but they can't do it alone. So on local self-government, they apply some measures, first child, second child, third, etc. Benefiti various, and stimulating. But then they remember, so they make something that's extra, which was welcomed at the bar and what we took and as examples, we'll see what and how we can do about it. Once again, thank you and I invite all of you, dear colleagues, that this problem, this is not a problem, of course, not this ministry, not this government, it is a problem for all of us, that wherever you can talk about it, wherever you can potentiate it. This is the problem of all problems, I repeat it, and I repeat myself often, and we do it on purpose. This is the problem with all the problems. This is a problem whether it's gonna be us or not. It's very simple. And it's a big deal that in recent years, especially since 2017, 2018, when measures have been adopted, we've talked about it at all. No one mentioned demographics before, except for the people who do the team professionally. I owe my gratitude to all my colleagues in the government and the Prime Minister, and especially to the President of the State of Vukic, who is an absolute problem, and which, unlike many others, seems to me to be occasionally, talking about successes, about what might be in our favor to praise, he says - but people if we're not there, well, yes, but people if we're not there, then what? Let us do all we can to be, not to be remembered through textbooks, but to have our descendants there. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-28-0.u10180	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Comic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-28-0.u10181	Thank you. To the question that we have already received several times about how we are satisfied with the work of national councils, each time we answer the same question. We've set things upside down. We ask national advice on how they are satisfied with the work of the ministry, because we believe in two things -- that each ministry, so is the Ministry of Human, Minority and Social Dialogue, above all, the tool of its users and the first meeting with all the national councils last November was just that. We are a tool for you, what it is that national councils in Serbia need, what it is that they want, what it is that they care about, what it is that we can identify through dialogue, as some kind of plan to solve the problem. Just as Minister Dmitrovic mentioned one important topic, it is, for example, a topic that we all share in Serbia, all national minorities and most -- we don't have children, we don't give birth to children. There is no atmosphere in which we believe it is desirable enough, that it is friendlyly oriented towards the birth of children and no children, any ethnic origin or national origin. I'd like it to bring us together. If we don't have to talk, nothing else, as most and as national minorities, we have about what we all lack children. What was it when we said we were tools? What did we get as a request? We have been asked to discuss finance, of course, without the awareness of both the Prime Minister and the Finance Minister, that the money allocated for the needs of national councils should never be seen as a cost, no matter how much it costs, but as money given for education or money given to repair the atmosphere in which women and men will want to give birth, that money is an investment. Thanks to the dialogue with them, the resources financed by national councils remained the same in 2021, as in 2020, with the hope that by 2022 we will achieve some percentage increase and return to payment in advance, for the functioning of national councils. Also, in collaboration with the Ministry of Finance dialogue, we have arranged a budget fund for all associations, institutions and all that civil society is related to national councils, which is a kind of side line, which through projects, through Serbia's competitions finance the activation of national councils. For special tasks in the ministry, State Secretary Ninoslav Jovanovic is in charge, because we have a special sector dealing exclusively with the Roma as national minorities, but a national minority who is not strong enough to sit flat for the table with everyone else, but we must also have a strategy for special inclusion of Roma. She's almost done and will be in front of the government in December. And for all minorities, apart from saying that we are their tools, we have a clear attitude, that the most difficult thing anyone who belongs to a minority is to bear is a patronizing attitude towards them, a patronizing attitude, when any of the majority comes to you, so it's explained to you that he knows better than you how to live. It's something we need to remove and it's a joint job and national councils and ministries. The co-ordination of national councils had an initiative towards the Ministry of Education Strategy. They all worked together, came to us, asking for social dialogue, about the 2030 Education Strategy. We addressed the Ministry of Education and found through dialogue a solution to the satisfaction of representatives of national councils. So I'm telling you that all that needs to be the ministry's assessment, on national councils, on members of national minorities of all, is to say whether there are any feelings of better quality in their lives. It is not enough to measure this by international institutions, and measures by both the Council of Europe and the OSCE and the High Commissioner, today it has been visited with State Secretary Olena Papug, measures that Serbia is serious about building a policy of minority rights and a culture of minority rights, it is more important for us than all these people, that all the people in Serbia we serve as a tool, say whether we are doing what we do. Here, let me give you an example from yesterday or the day before yesterday. In Vojvodina, in Begec, a threatening letter was sent to the Slovak bishop about the request to move Slovaks out of Begec, about the requirement that they no longer live there together, which is abnormal, of course. But we had a joint reaction and the mayor of Novi Sad and the local community Begec and Secretary of State Ninoslav Jovanovic and the president of the Slovak Council of Libuska Lakatos, to say that this is the exception, that neither Serbia nor Slovakia nor Serbs nor Hungarians, that such people are everywhere and will be vassed. That's not the problem. The problem is if there are any of us who are going to say it - you can't, you can't think of it as popular, you're spreading hate for anyone because it's different and you're driving anyone out of his village where he lives for 300 years. These are topics that we open with all minorities, with all national councils through an extremely sincere dialogue and we know the list of biggest problems and we want to make all arrangements and advices and the Ministry of Education on language, on the use of expression, on their identity. With the Albanian national minority, we will likely have half of January a special social dialogue on points they agree with the government of Serbia in 2013. With all the other national minorities, we are here to prove that we are a tool and to prove to others, but because of the two of us living together, that we have always been someone who is prone to living differently and who is prone to liking different cultures, is this diversity, what Europe is in great, that is Serbia in small with its 23 national councils and with almost 800,000 people who are of some origin, and always live together. Whether we will also hear positive assessments from national councils as from international institutions, I don't know how to tell you, but we will call them at a meeting a year later to hear the most sincere criticisms, remarks, demands to prove that we are a tool to build human rights and minority rights policies.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-28-0.u10182	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Samir Tandir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-28-0.u10183	Thank you, dear Minister Comic. So, apart from the ministry being a tool, what is among other things is monitoring the work of national councils. I absolutely agree that we do not need to salt their minds, but they too must show a certain degree in accordance with the law and regulations of responsibility and that all of what the law allows, to be used, and not to be misused, and that national councils become the instrument of a party. That's it. As far as Minister Tonchev and Dmitrovic's reply is concerned, I want to thank you for the exhaustive answers. I really agree that the issue of demographics is the key problem of our country, our region and Europe, but our responsibility is our country. You can't see that from Belgrade. You, when you go out to Prince Michael's, the malls, on the Terrace, you see a huge number of young people, a huge number of people, a huge number of tourists. I can say that in some afternoons or evenings there are municipalities in our country where you can't meet anyone. It's something that's very, very important to us, and I don't think there should be any obstacle to that money, and it should be a question mark. I heard support from the president of the state. It's something I'm really happy about. I expect that in the budget for next year your ministry and the Ministry of Agriculture, these are some ministries that may not belong to some top press ministry, but for us people who come from the marginal municipalities are really vital and we expect in the next period that we will intensify co-operation, that we will do concrete things to stop this process, then and to reverse it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-28-0.u10184	Thank you. The word is given by MP Branimir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-28-0.u10185	Thank you, Vice President. Dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues, the Parliamentary Committee on Stabilisation and Association was held today in the Serbian Assembly, a more accurate meeting of the Parliamentary Committee on Stabilisation and Association and discussed with counterparts from Brussels on further co-operation, i.e. Serbia's path to the EU. That is why my next question concerns and I refer it to Minister for European Integration Jadranka Joksimovic. I'll be specific. Of course, we all look forward to a positive signal from Brussels to open clusters three and four, and perhaps it's a better thing that we've heard that Serbia has met the standards for opening these clusters, so nothing has been given to us. It is nice to hear when messages arrive from Brussels that we are committed to EU accession, but in particular, clusters 3 and 4. We, of course, accepted a new methodology. I am interested in what our basics are now, since you said yourself that we have already opened some chapters in these areas, and what should be fulfilled further in order to successfully close these clusters, since it is a completely different methodology compared to the beginning of how we started accession negotiations with the EU? Of course, these areas also concern environmental protection, so I would also like to hear the opinion of Minister Irene Vujovic on the Green Agenda, Energy, etc. In previous months, the Serbian Parliament debated and we adopted very important laws concerning climate change and the Law on Renewable Energy Sources and Energy Efficiency. The third cluster also opened several chapters concerning economic and monetary policies, entrepreneurial and industrial policies, science, research, education, culture and the Customs Union. Another question – how much will it be for us that we have opened these chapters that cover these clusters to further facilitate our work to successfully complete the process, when I am talking specifically about these topics? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-28-0.u10186	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Joksimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-28-0.u10187	Thank you. The logic of the process is that it has its steps, it has sometimes criteria for opening chapters, in this case now clusters for some activities that must be implemented in the meantime to go towards the criteria for closing chapters. The criteria are very clear and they are famous. So there's so-called. aki communitre, therefore, common achievements of the EU. That's what we get along with. So these are standards from all areas, so the lives that are grouped into these 35 chapters, which are now grouped into six clusters. So, every area of intellectual property rights to companies' rights, to consumer protection and public health, I now just so randomly cite some of the chapters, these are the standards that we agree with and, within a certain time period, adopt and transpose into our legal system, and it starts to make yours as they apply to EU citizens, and thus we become a convergence EU. So, we belong to the EU common market and, of course, to the fact that, as when you become a member of the EU, EU law applies to you, and that it would apply to both your people and your working relations and when it comes to banking relations, when it comes to a number of other things, so it's simply the logic of the process itself. That doesn't happen overnight. These are difficult and, I would say, very demanding reforms, especially in the area of rule of law, because there are the highest standards in the world, precisely EU standards. Of course, they have problems and that they are in practice and that they are suffering challenges, crises, etc., but it is still considered to be the highest level of the standard of freedom and the rights of individuals and citizens, and in that sense it is the logic of the process to do so, therefore, for your own citizens. What do clusters mean then? I tried to clarify that change in the new methodology. I think it's important because citizens listen and want to know what it's really about. We've negotiated 35 chapters. That means every chapter we've negotiated individually. If the chapter, let's say, is the 23rd rule of law, it was about 24 - freedom of justice and security, but these are key chapters that measure the rule of law. If we had the environment, it was just like Chapter 27 - the environment, and at the same time... I understand that MPs from my group may not be interested, but I would ask, because it is very important, and the MP has asked a very important question. This should interest everyone. So Chapter 27 was negotiated individually, so environmental protection. A very demanding, very difficult chapter, financially demanding, standardly demanding, especially now that we have new objectives of the Green Agenda and when Europe's plans for climate neutral Europe are ambitiously set, as the first climate neutral continent by 2050, and some countries have committed themselves even before that 2050. Now, look, it's not just a matter of health, it's, first of all, a health issue, but it's a question of new economic growth, what it's going to look like, whether it's going to happen, but it's a matter of a major transformation that the whole of Europe is entering, and, of course, we're not going to cough, we're going to be at the beginning, but we're going to get into that queen of change, and that's exactly what Minister Mali was talking about and Minister Vujovic and we're working on it every day. This Chapter 27 is no longer negotiated individually. It is now part of cluster four, which refers to the common European climate change policy, so the Green Agenda and sustainable integration. In that cluster are still transport, trans-European networks and, also, energy, as very important, and the environment. What does that mean now? When we are ready to open clusters four, as the Commission said, this means that we in all four chapters - transport, trans-European networks, environments and energy have met all the criteria for opening all these chapters. I must tell you that they are not simple, nor small, especially when it comes to energy where it is the basis for us to even think about opening clusters four was in the energy chapter to create an action plan for the separation of "Serbiagas", the separation of "Serbigas". I have to tell you that these were extensive and not so simple activities of the entire government. Of course, the Ministry of Energy, but also the entire government. It's not just a technical question, it's a political question. So I wanted to explain on this case what a cluster really means. It's the same with cluster three. There are eight negotiating chapters there. You're right, some of them are open. There are, among other things, Chapter 10 – Information Society and the media, Chapter 16 – Taxation, 17 – Economic and Monetary Policy, 19 – Social and Employment Policy, Chapter 20 – Entrepreneurship and Industrial Policy and here, of course, as you mentioned, science and education, that is Chapter 25, that is, science and research, and 26 – Education and Culture and Chapter 29 – Customs Union. See how many different aspects of the topic where we agree on our legislation that will start to apply to our citizens the moment chapters are closed and the cluster is closed in the same way, in the same standards as in the EU Member States. It'll be a condition for closing. When we introduce everything into our legal system, when it all starts to work, when we agree with everything, but we will not be able to close the cluster before the cluster one is closed, and that is the rule of law, when it is assessed politically that Serbia is all that is important from the rule of law able to transpose successfully into its legal system. To be clear, it will be a political decision. It is clear that there is no rule of law – Aki communitre. So there's not one pattern that we agree with when it comes to, say, judicial reform. It doesn't exist. Each country in Europe had a different model, a different history, a different political culture, a different institutional culture and institutional development, and therefore there were some, let's say, democratic ways, but specific to their political tradition and culture. It was the role of the Venice Commission in what we did through judicial reform. How are we going to get into our system in line with the highest democratic practices and values, while at the same time being in line with what is feasible in our political tradition and political system? And there was an extremely important opinion from the Venice Commission, which is a set of Europe's most prominent lawyers and wider than Europe, who gave us an extremely favourable opinion on our proposal for constitutional amendments that should now, of course, be coming and you know it in parliament, and then that a referendum is being organised, after we get the opinion of the Venice Commission on the referendum law that we are also waiting to get somewhere, I think, in early December, and we hope it will be positive that we can move on in that direction. Therefore, every step is really important, it is of great importance for the new methodology when we open the cluster because we show that Serbia already has that area in this case, for example, the areas of the Green Agenda, has taken a serious approach, that we have already done a lot of work and that we will have even more available funds available for the area and common policies in this case through the Economic and Investment Plan for the Western Balkans, for projects from the green agenda, the environment, the fight against climate change and decarbonisation, all of these major objectives that are on the EU agenda. So we've already done a lot by getting in a position to be ready for all these two cluster chapters, but that doesn't mean business ends. When we open the cluster, there are transitional criteria for certain topics. So, exactly within clear deadlines, we need to adopt a certain law, a sublegal act, to form some specific areas of certain steps, and to go towards these opening criteria, which will mean that we have fully agreed with a specific policy that is also in force in the EU. I tried one simple way to bring the citizens closer. These are day-to-day things, day-to-day reforms. These are all these laws that we adopt and that enter into force. It is also the Climate Change Act recently defended by Vujovic here and a number of other laws related to this Climate Change Act and of course everything else. Now I'm just taking something for example, but there are a number of areas and protection of intellectual property rights and freedom of movement of capital and freedom of movement of workers and a number of other areas, and in this sense I really want to say that this process is actually a process of our daily reforms, but it's a political decision and I will always agree. Sometimes we work as hard and as hard and as hard as we did some previous years. It's not like we didn't do anything, so now suddenly we get a positive report. It was a different negotiation. We've worked a lot. There was no political will either. I think there is one more perspective now, and I would say one better atmosphere towards continuing the process and policy of the enlargement process, especially when it comes to Serbia. There will always be countries that will make their political demands towards Serbia and that we understand each other. It's part of the process, and it was all about all the countries, but I really do, and I'm as proud and confident as I am in this process as I am always in charge of everything this country does and can do and all our citizens and capacities and I think it's recognized and that's why I agree with you that and how important it is that we take this step and open up the clusters and then we go even faster into reforms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-28-0.u10188	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Vujovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-28-0.u10189	Thank you very much. Of course, in line with your question and to refer to Serbia's commitment, as Minister Joksimovic spoke about, when it comes to the Green Agenda – we also accepted the ministry, which is headed by the co-ordinator and is implementing the whole green agenda process and we are very committed to this process. Now I would like to inform you about what has been done on the pillars of the Green Agenda and of course what is waiting for us above all when we talk about the chapter of climate, energy and mobility. The law is also important, as Minister Joksimovic said, and you know it well here because you have actively participated in its adoption and debate, the Climate Change Act and we have an extremely important document. In accordance with the law, the National Council for Climate Change was subsequently formed, and a strategy for low-carbon development was built, whose adoption is pending. So we're working intensively on it, and of course we bring in all the documents we need. When we talk about mobility, I can't help but mention that this year it was also in force, the Regulation on eco- and hybrid subsidies, and that's what's extremely important. So, and the funds, it knows well and the finance minister, were significantly increased compared to the previous year and the great interest of the citizens was. It is evenly distributed across Serbia's cities and municipalities, and it is also one of the important ways to raise people's awareness and the importance of preserving the environment. The second pillar – a circular economy, is also extremely important. It is currently a matter of building a strategic document that produces a Technological Metal Faculty, creating a document with an action plan that will be completed by the end of the year and we are also committed to sustainable development and, of course, moving from linear to circular model when we talk about waste management and it will also be extremely important to us. Then we have a pillar – biological diversity. We passed the Nature Protection and Nature Protection Act in the Republic of Serbia from 2021 to 2023. The fourth pillar, of course, of what we are somehow most touched and what is most commented is certainly the fight against air, water and land pollution. When we talk about the documents that we have brought and which are in the works, above all, the air protection programme will be adopted with an action plan by the end of this year. We're working hard on it. Also, the waste management strategy in the Republic of Serbia and the Waste Management Act are in the works. Protecting from noise in the environment is a document that has already been adopted. It's also a strategy and environmental protection in the building. We are working intensively to adopt documents and their harmonisation with EU laws. So, teams at the ministry work day and night, of course, with foreign partners and consultants, and hopefully when we bring in all those documents, we'll be able to work faster and more correctly. What is important when we talk about the fourth pillar is the fight against air, country and water pollution again, and I would like to mention what it was that the ministry was doing in the previous period and we expect the results very quickly – first of all, competitions to combat air pollution for the replacement of boiler rooms in public institutions, through units of local self-government. They've run for their projects where they can move on to greener energy and now it's in the process of realising works in many cities. There I must always mention that we will change the city's heat, the boiler in Valjevo, Koserić, in Novi Pazar, it is already over. Yesterday, I was in Kragujevac, one of the largest projects in progress, worth 18m euros -- the replacement of a boiler room in the city's heat plant in Kragujevac in energy. What's even more important when we're talking about Kragujevac is that we're going to resuscitate and shut down the ash dump. In fact, when the ash boilers are replaced, and what we're working on right now is to see how we would respect the principles of the circulatory economy and actually see what it is that can be recycled, this existing ash in the ashes is likely to be used according to the first forecasts in building roads as building material and soon moving and closing that dump. What is also important to mention, the town of Smederevo, is also a city boiler room, but nothing less important is individual bars. So, a replacement in the household. I use every opportunity to call for co-operation even better, units of local self-government that exactly as many as they have funds or to predict funds in some future budgets that they also co-finance replacements in households. It's already done by Uzice and, of course, some other cities, but it's necessary for everyone to get involved because they're also large polluters of exactly individual padlocks. It's very important. We've set aside 100 million dinars for shaming. It's almost season, so in November, I'd like us all to plant together and draw attention to how important it is. As Minister Mali said, above all, and to thank him, because in co-operation with the Finance Ministry, Serbia and the first country in the region to broadcast green bonds for the first time at a billion-euro level, and these funds are exclusively intended for green capital projects. So, in the next period, we're waiting for the construction of a waste treatment plant here. What is a prerequisite for this is a sewage network across Serbia that is missing in many municipalities, so we cannot start building plants, because we still have to design and build a missing sewer. Regional and recycling centres, hence the closure of non-sanitary dumps that many municipalities and cities have used for decades. The processing and recycling of waste, as extremely important, investment in renewable energy sources, conservation of biodiversity, prevention of pollution. So we will certainly use that billion in the best possible way, because even bigger investments are needed. What's also important, and what the Ministry is doing where we're looking for big investments and the need is a big asset that we don't have right now, but we've already started to solve. It's a problem of historical waste. Historical waste was created in bankruptcy or privatisation factories back in the 2000s, and you exactly when you go to those locations, you see what it was like in the previous period and what it looks like, and closed factories in which only waste that was lost to the environment and represents real ecological disasters, whether it's soil, water or air pollution. So even if it was stored properly, this packaging has already corroded for this time factor, cracked, and that waste is spilling, because we are talking about dangerous waste. Therefore, in the next period we will clean up a lot of factories, it is above all obligations and states, and certainly it is also one thing that significantly endangers the environment and what the citizens and representatives of local self-government units have constantly pointed to. So we're going to fight it. Of course, all you know and what we've already talked about and what we communicate in public is the closure of the dump. What's important is that we close down dumps where waste has been properly delayed for decades and that we manage to deal with these fires at dumps, because sometimes it happens that we both put out fire or it's difficult to put it out, that it's still quieting, and that we can't completely shut down that dump because we don't have another location where the citizens of those municipalities, or their public enterprises, would postpone the waste. It is therefore extremely important, and I am using every opportunity to mention eight regional centres, which we will build with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. So the construction is starting, i.e. the selection for the contractors, already early next year at four regional centres. So when we talk about eight regional centres, 50 municipalities will gravitate towards it, of course it's just the beginning, but it will significantly change Serbia's best ecological picture and that the problem of solid waste in our country is one of the biggest problems definitely. Once again, let me underline, because these days there's talk of aero-pollution intensely. So, we have a problem with air, air pollution we can't solve in the day, it's long processes, processes that cost enormously, but we're committed to it, and we've also recognized this problem and we're solving one city at a time, one school, kindergarten, hospital, wherever there are these energies that are no longer environmentally acceptable. So they never were, we're trying to figure it out. So, the quality of the air cannot be improved in the day, no one has a magic wand and we all have to make efforts to resolve it, and the state shows responsibility and also shows this government and the Prime Minister, who is constantly pointing out and protecting the environment as one of the priorities, is talking about it, of course, and increasing the budget, so we certainly are trying, but we also need to raise awareness of all of us, and just this topic has to unite us all, and not to separate us and watch who's guilty because it's certainly the ones in the past who haven't done anything before, and now they're the first when we need to be criticised, but we simply have to solve it with common forces. The issue of air quality is also one of the most important and when we bring in the air quality programme for the Republic of Serbia by the end of the year, we will have clear guidelines. Until then, we're changing boiler rooms. We're going for more acceptable organic energy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-28-0.u10190	Thank you. Mr. Jovanovic, you have the right to speak again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-28-0.u10191	Thank you, Vice President. The next question was addressed to the finance minister. It seems to me that for years behind us, there's a question about the vehicle registration tax, and I hear more and more from the citizens, and they're asking me the same question. There's this illogical thing going on, and that's the so-called. A luxury tax, as we call it. There is a illogicality to say the market value of the car is, because of its age, the performance is low on the market, and that when someone comes to register that same car, they have to pay and how high the price of registration. I've done a few examples. Let's say "pejo" 607, 3.0, 3,000 ccs, gasoline, 2003 cost 1,500 euros a year, and its registration costs about 95,000 dinars, or about 800 euros. Therefore, half of its market value. Or, for example, "folcvagen" of 5,000 cubic ccs from 2005, 3,650 euros is its market value, and registration is required precisely because of this cubicity of 5,000 cc's, to single out 1,460 euros. And the table shows what the difference is in those prices. For example, for Cubic vehicles between 1,300 and 1,600 cc's of tax is 5,470 dinars, from 1,600 to 2,000 cc's is 11,210 and from 2,500 to 3,500 cc's of tax is 112,000 dinars. Whether to find a different model for this taxation, when we talk about this, because we simply can't call a car a luxury that costs 1,500 euros or 2,000 euros and is 17, 18 years old. It can't be a luxury car. The luxury are 20,000, 25,000 euros and is it possible to apply some different model of taxation by which the tax would be paid on the basis of the vehicle's catalogical value? I think even that way, if we made a good table, there wouldn't be anything less inflow in the tax-based budget, and yet it would be more just. Thank you. President: thank you. The word is Minister Mali.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-28-0.u10192	Thank you very much, Mr. Jovanovic. I'm glad you asked this question. It's about one problem we've seen, one we're aware of. What I would like to say to both you and the citizens of Serbia, together with the 2020 budget, will also be before you the amendments to the Property Tax Act and the transfer of absolute rights. That's where we're going to go out with a proposal on how to solve this big problem. So instead of years of production being the ones that determine the tax to be paid, it's going to be the cubicity of the engine itself. You have some coefficients that are multiplying, depending on several factors, but in any case, by the end of the year, we will adopt that law, precisely because we have had a lot of comments from Serbian citizens, a lot of comments from all those whose existing solution is not logical. I just want to let you know, I'll be here to defend all these laws, but along with the 2020 budget and the amendments to these laws, they're about to regulate that problem. Otherwise, only a legal solution will allow much faster and much simpler to complete the whole process, because now that you are looking at both the age of the vehicle and the cubicity and where they are from and how they are from and so on. It takes a lot of documents, it takes a lot of time, this is going to be much faster and more efficient. So, as you can see, despite some pandemic of the virus's coronary, despite this whole, let me say, global economic crisis, we're thinking and solving specific problems. So this problem will be resolved by the end of the year and since 1 January 2022 we are going to implement it. What I would take advantage of the opportunity to say, when you already mentioned changes to the laws that await us, in my opinion, what is very important, two legislative solutions, two major projects that we started as the Ministry of Finance, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia, is the process of new fiscalization and the process of introducing new e-factures. So we want to build a more competitive, more transparent business environment in our country. We have since Monday, so Monday is November 1st, starting with the introduction of a new fiscalization system in our country. According to our businessmen' demands, we'll have a transitional period by the end of April next year. So, for the next six months, we're going to have an existing and new model of fiscalization, and then just a new one. This new one is an entirely modern, modern system. I'll remind you that the existing fiscalization system dates back to 2003. What is particularly important to me is that as a government, as a state, we will fully bear the costs of introducing a new system. So we also offer 100 euros per sales place, 100 euros per fiscal device, so that in such a way we will greatly increase efficiency when it comes to curbing the grey economy. It's a great benefit to our businessmen. In addition to not having some of the costs that they now have, such as those paper control tapes that we will no longer have, regular or necessary annual fiscal account services, this new system will allow the fiscal account to be issued from both the mobile phone and the tablet. So let's keep up with time. What is particularly important to me is that Serbian citizens will also participate in the process much more actively. Namely, every fiscal account under the new system will also have an "ar code". So, on the spot by scanning that account with a mobile phone, it can be determined whether or not the account is valid, so we will also have greater support for citizens when checking the validity of fiscal accounts and, of course, the success of the fight against the gray economy. Today I also handed the keys to three apartments for the lucky winners of the award game "Take the Account and Win". We've finished this award game for this year. So, I handed over the keys to two apartments in the "Zemunska Kapija" settlement in Belgrade, one apartment in the settlement "Belgrade on Water". Believe it or not, there are over 13 million envelopes in that big pool. So people's awareness of fighting the gray economy, about why and how fiscal accounts should be taken is growing. So I told you in terms of budget rebalancing for this year that we only did this rebalancing because we have 183 billion dinars more charged than planned. So that's over 1.5 billion euros. Our economy shows great resilience, economic activity is extremely large, much larger than planned. Simply, what we want, why I mentioned that fiscalization, so through the process of fiscalization, the introduction of e-factures, so you know, and again, that law you passed at the end of last year, so, by the end of next year, we won't have those paper invoices anymore. So all invoices will be electronic. This will, of course, also enable VAT recovery, which is one of the biggest demands of our businessmen in the same day. So we're building a more transparent environment, more competitive, to say, what they're used to and what the standards are, after all, and in some very developed countries than our own. Then your question is, to go back to the beginning, when some, I would say, are obsolete, some outdated solutions or solutions that are from some ancient past, such as the collection of that tax that took into account not only the cubicity of the engine, but also the age of the vehicle, so we solve that, as I would say, on a daily basis. I'm glad to have the opportunity with the budget to defend the new laws that apply to the budget inspection. This new law, which will be, or amends the Property Tax Act, transfer of absolute rights, I think we will have a few more laws on tax policies that are also very important. Despite the pandemic of the Crown of the Virus and this economic crisis, so we fight on all fronts, we try, what my fellow ministers said, to provide money for all initiatives, from the development of agriculture, through inspection supervision, what Mary was talking about. Irena talked about the Green Agenda, the Adriatica also talked about wanting us to comply with all EU standards in the shortest time period, the minister talked about birth and investment in the area. We never, as you know, invest in highways, in the construction of tunnels, bridges, railways, in health care, in school too. So on all fronts we want to make progress. What is of great importance to us, of course, except for the rule of law, which the Adriatica said, that in those laws relating to tax policy, if we are already talking about my portfolio, these laws are encouraging, simply to create a better and more transparent environment for all participants in, to say, a fiscal process, but also not only to be stimulating, but also to be simple and quick to apply. So I look forward to the discussion that I will have with you on this during the discussion of the amendments to these laws together with the 2020 budget. I hope you'll pass the amendments to that law in order to solve this problem right now. That's great news for you, too, big news for the citizens of Serbia, but also another confirmation that we hear what problems are and that we solve these problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-28-0.u10193	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Could any of the government's representatives be reporting for an answer right now? Mr. Jovanovic, you have the right to a conclusion, two minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-28-0.u10194	Thank you. I am very pleased with the answers and the Minister of Finance and the Minister for Environmental Protection and the Minister for European Integration. Their answers show that we are really ready to solve problems concretely, step by step. Accordingly, I must also consider the fact that a year has passed since this government was formed. I will remind you that at that time in the exhibition, the Prime Minister stated that we are working to achieve six objectives, namely six priority topics, which is the fight against Kovida, KIM, the fight against organised crime, Serbia's independent decision, the rule of law and the acceleration of reforms continue to be an economic strengthening. Indeed, the conclusion is that in all these areas we have been dedicated to both members of the government and Parliament that progress has been made in each area. Finally, when we draw the line at the end of each term, we will see the result, and the result is seen how much better Serbian citizens are living, whether the higher salaries, how many jobs we have provided new ones, what social policy is, whether they all have the same access to health and education, and obviously, from day to day we show that we are very committed to working responsibly on all these issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-28-0.u10195	Thank you. According to the order of applications, the word is now being made by MP Vojislav Vujic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-28-0.u10196	Thank you, Your Honor. At the beginning of asking questions on behalf of your JS parliamentary group, I congratulate you all present ministers, and also those who for legitimate reasons today are not with us to congratulate this anniversary. I'm counting on you to continue at the same pace, because this so far, everything we've heard is going in the direction of praise. I ask for now no one individually, you agree, I ask the question to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, of course on behalf of the JS parliamentary group, what does the Citizens' Protector do about everyday attacks and lies that violate the reputation of the Republic of Serbia's institutions, but also attack the most responsible individuals in the country? On the side of the attack, I'm asking here if Alexander Vukic is a citizen, are members of his family citizens? If they are, and they are, then why doesn't the Protector of the Citizens use his powers and protect Alexander Vukic, as well as members of his family, against the heinous attacks and lies? We're asking the question here why isn't the Guardian responding? He well knows that in our Code of Criminal Procedure there is no act of slander, but there are laws that protect citizens' rights. The protection of citizens must protect the rights of all citizens, including Alexander Vukic and members of his family. How long will someone destroy the system, muddying not Alexander Vukic as a citizen, but as president of the Republic of Serbia? That's what people who are out of parliament today do, because they boycotted the elections, and not just the elections, they boycotted the state that gave them everything and took everything from them when they were in opportunity and when they were in power. We are asking the question here, is the Protector of the Citizens what he needs to be and what his function name tells him, or is he the protector of his salary, and the protector of those who are ready for power to invent the most difficult and heinous lies, and who deal with threats and the making of affairs? If the Guardian of the Citizens will continue to remain silent and to act deaf and blind, then let him resign. If it is true that he receives the salary of 400,000 dinars, which are four salaries of MPs, here are colleagues who correct, five salaries of MPs, without reacting as an independent and independent body, then he does not fulfil his constitutional and legal role and thus receives unearned wages. That's why we in the J.S. are asking a question, what does the Guardian of Citizens do and if he doesn't do anything, or says he can't, then why doesn't he resign? There may be someone who will be able to respond to the needs of such an important institution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-28-0.u10197	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-28-0.u10198	As you said, Your Honor, you are not sure who this issue is for, for which member of the government, I would also return the ball to you, that the Citizens' Protector is reporting to Parliament and that perhaps the right address for this debate is within the board of directors. What I can say at this point, I agree with you that it's really strange that we don't have a response from the Citizens' Protectors so far, because the citizen Alexander Vukic is certainly someone, if we don't mention family members who are under a lot of pressure every day, not just pressure, but, not just political pressure, and psychological pressure, it's really a kind of terror that's being carried out over the Vucic family, over all the members. Since during yesterday's multi-hour discussion during the amendment of the Law on the Protector of Citizens, which is now under way, so yesterday, we had a debate in principle, and during the following week we will talk in detail, I think that during yesterday's debate that lasted about nine hours, in total, five or six hours really were the MPs of different parties talking about why the Guardian of Citizens did not respond to these daily attacks and terrors being carried out against the Vukic family. So, today you just sublimated yesterday's debate and really spoke for many MPs who said the same thing during yesterday, and given that MPs are indeed the voice of Serbian citizens, then it should be multiplied by the citizens you represent, that actually the Citizens' Protector sees how many hundreds of thousands of people, who want an answer to the question - why does the Protector not react and protect the Vukic family? At this point, it is really becoming a serious political issue. I also spoke during yesterday about an atmosphere that is being created in society, where by constantly mentioning members of the Vukic family in a negative context, they simply become someone who is beginning to suspect. And all of us, mostly SNS people, defend, but it also seems that our defenses don't reach people. We've created an atmosphere where you blacken out, jargonically speaking, one family, just because one of the members of the president of the state, because he's doing his job well, and some political scum in Serbia doesn't like it, which is why the whole family is on the pillar of shame, and all of us who defend and say it's not true, we become somehow part of a boring daily life. We can't let that happen. I think we should continue to be even louder, be more specific and look for actions like your request today. Let's see if some institutions in Serbia protect the Vukic family. I don't want to be someone who's pathetic, because it's already attributed to us, who defends the Vukic family, and to say that someone's children are hit, and that they're the target, and every official and every politician whose children are mentioned and was part of a political struggle knows how much it hurts and how unfair it is. Well, I haven't even heard the opposition politicians, let's sort of understand it, but certainly the institutions to stand up for the defense, I haven't heard that. I agree, a number of demands should be made and an action taken by the institutions to respond, to see how long they want to exhaust psychologically, in all other ways, the Vukic family and whether they expect that if it continues at this pace, Aleksandar Vukic will have to give in, because he will have to choose between his family and Serbia. I don't think that's the test we're supposed to put Alexander Wolfiche on, to which we should expose him, nor is it a dilemma for him. Both topics are equally important, both Serbia and the family, if I can call them topics at all, are life priorities. Each of us should never have a dilemma between the state and the family. They're equally important we just have to think about how long we're gonna let someone put us in this dilemma. I know that all the advances, now I hear from you from JS, that it is important to you to say – stop terror to the Vukic family. Thank you for your support. Serbia's citizens need to see that progressors are not the only ones who care about the Vucic family and are asking to stop it, but others should be louder as well. Today it's the Wolf family, tomorrow it'll be someone else. Thank you for that question, keep it open, and let those to whom it is addressed make sure that they deliver an answer to your question to the public.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-28-0.u10199	Mr. Vujic, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-28-0.u10200	Thank you for your response to the Minister. I agree with you, except for one thing I disagree with. So, absolutely everything you said stands in place, but we don't need to be the ones who say the question should remain open. No, I asked this because we finally need that question to close and put an end to it. You said at the beginning, I could move the ball to your field. Neither of us as MPs are transferring this ball to you, nor is that where you need to return it to us. We from the JS have eight MPs, to do something concrete about it, we just need to get 126 together and then put an end to it, so we don't keep this issue open, if you understand. The second issue is about fighting the Kovid 19 epidemic and the vaccination process. In fact, the state has done everything in this regard. Since no one had respirators, we got them in sufficient quantities. In order not to get into a situation where there aren't enough beds for covid patients, the state has built three coves of hospitals in Batajnica, Kruševec and Novi Sad. When far more developed countries had no vaccine, our country acquired four vaccines. We were the first to start the vaccination. Today, however, we have just crossed a little over 50% of the vaccines. A strong anti-vaxer propaganda has done its part. We in the JS understand the question of human rights, even the right to be against the vaccine, there is absolutely nothing slows down, but let it be an anti-vaxer for itself. It is dangerous, it is very dangerous that this story is not spreading and such dangerous propaganda that can cost many citizens of Serbia their lives. Here, currently in Egypt and a delegation of up to 140 members, mostly medical workers, visited the Bedouin village in the desert the day before yesterday, meaning sand, desert, no one. The Bedouins are certainly not someone who monitors modern technologies, doesn't enjoy all the comforts of today's civilization, doesn't have televisions, doesn't have social networks, lives like they lived hundreds of years ago. But what's interesting is that they've been vaccinated 100%, they've all been vaccinated. Bedouins all vaccinated, but with us half the population. Our question, in front of the JS parliamentary group, is the Government of the Republic of Serbia – are measures being considered that would lead to an increased degree of vaccination of our citizens and what new measures would these be? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-28-0.u10201	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, Reverend Vujic, the honourable MPs, there were a few words, I say first of all for the public. It's just amazing how much attention, that on social networks, as well as perhaps in other media spaces, they get these anti-vaxer movements. They are nothing new that has been invented in Serbia, they are present in numerous territories, in many countries, but I find it simply incredible, everything that can be thought of and can be presented lately, in order to throw away a negative connotation on the vaccination process. I can often see that Pavlović's fat and Ivermectin are also mentioned, this is one medicine used to clean parasites in domestic animals or in farm animals. It's just amazing how many people go far from science, go to some space that I don't even know how to call it simple, space fiction, space Facebook animation, or something else, and in the end we only get one thing, the only cure and the only way to fight Kovida-19 is vaccination. Even people who passed over in some first phase of Kovid-19, whatever we call this strain that existed last year and in Nis, in April of the month, and in the summer in the entire space of Serbia, in the spring of this year, people who re-infect themselves appear. One cure for that is vaccination. Whenever it's inoculated, we separate these people directly from the respirator. I don't want to deal with medical clarifications right now, why it's important, but I've spent enough time in the last year and a half in this whole story about fighting mosquitoes so I can say I've seen a lot of things. At first, we had hope that the vaccine would appear. Serbia is one of the first countries to obtain the vaccine, which has started to vaccinate. At first, it went very well and a lot of people were vaccinated with both the first and second doses, and now there are a lot of people who are vaccinated with a booster dose. Here, Serbia will be one of the few countries that will have a fifth vaccine. You have heard of the vaccine "modern", it will be present with us and the citizens will be able to vaccinate with it. The fact is that the virus is mutating, and I'm not going to tell you anything new, and you're not going to hear anything new, and the fact is that we're going to have new and new vaccines that are going to come in, so to speak, into an open fight with the virus, and on the other hand, new medicines. Also, Serbia has obtained state-of-the-art medicines to save people in Kovid hospitals. Serbia has created three new coves of hospitals, at the shortest time interval. You remember the Clinical Centre of Serbia, how long it was built, the Clinical Centre of Vojvodina for how long it was not completed, and three hospitals for four months, both in Kruševec, and in Belgrade, i.e. Batajnica, and Novi Sad. This much richer country, countries that, I can say, place themselves on some health rankings in more places than we have, have failed to do. It's a small number of countries that have managed this at a short time interval, to do and to solve the problem with the new beds they've been looking for, don't forget that at certain times in different months there were eight, nine thousand infected. But this is the key question you've asked yourself. How can we get out of this vicious circle? I'll just tell you one simple - just a vaccine. It's just a vaccine and there's no other answer to that. As for these measures of others that the Government is planning to implement, next week will be held a session of the Crisis Headquarters, a new one, which will discuss how children in schools will attend school in the weeks ahead, there are several different proposals. As of the weekend, the full implementation of controls by inspection services, municipal militias, all others, the entire directorial system in the catering facilities after 22 hours. I see that a lot of catering facilities, not enough, almost everyone has defined themselves to be working until 10:00. But you have to have one fact in mind – this system covid pass which has been implemented, it only works for a few days. Seven days working in the whole system, not seven, five, six. So this is some kind of preparatory phase, if we need it, so that the crisis staff can, along with the government, later implement it through a regulation to prevent the covids, that they can deal with this monster from Kovida-19. As the whole thing develops, none of us can predict. Will there be any new mutations? Probably. Which passes a period of another vaccine, and it does not eventually become some booster vaccine, that we will have an even bigger circle of potential individuals that could possibly be infected with the crown, and that is why vaccination is important. To sum up the whole story. The Serbian government has prepared the necessary medical resources, prepared a sufficient number of vaccines, prepared institutions, i.e. health institutions to fight the Kovids, but there is one part we have to do ourselves, to try to communicate with our fellow citizens, friends, relatives, each of us probably has someone next to us who hasn't vaccinated. I was able to convince one day at 11 o'clock downstairs to vaccinate, and I didn't trust him until I saw him vaccinated. But you have to do it every day, because that's how we save our children. There are some other tools that will be available to the Ministry of Health, but since I am not in charge of speaking, I am primarily referring to the expansion of the population that can possibly receive the vaccine, that will be spoken to you by Minister Loncar when he is in front of you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-28-0.u10202	Thank you, Deputy Prime Minister. The word has Minister Dmitrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-28-0.u10203	Just a few sentences. I tried talking to the antivaxers. Where's their strength? Their strength is in social networks. We watch every day from six to eight hours, they're real estimates, and it's not like anyone's 15, 35, is now 65. From six to eight hours, we're looking at a cell phone display. Their strength is in it. They only advertise on social networks. And then I asked one of them to explain why they wouldn't. He says, "He says, "He will put a chip on me. I said, have you ever heard of being vaccinated as soon as you were born? We all received two or three vaccines when they didn't realize we existed. Second, have you ever taken any medication? Well, I did. Have you been taking pills like half your finger? Well, I did. If he can fit a chip in the vaccine there, he can fit a billion chips in that one. It's just amazing, it's an irrational thing. But when it brings a wave, and then, of course, there's absolutely, you've seen it yourself, they quote some doctors who don't exist, institutions that don't exist, hospitals that don't exist, and someone who doesn't have a degree of education or can't come out because they don't know language, he accepts it as healthy for granted, expands and says, "Don't, they'll kill you, you'll die in a year, etc. It is very, very difficult, extremely difficult, but what Nedimovic said – no real one sees any other way out but vaccination.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-28-0.u10204	Thank you. Two minutes to close, Mr. Vujic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-28-0.u10205	Thank you for your answers, but here I am, by the example of Minister Sinisha Malo from the other day, when we had the budget rebalance here, the minister says – the task of all of us is to maintain this optimism a little bit and move on a little bit to a brighter subject. Since I mentioned the Bedouins earlier, I would like to welcome you on behalf of the delegation currently in Egypt. The delegation is headed by Dragan Markovic Palma, president of the JS parliamentary group, and leads this delegation ahead of the JS party, but primarily leads it ahead of Serbia. The delegation numbers 150 members, of which 122 are doctors and medical workers. These are the people who are at the time of this pandemic, we all know that, we don't even have to repeat, carry the greatest burden. The delegation has a small number of businessmen and fewer journalists. Such delegations, led by Dragan Markovic Palm across Europe and the world, have become practice, as many as some may criticise that you know this will not stop with such actions and will continue. What one fact, and it is not bad to share with all of you, has so far traveled through this kind of organization when over 70,000 citizens of the Republic of Serbia are doing this. Such delegations, in addition to giving all members the will to do even better work and social engagement, spread a good picture of Serbia, which unfortunately, up to about 10 years ago, was totally distorted compared to the real and the real situation. Hosts of delegations led by Dragan Markovic Palma have always been admitted by officials of the countries to which they travel. It's people and integrity officials whose word certainly has weight. In this delegation, doctors, as was the case in June in Greece, were traveling 650 medical workers. So far, there have been doctors and businessmen, and students, and farmers, craftsmen and many others. Dragan Markovic Palma has always led ordinary citizens into the world, who may not have had the opportunity to travel in some other way. I'm saying this for one simple reason, which is that Dragan Markovic Palma is not a minister and that Unique Serbia has no function in the executive government, but always with good ideas and great desire we find a way to help. This is a message to all who are involved in politics in Serbia, whether they are the authorities or the opposition. If you have a wish and want to help Serbia, you can certainly find a way. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-28-0.u10206	Thank you. The word is Rosalia Ekres.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-28-0.u10207	Dear President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen, ministers and fellow MPs, since I would not have time for a second question, and I asked it two weeks ago to the Ministry of Labour and Employment, Combat and Social Affairs, concerning the preparation of a new law on safety and health at work, I wanted this opportunity to address honouring Minister Darija Kisic Tepavcevic for certain concerns regarding the preparation of the law. She's not here, and I hope I get the answer I asked two weeks ago as a parliamentary question. That's why I'm going to ask and go to the first question. Given the exceptional importance of the programme – "my first salary" which is formally continued in 2021 in accordance with the government's regulation, I am taking the opportunity to ask the Minister of Finance Mr Sinisha Malo. As the position of young people as one of the most vulnerable categories on the labour market is known, it is very unfavourable. Compared to the general population according to official statistics, their double unemployment rate is recorded. Unemployment brings serious difficulties to young people and their families, disrupts normal life, reduces the development of inability. Young people who are not employed usually stay to live with their parents, later start families, and find it harder to make up their mind to have children. Therefore, the SVM parliamentary group gives full support to the continuation of the programme – "my first salary" which last year was a successful measure to improve the position of young people. This programme allows young people with no working experience to practice on specific jobs. In this way they acquire knowledge, skills, competences for work and thus increase their opportunities for employment. Up to 10,000 young people are scheduled to be involved. Under the Regulation on the National Employment Service Programme, a public call was issued on 20 August this year. The first phase in the implementation of the programme, the application of employers and advertising positions ended on September 23rd. Interested employers reported 15,676 positions. On October 1st, the implementation of the second phase, in which candidates are expected to be registered by the end of this month. I ask the Minister of Finance if it would be possible to continue the very important program My first salary that all the registered candidates with whom employers connect and demonstrate the need for their work engagement be included in the programme. Based on the number of registered positions by employers, it is possible to expect between 30% and 40% more candidates than the planned subsidy framework. So is it possible that all candidates and those above the 10,000 that meet the conditions get their first chance? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-28-0.u10208	Thank you. Minister Sinisha Mali.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-28-0.u10209	I think the topic that you were talking about is extremely important, just to remind you and all the citizens of Serbia, last year we started the project My first salary, despite the pandemic of the virus and despite the severe economic crisis and despite not only giving hope to everyone, but to encourage young people to make their first work experience come true with the help of the state. So, My first salary, is a project that implies that those who graduate from high school or college and have no previous work experience, that the state help them along with employers, that part of their salary is borne by the state, that they would just get the opportunity to take some of their first steps in professional experience, and that project proved to be extremely successful last year. So for the first time, we had thousands of employers who came forward and thousands that were open, and a large number of young people who applied to them, and then we decided to continue this project this year. What is particularly important to me to stress now is already based on the data that you have presented, so over 15,000 positions this year, which is more than last year, that a large number of employers and accepted this initiative, and on the other hand it is becoming more popular among those who finish high school and finish colleges, so on the other hand what I can say, that we will continue in the years that come with the project My first salary. Your particular question was whether everyone who applies and manages to obtain a subsidy, and what I can promise you now is an absolutely affirmative answer, given that it is in the best interest for all of us that each of these young people to get the opportunity for their first work experience, and if they manage to do so with the help of the state, even better. I, by the way, visited a company here in Belgrade just a few weeks ago, just to promote the programme "My First Salary". Young people who have gained their first working experience in this company that is otherwise involved in the production of drugs, vitamins and other preparations, those who have come here to gain their first work experience, believe it or not, have all been given a job permanently. It was three or four young people, extremely satisfied, who got their first chance, showed up, took advantage of an opportunity, an employer who was extremely pleased with the staff he got. So, on the other hand, one very nice, good, successful project. Let me finish, specifically two answers for you. We feel that we should continue with this project both in the years ahead and yes, we will do everything possible for those who have applied, and if the amount of subsidies is lower than that, to get the opportunity to also enter this programme "My First Salary".
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-28-0.u10210	Here you go, MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-28-0.u10211	Now you've really made me happy, Minister. I think that, given the country's positive macroeconomic movements, economic activity beyond expectations and when we go to the 2022 budget with the best expectations, I think there really is a real space for full coverage of all the reported and by the employers of selected candidates for the programme "My First Salary". So, I will also add that I am coming from the Hungarian So newspaper house, which also publishes the only Hungarian-language daily in Serbia and is one of the pillar institutions for the preservation of the language and culture of the Vojvodina Hungarians, also applied last year for the programme. We have reported five candidates, two journalists, two press technicians, since in addition to our editions, we are printing almost all the lists of national minorities in Vojvodina, the daily "Dnevnik", as we have been producing postage stamps for "Serb Post" in multimillion circulations for more than 40 years. So here last year we couldn't get into the program. This year we applied, and you really were happy to have the chance to hope for a positive outcome. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-28-0.u10212	Minister, do you want anything?
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-28-0.u10213	If you'll allow me, you see, the essence of our policy is to fight for every man. For every citizen of Serbia, it is to try to help make life better. This is the best chance that when we talk about politics, to keep young people, to give them a chance, to give them the best chance, and to show our commitment on a specific case. So, on the other hand, count on us, count on it, and you said it yourself, in one difficult year, but still, when we have a little better results than we planned, we need to find an opportunity and a way to help everyone, especially young people. So on that side, we'll look to fulfill the promise I just made. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-28-0.u10214	Thank you. Here you go, Rosalia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-28-0.u10215	As I announced at the beginning of my presentation that Minister Daria Kisic Tepavcevic was prevented from attending our issues tonight, and I asked her a question two weeks ago in parliament before the assembly session. I expect to receive a written reply regarding the preparation of the Law on Safety and Health at Work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-28-0.u10216	Thank you. Since time is up, we are finishing work in the session on parliamentary matters. I thank all members of the government for their participation. We'll continue working on Tuesday. Next week we will work on Tuesday and there will be a vote on Wednesday, and Tuesday at 11.00 a special session will be held on the address of the Cypriot parliament speaker. Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fourth Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2021. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the sitting is attended by 70 MPs. In order to determine the exact number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, it is found that there are now 138 MPs present in the hall, i.e. there are at least 84 MPs present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Given that today is Tuesday, whether one of the presidents, or the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation, in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? (Yes) I just want to remind you once again that at 11pm we will interrupt this session, because we have a special session, which will be addressed by the President of the Parliament of our friendly state of Cyprus. The word has the People's Messenger Samir Tandir. Here you go.
