ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-13-0.u9123	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening a session of the thirteenth extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 12th Assembly. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 105 MPs attend the session. To determine the number of MPs present in the hall, please ask MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 137 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that at least 84 MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. In accordance with Article 87(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that this session was called Monday, so beyond the days set out in Article 87(1). The Rules of Procedure, because of the need for the National Assembly to consider proposals for legislation in a particular agenda as soon as possible. Ladies and gentlemen, with the assembly of the 13th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 12th Assembly, which was convened at the request of the Government, pursuant to Article 106(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 48(3). Law on the National Assembly and Article 249. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, you have been sent a request to hold an extraordinary session of the National Assembly with a particular agenda contained in the text of the Requests. For the session of the 13th extraordinary National Assembly session, the following Dn e d d: Proposal for a law on the use of Serbian language in public life and the protection and preservation of the Cyrillic letter, which was submitted by the Government. We're going to work on the agenda. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that they have been invited to attend: Maja Gojkovic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Culture and Information and Radovan Jokic and Daniela Vanušić, acting as Assistant Minister of Culture and Information. I welcome the representatives of the government. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 157(1) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a principle search on the proposal for a law on the use of Serbian language in public life and the protection and preservation of the Cyrillic letter. Does the representative of Proposer Maja Gojkovic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Culture and Information want a word at the beginning of today's debate? Yeah. ) The word is made by Deputy Prime Minister Maja Gojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-13-0.u9124	Thank you. Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, honourable Members of the People's Parliament, today you have before you a bill on the use of Serbian language in public life and the protection and preservation of Cyrillic letters. The primary goal of adopting this law is to better regulate Cyrillic status in public life, given its importance and the fact that language and letter are one of the most important parts of the cultural heritage and the question of the identity of the Serbian people. Since MPs of the National Assembly of Republika Srpska will face an almost identical law on the protection, preservation and use of the language of the Serb people and the Cyrillic letter on Wednesday (September 15th), the adoption of these two laws will not only be an important step forward in the cultivation of language culture but also a strong confirmation of unbreakable ties and the common policy of the Republic of Serbia and Republika Srpska. As is known, there is already a Law on the use of the official language and the letter in our country’s legal system. It found that in the Republic of Serbia there was an official use of Serbian language and Cyrillic letter, and a Latin letter in a manner established by this law. In addition, the law stipulates that in the areas of the Republic of Serbia, where members of national minorities live, they are in official use simultaneously with the Serbian language and languages and letters of national minorities. It should be noted that the adoption of a law on the use of Serbian language in public life and the protection and preservation of the Cyrillic letter is not in any conflict with the existing law, nor is the proposal that the Latin as a letter be discriminated against in any way. Also, the proposed legislative provisions do not apply to private communication, writing and use of personal names, bilingual publications, books and computer programs, other than their descriptions and instructions, accepted scientific and technical terminology, scientific and artistic works, scientific and educational activities of schools in foreign languages, bilingual schools, foreign language courses in accordance with specific regulations and stamps and geographical indications. The draft law was based on the text of the 2017 Culture and Information Ministry Working Group, which included representatives of the SANU Standardisation Committee, our prominent linguists, as well as representatives of the Ministry of Culture and Information. I would take advantage of the opportunity to resort to the prophores of Dr. Sreti Tanasic, Dr. Milos Kovacevic, Dr. Aleksandr Milanović and Dr. Veljak Brboric, as well as representatives of the Ministry of Culture and Information, who were members of the Working Group, to build a document that helped to a significant extent today that we have the text of the bill that the Assembly will consider. The measures for the protection and preservation of the Cyrillic letter, which the new law provides, have essentially a dual character. The first ones are binding and they are this time expanding the circle of subjects who are obliged to use the Cyrillic letter. According to the proposed solutions, these would be all entities operating or operating with a majority participation in public capital. The law on official use of language and letter already provides for the obligation to use Cyrillic letters for state, province and local authorities, public enterprises and public services, public authorities and others. The new legal solutions, which we propose to use for Cyrillic use, will also have companies and other forms of organisation that operate, i.e. carry out their work with the majority participation of public capital, then, companies and other forms of organisation in the field of scientific and research activities that are not established by regulations in public services, which operate, or operate with the majority participation of public capital, professional and professional associations representing their territory at national and international level, as well as public media institutions, RTS and RTTV, in accordance with the law governing public media services and this law. Proposals for the mandatory use of the Serbian language and Cyrillic letter as a parent letter by those entities, covers and legal traffic and includes the printing of a business name, i.e. the name of the office of activity and the name of the goods and services, instructions for use, information on the properties of goods and services, guarantee conditions, offers, invoices, invoices and certificates. The second set of measures is stimulating nature and is mainly directed at the private sector and the means of public information in private ownership, given their importance in public life. These measures relate to the possibility of establishment under specific rules, tax and other administrative reliefs for private sector entities which decide to use a Cyrillic letter in their work and business. In particular, this means that tax and other administrative relief may be established for economic, regional and local entities which, in their business, decide to use a Cyrillic letter, including the use of Cyrillic letters in electronic media and when issuing printed public messages, in accordance with specific laws. Tax exemptions can only be made by tax laws. What is particularly important for us from the Ministry of Culture and Information, as a legislator, is that the law overlooks that cultural and other manifestations financed or co-financed by public funds must have a logo written in a Cyrillic letter, in accordance with the regulations under which they are organised. A significant newspaper is the establishment of a special council of the Serbian-language government, which will monitor and analyse the situation in the field of use of Serbian language in public life and implement measures to protect and preserve the Cyrillic letter as a parent. In addition, this body will propose measures to improve the situation in the field of use of Serbian language in public life and protect the preservation of Cyrillic letters. It is foreseen that the supervision of the implementation of the provisions of the law shall be carried out by the Ministry of Culture and, for the sake of effective application of the proposed solutions, certain fines, which you have in the draft law, are provided for. I personally prefer the measures of stimulation, not criminal provisions, but by harmonising this text of the law, we have nevertheless come to the conclusion that it may be better to introduce criminal measures to begin with. The bill defines that the start of its application should be postponed by six months from the entry into force, so that entities subject to the prescribed obligations have sufficient time to adapt their work and business to new legal solutions. It also proposed adoption by emergency procedure. Personally, I disagree with the explanation that you received in the bill, so little administratively rudely speaking for every law proposed under the urgent procedure. I would add that before the public debate lasted really long, since 2017 and in the media and, let me say, professional circles dealing with language and linguistics. On the other hand, it is important that the initiative to adopt this law is exactly September 15th, on the day of the newly established holiday – the Day of Serbian Unity, Freedom and the national flag. President Aleksandar Vukic, along with BiH presidency member Milorad Dodik, initiated the adoption of this law and because of short deadlines, in order to meet this joint agreement, was decided to hold the vote on September 15th. That, as you can see, has been fulfilled by what we have marked as an emergency procedure. I would like to point out that in the process of drawing up the draft of this law of great help were proposals submitted to the Ministry of Culture and Information last week by the Committee on Standardisation of Serbian Language, the SANU Institute, respecting the suggestions of the profession, we added several other provisions in the draft law, the first one concerning the Serbian Language Council, according to which its supranational majority should be represented by representatives of the language profession, which are specifically referred to the proposal of the Serbian Standardisation Committee. We also accepted the suggestion of this committee regarding a system of protection and preservation of Serbian language and Cyrillic letters that regulates the obligation to protect Serbian language from any influence of ideological and political movements on its standardisation. Out of all things, it is clear that the key reasons for the adoption of the new law are contained in the need for institutions to be additionally measured in order to cultivate Serbian and Cyrillic letters as cultural and traditional values and to foster the wider use of Cyrillic letters in public life. To be honest, we're slowly losing the race in the modern age. We are witnessing that for decades back, the Cyrillic in different ways has been completely depreciated into so-called. Public traffic. Sometimes it happened for ideological reasons, in our not so long ago, and often as a consequence of the spirit of time. In the last two decades, this has certainly contributed to technological progress, moving to new kinds of communication, primarily through mobile phones, using social networks and, unfortunately, because of such circumstances, the younger generations have gradually alienated from our parent letter. The fact is that there are global flows that are very difficult to influence, but it is also clear that over the past decades there has been no political will to properly value Cyrillic letters and institutions of adequate protection measures. As a responsible authority, this law restores the parent letter to the place where it should be and what it deserves. On the one hand, we repay the debt of our famous ancestors and the greats Vuk Stefanovic Karadzic, the creator of our Cyrillic letter, Peter Petrovic Negos, Ivo Andric, Milosa Crnjanski and others who have just written the most beautiful lyrics, the most beautiful stories and the most beautiful novels on the same Cyrillic. On the other hand, we are certainly building a foundation for a future where the Cyrillic letter will be even more recognized and indeed become and remain one of the most important parts of our cultural and national identity. Protecting our greatest cultural and traditional values, and the Cyrillic, we will acknowledge, each of us is, we fulfill both our moral and legal obligation to us and to the generations to come. I will be pleased to hear your discussions, amendments and explanations for the amendments that have been submitted immediately before the start of this session by the SVM parliamentary group. I invite you all to come to the session on September 15th in the time set for the vote and support our holiday – the Day of Serbian Unity, Freedom and the national flag. This bill was fully agreed by Mr Dodik at the initiative of the president of the state of Aleksandar Vukic and the BiH presidency member, as far as possible in relation to our two constitutions with the Republika Srpska and they will also vote on 15 September in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-13-0.u9125	Thank you, Deputy Prime Minister. The word is from the committees responsible. The word is made by the rapporteur of the Committee on Culture and Information, MP Milos Terzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-13-0.u9126	Thank you, Vice President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Dear citizens of Serbia, the Honorable Deputy Prime Minister of Serbia, Mrs Gojkovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Committee on Culture and Information, of course, unanimously gave a positive opinion on the proposal for a law on the use of Serbian language in public life and the protection and preservation of the Cyrillic letter. Let me begin my presentations with the famous words of Vuk Stefanovic Karadzic: "The language is the guardian of the people. As long as the tongue lives, as long as we love it and worship it, we speak with it and write it, purify it, until the living people live, and it can be understood among themselves, and it does not flow into another, and it does not fail." We can also describe one of the basic principles of this bill, which aims to connect, protect and preserve Serbian identity, Cyrillic letters, our words and Serbian heritage, because Serbian identity, Serbian heritage, Cyrillic letter and our words erase all borders between us and our people and visible and invisible and lead us to a better understanding and appreciation of ourselves, our daily lives and the lives of our countrymen wherever they live and wherever the Serbian world is. In this way we show self - respect for ourselves as a people and preserve our language and Cyrillic letter. That's why we, as representatives of the people in this respected home, have a special responsibility. That is why the speech of truth, justice, speech of courage is the basic principle and postulate of politics led by SNS and President Aleksandar Vukic. The reasons for the adoption of this law are contained in the need to establish additional measures aimed at fostering the Serbian language and the Cyrillic letter and its wider application and use in public life. It is therefore extremely important that we talk today about such a bill, as this shows our commitment on the way to the preservation of our moral, traditional and cultural values of our society. The provisions of this proposal lay down measures which have a dual character. What does that mean exactly? All state authorities, the authorities of autonomous provinces, cities, municipalities, institutions, so all entities operating or performing their activities with the majority participation of public capital are obliged to do so in accordance with the law governing the official use of languages and letters. The second set of measures is a stimulating nature and is first-degreed to the private sector, primarily public information funds in private ownership, given their importance and impact in public life. The obligation to use the Cyrillic letter is provided for by the Law on the Official Use of Language and Letters, which provides additional support for the protection and preservation of the Cyrillic letter as a mother letter of the Serbian language. That is why this bill is of paramount importance, because it shows our persistent struggle for the identity of the Serbian people, its language, its letter, its culture, with all the work present, consistency and challenges facing. The struggle our citizens recognize, which is one of the most important fought by President Aleksandar Vukic, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the National Assembly. I urge you to say in the day to vote that this bill, that our Cyrillic letter and our Serbian language, and to say that our rich history, the preservation of our culture and our Serbian heritage. Long live Serbia and lived Republika Srpska!
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-13-0.u9127	I thank the Committee on Culture and Information. The Presidents, or authorised representatives of parliamentary groups, now have the word. The Party of Justice and Reconciliation – United Peasant Party, Vice-President of the National Assembly Dr Muamer Zukorlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-13-0.u9128	The Honorable Vice-President of the National Assembly, chaired by an associate, respected other vice-presidents of the National Assembly, respected Deputy Prime Ministers and Ministers with an associate, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, respected citizens, is one of the pillars of cultural, not only identity, but also the cultural self-esteem of individuals, communities and other levels of collectiveity. That's why the theme of language is not a simple subject and cannot be approached just from the ordinary day-to-day political aspect. The basis of every culture is faith. The essence of every culture is faith. The methodological basis of every culture is language. So faith is that or belief, in a broader sense of that word, defines the basic principles of human or human light, or defines the fundamental principles of ethos – the ethical system of every man who actually represents the solid foundation of the culture of the individual and the community of that individual. The methodological basis of culture is language. So language is this methodological system that is actually the only or key way of expressing cultural depths, capacities and potentials of individuals and communities. The most common language is defined as a means of communication. It's the poorest way of defining language in terms of role, but also in terms of meaning. Language is a basic means of communication. However, other living things, especially animals, have their own languages, and that is undeniable. They are simple and they serve communication, but the language of animals is limited by species, even species within the species itself, so that the language of a flock of birds is limited only to that flock of birds and it works perfectly. We can see that when we see a flock of birds moving so perfectly above us, building certain figures through that movement and we see, we're sure, in fact, that it's not possible to move without some means of communication. That's what flocks of fish do, other animals in their own collectiveities. Thus, animals have their own language. It is a means of communication with certain personalities and limitations, but it is not a source of culture, because animals have no culture. Only a man is honored with the ability of culture. Of course, as I said, first of all, culture is based on a cult, on what is believed to be, whether it is a cult defined by some celestial religion or religion as Judaism, Islam, Christianity in its versions or that this cult is defined by some other source, even if it was cults with traditions or modern cults that are everyday, whether they are officially declared cults or not officially declared cults, such as modern materialistic and hedonistic ideology that have some kind of, almost religious influence, although they are not officially called even anti-religious. Thus, spirituality, that is, the culture of each community, is based on these two basics, which is called faith, belief, or belief, and on another methodology called language. A famous saying with us, very simple, but with a deep message it is – talk to me to see who you are. On the surface, it sounds like you're talking about introducing yourself, say who you are. No, it means a lot more, it means a lot more than what the one who speaks will say about himself, especially on purpose. In fact, when you speak, or when you use your language, you say everything about yourself, everyone says everything about themselves, whether or not he wants to say what he wants, says what he doesn't want. So it's the language that is unhidden, which so overwhelmingly reflects and expresses what the spirit of man is, whether it's what he wants or not to want. So you'll be very clear from one sentence when someone talks to understand who he is, first by which language he speaks formally, and then by what language he speaks. Is it highly profiled, cultured, literary, standard language, or is it some form of primitive language that comes from an uneducated person. In that dispersion there are also many shades, so you will make it very clear that when you hear someone talk about whether they contain vulgarity and prosaclysm in their vocabulary, or when they speak words, cultured, elegant, without vulgarity and prosacularity. Vulgarity and prosthetics are not just a question so-called "Balkan male image," where it became standardised that if you don't curse you're no man. Then usually when a boy turns into an adult male, the first thing that proves his masculinity that doesn't have to follow him biologically is swearing, vulgarity. In addition, if you light a cigarette or drink an alcoholic drink, he thus, here you see in all three very degutant ways, unfortunately, in our cultural areas very commonly proves the transition to a higher kind of boy status to male status. Unfortunately, it is not only a teenage age that struggles to show its masculinity and boyhood in a man's vulgar swearing, but a vulgar swearing has become an integral part of a vocabulary and not just some, let's say, ordinary world who is not interested in cultural status, especially without education, but unfortunately swearing something that is so present and even in circles that consider themselves educated. I am rarely personally in the position of people who consider themselves believers, who are baptized with occasion and without cause very often, and not only is swearing to them as a proverb, but even swearing to God is a proverb. Then, when I warn them, I say, I beg you, I am not used to staying near someone who swears, and in particular do not give God in a curse to use and the concept of God, then I get the most common answer, he says – so I am not cursing her. So you have another almost pathological phenomenon in that case, where actually the one who utters the curse of God doesn't actually feel like cursing God. So it became a deeper level of his “spirituality, ” his condition of debt. So, you're actually going to conclude through vulgarity not only that someone has, like, a dirty tongue, which you would say, but the key question is whether language can be dirty, I'm talking about an individual, without a dirty soul or without a dirty essence? In fact, vulgarity is always a reflection of some dirt within itself, unfortunately the spirit, can even be souls. So this is just one reflection or implications regarding the importance of language, the importance of language, that language is not just a means of communication, because today we have many non-verbal forms of communication, especially how technology progress can be communicated without language, but will it mean that we will get to some point when we will not need language? In fact, everything that is today called the higher degree of culture known to us as art, so what is key potential and concrete and historical in terms of art and what is indisputable is art or art through language. That's a good word. It's the only thing, and I've talked about it here once before, it's the only thing a man doesn't have competition in. So, the only thing that the exalted God has decorated a man, has singled him out over all other living beings and beings in general, is a language, or word. So in fact the word of the first man, especially from the first word of God, was in the version of the Old Testament, in the version of the New Testament, or in the version of the Qur'an of the honorable, however, what is common is the word of God, or the word and the word is actually both the basic and the basic and vertical, the central value of the culture of a man, of a community. So, given all this, it is definitely the National Assembly that needs to be treated. Of course the laws are what the language needs to treat. It is understandable to the end that every nation, every nation and every community, if they are aware, if they know how to value this dimension of culture and this foundation and pillar of culture, wants to protect their language. However, what should be kept in mind before the law until the end, which we can consider or analyze through the history of the language, so the last thousand or let's do a little bit more, up to two thousand years, where we have serious language data, if we consider it, then we will still come up with very important and specific data, or conclusions. So by considering history or by following certain languages through history, we will see that we will undisputedly make sure that languages were formed, developed, developed and developed, strengthened their influence, their potential parallel to the power of one nation's culture, one civilization, one empire, and parallel with the strengthening of the civilization of a nation, one culture, one civilization. So what is undeniable through the history of language is that it is actually a key factor that has affected the development, power, preservation of one language, actually culture, or civilization of that people or that community. Languages are like humans, and as a culture and as a civilization, they have their beginning, they have their own uplifting line, they have their own development and ultimately, most often, or mostly, some before, some later, have their own end. Generally, languages that have a strong cultural and civilization background, they develop, rich, stronger, but also change. Therefore, consider the text of the Serbian language from the beginning of the 19th century or the end of the 18th century and the current text of the standardized or literary Serbian language, almost need a translator to understand the text. It's similar to, say, with English, today's most dominant language in the world. They not only develop in terms of increasing the potential of words used in that language but also changing. The information works, perhaps the only language that only increases and does not change for the last 1,400 years is Arabic, because standardisation or standard of Arabic language is related to the text "Kurana Čenog" which does not change since 1,400 years ago, so that language, unlike other languages, only increases and does not change. And it's completely understood from the times of the 7th century and today, but it's again, in fact, an indication that God's word is the strongest foundation of culture and culture, where it is preserved in its authenticity. Therefore, what is actually my suggestion to us as a legislator, but above all, the intellectual elites that are definitely the key bearers and the bill's proposal is that the accent should be placed on what should be the real potential of affirmation and preservation of one language. Let's say we follow the development of Latin. Why did no one manage to preserve Latin, and believe that they had potentials 300 times greater than this country has, in terms of administrative and other mechanisms? In the last version of the attempt, he's even legalized as a language of medicine, and he's the only one left, but he's barely there again. He's definitely gone. For example, Dante Algieri with his "Divine Comedy" is the author of the first part of the Renaissance, if we may say so, but someone who buried the Latin language. So Dante Algieri buried the Latin language not by any administrative decision, but the moment he wrote such a high-value work of art as "Divine Comedy", it meant burying the Latin language, affirmation of Italian and the end. After that, it was only the market for the next 700 years on various sides that failed. What exactly does this tell us? So the language is kept. Here, we heard from colleagues a wonderful quote from Vuk Karadzic about the language, where Vuk Karadzic does not predicate any administrative action to preserve the language, but exclusively culturally emotional. It's the basis for the preservation of language. The language is stored on cultural consciousness and emotion. And that's why there's the essence of strength, the essence of the power to preserve one language. If it goes exclusively with administrative measures and this aspect of creativity, language creation, where cultural and emotional potential is preserved, then you will definitely not give those results. Of course, I'm reserved on the subject of this proposal, primarily because of Article 21. The constitution, which clearly states that equality is guaranteed for all citizens of this country and they are guaranteed the same right to be protected by the state mechanisms, paraphrased. Therefore, we are now adopting, and this is likely to happen, a law on the protection of Serbian language and Cyrillic letters, so, okay, understanding the full rights of the majority Serbian people to take their measures and from the position of the state, but I want to underline what I say more than once, in this country, about 30% of the national minorities live on the last census. We have laws since 2005 when the European Charter on the Protection of Regional and Minority Languages has been ratified, which is binding on this country, as well as on many other minority laws, that now because of the times we girls don't treat, but we have a certain conflict in that. Which means that the adoption of this law makes sense if we are going to adopt a law on the protection of minority languages in this country. So I want to be according to the Constitution, as the Constitution guarantees me, Article 21, not only equally treated, titled and symbolic in this country, but treated equally with regard to the use of this country's mechanisms in protecting my language. Secondly, the basis for majority capital to be the basis for one language is very problematic, both in principle and in essence and formally. So, if it is public enterprises where the absolute majority are members of some minority non-Serb community or non-Serb people, and this capital has actually come again from citizens who are again 30% minority in this country. I'm sorry I don't have more time, but I hope that through the amendments or some discussion we can replace this. My suggestion is actually to keep this in mind and not to get into collegiate with Article 21. The Constitution, that members of national minorities, or members of language minorities in this country are treated equally, in accordance with the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-13-0.u9129	I thank Vice President Zukorlic. The word is from Deputy Prime Minister Maja Gojkovic, Culture and Information Minister Maja Gojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-13-0.u9130	Dear Members of the Parliament, dear Ambassador Zukorlic, I listened carefully to your discussion and waited for you to score. Knowing you and your rhetoric, I knew that the point was coming to an end, and it came to me only briefly to answer you and to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia that you politically represent, to your voters, to give one message that they really have no fear of adopting this law that is now on the agenda, which is the use of the Serbian language in public life and the protection and preservation of a Cyrillic letter which, we will agree, at least most in this country, is in danger of dying out and simply losing part of our cultural heritage and losing part of our national and cultural identity. When we say that it is necessary to preserve and preserve the Cyrillic letter and the Serbian language, we do not endanger anyone in our country. We are not jeopardizing anyone who speaks another language, who writes a Latin letter, who uses some other languages in private, but also in official communication, and it is all a careful analysis of this small law by some 11 members, along with transitional provisions very clearly defined and a fence has been made to diversify fear if there should be at all a dose of fear of trying to preserve one letter, which I have written since birth, and many no longer, it is clearly defined here that it should not be. As regards the protection of the language of national minorities, it is very clear that the provision of Article 10 of our Constitution, and it is very clear that there is a very clear way of using the language and letters of national minorities in the Law on the Use of the Official Language and Letters, where it is stated that in official use there is certainly a Serbian language and a Cyrillic letter, and a latin letter in a way that is just set out in this other law that is already very much in force. The law stipulates that in the areas of the Republic of Serbia where members of national minorities live, there are many of them in the whole territory of the Republic of Serbia, in use at the same time with the Serbian language and languages and letters of national minorities. This law, which applies only to the protection and preservation of Cyrillic letters, does not set out, nor undermines the provisions of this basic roof law. It's good to know, but obviously more times. So all we care about here is the Serbian language and the Cyrillic letter, that is, the Cyrillic letter that most citizens agree to slowly lose the race in the modern era. The words of Vuk Stefanovic Karadzic cannot be transferred to the 21st century, at which point we are talking today, because when he spoke that letter it was created, and it did not lose the race in relation to the Latin letter or to the use, now to go a little wider, to the use of increasingly foreign expressions that replace the beautiful Serbian words that we have in our language. Look how much more and more in public life we become and listen to people who are privileged to speak in the media every day, not only do I mean participants of the programme, but I also think of those who create or run certain shows, more because they do not know a specific Serbian word they use foreign words, how many times. I speak with my colleagues, and so the French language and the Russian language and the Bulgarian language are in danger. We're not the first to take these measures by trying to stimulate, but also by a certain... I'm saying, I'm against criminal provisions, but obviously mentality is such that you need a little criminal provision to encourage something to later be a very natural one without any criminal provisions at all. So, I say, there is no concern that with this language and the protection of Cyrillic letters someone is trying to compromise any letter and language of the national minorities living here with us in the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-13-0.u9131	Thank you, Deputy Prime Minister. The word has Muamer Zukorlic, two minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-13-0.u9132	Thank you, Madam Vice President. So in the first part of my presentation, I kind of pointed out that I was in your position and that I wanted to protect the language, Serbian in this case, that is, if I had that role and intention, I would just do it the other way. That was the point. Of course, I'll understand all the ways, as well as the need. I don't have any dispute here. On the contrary, and as a member of another people with something different language, I believe that the wealth of having all this diversity and I believe that dying of a Cyrillic letter would, above all, be culturally harmful to our space. So that's my attitude, both scientific and personal. But as for this second part, which you have not commented on, the issue of equality here is to the end unclear, in terms of intent. So, the Constitution, article 21, guarantees equality, not only of principle equality, but of equality in the use of the state mechanism to protect every citizen and every community. We don't have it here right now, we already have a quick tape to protect the Serbian language with this law, while the rest of us remain on the other tapes. That's one thing. Now, to make it clear to me to the citizens, the issue of using, say, non-Serb nationalities that are in important positions of government and public enterprises, public interests. Now, you have whether they will be Bosniak or Hungarian or Albanian, and the fines are again a story for themselves, because they have corresponded in the Bosnian, Hungarian or Albanian language from the position of the director of the municipal enterprise, for example. Or, for example, I, as vice president of the National Assembly, and the Constitution and the law guarantee me the official use of my language. The official use of my language means that I can do the same, automatically, because that's the principle of equality, so wherever I can find myself in this country, I can easily use my language, not the side, but the parent, as you have suggested here in the text of this law. So that's a problem for me personally, but I also think to other national minorities, and it would be very important, and I'm glad you're saying that we don't have any risk for members of the national minorities and their rights to the official use of their language. But definitely on these examples, you could tell me what will happen to all the people in public functions who have so far considered that they can equally use their language in official correspondence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-13-0.u9133	The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-13-0.u9134	Only if you want me to do it again. I understand everyone's talking to their voters, but I was very clear. Read all provisions of the Constitution relating to the use of the language of members of national minorities. No one is talking about that anyone who speaks Albanian cannot forward further in his own language, but depends on who and whether it is in public use and where the document is going. You will agree that we all live in the Republic of Serbia and that we must apply the laws to all, but in accordance with the Constitution which clearly defines the rights of members of national minorities, in accordance with the conventions ratified by this Parliament and implemented by the Republic of Serbia, especially in accordance with the Law on the Use of Official Language and Letters. So this isn't about punishing the individuals who are the directors of this or that public enterprise or some company that has majority government capital, this is about official correspondence. It's very clearly defined by this law. The problem is with people who aren't lawyers. They take and they read one standard and say, "That's it." Lucky that I'm not just a culture and information minister, but I'm also a lawyer, now we're going to interpret the norms, that's too far, but let's just say there's a professor of law, Mr. Martinovic, who knows what I'm talking about, the interpretation is never done by reading one norm and saying it's protected by a Cyrillic letter, but the interpretation is done by taking the Constitution, which is taken by the other regulations and the laws of this country and harmonize and read it like this. That's what I have to physically tell you. So there's no concern, if I can separate doubt from you and the others who have a question above their heads and say -- what happens to me now, exactly because of this kind of thinking there's this bill that I can't possibly agree with you to say on the fast track. If this were done on a fast track, we would not have had the need to protect the Cyrillic letter and the Serbian language, but there was no political hearing, that we were not going far into history during communism, that it was not exactly desirable to write with Cyrillic, nor was it desirable to say that you belonged to the Serbian language at all, but to put the past aside, and then there was a period of breakdown of language spoken by most citizens of this country, the use of foreign expressions, and modern technologies have made their own to slowly younger generations, not only to use a more Cyrillic letter, but to use Latinly, but to forget about looking at screens, using mobile phones and social networks more and to communicate and to speak correctly, so their vocabulary comes down to about 200 words. Then you attend, because I say that I closely monitor television programs where exactly you see a mere generation where people who have stopped reading books, who have stopped watching movies, who draw all the knowledge from Wikipedia, can no longer speak properly. You will agree, if members of a nation who represent a national minority tend to protect their language and letter, then surely you have a higher degree of understanding of who wants to protect their Serbian language and their Cyrillic letter. I am convinced that the greater approval will be from members of the national minorities to an attempt by the state to protect the Serbian language and the Cyrillic letter that you will agree on in a major offensive. These laws and interpretations of all the rules relating to the use of the official language and the use of language and letters by national minorities are not in collegiate, and no one here threatens, because in this country all the laws are respected, so this law, which I am convinced, will be adopted by the 15th great majority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-13-0.u9135	Thank you. Without entering your debate, the SVM parliamentary group has submitted three amendments concerning this topic, but of course I see you in the system for a short time so we can go to the next speaker.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-13-0.u9136	Dear Vice President, first of all, you know how much I personally respect you and I will be more careful than anyone else sitting in your shoes. So you know it's your credit from before. Which doesn't mean I agree with everything you said. So I can't tell the citizens, you're not lawyers, you don't know it, you accept it as it is, so I won't tell them. I know lawyers like to behave a little religiously, doctrinally, and say that that's how it is, you don't understand it. I am a national MP and not just my constituents, but the other citizens I represent and I will remain their representative, how successful I will do it, that's another. So, I have no dilemma, and it seems to me that I mentioned it twice, with the understanding of the need of the Serbian people to protect their language and their letter. I don't have a dilemma with that, but I just want to ensure the right of others, my community and other national communities and actually get answers that will guarantee me the same protection. In fact, that's all we want, and we have the right for you lawyers to explain to us, who here are the MPs, and we're not lawyers or we're not to say, lawyers of this conventional law. So that's all this is about. And when I asked about the correspondence of this to actually be clear, that we don't come to a problem tomorrow where someone will now be punished because they're headed, I don't know, some public institutions etc. Secondly, and last sentence, it was easier for me, as was most of my fellow Bosniaks from other political parties, to get away from this session today and actually get away from this white woman I'm in, but no, I'm in, I want to be constructive, but of course, and I have the right to explain, and thank you for those explanations.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-13-0.u9137	Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-13-0.u9138	Please don't let this bill of law get you into any kind of whiteness, I'll defend you wherever you need to go. Your decision to participate in this session is the right decision, because we are all equal here, all MPs represent a number of citizens, depending on how many votes you have received. We are obliged to discuss all the laws that lie ahead of us. Certainly, I would advise you not to further extend the discussion of the Law on the Use of Official Language and Letters, which is precisely defined in Articles 11 and 12. I'd read it to you here, but it's really big, and those members are about the questions you're asking. I'm saying, this law, a special law relating to the protection of Cyrillic letters, is in no way in the conflict with the Constitution of the State, nor with the Law on the Use of Official Language and Letters. What's more, he just strengthened the need to protect the language of the people I belong to, and above all a Cyrillic letter. It's not even that dangerous language if we don't spread the discussion in the law that I said, that to me, it's in grave danger, because people are less and less reading books. If you stop reading books, you don't even know how to express yourself. That's why there's a mandatory lecture, that at least the basics of some books chosen by someone who decides on the lecture, are literature that you'll read, but also fertilize your language. But if you stop doing it after school, you're reduced to some tiny little vocabulary and you slowly accept foreign expressions and you put them in the basic language. I say, there is not a single language in our country saved from these foreign expressions, mostly from the Anglo-Saxon influence, because then there would be no need for francophones to be so protected or Turkmenistan states that have Turkish. Everyone gets together and everyone tries to respond to these modern challenges, and we try this little language. There's six months to comply with all possible regulations. Those regulations are likely to be found here in front of us, so you'll see that I'm giving out every doubt to you, and you know I can be trusted. I received this bill of law, of course, a great honour to defend myself, but the government has carefully worked on the text of the bill and agreed with the Constitution that applies to the Republic of Serbia, and it is very carefully done so that none of the other laws adopted on 15 will be in conflict with the constitutions of the states that apply to the territory of Republika Srpska, but also our Constitution for the whole territory of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-13-0.u9139	Thank you. The president of the Social Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary group, MP Branimir Jovanovic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-13-0.u9140	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members of the People, when we talk about these topics as is today on the agenda of the topic concerning the preservation of Cyrillic, I will begin by quoting Isidora Sekulic, who says: "The language guards the peoples, not science. Science is a servant, language is a master. “ To obtain a complete picture of the importance of Cyrillic, or its use, we need to consider it with several aspects. First, it's a historical continuity and its presence in the territories where the Cyrillic has always been used. Secondly, what we are discussing today, which is the attitude of state institutions towards Cyrillic, and not only in the past, but it is necessary to consider the status of Cyrillic today. Next, you need to see what Cyrillic represents and what Cyrillic wears. Of course, what is inevitable, it is cultural and historical, traditional and above all an emotional symbolic attitude towards Cyrillic in our realms. When we look at all this, we will see the importance of preserving Cyrillic as letters and as works of one language. It's been exactly 1158 years since the launch of Cyril and Methodius. The significance of the event is given by the fact that in 2013 UNESCO declared that year as the year of the missionaries of Thessaloniki Cyril and Methodius. It is indeed an event that is important for all Slovenian peoples. Thanks to Cyril and Methodius and their dedication, Slovenians as the most widespread Indo-European people have received their own literary language, which is still present in the continuum today in the various literary languages of Slovenian peoples. From the historical point of view, it is also important to say that the mission of Cyril and Methodia became Slovenian alongside the Hebrew, Greek and Latin, the fourth sacral language. We can say that their mission primarily referred to a struggle that the Slovenian language was used to get the right to be used in worship and that's what they called it, with trilinguals. The Slovenian language, as we today call it, served as a literary and church language in the large territory of Slovenia. The Humačka plate and the Thames inscription are the oldest Cyrillic monuments, which are the witnesses of traces of Cyrillic literacy in our premises. As an ancient Slovenian heritage, Cyrillic has remained a binding thread of our language throughout the centuries, and the Serbian Cyrillic, as we call it today, has been completed and formed thanks to Vuk Karadzic, in the traditions of a thousand-year culture. It's been two centuries since the beginning of that struggle, a little bit more, two centuries for the introduction of the people's language into the literary language, or, as we like to say today, for the introduction of the common language into the standard language. Rarely, the language of the world has such a lush long walk. Cyrillic has been woven into our people's national identity for hundreds of years. This was witnessed in 1846 by Peter Preradovic Vuk Karadzic, who says that Serbs who were inhabited in the territory of Austro-Hungarian experienced Cyrillic and what it meant to them in their national identity. The letter literally states: “Serbs did not want to read books printed in Latin, let alone write with that alphabet. Austria and Hungary published their laws with Cyrillic. “ Also, Cyrillic was also a diplomatic letter at court in Romania, Turkey and Ugaria, which only testifies to its great reputation as the Cyrillic then had on the Balkan Peninsula. I will remind you that our oldest book is printed with the Cyrillic "Oktoih Prvoslovnik" at the end of the 15th century only a few years younger than the first Cyrillic book printed in Krakow. However, the 19th century is the beginning of a time unfavourable for Cyrillic, or unfavourable for its status and its use. Cyrillic is the bearer and cradle of history, tradition, culture, our cultural and written heritage, and as such a treasure was transferred to the 20th century, but in the 20th century, which was characterized by the slowly throwing of that wealth into the seal. During that period, it was even promoted to believe that Cyrillic was an outdated letter, some called a peasant or a simple letter, and it was given priority to the Latin. There was a withdrawal of Cyrillic, although it was a formula of equality of two letters. What Cyrillic meant for national identity and what it's supposed to mean today, it's best to show two facts. The first is that whenever Serbia was under occupation, the occupation banned the use of Cyrillic, both in World War I and World War II. The second fact is that a large number of cultural works are written in Cyrillic, not to present their culture, that means giving up the past, but also from the present and the future. Among our linguists are different opinions about status, about the presence, or lack of Cyrillic presence in public life, and about the protection of Cyrillic. Some represent the view of the equality of two letters, which our law guarantees. So, to keep both letters as an expression of one language's wealth, and that's an indication of tolerance, but often one group of linguists gives priority to Latina. For example, John Klein cited as arguments and spoke about why the Latin was suppressing the Cyrillic in the 20th century, which I was already talking about. He says it's not because of communism, not because of mondialysm or any other conspiracy, but because Latin and Cyrillic are not symmetric and that's why they can't be in the same position. The argument is that we need Latin for Latin, primarily because of medicine, English and other foreign languages. We also need it for, if we go further, pharmacy recipes, license plates on cars, mathematical, chemical formulas. But I think the focus of the problem isn't that, it's the problem with something else. Although in the 20th century, last century, the law always guaranteed the equality of Cyrillic and Latin, many did not write with Cyrillic even though they could. We don't even need to think about eliminating the duplicity, but our intentions must be such that the goal is to preserve the Cyrillic and not to evaporate gradually from use. We can always express different attitudes and different opinions, someone will even claim that we should become a Cyrillic country, but it's undeniable, and it's a minimum that we have to respect, that Cyrillic is a cultural good that we have to preserve. In that context, I think today's debate should take place. On the other hand, there is a group of linguists who represent the view that the Cyrillic headquarters verticalized our cultural historical identity, that it is our first letter, which it is, but that Latina should have equal use in practice. The people in our rooms and how they are served in Latin, and a great number of works were written on the Latin. The same rule as the Cyrillic rule applies, if we gave it up, we would give up all of those literary works created in the second letter, which is of course not our national interest. So, we don't want to, we can't let the hickey on the Latin, and even less what we can do is let the Cyrillic fall into oblivion, but we have to do everything we can to preserve it. I will remind you that George Bernard Shaw told Cyrillic that this was the most perfect and simple letter, that in 1937, Dr. Webber, in his doctorate of the alphabet of the world, claimed that the Serbian Cyrillic was the best and that it was the least tiring of eyes. We are obliged to cultivate Cyrillic, as we are obliged to cultivate our tongue. The language is a living category and it is normal for it to change over time, it is normal for foreign words to reach our language, but the question is to what extent they will replace home words. Innovation and science certainly dictate the use of foreign words in our language, but unfortunately it goes to another extreme, and it seems to me that it has become a modernity for people to use barbarism on purpose, that in this way a large number of foreigners have risen into our daily speech. Also, children watch foreign movies, watch YouTube channels, watch and play video games, and unwittingly integrate foreign words into their own dictionary. It's some river where they communicate among their generation. But what happens today is that parents don't understand what their children used to say to them, they used words like crossover, demage, like other words they took and accepted from YouTube and video games. But, again, that's the problem of someone leaving the house. What we as a society have to do, it's that we value our language more, that we value our letter more. That's the part where we have to deal with it, especially education. Here, yesterday with my son, who went to first grade, I was learning my first song. Unfortunately, his first song was in English. I don't mind English, I'm one of those who advocates teaching children as many languages as possible. However, the first song in school was in English, children listened on a CD disk, had homework to learn. I think they should have learned the first song in Serbian symbolically, so they could move on. There are also those who deliberately insert into their barbarism speech, because they think it's going to present themselves in a better light, that it's going to look more modern, that it's going to look smarter. I remember, another professor in college told us about this trend that reigned somewhere in the 20th century, so one funny anecdote was that one of the officials was giving a speech, so he tried to use as many barbarisms as possible because it seemed to him to be more schooled. Then when he had finished his speech, he sat next to an officer who was lower in rank than he, and asked him what he was like, and the clerk said: "You were excellent; I understood nothing of you." Unfortunately, it happens to me, both today and that way, the beauty of language is lost. However, we must also be aware that we are living in a time of expressed globalisation, where great cultures, great states, impose their values on smaller ones and it is obvious that some Western values as a tide are slowly spilling over to the rest of the world. These values are not in the spirit of the people, not only in Serbia, but I think of all the peoples on the Balkan Peninsula, but the impression that we are unconsciously taking over this Western culture, that we are taking over this vocabulary. Indeed, there is a concern that by taking over this one cultural matrix, we come into a situation, if we didn't do what we do today, if we didn't adopt such laws, that the Cyrillic would remain a pale memory of a letter that had written significant works of our literature. I will also remind you that after Bulgaria entered the European Cyrillic Union, it became the third official letter in the European Union, alongside the Latin and Greek letters. And perhaps Greece is the best example, which has kept the characters of its letter and when we travel through Greece, we can often see only cities written in Greek, not even in Latin, and yet Greece goes one step in comparison with the rest of Europe as regards its development. When I spoke earlier about the Cyrillic problems in our 20th century space, I think we have again entered the 21st century in a better way, in particular in some constitutional solutions, where the 2006 Constitution returns a better status of Cyrillic as a national letter, but not ignoring the role and use of Latina. A member of our 10th Constitution reads – The Serbian language and Cyrillic letter is officially used in the Republic of Serbia. Official use of other languages and letters is governed by law under the Constitution, and the Law on official use of language and letter is further regulated by this area. It seems to me that we have truly guaranteed that both letters will live equally and will be used to create further literary, scientific and other works in our country. I think it is indisputable that Cyrillics should be returned to dignity and an adequate place in our society, with the involvement of all social authorities, such as the undisputed fact that such engagement should not be left even when it comes to the protection of cultural and written heritage in any other language on our premises, which are part of our cultural occupation. To conclude, as is assumed, the MPs of the SDPS will support this law that we are discussing today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-13-0.u9141	Thank you. The word has the deputy president of the Parliamentary Group, Unity Serbia, National MP of Life Starcevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-13-0.u9142	Dear Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Honored Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia Mrs Gojkovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we are discussing the Law on the Use of Serbian Language in Public Life and the Protection and Conservation of Cyrillic Letters. Certainly, the Single Serbia parliamentary group will support the law in the voting day. The question of language use is neither ideological nor political, but primarily the identity issue of a nation. The people should not be identified with the notion of a state or a nation, because a nation can live in one or more states, can be an integral part of a single nation as a special entity. It becomes a number of definitions of the people, but somewhere almost everyone is in common that the peoples of the community are people who serve or whose language is common, letter, national culture, tradition and often common religion. One nation exists until there are its basic features. A colleague quoted Vuk Karadzic as saying that the people feed on language as long as they exist and while using language there is a people. If language didn't matter an identity question, the Chinese would have, I suppose, long ago changed their letter that has thousands and thousands of characters to some simpler ones. If the letter were not an important identity issue, Greece would probably have long been replacing its alphabet with a letter used by all other European Union countries, but no, Greeks are still proud to cherish and preserve their alphabet, which was created before the letters of other members of the European Union. If the letter were not an important identity issue, imagine that in Russia the hihr is the famous brand "Starbucks", "Mecdonalds", and others are just written in their Cyrillic letter. I don't agree that the letter is just the natural good we need to protect. The letter is primarily an important identity issue for one nation and the use and use and protection of the letter is one of the important national and identity issues. Therefore, every nation and nation that keeps to themselves lays down regulations governing the way in which the language, the letter, the culture, institutions and institutions dealing with the study, preservation, and development of the language and the letter of a nation are established. The Serbian language, you know, and colleagues have already spoken, belongs to the Slovenian group of languages, the family of the Indo-European language, the predecessor of the Serbian language is the church's Slovenian language, which was re-emerged from the ancient Slovenian language. Vuk Stefanovic Karadzic is considered the largest reformer of Serbian, who has translated the national language into Serbian literary language and published two books in Vienna in 1814 – "Pismenica of the Serb language by the speech of the simple people" and "Little Free-American Slavic Serb poet". More importantly, in 1818, Vuk Stefanovic Karadzic published a "New People's Dictionary", which contains 26.270 words that Vuk heard in the folk speech. Cyrillic is a letter used primarily in several Slovenian languages, such as Belarusian, Bulgarian, Macedonian, Russian, Russian, Serbian and Ukrainian, as well as in many other languages in the euro area. The Cyrillic name was given by the children of Cyril and Methodius, who created the verb and the Serbian Cyrillic, in fact, was nothing more than an adaptation of the Serbian-language Cyrillic, which was formed by Vuk Stefanović Karadzic and Karadzic in 1811 based on the previous Slavno-Serbian letter on the principle: "Write as you speak and read as it is written." I would say here that the Serbian language is the official language in Serbia, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Montenegro and is spoken by about 12 million people. It is also a minority language in Central and Eastern European countries. In today's era of globalism, there is a great and influential movement of people who want to deny nations, thereby funding and encouraging everywhere in the world to fight exactly the fundamental features of nations, and these are, as I said, both language and letter, of course, national culture, tradition and religion. Hence, we are not surprised that the Helsinki Committee of Human Rights has asked the Government of the Republic of Serbia to withdraw this bill on the use of Serbian language in public life and to protect and preserve Cyrillic letters. In their explanation, of course, there is no valid expert argument, but exclusively ideological-political phrases and flossules. Knowing who the Helsinki Committee is and who is funding them, we can say that this request is nothing more than part of a continuous and well-coordinated attack on Serbia in recent months and years and that it is an integral part of the struggle to destroy every mark of the Serb people. By suppressing the Serbian language, Cyrillics, demeaning national culture, attempts to push the Serbian tradition into oblivion, the Helsinki Committee and similar Serbians are actually trying to suppress and erase the national consciousness and sense of nationality, especially among young people in Serbia. They do this by imposing cultural values that are not an integral part of Serbian culture and tradition, they do so by imposing a matrix of behavior that is not in line with our tradition and education, and all of this is wrapped up in the form of advocacy or struggle for human rights and so on. The Helsinki Committee is by no means different from those of Ustashaid Violators who in Vukovar and elsewhere in Croatia in 2013 forced all bilingual tablets with Cyrillic inscriptions, although the law in Croatia states that in those areas where more than a third of other nations live, national minorities, such as in Vukovar Serbs, where there are 34-35% of them, although the law forcees them to do so, they have all bilingual tables on institutions in Vukovar and other places in Croatia forcibly torn up these bilingual tables on most institutions and in Vukovar and elsewhere. And while the state of Serbia has achieved the highest degree of respect, minority rights of all minorities, including minority rights of the Croatian minority, so that they can officially use their language, use their own letter, so that they can study in their native language to learn from textbooks in their native language, so far in Croatia they do not respect their own laws and throw out Cyrillic with places where it must be. Be careful, Croatia is an EU member and Serbia is not an EU member. This clearly tells us that the issue of EU accession is primarily a political issue, not a question of the standards reached, the criteria on which the EU insists. Croatian politicians still live in the war 1990s, still running their policies by wearing zengi furels, dissipating hatred and conflict with their war-to-human rhetoric and thus keeping them in power, thus transferring their own guilt for poor results to Serbia. Such a policy, among other things, is supported by individual world centres of power, which lead to a policy of reconciliation and co-operation, such as Serbia, as well as peace and stability in the Balkans, and especially strong and stable Serbia does not respond. When Dragan Markovic Palma visited the late Milan Bandic in Zagreb a few years ago, no Croatian media transmitted messages of reconciliation and co-operation for the sake of a better future and young generations in both countries that were then sent by Bandic and Palma, they were dealing exclusively with the topics of war and the opening of unhealed wounds. So today, while Serbia is leading a policy of reconciliation and co-operation, the Croatian politician and the list and nothing instigated send the most difficult accusations to Serbia and Serbia's president by calling Serbia's policy aggressive. It is clear that success is not forgiven in the Balkans, so Croatia also does not forgive success. We know and we understand that throughout history the only thing Croatia has ever wanted was to be like Serbia and that it was its unfulfilled dream. It is also clear that, despite all this, Serbia will continue to lead a policy of reconciliation and co-operation, it will take care, of course, of its dignity, taking account of its own interests, continuing to strengthen its international position, but continuing to strengthen its economy, strengthen its political stability and move forward. Somehow today only Serbs are banned from taking care of their own identity, only Serbs are forbidden to be themselves, only Serbs cannot use their own language and letter to highlight their features. This is the best testimony or testimony to developments in Montenegro in recent years for Serbs, but also other trusted people in Montenegro have tried to confiscate the property of the Serbian Orthodox Church that they have created and inherited for centuries, to impose on the non-existent and unrecognizable NGO of the Montenegrin Orthodox Church. And when the citizens of Montenegro, in peaceful resistance, pointed out yet another mark, not the Serbian flag, but the tricolor, which was later appointed by King Nikola as the official Montenegrin flag, means not red or green flags, but a tricolor, a Montenegrin state led by Milo Djukanovic, did everything to prohibit the emphasis of the flag's tricolor and to prevent them from everywhere they were found. And as long as Albanians are able to point out Albania's flag on their flag day wherever they are, because that's okay and it's an integral part of the fight for their minority rights, it's not allowed for others, of course, and the troboca is a symbol of Serbia's great nationalism and an attempt to occupy Montenegro. What occupation of Montenegro is Milo Djukanovic talking about? It's a strange occupation, you know. Montenegro's occupation takes place somewhat upside down, not by two million Serbs going to Montenegro, so it is occupied, but by hundreds of thousands of Montenegrins inhabiting Belgrade, being in power at all levels from the top of the state to the capitals and from there ruling the evil occupation of Montenegro, which is called Serbia. Is this the occupation of Montenegro spoken of by Milo Djukanovic? Well, even in the presidency of the kicks-boxing alliance of the former SRJ could not have chosen the presidency without parity, fifty, fifty, two from Serbia, two from Montenegro, and of these two from Serbia, one could possibly be of Montenegrin origin. Is this the occupation of Montenegro by Serbia? Who are the icons of these other Serbs who attack Serbia inside, who for the sake of interest on the outside do everything to suppress in Serbia and Serbs every trace of national feeling, and icons of the other Serbs are Latina Perovic and Stevo Kapičić. These are Montenegrin communists whose cub and their best student are Milo Djukanovic. Hence, Milo Djukanovic's policy is nothing more than the legacy of these mentioned icons of other Serbs, whether this policy was said the other day alone, not anything but the desire for Montenegro to be anti-Serbian, that everything that has a prefix of Serbia in Montenegro disappears, is lost, or at least to put in a yellow ribbon. As for the importance of the Cyrillic as an identity issue, it should be said that this law has also adopted a paper supported by JS, which is the Council of the Government for Serbian Language, and we think it is a good proposal because this will institutionally take care of the use of Serbian language and the use of Cyrillic letters and its protection. The State must do its utmost to make the Cyrillic letter widely used. In fact, we have a situation in the 21st century today, which is the 21st century era of information society and social networks and communication, especially young people, are increasingly present by words, expressions, phrases, and abbreviations that come from other languages. This would not all be a problem and could be considered to be a enriching of our vocabulary, if the situation were for our children and for our young people to read books and read home literature and to be rich in this way in their vocabulary. Unfortunately, today in the computer era, mobile phones have witnessed the fact that young people are increasingly reading books, a team of young people's vocabulary itself is getting poorer and often happens to know for some phenomenon or thing an English term or phrase, and they don't know an adequate Serbian word. The personal computer, mobile phone, tablets, and other achievements of technique have made people today, and especially young people are becoming less and less used by Cyrillic letters. Therefore, the appeal to the state that the state must encourage the use of Cyrillic both on the internet and on social networks has been initiated with the creation of so-called so-called Cyrillic. Cyrillic domains, however, have lost some care over time, faded, and we think it was good. Also, we think that it is good and that the JS supports this law, because this is a law that takes care of the Serbian identity of which is an integral part and a Serbian language and a Cyrillic letter. It is good that this law will also be passed in Republika Srpska and it is good that the day after tomorrow we will mark the Day of Serbian Unity and the national flag in Serbia and Republika Srpska. It is good that we will mark that day in both primary and secondary schools in the Republic of Serbia and Republika Srpska, because we are fed up with other Serbs and individual neighbours and other midwives who have wanted to impose a sense of inferiority on us for decades, to impose on us a sense of collective guilt that we exist as a people at all. The Serbian people have nothing to be ashamed of. The Serbian people have always been and will be a European people who respect others, but a people who respect themselves, their language, their letter and tradition. All of these are reasons why the Single Serbia will support the law in the voting day. Long live Serbia!
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-13-0.u9143	Thank you. Dear People's MPs, for the sake of your time's organization, I need to inform you that today the National Assembly will be working without a break from 14.00 to 15.00 hours. So we're canceling the break, but we're working till 4:30. We're going back to work. The word has the head of the SVM parliamentary group Dr Balint Pastor.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-13-0.u9144	The President-in-Office, Madam Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we've heard a lot in the debate so far. I would not like to repeat those arguments and various information concerning the use of language, that is, the importance of language, of any language for the functioning of human civilization and, of course, it is evident that there is no human civilization without language and that the language has, apart from linguistics, its sociological, anthropological, legal, political, and even political aspects. It is the management of those who spoke, and above all also Deputy Prime Minister Maja Gojkovic said that this bill has been written for many years. I remember the time when Maja Gojkovic was still the president of the National Assembly and we were in the Ministry of Culture at the time of the National Assembly for one of the premonitions of this law at the Ministry of Culture with Prime Minister Vladan Vukosavljevic. That was in 2019. Meanwhile, for the past two years, there have been elections, the new government is also today the National Assembly is having a principle debate on this bill. It was also said that because we are dealing with this bill today the day after tomorrow, the Day of Serbian Unity, and that the intention is to adopt this Law on the use of Serbian language in public life and to protect and preserve the Cyrillic letter in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and in the National Assembly of Republika Srpska. As representatives of the Hungarian people, we absolutely understand the importance of this holiday, as we understand and the importance of preserving national identity. Well, who else would understand more the importance of preserving national identity than members of national minorities, whether they live as members of the Hungarian minority in Serbia or as members of the Serb minority, for example, in Hungary, Romania, Croatia, etc. It is also indisputable that language is certainly part of not only expression, but also of national identity and we absolutely consider it natural that every nation has the right and even the obligation to protect, to preserve its language, and even its own letter. For the Serbian people it is National Unity Day of September 15th, for the Hungarian people it is June 4th. Because of everything that has been said, we as representatives of the Hungarian people in Serbia absolutely have no objection to the adoption of such a law and consider it the most natural to adopt such a law. We said it two years ago, we said it the previous days. Here, I'm talking about it today in the National Assembly. It's only one thing that matters to us, one aspect of the adoption of this law, which is that this law, in no way whatsoever, has a negative impact on the official use of the language and letters of the national minorities, and since this bill does not do so, we have nothing to do with any such bill. This bill does not concern the use of language and letters by national minorities precisely because it is not and cannot be subject to this law. The right of official use, at the same time, of equal use of the language of national minorities regulates the Constitution as the highest legal act of the Republic of Serbia, regulates the Law on the Protection of Rights and Freedom of National Minorities, regulates the Law on Official Use of Language and Letters, but I must also say that this Bill on the Use of Serbian Language and Cyrillic Letters regulates certain aspects already regulated by other regulations, both the Constitution and the Law on Official Use of Language and Letters. Nevertheless, this law is passed and this law still speaks about the protection of the Serbian language and the Cyrillic letter. We see this as an attempt or as an intention to protect, cultivate and preserve Serbian language and Cyrillic letter as a standoff for the national identity of the Serbian people, as I said earlier, and we understand this bill as additional support for the Law on Official Use of Language and Letters. As members of the Hungarian people, we think and think that it is a question for the Serbian people and that it is a matter of the Serbian people who speak the language, how it standardises that language and what letter it uses. It is absolutely the right of the Serbian people to decide whether they will use the Cyrillic letter, whether they will use the latin script, whether they will use both letters, and that is a question for the Serbian people. Neither does the Serbian people interfere with how they will benefit and what letter will be written by Hungarian, Albanian, Croatian or any other people, and that is in the Republic of Serbia, and anywhere else, and that is absolutely clear and it cannot be different, but in order to remove certain doubts, of course, that previous days and weeks have occurred in some of the past weeks that are looking forward to a fight between the Hungarian and Serbian people. There has already been some news that we will assist the cyrilization of everything and everything, that we will assist in the disappearance of the possibility of the right of official use of Hungarian or any other minority language, and that is absolutely not true. That is why I have spoken and said some things that should be understood, such as, for example, to point out once again, that it is a question for the Serbian people who will use the language, how they will standardise that language and what letter they will use. The same applies to every other language, and this law cannot be of danger to the use of minority languages and because of the use of only one legal argument, which is regulated by the Constitution, and the Constitution as the highest legal act in the state is, of course, in the hierarchy of general legal acts above this future law and any other law of the Republic of Serbia. Nevertheless, we felt it important to remove some misunderstandings and to minimise the possibility of any interpretations that do not have a foothold in this bill or in any already adopted and valid legal act of the Republic of Serbia. That is why the parliamentary group of the Alliance of Duchy Hungarians submitted three amendments. I'm not going to tell a big secret that we've talked about these amendments in the past few days, because since the bill's coming up, we've been having these conversations because it's absolutely responsible, something else would be irresponsible. As I said earlier, we had these conversations with the then heads of the Ministry of Culture already two years ago, only then did this text not arrive on the agenda of the National Assembly. No matter what the debate is now a principle debate, not a debate in particular, for the sake of the public, I want to say a few sentences about these amendments to make us all aware of what we have proposed and why we consider all of this important. We considered it important that immediately in Article 1. The bill states that everything this law regulates has no effect on the official use of language and letters by national minorities. This, as I said, stems from the Constitution itself, comes from the Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedoms of National Minorities, and this stems from the Law on Official Use of Language and Letters. However, we felt it important that, since this bill regulates some of the issues already regulated by other legal acts of the Republic of Serbia and this solution is an integral part of this bill. So that's our first amendment. Our second amendment refers to certain possible tax reliefs, and these tax exemptions should certainly be provided for or not to provide for tax legislation, so this is the subject of tax laws. This bill only introduces the possibility of providing certain tax reliefs to those economic operators who will use a Cyrillic letter in their business. This is one option that will be regulated by tax laws. But if that were the rest of it alone, that provision would unfortunately be discriminatory, and according to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, everyone is equal before the law. As a result, we have proposed an amendment, by analogy to the point of view of the 1st article, that companies using Cyrillic letters may rely on tax laws to rely on some possible tax reliefs. On the same principle, we saw it as an opportunity for companies that cannot, by nature, use Serbian language and Cyrillic letter in their business. I'll give you a simple example. If we're talking about publishing work, book publishing. One publishing house in Belgrade that publishes books in Serbian, for example. may decide whether to print some novels or other works of literature in Serbian with Cyrillic or Latin. In line with these proposed solutions of the bill, if regulated by tax laws, a publishing house will print a novel, for example. She could count on certain tax reliefs on Cyrillic. It's absolutely fine, by us. But let's say one publishing house from Novi Sad, Sente or Subotica that publishes books on e.g. In Hungarian, by the nature of things, this publishing house cannot print these publications, these works are printed in a Cyrillic letter. For this reason, we saw as a possibility that there would be no discrimination and that all before the law would be equal to one such possibility in the same way as provided for by the draft law in paragraph 1. for Serbian language and Cyrillic letter. Will any of these be achieved both in Serbian and minority languages? It's a question that will be resolved in the future. It depends on the tax policy, it depends on the finance ministry, not the culture ministry in the first place. We'll see if it's ever going to be anything at all, but it's important to predict that the law would not be discriminatory. Our third amendment is similar. It refers to log manifestations. The bill stipulates that those manifestations that are financed and from public sources must have a logo in Serbian with a Cyrillic letter. We predicted that in the case of events they aim to preserve, cultivate the identity of the national minority, the logo of these manifestations can also be in the language of the national minority. So these are our three amendments that improve this bill and absolutely do not raise the question of the fundamental intention and objective of the proposed law. In the end, I would just like to point out that the Alliance of Duchy Hungarians will vote in favour of this bill. We believe that this law does not reduce the rights of members of the national minorities, especially that I can say in a well-founded manner if, in accordance with our agreement, our amendments are to be adopted officially. Like I said, it's a question of the Serbian people whether they use Cyrillic, Latin. It is also regulated by the Constitution in Article 10, which speaks of a Cyrillic letter in the Republic of Serbia in official use. I would also like to point out that, eventually, I would suggest that the Latin letter be kept also as a wealth of Serbian and Serbian people. It's called digraphy in science, and as far as I know, there are only 10 languages in the world that languages have two letters, and one single language on the ground of Europe that has two letters is Serbian, the other nine languages are spoken outside the territory of Europe, and that is one wealth that should certainly be guarded and nurtured. Let us not forget that the Latin also created Dubrovnik literature as the ultimate achievement of literature, humanism and renaissance, that Đuro Daničić and Vuk Stefanović Karadzic who translated the Old and New Testament used both Latin and Cyrillic scripts, that the Latin literary agreement on the literary language in which Vuk Stefanović Karadzic put his signature on the Latin, and therefore I suggest that both letters be kept safe and in practice live up to what you predicted and that in practice the official use of the language of the national minorities. At the very end, there is only one digression, footnote, not from the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Culture of the Republic of Serbia and it is not some phenomenon, it is always about individual perpetrators, but more and more exists on the ground, unfortunately, the practice of damaging multilingual tablets, of repainting the inscriptions in the languages of national minorities, and I appeal to the competent state authorities to take this problem more seriously, which is present on the ground. As I was saying, the Alliance of Duke Hungarians will support this bill and I hope that the day after tomorrow we will adopt a law that will be enriched by our amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-13-0.u9145	Thank you. The word is made by Deputy Prime Minister Maja Gojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-13-0.u9146	I thank Parliamentarian Balint Pastor for the truly exhaustive presentation and parliamentary group of the Alliance of the Duchy Hungarians, who have the understanding of the bill on the use of Serbian language in public life and the protection and preservation of Cyrillic letters, which in fact you have completed this bill with your amendments, because it can never harm when there is something in the Constitution and other laws that define something, that the bill that is simply complete before us and removes any misunderstanding or fear that any other letter and any other language will be suppressed by this bill. I'm aware and we were all aware and we follow everything that's been revealed on social networks and in the media, and, well you said, there's always a soul-care professional when a majority of people are trying to protect their cultural heritage that someone's trying to bring suspicions and chills to minority peoples that something is going to be taken away from them, denied, and that they're not going to be equal in this country. So it was certainly nice to hear that you have set the example that there are only 10 languages in the world that can say they have two letters. Believe it or not, a month ago, when it started to be said that there would be this bill in parliament, and in a very short time, which has been working for a long time and some versions of the legislation that have not passed, now this one is, we hope to live, they wrote that in response to one MP I have told a great lie, and thus I am showing you the light that not all critics are always so familiar with what they say and criticise, that the Latin letter does not belong to the language that I speak and speaks the majority people. Now, let me make it clear to you that there are all the criticisms, and the criticisms are not always undermined by some special knowledge. I am pleased that someone who belongs to the minority people is just an example that the Serbian language is a rare language that has two letters and most of us are automatically, not thinking, using both letters, especially those who have been learning two letters at the same time. Simple, and when I read, I don't notice when I moved on to one or the other letter. I can also boast about reading books in other languages and other letters, not just Cyrillic. I think it's a perfectly normal thing in one country and one language where both letters are our letters. I'm sorry to hear that the inscriptions in the languages of the national minorities are being damaged, and I think it deserves every conviction. Of course, convictions also come from local self-government leaders, from the government of the AP Vojvodina, if they are such vandalism in Vojvodina, from ministers from the republican government, but simply it should be said that it is vandalism, that it is a difficult primitiveism, that it is a question and that society has to deal with it more widely. Equally, we have the phenomenon that on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, the same inscriptions in Serbian, especially the Cyrillic letter, are being destroyed. I have nothing to say but that society has failed, but that there are family appointments, because mostly after it comes down to the fact that younger people, who don't know what it means to live in a country where we're not all equal, but we all live in the same country, respect each other, and that it's actually mild to have national minorities in one country, and the Republic of Serbia can be praised, we become a bit of a rare person on the European continent. After all, our national minorities are a bridge to Europe, because they can contribute a lot to us, not only in cultural terms, in terms of a better common life, but in that Europe understands us more easily, and this is also proven in our good relations with the Hungarian Republic, where we have an unremembered historically high degree of understanding and co-operation in all fields. I think it's very much so and because we have excellent co-operation with the Alliance of the Duchy Hungarians, which represents the Hungarian national minority in our country. I received before the beginning of the session these three amendments that you spoke of and I met them. So you explained, Article 1 adds a new position 2 which reads not to be excluded by this law and by Article 1 the use of language and letters of national minorities at the same time as the Serbian and Cyrillic letters. I think by adopting such an amendment, and I think that tomorrow we'll have a government session, we'll drive away all the dilemmas and these concubines who are very concerned about the problems of national minorities, we'll divulge any suspicions, especially among ordinary people who succumb to these various inscriptions and unfounded attitudes. The second amendment concerns tax and other administrative reliefs. I am convinced that tomorrow we will also have an understanding of this position in the government, that it can be accepted and that there is a possibility, as you said, this depends not on the Ministry of Culture and Information, as it says in the law, but also on the Ministry of Finance, that there may be certain tax reliefs and incentives among publishers of the issue and publications in the languages of national minorities. You have cited certain examples of publishers who publish books, publications, magazines in Hungarian. The third amendment relating to cultural manifestations is that the logo can certainly be written according to the language and letter of the national minority. As far as the Ministry of Culture and Information is concerned, all three amendments are acceptable to us. We'll wait for tomorrow's session. That is the kind of opinion we will give to the government of the Republic of Serbia. I am convinced that by Wednesday, until the vote and the debate on amendments, we will have a clear view and that these amendments will be formally accepted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you again for your discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-13-0.u9147	I thank the Minister of Culture and Information. Let's move on. The word has the vice-president of the National Assembly, the authorised representative of the PUPS parliamentary group – "Tri P" Stefan Krkobibic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-13-0.u9148	Dear Vice-President Kovac, Honorable Vice-President Zardisic, the distinguished Vice-President Jevdzic, in the meeting of the first celebration of Serbia's Unity Day, freedom and national flags and anniversary of the Thessaloniki Front breakthrough on September 15th, when the joint celebration of the Republic of Serbia and Republika Srpska will be marked in all Serbian schools on both sides of Drina, we attend these encouraging events of crucial importance for the preservation of Serbian state and national identity. One has just been reached – an agreement by the leadership of the Republic of Serbia and the Republika Srpska and the patriarch of Serbia's Porfir on the joint construction of the St-Serb sanctuary in Donjo Gradina, a Serbian memorial centre that will keep Jasenovac from forgetting all Serbian victims and casualties at the site of one of the Ustasha camps of death and the Jasenovac lost system. The second is the adoption of the Law on the use of Serbian language in public life and the protection and preservation of Cyrillic letters co-ordinated by parliaments of Serbia and Serbia at the same time. The Serbian language, according to the bill, is a standardised type of Serbian language as a means and a general good of national culture, and the parent letter is a standardised type of Serbian Cyrillic that represents the foothold of national identity. Cyrillica is qualified in this law as a native Serbian letter, given its millennium tradition in Serbian culture and the fact that, despite such a long tradition, she is at risk in many areas of public life in our country and region. How alarming the situation is also the results of the 2014 survey, according to which, although Cyrillic is one of the essential elements and symbols of Serbia's national identity and official letter in Serbia, as many as 47% of the population writes more in Latin and only 36% in Cyrillic. That is why this law, which I hope will be passed without a vote against unequivocal regarding the use of Cyrillic in Serbia. The Serbian language and Cyrillic letter as a parent letter must be used in the work of both public authorities, authorities of autonomous provinces, cities and municipalities, institutions, companies and other organisations when they exercise public authority, in the work of public enterprises and public services, in educational-experienced work, in institutions and other forms of organisation in the field of education, in public media services programmes, as well as in other organisations when they carry out tasks established by law governing the official use of languages and letters. In addition to the Serbian Council for Serbian Language, which will monitor and analyse the situation in the field of use of Serbian language in public life and the implementation of measures to protect and preserve Cyrillic letter, the application of this law will be supervised by the Ministry of Culture and Information. What is a special quality of this law is the fact that instead of sanctions, priority is given to positive stimulation of both private businesses and other entities, including public information funds which are not subject to the obligation to apply a Cyrillic letter, so those who use Cyrillic in their public communication will receive some tax and administrative relief instead of penalties. The reasons for the adoption of this law are contained in the need to establish additional measures aimed at fostering Serbian language and Cyrillic letters, as well as cultural and traditional values and to accelerate the wider use of Cyrillic letters in public life, given the historical, cultural and identity importance of this issue. It may be a pre-optimistic expectation that, by 1 January 2023, business operators operating with the majority participation of public capital, professional and professional associations representing their territory at national international level will use a Cyrillic letter in accordance with this law. Make it less, but it'll certainly be a lot more than it is today. As a social justice party particularly concerned with sensitive categories of citizens, it is very important that the application of this law will not lead to any direct or indirect discrimination of different categories of persons. For example, based on nationality, ethnic origin, language, gender, birth identity, disability, age, sexual orientation, marital status or other personal properties. The bill does not discriminate against a single category of persons, because they equally exercise their rights through the application of the Law on Official Use of Language and Letters. Cyrillic is, we all know, a letter used in many Slovenian languages, such as Belarusian, Bulgarian, Macedonian, Russian, Serbian, Ukrainian, and also in a number of other languages in the areas of Eurasia, primarily in the premises of the former Soviet Union. Modern Cyrillic letters are based on an old Slovenian Cyrillic that was created in southern Slovenia, assumed in the 9th century. Glagolitic and then the Cyrillic were formulated by Slovenian educators Cyril and Methodius and their students who brought Christianity to the southern Slovenes. Cyrillica was derived from the Greek Union, extended by letters from an older verbic alphabet, including some ligatures. The letter was called in honor of the younger of the two Byzantine brothers - Cyril, who had previously created a Glagolitic letter with Methodius. Since the name Cyrillic is related to the name Cyril, it may well be our Sremska Mitrovica where two great civilizations have symbolically crossed – the culture of Old Rome and Slovenian culture and literacy. There are, namely, serious indications that Cyril's brother Methodius ended his earthly pilgrimage in former Sirmium in Mazva Mitrovica where, within the rest of the church, an archaeological site called Shiringrad is the unknown grave that is supposed to be the Methodius' eternal house. The brothers who created the first Slovenian letter were the most, expanding literacy, right in the area of the Greater Sea Princess and Pannonia, and the seat of the Pannonian archbishop, whose Methodius was an Episcopal, was right in Sirmium. Slovenian Cyrillic letters are also known as the alphabet derived from the old names of the first two letters of most Cyrillic letters. The capital of the letter came from an early Cyrillic which was a product of the verb and of the Greek constitutional letter — a union. For most likely Cyrillic composers are taken Climent Ohridski or Konstantin Preslavski, but it is not quite safe. It is the basis of an alphabet used in various languages, formerly or present, in other parts of Southeast Europe and Northern Eurasia, especially in those of Slovenian origin and in non-Slovenian languages that are influenced by Russian. About 252 million people in Eurasia used Cyrillic as an official alphabet in their national languages 10 years ago. With Bulgaria's admission to the EU, Cyrillic became the EU's third official letter, following the Latin and Greek letters. The Serbian Cyrillic is the adjustment of the Serbian Cyrillic, which was formed by Vuk Stefanovic Karadzic in 1811. The wolf based the Serbian Cyrillic on the previous SlavnoSerb letter, and in principle - write as you say and read as it is written. Removing outdated letters and letters that represent Jotted vowels, introducing the letter J from the Latin, instead, and adding several consonants to specific sounds in Serbian phonology. As an element of Serbian national self-awareness, how many Cyrillics feared Serbian enemies show the following examples. Laws on the ban on the use of Cyrillic in Serbian schools were passed, so she withdrew under the pressure of the Serbian people and churches in the Austrian Empire, another Maria Teresa in half the 18th century, then Emperor Franz Joseph in the late 19th century, and he had to withdraw because of fierce protests by Serbs. During World War I, a Cyrillic was officially banned by the Austrian occupation authorities in the territory of today's Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Montenegro and Serbia, and schools were brought by teachers from Austria, in the largest number of Croatians, to teach Serbian children in schools exclusively in Latin. The Croatian Parliament in Austria in 1914 decided to ban Cyrillic in Croatia and Slavonia, and then so on. The Bosnian-Herzegovina Assembly in 1915, while Bosnian Governor Stjepan Sarkozy said that Serbs in Bosnia and Herzegovina with their Cyrillic letter represent the enemy body of the east in the war zone of the west. Already on 21 April 1941, just 10 days after the NDH declaration, the Ustasha regime passed a legal provision prohibiting the use of Cyrillic signed by Ante Pavelic. The first order of the Ustasha authorities was to cover all the signs of the Cyrillic at trade shops and inn in Bosnia Nova. The second order prohibited the use of Cyrillic in church communication, and the Ustashas went so far as to even destroy flyers that the Germans printed with Cyrillic. Of course, with its support for this law, PUPS does not question and justify the language policies that advocate the duality of the Serbian language. We believe that the cultural well-being of this people should be treated and preserved and improved by Latinas our second letter which has also rooted in Serbian linguistic, cultural and national identity. We have burned ourselves too much in the past by giving up the works of our language tradition and the wealth of Serbian language, naively giving in to others. So today, for example, the Croatian language, words such as "thousands" or the names of months such as "June, July, October", are considered exclusively their own, although they are still used in the text of the Dušan Code. It is necessary to remove one dilemma here. In the course of the draft law on the use of Serbian language in public life and the protection and preservation of Cyrillic letters, consultations were conducted with the Ministry of Education and Culture of Republika Srpska, and in order to bring the text of both laws to the greatest extent possible, because there is a law of similar content. As we know from the Dayton Agreement, Serbia and Serbia have signed a special relations agreement, and co-operation in the area of culture is one of the most significant items of the document. Accordingly, the Republika Srpska government has also established its Bill on the Protection, Conservation and Use of Serbian Language and Cyrillic Letters, which regulates the system of protection and preservation and means of using the language of Serbian people and Cyrillic letters in Republika Srpska, as an immaterial cultural heritage, i.e. cultural goods of exceptional importance. The law will also be brought before MPs of the Republika Srpska National Assembly following an urgent procedure. These bill proposals on both sides define social concern for the language and the letter of origin and their protection and pave the way for national, language policy in both Serbia and Serbia. But not to be confused, this is not about any nationalism of the periwinkle type, general social care for their language, and the letter shows all the credible and dignified states and nations. Not only do these show countries with complex linguistic and ethical structures such as EU members such as Belgium, Romania, Slovakia, Spain, Italy, Finland or neutral Switzerland, but also some countries with symbolic and traditionally suppressed languages such as France and Poland and certain countries in the former SFRY area. In the era of an accelerated technological and informative revolution, when the absolute domination of English and Latin letters is at work, as a kind of aggressive language neocolonialism, every country and nation that holds on to itself must protect its language as part of national identity. History teaches us when the tongue dies, usually the people die. Rare languages have survived the nations. For the end, I would like to thank the Honorable Deputy Prime Minister and her team, because today she is here with us and presenting this law to us, both for the effort and for the work and we think that this is an extraordinary means of defending Serbian national interests, and just continue in that direction. Finally, the PUPS parliamentary group -- "Tri P" -- will hopefully, like all other parliamentary groups in this House, support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-13-0.u9149	Thank you, Vice President of the National Assembly. The word has the mandated representative of the SPS parliamentary group, MP Prof. Dr. Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-13-0.u9150	Thank you. Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the Honorable Vice-President of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, allow me to say a few words on behalf of the SPS on the draft law on which the Assembly today discusses, the bill on the use of Serbian language in public life and the protection and preservation of Cyrillic letter. I think it's a very good law, which, however, is not large in its scope, but it's very important in its content. I must tell you, Minister, that I have learned much more through that part of the text that is an integral part of this law which is called an analysis of the effects of the law compared to that first part, because it very plastically explains everything that this law in practice needs to produce. I will not, on behalf of the SPS, make any other arguments, besides all those you have stated, explaining this law which makes it my opinion that it is good to adopt the Law on the Use of Serbian Language in Public Life and the Conservation and Protection of Cyrillic Letters. I purposely mention all of this in order to understand the real essence of the law. In fact, it must be understood that language is not only one of the means of communication, but also part of the identity of the community of people, that for some communities, language is a basic mark, for most of them only one of the features. It's very important to cultivate language. Language, let me say, is also a cohesion integration factor that unites people, but unfortunately it can also be a element that separates them. We had a situation, during the 18th and 19th centuries, that national states were being created and part of the creation of these national states was suppressing the language of other citizens, that is, a kind of creating linguistic unitary states. Rare are countries where only one language is spoken. There are far more countries to speak several languages. I need to make a difference, and I think that's where you explained it well. I'm under the impression that it's never been heard in the debate before, or maybe it's not understood enough. I can see that you insisted on it, but people in different ways probably understand you, it's terribly important to understand the terms "language spoken" and "official language", because in one country you can speak more languages, but it's only official one. Of course, there are exceptions. I found one information that there are 179 languages in India with 544 dialects and 15 languages are official. We have Switzerland here closer to us where three languages are in official use, in Canada speak French and English. All that says is language diversity, but inside, let me say, there is this national, ethnic diversity. Otherwise, it is not unknown, data say that there are six thousand different languages in the world, and only 193 UN member states, then it can be understood how many language diversity is compared to the number of countries. I am glad that in this part of the law, I have found information that says that the issue of language protection is not just a question that Serbia is concerned with. It absolutely defies the arguments of many of those who would like to give this law, let me say, one national note. This is, above all, the Law on the Protection of Use, that is, the use of Serbian language as official and preservation and protection of Cyrillic letters. It is said there that countries that have a similar problem and deal with this topic - Belgium, Slovakia, Spain, Switzerland, Italy, Finland, many coastal countries, countries of the former Yugoslavia, but also those countries that are thought to have solved the linguistic problem as France or the case for Poland. I will remind, respected colleagues and colleagues, of the provisions of our Constitution, which say in Article 10 that in the Republic of Serbia there are Serbian language and Cyrillic letter, and that the official use of other languages and letters is governed by the law under the Constitution. This is important to say, I think it is well, respected minister, which, if I may say, we speak only now, without any last intention, I don't know if I'm clear enough, I think the fact that there are so many members of the different ethnic communities in Serbia and so many language fortunes being used, doesn't leave, let me say, no sign of any doubt in the honest intention of the legislator, in this case, the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Official data from the Office for Human and Minority Rights, for example, say that in Serbia, at the level of preschool education, ten languages of national minorities are used, that in primary schools classes are performed in 13 minority languages and covers more than 45,000 children, in secondary schools about 13,000 young people attend classes in the languages of national minorities, that there are 100 printed journals in 16 languages of national languages, and that in 42 local self-governments we have more than 10 languages of national minorities. I deliberately mention this because this provides arguments that the adoption of this law wants to impose a Serbian language or a Cyrillic letter eventually. On the contrary, the use of other languages is absolutely determined. Therefore, there is no need for such fear. I think a simple fact is being ignored here, which is the fact that we are talking about the use of Serbian and Cyrillic letters as an official language. This public-law relationship between citizens and the state is ignored, the rights acquired by citizenship, economic, social, cultural and any other rights, but also certain obligations and in this context, of course, the care of the state. It is very important that the state takes care of the language. We're not, I'm saying, the only ones who do it. I also mentioned France, which is a great country, by many characteristics, is one of the French languages, and yet they have their own commission to protect French language and is not unknown, I also found this information, believe it or not, that the French Academy has been editing the way the French language was used since 1635. The Commission, which addresses this issue in fear of the influence of the Anglo-Saxon speech area, is making proposals that can be used in French. He's proposing to the Academy. The Academy then adopts it and it becomes part of the use of French. So we're not the only ones doing this. Finally, concern about language protection exists and at a global level tells the fact that the UN Organization for Education, Science and Culture promoted the day of the native language, which is February 21st and yet in 1997 to affirm the specificity and all that every language has. So we're not the only ones dealing with affirmation and language protection and taking care of its use. What's important to say for this law is that the law, and if it's very small, it's very taxing, lists all the ways in which this law can be implemented. In fact, this law is an additional support to the Law on Official Use of Language and Letters, and it is important to say that it would understand the essence of this law. In fact, the law foresees the obligation to use the Serbian language and is a member of this law, where it is very taxful to state who has an obligation to work and do business, i.e. to use the Serbian language and Cyrillic letter and should be said, since the application of this law begins from 1 January 2023 that 100% of business entities operating with the majority participation of public capital, professional and professional associations representing their territory at national and international level will use a Cyrillic letter in accordance with this law. This is important to mention because the obligation to use is set out in this law in Article 3 but the obligation to use Serbian and Cyrillic letters is also established in Article 6 and it refers to cultural and other manifestations, which are financed or co-financed by public funds. It is stressed here in Article 6 that they must have a logo written in a Cyrillic letter in accordance with the regulations under which they are organised. In addition to these measures, mandatory character, there are measures to encourage the use of Serbian and Cyrillic letters. These measures are contained in Article 5 of this Act, which states that the Republic, province and local regulations in accordance with the specific law may establish tax and other administrative reliefs for business and other entities which, in their business or exercise their activity, decide on the use of a Cyrillic letter, including the use of a Cyrillic letter in electronic media and when issuing printed public messages. I'm reading this for no reason. The essence of law enforcement must be understood. Of course, in addition to these mandatory and stimulating measures, there are information and educational measures that are important for the application of this law. The use of Serbian language and the preservation and protection of Cyrillic letters is provided by the provisions of this law through the work of three bodies, i.e. institutions, if I may say so. In Article 4. The government envisions a council on Serbian language that monitors and analyses the situation in the Serbian language in public life and implements measures to protect and preserve Cyrillic letters, letters of origin and, of course, gives its recommendations, proposals and expert opinions. What is important today to point out is that in the Council, this is stated in the position of the 3rd member of the law, the overhalf majority are representatives of the language profession, which are referred to on the proposal of the Committee on Standardisation of the Serbian Language. It is very important, which means that this issue will not be addressed by people from, I say, policy spheres but above all by people in the field of the profession, because the Committee on Standardisation of Serbian Language was founded long ago in 1997 with the aim of gathering experts from institutions in the Serbian language and speech field dealing with scientific learning of Serbian language for linguistic planning that would lead to adequate language policy and practice and providing Serbian language status. The Committee's founders are three academics, science and art and SANU, the Institute of Serbian Language SANU and Matica Serbian, universities from Serbia, Republika Srpska and Montenegro whose studies teach Serbian language, and the Serbian literary cooperative. I purposely mention this in order to understand how many competent people make up the composition of the Committee on Standardisation of Serbian Language and how professional it is for the task it is entrusted to him because the Committee's task is to propose measures to improve the position and importance of the Serbian language. The very fact that the head of this committee was the late academicist Pavle Ilic, later and Milka Ilic, then the chairman of the Committee was Ivan Klein, and now he is Professor Sveto Tanasic, and you mentioned him and other members of the board, some of them and I personally know as professor... , they themselves are one guarantee of the competence of this Committee and how much their proposals will be scientifically founded, how important it will be for the work of this Committee and of course for the application of this law. The third important institution is only a ministry that controls the implementation of the provisions of this law. It is important to mention that this law also creates a system of protection and preservation of Serbian language and Cyrillic letter, that social care about protection is spoken of by Article 7 and that the whole law can also be sublimed in Article 8 which speaks of social care, protection and preservation of Serbian language and Cyrillic letter. In one word, I think it is good that the Government of the Republic of Serbia today proposes this law, which we will adopt on Wednesday, is good for the preservation of the language and preservation of its letter, it is good for our country and for the need to preserve the Serbian language in those areas where Serb people live, it is good that Republika Srpska will decide on it, it is good that the law will be brought into the same content, it is good that they were co-operated with them in the adoption of this law, it is good that the right to use this law guarantees us these special ties that we have with the Republic of Serbia on the basis of the Dayton Agreement. In one word, much is good both in this law and in the goals that are to be achieved. This is not, as I would say, the intention of the Republic of Serbia to impose in any way on others to use Serbian and Cyrillic letters. No, this is about the need to use Serbian as much as possible and to preserve, protect the Cyrillic letter. Some of my colleagues, and you're a respected minister, mentioned many reasons why the state, to say harder to protect its language. Of course, at this time of globalisation, simply globalisation has imposed one uniformity on the global level and because of its needs, large multinational companies are trying to wipe out these national, state-level borders. They're trying to simply, any speciality to bring in, undo, disappear for the sake of the interests these multinational companies have. Interestingly, all these great nations and large nations do not prevent them from caring for their own language and their way of using that language. To us, small nations and countries that have a rich and long history, tradition, language and culture, is to work to preserve our identity. Accordingly, the bill on the use of Serbian language in public life and the protection and preservation of Cyrillic script is a good basis and direction in which we should go. Of course, I must also say that this ministry is overseeing the implementation of the provisions of the law, but this ministry is not the only one who plays its part in the topic of preserving Serbian language and Cyrillic letter. The fact that the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development too has no need to be overlooked and how important it is when it comes to the Serbian language and the Cyrillic letter, as it is important who teaches the Serbian language. You know, the Serbian language must first learn to be used. It's very important who teaches Serbian in schools and in colleges. Whether competent people are doing this and it is also important how much Serbian language is represented in our education system in our curricula and programmes. I looked at some comparative data relating to the use of Serbian language as a teaching course in primary and secondary schools and to my surprise of this country large, such as France or Russia, have one hour more in the curriculum and programme at the level of primary education, and at the level of secondary education and more. We have one principle to try to balance between the Serbian language and mathematics, but you see, not only Russia and France but also other countries of water and how they count on the native language and try to ensure that the mother tongue is adequately represented in the education system. If we can master our mother tongue well during our education, then we can use it more easily later. When I mentioned people who use Serbian language, not only those in the area of the former Yugoslavia, in our environment but also beyond, we have a large diaspora and a question of education of members of our diaspora is a very important issue. It is not in your jurisdiction, it is the responsibility of the Ministry of Education, but I know that Serbian language and literature are being studied in different ways and that is a good thing that our country does, because it simply makes the Serbian language as the native language, members of the Serbian people subject to use and use, but when it comes to Serbia being the subject of using everyone, because it is official language in the Republic of Serbia. And in the end, I'd like to say one more time what I mentioned during the presentation. One, it's a good thing we're passing this law now, it's never too late. It's a good thing we're passing it after the other laws we've arranged for the rights of minorities. It is good to know that we also adopted the European Charter on Regional Minority Languages in 2006. It is good to know that minority languages are used in all areas of life in the Republic of Serbia, that minority members are not on any basis denied, but this is about official language in the Republic of Serbia, constitutional provision and the need to improve the use of the official language and preserve and preserve a Cyrillic letter. At the very end, the SPS parliamentary group will be pleased to vote for the adoption of the law in a voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-13-0.u9151	I would like to thank Honorable Professor Dr. Zarko Obradovic for his presentation. I give my word to the promoter, Mrs. Maja Gojkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-13-0.u9152	One little note. You mentioned large multinational companies that impose inscriptions on us on Latin, but not Latin anymore in their original form. It's mostly U.S. firms or companies in the English speaking area. It's a good example of Bulgaria, where if you've been recently, and you can see on social networks. For example, "Mecdonalda" that writes with Cyrillic or a bottle of "Coca-Cola". A good example here was probably a 100 or 120-year-old Coca-Cola present on the international market, bottles for this jubilee were printed with Cyrillic and the accompanying inscriptions below, that it was a jubilee edition. I don't know why it would bother anyone. I think that can be achieved again in Serbia, that these large companies use future incentives, I hope that they will be done by the ministry, because the bill provides for the possibility that we can also encourage private companies with certain tax incentives, that they too will move on to these Cyrillic inscriptions. Of course, they also use a Cyrillic label on commercials and use their original English inscriptions because of foreign consumption and tourists. We don't have to worry so much about tourists. You know, it's funny to think that a word in Serbian written on the Latin is understood by a stranger. He understands it if you write it in a foreign language what it is, not if you write him a Serbian word and only in Latin. It's this big confusion, ignorance, malice or uneducated when someone says that strangers will understand us. No one can convince me that a stranger will understand if you write in a Latin bakery, that he knows it's a bakery or something. It must then be written in English, which somehow became our Esperanto, common language for all foreigners, whatever they say well or as they say, broken language. We all use it in some way. So these incentives may also help large companies to use these incentives, and then write their own articles and communicate with both Cyrillic and English, most often. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-13-0.u9153	I thank the esteemed Deputy Prime Minister. The next representative of the list is Aleksandar Vučić – For our children, Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-13-0.u9154	Dear Vice President, Mr. Krkobiq, Minister of Honor, Mrs. Gojkovic, with an associate, honourable MPs, ladies and gentlemen, I am glad we finally got this law on the agenda. I don't want to repeat myself, since my colleagues have already brought out a bunch of law-related things, but let me say for the sake of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia that this is about two measures. One that commits, and one that stimulates and that's very important. So the first measures are that bind and expand the circle of subjects that are obliged to use Cyrillic. What kind of subjects are these? All those operating or operating with increased participation of public capital and these stimulating ones, which relate to the private sector. First of all, the funds for public information. Why? Privately owned, because given their importance in public life. The time has come to finally bring order into that sense. Today I will speak a little differently than my colleagues when it comes to the use of Cyrillic and Cyrillic, in the first part I warn about these 20 minutes and later in the discussion. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, neglect and the disappearance of the Serbian Cyrillic letter, are the introduction to the disappearance of us as peoples. That's what we need to keep in mind. Therefore, we should always be in front of the eyes and minds of the words and the wills of St. Stefan Nemanja to his son St. Savi, I will quote: “It is better for you to lose the greatest city of your country than the smallest and most insignificant word of your tongue, know that the enemy has conquered you and conquered you as much as he has spent his words, and he has finished his quote. “ In that will, ” he said, “this too, ladies and gentlemen, I quote: “Two peoples of mine may be, I may rest, two languages can never be reconciled, two nations can live in the greatest peace and love, but their tongues can only be fought. Whenever two languages meet and mix, they are like two armies in battle for life and death. As long as that battle is heard in another language, the fight is even. When you start hearing better and you hear more one of them will prevail. After all, only one is heard, the battle is over, one language is gone, one people is gone, a quote is finished. “ Ladies and gentlemen of the people, it would be good for all of us to keep this quote in mind. All this is worth the letter. It's all worth the letter. Both letters can hardly co-exist together both in official use and in the end, there remains only one letter left, and the other goes away gradually, but surely. This is best seen in the case of our country, because the Latin letter almost won everything possible and at the expense of Cyrillic. The suppression of Cyrillic letters from these spaces lasts for 10 years. First, the Cyrillic began to disappear from the territory of the Republic of Croatia, BiH, Slovenia, and here, finally and Montenegro, while in Serbia it was slightly less neglected. After breaking the SFRY Cyrillic letter has practically disappeared in the emerging countries in Croatia, BiH, Slovenia, and finally in Montenegro is gone. It only exists in the editions of the Serbian Orthodox Church and in the tombs and not all the tombstones. To be clear at the beginning, no one has a goal of banishing the Latin. Latina is as Serbian as it is Croatian, because Croatians do not speak in their own letter and language, they gave up 925, or 20 eighths, of their letters, old Slavic verbs and Cyrillics and took someone else's, whose Latin, which they officially used until the half of the 19th century, were immediately clean with it. The awareness of the Cyrillic letter in Serbia gradually weakens, especially in the young generation. So at the end of the 1980s and early 1990s, we had less and less in using a Cyrillic letter in various ways, even the state-run diary of Belgrade's then Radio Television had an evenly represented relationship between both letters, Cyrillic and Latin. Some shows and played series from this television show were exclusively on the Latin. There is nothing better in other electronic and written media than both state and private. Today we have the same situation as 30 years ago. Just a yearly look at daily and periodical newspapers, magazines, magazines and the like, and see how dominant Latina has become. That's the situation in electronic media. However, there is no stopping the domination of the Latin letter, but we also find it in certain state institutions and businesses, etc. Neither the state institutions in Serbia are immune from this practice, although mostly in official communication they address each other in a Cyrillic letter, but not all of them. There is a similar situation in Republika Srpska. Passing through the towns of the Republic of Serbia and Republika Srpska, it is almost impossible to find a special private or catering facility with a prominent Cyrillic inscription, especially for cafes and discotheques where young people gather. In addition to the fact that the inscriptions are written in a Latin letter, the names of these objects are often written in a foreign language, and most often in English. Take examples of Belgrade, Novi Sad, Nis and Kragujevac. The percentage of Cyrillic representation in these cities, even in smaller towns in Serbia and below 20%, and somewhere even less, there are 7%. There is not a single ban on using Cyrillic letters, but Latina has entered communication. This applies also to means of communication where the Latin letter is exclusively represented, although it does, there are technical possibilities for using Cyrillic, mobile phones, laptops, computers, etc. What is the situation in other countries? How do other countries use their letter? I'll just give you a few examples. Russia and Bulgaria have not conducted any other equal letters, although Bulgaria is an EU member, nor has this been discussed at all. Bulgaria is an EU member, but has not given up on pedal compared to its letter. Isn't that right, MPs? That's right, of course. Greece is an EU member, but Greece is also a tourist country, but if you were in Greece, and I believe most of it is, most of the inscriptions are exclusively in Greek. It is also that more recently bilingual inscriptions appear in Greek and English to enable tourists to communicate better. The Russians, Bulgarians and Greeks make no compromises and introduce no other letter. Is it true? That's right. On this point, we bowed down in the fifties of the last century when we accepted the lattice as our letter in the name of brotherhood and unity, and that's true, I'd like to be denied by someone. Only Serbia-Montenegro agreed to the rotten compromise then. The compromise was aimed at suppressing the Cyrillic. The compromise was not accepted by either Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Slovenia, and the latest and Montenegro after a thousand years in official use. Isn't that right, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, the respected citizens of Serbia? That's right, of course. The preservation of the Serbian Cyrillic letter also means the preservation of a Serbian cultural being. This will help us to belong to Europe more if we cultivate and preserve the wealth of our language and our letter, especially in the law. In the EU Constitution, the preamble to the Charter states that the Union aims, among other things, to preserve cultural differences, traditions and national identity, in particular respect for cultural, religious and linguistic differences. That's it, ladies and gentlemen. In the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 10 explicitly provides for the official use of Serbian language and Cyrillic letter, and for the official use of other languages is governed by the law under the Constitution. It should be pointed out that in Republika Srpska, Article 7 paragraph 1, it is envisaged that, I quote: "In the official use of the language of the Serb people, the language of the Bosniak people and the language of the Croatian people. “ The official letter is Cyrillic and Latin. Constitutional provisions are one thing, and life is another, so we have a situation where the Cyrillic is becoming less and less used in Republika Srpska, and Latina is increasingly taking hold. We're eyewitnesses. We come to the paradox that the Cyrillic is not only unequal, but is increasingly suppressed and the space of the Latin is taking place. You know the reason, ladies and gentlemen? The indifferent attitude of the competent state authorities towards Cyrillic at all levels, but also the negligent cultural and media institutions, the ratio of information funds. As a result, we have come to the situation that the Latina as a secondary letter in the Republic of Serbia becomes the main one, and the Cyrillic as a law becomes the official letter, and every day less unfortunately and more officially. Thus, knowingly or unconsciously, we became accomplices to the loss and satire of Serbia's national identity. Holy Stefan Nemanja warned of this eight centuries ago, and I quote: “My child, you are better off losing all battles and wars than losing your tongue. There are no people after the lost language. “ I’m finishing a quote. This goes for the letter, too. Our courts, our municipalities and other state authorities do not fully respect the legal provisions on Cyrillic as an official and official letter. I'm an eyewitness to that, because I got from one court on the Latin when we asked, and when we came here, the judge was surprised. Well, it's not weird, 'cause he came from the street. It's the one who let the Cosmic loose, etc. Courts and municipalities do not always make their decisions and other acts written in a Cyrillic letter. They're often written in a Latin letter, but few people look back on it. Our country has been working with procedural laws in recent years to bring these provisions into line with constitutional provisions on the Law on Language and Letters. By coming to power, the SNS has indeed been done. Thus, in the Law, the Minister Gojkovicka said something about the Criminal Procedure, in Article 11, I quote - Serbian language and Cyrillic script are in the process of serving, and the second language and letter in official use are in accordance with the Constitution and the law, i.e. constitutional law. That provision is clear, it is also understandable, but it is disputed how it is implemented in practice and it is the biggest problem. It is almost identical to the provision regarding the use of language and letter in Article 6. Law on litigation. The lack of interest or inertness of judicial authorities in this matter is due to the lack of criminal provisions for such behaviour. It is true that today, beside Mrs Gojkovic, the minister of education and justice was to sit here, because this is also a matter of other ministries. The Code of Criminal Procedure does not provide for sanctions, while the Law on Official Use of Language and Letters mentions in Section 6 a fine of 20,000 to million for the commercial offences of undertakings, institutions and other legal entities which write the company against the provisions of Article 20 of the Law. You know what it says there? Companies, companies, i.e. institutions and other legal entities are scheduled to be printed in the Serbian language and language of national minorities who are officially in use in the municipality where the entity is established. So there are no problems of national minorities and fears, as the Minister said. I am pleased that Dr. Pastor spoke extremely well about it, but I can also understand concerns on the other hand, although there is no reason to worry about national minorities. The use of Cyrillic letters does not have any criminal provisions, but when it comes to the language of punishment are intended exclusively in the sphere of economy and when it comes to the emphasis and printing of companies. In general, the court and other state institutions do not respect the consistency of the legal and provisions on the use of the Cyrillic letter. We've got problems here. The Federal Assembly at a session of the Council of Citizens on 14.11.2002 brought a Declaration on the Protection of Cyrillic as an expression of concern by the highest state authorities for the fate of Cyrillic. How'd we do? Well, she was expelled from all of the former republics and one part from Serbia. Cyrillic today faces obstacles and obstructions in its functioning despite its centuries-old merits. It is sad that obstacles sometimes come from individuals and groups who do not need Cyrillic for their known reasons. Since it takes me time, let me say, however, that I am convinced that it is the girdle of a foreign factor with individuals inside and so it has always been in the past. With the appearance of the Cyrillic, Serbs were culturally formed, ladies and gentlemen. With her denial, they will culturally disappear. We will become a nation without identity, and a state without authority. The Serbian Progressive Party and the President of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandar Vucic, as well as the Government of the Republic of Serbia will always be with its people and the state, and therefore the initiative of the President of the Republic of Serbia and of the Government of Serbia and Mrs Gojkovic is welcome to see the light of day. Ladies and gentlemen, since I still have two minutes of time, in the discussion I will continue where I stand, that language is a key element of the nation. The nation marks the community of people of the same origin. Karadzic's claim is, I quote, "All Stokwats are Serbs and all Serbs are Stokwats." It's a finished quote. This thesis on Serbian ethnic language identity has been confirmed by many Serb Catholics and Serbian Muslims, including two Serbian writers, Ivo Andric and Mesa Selimovic. Right, ladies and gentlemen? That's right, of course. But the takeover, the acquisition, and then the renaming of the Serbian language by Croats served the geopolitical objectives of the Habsburg monarchy and the missionary proselytical objectives of Roman cuisine. And not only that, it served as a part of the expansion of Croatia's tripartite Caucus, the width of Serbia's caucasian ethnic language space in Dalmatia, Slavonia, BiH and Dubrovnik. With the space of the Croats, they conquered the Serbian Catholic people, Serbian historical heritage, Serbian language and literature. The first meeting between Serbs and Croats during the Ilir Movement was their conflict for the acquisition of the Serbian language, the Serb people and the territory to date. Serbs for Yugoslavia should not regret it. If they were smart, they wouldn't have created it, because the first and second Yugoslavia was for Serbs discontinuity in every sense, in historical, in language, in geopolitical, cultural, ethnic, etc. The external factors, with the help of internal foot flies, carried out and decommissioned the Balkans, more precisely the area of the former SFRY, then Serbia's territory hijacking its identity part of KIM. Extermination was the real goal of breaking Yugoslavia and the first goal, ladies and gentlemen. To that end, the West used all the funds, encouraged and co-organised the ethnic cleansing of Serbs from Republika Srpska. He satanized the Serbian people until its peak. Montenegro is proof that the division of Serbs is possible not only in the religious line, but also in the framework of Orthodoxism. Montenegro's depravation from Serbia has not been since yesterday, but the modern anti-Serbian foundation of montenegrin has come from the side, as always. On the Montenegrin case, it is best to see the sins of Serbian philosophers and politicians in the past, their compromises in science and politics, they have contributed greatly to the division of peoples by religion in Serbia's ethnic space, not by language, as is common in Europe. And today, new nations and new states are being formed on the basis of the Serbian historical and linguistic-ethnic space, unfortunately. Serbian philosophers and politicians have inflicted invaluable damage on their own people, which in the wind of history... (President: Professor Atlagic, just to pay attention in time.) I'm finishing my sentence. In this windstorm of history, the geopolitical market of the Balkans did not get any better, as they called on Dosite and Vuk to give up his ethno-language views completely. This is what I'm done with. I hope we all vote unanimously for this bill. I will continue my discussion in part two, when other colleagues discuss it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-13-0.u9155	I thank you, dear Professor Atlagic for the presentation. According to the Rules of Procedure, we're moving on to the speaker list. The first on the list is Prof. Dr. Jahja Fehratovic, the MP group of the Justice and Reconciliation Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-13-0.u9156	Thank you, Your Honor. Respected Deputy Prime Ministers, respected colleagues and colleagues, I will stick to the view that every nation has the right to regulate its internal issues, especially those concerning national identity, and that therefore Serbs have the right to regulate the issue of their Serbian language in the way they think is best for them, as we members of other peoples, in this case, I, as a Bosniak, believe that my Bosnian language should be arranged for us Bosniaks and intellectuals and linguists from that Corps, too. But as a linguist, I'm going to look at some of the questions that we have in common in this whole system, which is this linguistic influence. Since the language is a living organism that cannot be easily and easily tamed, so are the inevitable influences on it. In corpus linguistics, there are two ways to fight those influences. One that is profiled in English – a system of openness, where they every new word, from any language, from any climate, culture to come adopt as a word or as a corpus, the linguistic corps of the English language and therefore become more dominant in the world heritage. Others, who are a closed - minded type, who is trying to preserve, preserve and defend from such influences, which is very difficult or almost impossible today. In our space we all have common language lines, a common developmental pathway and a common history of linguistic evolution. So is Cyrillic as a general Slovenian heritage letter of all those who have southern Slovenian damars in them and of course it is equally, standardly accepted, for example in Bosnian, as well as Latin. One of the questions I want to ask here is that this law treats the law according to the standard, normative Serbian language. All Serbian-language spellings state that both Cyrillic and Latin are equal letters in Serbian, such as the Ekva and the Ichak excuse are equal. Will this lead to a change in existing spelling, a spelling norm that is legal when it comes to a language excuse, or will it cause some different repercussions? It's one of the questions that I'm interested in as a linguist and that will be very interesting about how it will spread over the next period. Also, the question of linguistic identity in our Balkans is the question of the perceptions of the past and the present and future of perception, whether we will give up all of the cultural heritage that was common to us, which was created even before the 20th century, during the 19th century, but also throughout the 20th century, on the Latin and Cyrillic and on the equary and on the equary, and which meant the persuasion of writers. Then you have, for example, writers who have lived, created, written in Croatia, Montenegro and Bosnia and Herzegovina, who wrote their work on the Latin and the Ichakative Pronunciation, just as you have Bosniak writers who wrote on Cyrillic and on the Ekva Pronunciation. It is, for me and for the views of all relevant, common cultural heritage and it is simply impossible to separate and diverge, because every kind of Puritanism of language that has been tried in these areas has ended infamous. A colleague mentioned Meša Selimovic, about whom many disputed, and I know of one situation when he noted that one of the greatest Serbian writers, Alija Isakovic, was responsible – if so, then the biggest Serbian novel begins with "Bismillahi Rahmani Rahim", "In the name of the God of merciful compassion", therefore, with a Kuran quote. I mean, it's all been pervased in the Balkans, that we're culturally devoured, and that it should be our advantages, our wealth and our common value. In any case, as is best for the Serbian people, the majority will decide, and we members of the national communities are fighting for promotion, for improving and preserving the acquired rights that are guaranteed by positive laws in this country and which, as members of the national minority, allow us to express ourselves both in official use and in direct communication, in the mother tongue and in the letter we feel close to us. Both letters are in Bosnian, for example, equal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-13-0.u9157	Thank you, Professor Fehratovic. The next on the list is Honourable MP Vladan Glisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-13-0.u9158	Political and life experience teaches us that when someone in power talks about him, both good and bad. Also, when someone is in power, he talks about himself best and looks to cover up all his mistakes and iniquities and about the real measure of someone's authority is seen when he comes down from power, and then he goes away for a while, and then he sees what's right and what's wrong is done. This law, as well as the all-Serbian sanctuary in Jasenovac, as well as the law on the legacy of Hilandar and the protection of that heritage, as well as the law on the cultural heritage of the Sremski Karlovac, are all the laws and legates that remain behind this authority as a positive example and something that one day, if you are replaced by normal and people's authority, will be something that needs to be preserved and only be upgraded. Speaking of upgrades, I'd like to draw attention to a few things. First of all, this law shows the legacy of a division that is not so good, which is a division into the official, public and private sphere of language use. Our great thinker and legal expert and the great moral authority of the second half of the 20th century, Professor Radomir Lukic advocated in 1990 for equalising the official and public use of language. Also, another thing to pay attention to is the fact that in 2008 at the Congress Library in Washington, representatives of our country's Croatian institutions and institutions, one of them was the National Library of Serbia, headed by Mr. Ugricic, made an agreement that led to the whole Serbian language's written heritage in the Washington Congress Library, meaning that the institution that represents the most relevant institution for the US and the countries and part of the world that is under their influence, that everything written on the Latin is considered the heritage of the Croatian people, and everything written on the Cyrillic of the Serbian people. So these are facts that shed a completely different light on this law and on the need for it to be upgraded. Thanks to this, I think it is necessary to defend the Cyrillic more intensively and in what sense more intensely. In addition to what is well said and what is well said, besides the only obligations that state authorities have at different levels to communicate with Cyrillic, as an official letter of the Serbian language, it has been extended to public enterprises and all those economic entities that work in their work through the means of our budget, i.e. The financial resources of this people. However, what has been missed in fact, rather than a binding norm, is given an incentive option – private media houses entering the national frequency and which have the full right to use Latina. So, I'll remind you, Latina is considered in the Congress Library a letter of Croatian. So everything that is broadcast today on various national frequencies, from various private media houses, enters Croatian heritage according to how the Washington Congress Library classifies it. That's a big problem. That's why I think that as a people whose national frequencies belong to them, because they are public good, not only national but regional, and all other frequencies, are the public welfare of our people, and the state is the organisational form of our people, we have the right to make binding demands from private media houses to apply Cyrillic. Otherwise, our society has one big, huge cry for the state to finally arrange our media space and I think our country has the right to arrange that media space, to clear it of all the rudeness, of all the destructive tendencies that are happening and that it's high time to do so. One of these interventions should also be mandatory use of Cyrillic. When you look at it all, we can come into a situation where someone thinks that this is a denial of Latina and accepting that a single dictatorship of one great force, a super force that is in the sunset, and as far as the United States is concerned, is accepted and that we accept that what they put the whole Latina into Croatian heritage, that we withdraw and that we simply give it up. No, it's not our intention to insist that we defend the Cyrillic more intensively. The intention is next. We are aware that we are in one identity war and that we are under an identity siege, that we defend our identity in all fields, even in the field of culture and language. Thus, we defend what is most important and what is recognized by our enemies as our identity, which is Cyrillic. And we have to do it intensively. But that does not mean that we should give up the Latin, especially the Latin, which has the Dubrovnik literature of the Renaissance written by the Serbs and the Serb people, kidnapped and given to Croatian heritage. We have no right to give up anything, but we need to know what priorities are in our war to defend our identity and our language. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-13-0.u9159	Thank you, dear People's Messenger Glissic. Let's move on with the list. The word has been given to the honourable Messenger of the people, Nebojsa Bakarec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-13-0.u9160	"At first was the word, and the word was in God, and God was the word. She was originally in God, everything became through her, and without her, nothing became what she had become. In her was life, and life was seen to men. And the light was seen, and in darkness, and darkness was not upon him. "From this scripture by John of the New Testament we see the beauty of Serbian language and essence. This quote speaks not only of God, it speaks of language, of word. So the word was also spoken in the Old Testament, saying, "The word of the Lord the heavens has been created, and with the spirit of his mouth I have created all their armies," Psalm 33.6, "and sent forth my word, and healed them," Psalm 106.20. Dear Minister, Mrs Gojkovic and my associates, I show deep respect for you and your results. This noble and magnificent law on the use of Serbian language in public life and the protection and preservation of the Cyrillic letter is proof that in the last 10 years, President Vukic has been making Serbia and Serbia return to themselves, to their roots, to their essence. Without fear, the Serbian national, cultural and spiritual identity rises. The aim of the law is to spread, protect and preserve and cultivate Serbian language and Cyrillic letters, as cultural and traditional values. The provisions of this law define social concerns about the language and the letter of origin and their protection, without which even the proper official status of the official language and the letter of origin in the whole public life and legal traffic cannot be guaranteed, and these branched and coordinated activities both in science and outside it, both in our and in the world, are marked by a term, listen - language policy. The provisions of this Bill set out the basic content of the language policy of this State and called on institutions to lead this important and to implement language policy in co-operation with state authorities. The Cyrillic was formed before the church's schizophrenics, before the detachment of the East and the West, the Cyrillic was created before the Holy Sava and before our Serbian church. Cyrillic was created at the time when there were hardly any written people among Serbs. Cyrillic was formed before any of the cultural monuments of our Serbian. Cyrillic is a monument to our identity. All of our literacy and all of our culture in it has been shown. Our visible culture begins with it, it is seen in Cyrillic. We've seen it through with Cyrillic. With the presence of the Cyrillic, we are culturally created, by disowning it, we would culturally disappear, we would cease to exist as an independent nation, as an independent cultural personality and self-determination. Our first assignment is Cyrillic. Some say the most perfect letter in the world. Unfortunately, since 1945 and 2000 regimes, by 2012, have given up Cyrillic. They gave up valuable unambiguousness and artificially introduced the equivalence of cyrillic and latinics, which they in practice considered to be the advantage of the latin over the Cyrillic. And the Serbian letter is a Serbian Cyrillic, not an alphabet. That is why we must all stand uniquely to return to the Serbian alphabet, and for that we have a foothold in the Serbian Constitution, which says, only that small part I will quote: "There are in official use Serbian language and Cyrillic letter". And how important it is to testify that Mary Teresa was also banned in the 18th century and Austro-Hungarians at the end of the 19th and early 20th centuries in the First World War, and the German and Croatian Nazis in NDH 1941. At the meeting of the Holy Synod of the Catholic Roman Church, of course, in Salona and Split, in 1060, therefore, it is after the cleavage, the Cyrillic was declared by the devil's invention and the Methodius by heretics and was threatened by the release of the church to all those who do not give up the Cyrillic. Then the Serbs on this trail have been cataclysmic or entered into the premises of the Balkans for centuries, and the Russians on the premises of western Serbia, i.e. Russian provinces, today Ukraine. Every foreign occupier, you know what he did first? Well, he banned the Cyrillic first. Autosuvinist domestic occupiers marginalized the Cyrillic from 2000 to 2012, with the aim of making it disappear. The Serbian people have been subjected to the deforestation mechanism for centuries. The pattern is always the same. First, some territory is artificially pointed out in a traditional Serbian country, then, by the name of that territory, a new nation is created, that is, the name of that territory is called all the Serbs who live there, so that the Serb people who, under the name of it, have been found, turned into a new nation, and, in parallel with that process, the Serbian people begin to lose, first, the right to a letter, and then the right to language. This method has been applied throughout the centuries in both Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina and Kosovo and Metohija, and since recently, as we have seen, we have witnessed it in Montenegro, and they have tried similarly for decades both in Vojvodina and in the Rasko area. Because the Serbian Cyrillic is an important part of Serbia's national identity, one of the symbols of Serbian speciality, the Cyrillic is systematically undermining, suppressing and satanicizing by autoskillers. The best example of this whole process of deforestation and ethnic linguistic engineering, I have already mentioned, is Montenegro. At this historic moment and opportunities as now Serbian, the symbolic value of the Serbian Cyrillic is very important as a sign of Serbian spiritual identity. That is why the process of suppressing the Serbian Cyrillic between 2000 and 2012 falls in the same order as the collapse of language, literary language norms, voice cultures in the public use of the Serbian language. It falls into the same order with the decommissioning of the education system, the destruction of diplomacy and the military, the destruction of culture, the attacks on the SPC, the demonization of tradition. It is essentially in the same order as the destruction of the substance of the state and of Serbia. The Serbian language, and that literary language has about 150,000 words, and the Serbian people's language along with the literary language of our entire beautiful Serbia has between 350,000 and 400,000 words. The average man, I'll tell you, benefits between 5,000 and 15,000 words, while those extremely and highly educated use between 20,000 and 30,000 words. Vuk Karadzic wrote 50,000 words in his day. In that name, I urge that as little as possible use of the over-indulgent Anglicitisms, we stop rejecting the Serbian words that we call wrongly Croatian. That's what you, Mr. Chairman, have said very nicely - to stop rejecting Serbian words. I'll say something about that too, so about the language. For example, bread is a Serbian word, just like bread. The original bread marked unleavened bread, and the word bread marked bread with yeast. As the spoon is a Serbian word, so is the word carrots Serbian, while the word carrot is a mixture of Hungarian, Hungarian expressions of carrots – yellow and tail. So, yellow tail. We Serbs often use a crowd of foreigners without need, i.e. internationalism instead of celebrations. So I'm just going to give you some examples. We say a plane instead of a nice Serbian word plane. We say lawyer instead of lawyer, pharmacy instead of pharmacy, library instead of libraries, geography is geography, effect is effect, history is history, linguist is, I already mentioned that word, abbreviations, monastery is a monastery, machine is a machine, thousands were always thousands, Serbian, monk is a monk, pensioner is a pensioner, market is a market, spokesman is a spokeswoman, protest is a protest, university is a university, physics is a body exercise and a prosaic refrigerator is a refrigerator. The same language is spoken at the premises of Montenegro, BiH of the Federation, Croatia, Republika Srpska and Serbia. This is testified, even a few years ago, by the established and adopted Declaration on the Common Language of People who don't think very well about Cyrillic or Serbian, but who still adopted the declaration of the common language. The language is common, however, the declaration remained limited because it did not specify a name. She didn't name that common language, and that common language is called what? Serbian. How it was at the beginning of the Cyrillic during the Byzantine era, i.e. The Greek, or holy brothers Kiril and Methodius, or Constantine philosopher, better known as St. Kirilo, and in the days of the Solonian Methodius, better known as the Holy Methods, witnessed by the blacksighted monks and monks, that is again the Greek word, the bravest beginning of the 10th century. I quote this monk earlier: “The Slavs did not have a book, but they read the scriptures and the commas, and they recited the future Pagans. By baptizing Roman and Greek writings, however, they were aimed at writing a Slovenian word without order. But how can it be written well about Greek writings God or life or very or church or waiting or width or poison or where or youth or language or other similar to this? So there were many summers, then a man-loving man, God, having pardoned the generation of the Slovenian work of a holy philosopher named Kirilo, a righteous husband of truth, and created 38 letters for them, let them by the reputation of Greek letters, according to the word of Slovenia," by the quote. That's how our ancestors got the first letter. I will conclude Plutarch's words from his part "Themistokles". So 29/5 I quote: “King Xerxes allowed Temistoll to speak openly about Greek affairs. Themistokles replied that human speech is like a masterly made carpet whose patterns can only be shown if it unwrapped. When the carpets are wrapped, the patterns become unclear," the end of the quote. Now, so led by President Vukic, we freely unwind the carpets of Serbian and Cyrillic letters determined never to disintegrate ourselves again. President Vukic regains Serbia, raises Serbia, builds Serbia, vaccinates Serbia, heals Serbia, cures the past in the present for the future. Long live Serbia! Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-13-0.u9161	I appreciate the exposure. The next list is a respected folk MP, Samira Ćosovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-13-0.u9162	Thank you. The Serbian language is one of the few in the world and the only European language that can be praised by graphs, i.e. to use two letters simultaneously, cyrilically and latinically. Although it is officially used in Serbia, defined by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and its 10th member, which refers to language and letter, however, globalisation and modern forms of communication have made Latinism a more dominant letter. According to a survey conducted by the Open Sors agency in 2014, 47% of respondents use a latin letter, while 36% write with Cyrillic. The others use both letters. Unlike teenagers whose letters were equalized by young people in their 20s, they use Latina much more often, as much as 65% versus 18%, while Cyrillic was dominated only by over 60 years of age. The difference is even bigger among internet users where 57% of them write in Latin, compared to 29% of those who do not give up Cyrillic letters in digital communication either. Due to the increasingly rare use of Cyrillic, we have before us a bill on the protection of Serbian language in public life and the protection and preservation of Cyrillic letters. The passing of the law aims to expand the circle of users who are obliged to use a Cyrillic letter in public life to preserve it as a native Serbian letter. The bill defines the establishment of additional measures aimed at fostering Serbian language and Cyrillic letters, as well as cultural and traditional values and the wider use of Cyrillic letters in public life, given its historical, cultural and identity significance. The bill provides for binding and stimulating measures to protect the Cyrillic letter. Thus, the bill stipulates that the Serbian language and Cyrillic must be used in the work of state authorities, autonomous provinces, cities, municipalities and companies that exercise public authority, the work of public enterprises, public services, including public, regional and local authorities of public enterprises and public services, the obligation to use a Cyrillic letter has already been laid down by the law on official use of language and letters. Also, mandatory use refers to companies that operate with majority public capital working in the field of scientific research, as well as education institutions. Also, the use refers to the work of public services. Mandatory use of Serbian language and Cyrillic letter covers and legal traffic and includes the printing of a business name, i.e. name, seat, activity, name of goods and services, instructions for use, information on the properties of goods and services, guarantee conditions, offer, account, confirmation and so on. The law we are discussing today includes cultural and other manifestations that are funded or co-financed by public funds, so they will have to have a logo written on Cyrillic in the future. In addition to extending the circle of bodies and institutions that will be obliged to use Cyrillic to all those who operate or operate with the majority participation of public capital, the bill also provides for a package of stimulating measures for the private sector. First of all, this also applies to business entities and public information funds in private ownership, for which special regulations can establish tax and other administrative reliefs which decide to use a Cyrillic letter in the exercise of their activity, including the use of a Cyrillic letter in electronic media when issuing and printing public messages. The draft law prescribes measures of a stimulating nature which are primarily directed at the private sector, as well as means of public information in private ownership, given their importance in public life and concern the possibility of establishing tax and other reliefs. The practice already exists in Belgrade, where city authorities adopted a decision three years ago that all tenants who use city and business space have a discount on rent if they use Cyrillic in the inscriptions. This benefit is used by 2,200 different tenants, which we'll agree on, is not a small number. The new bill also provides for the possibility of punishing natural and legal persons who violate the law. Money from 50,000 to 500,000 will be fined for a violation of a legal entity if it acts contrary to the provisions of the law. The person responsible in law will be fined with a fine of 15 000 to 100,000 dinars. As unpopular as they are, these penalties, I believe they will be effective. The bill provides for the establishment of a special council of the government for Serbian language, which will monitor and analyse the situation in the field of use of Serbian language in public life and the implementation of measures to protect and preserve Cyrillic letter as parent, and propose recommendations, proposals and measures to improve the situation. If a draft law on the agenda were to be discussed, it should be said that this law also deals with the use of Serbian language. It should insist on good, accurate and literary language, whose quality will contribute to the preservation of Serbian language. The Serbian language, within the meaning of this law, is considered a standardised type of Serbian language, i.e. a language that is decorated and standardized. This means, apart from having to keep track of what and what letter we write, spelling and grammar must also be taken into account. As a professor of Serbian language, I cannot help but notice, and I find it inadmissible not to take much care of spelling and grammar not only on social networks, but also in the announcements of official media, official correspondence, etc. On this occasion, I would particularly like to stress that the bill that we are talking about today does not discriminate against members of national minorities, because they will continue to exercise their right to use their native language through the application of the Law on Official Use of Language and Letters. Most of the applicable Law on the Official Use of Language and Letters concerns minority rights in the field of language and letter use. The law states - on the territory of a unit of local self-government where traditionally members of national minorities live their language and letter can be in equal official use. This means that members of national minorities in the native language are allowed to use their language in administrative and judicial procedures, official communication, issue of personal documents, in the electoral process and in the work of representative bodies. Also, in local self-governments where members of the national minority count more than 15% of the population, the names of settlements, squares, streets and other toponyms, then the names of authorities and organisations, notices and warnings to the public and other public inscriptions are also printed in the language of the national minority concerned. Multilingualism and multiculturalism are the wealth of the Republic of Serbia. I am pleased to note, and I would like to remind the respected Minister Gojkovic this time, that the Ministry of Culture and Information this year has supported some promotion and preservation programmes, for example. Bosniak cultures and traditions in Prepolje. I hope the Ministry will continue this way to help minority nations preserve their cultural heritage. The preservation of language and letters and development and promotion of cultural policy are one of the values for which the SDPS has been fighting since its establishment, and therefore we will support the proposal of this law in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-13-0.u9163	I thank Mrs. Cosovic. The next on the list is National Assembly Vice-President Marija Jevdzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-13-0.u9164	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Minister, dear fellow Members and Minister, have we come to the situation today to defend our language from ourselves, which I think is rare which people have allowed themselves? For the United Serbia, the preservation of the Serbian Cyrillic represents the preservation of our identity, because for a people the language is the foundation of the house and the letter of the roof of that house. For centuries, we have fought to preserve our language and our letter, and this struggle has not been easy at all, but in these dark and terrible times we have succeeded. Do we have to give it up today, and was it easier then than now? I think it's not that every country cultivates its own language and culture, and that's the key to the survival of our people, and that's why I'm glad that after so much time and so much work we've come to this law and that we're going to discuss it today, and I hope that in the day we're going to vote and adopt it. We are witnessing that modernization and globalisation change the way of life, but the letter and language of the Serbian people must not be allowed to fall under the influence of these modern directions, although unfortunately we are inclined to easily accept other cultures, and somehow we experience ours lightly and we are much better at visiting buildings and other architectural buildings around the world, to forget our heritage and not pay enough attention to it. How many of us, instead of skiing or the sea, are going to visit Zichu, Studenica, Ravanica, Fruska Gora, Ovčar-cabbler, which represents the small St. Gora and many other witnesses of our rich history and culture? Djura Danicicic fought a war for Serbian language and spelling, if there is no one today to defend, cherish and serve it. It has long been known that people without language do not exist. By losing our tongue, we lose ourselves. And our alphabet is the most modern and every letter has its own voice. That is why we need to preserve what is given to us, for it is the only way to preserve ourselves and our people. We must fight for what someone has already created and now that we have everything, our task is to cultivate and protect it. We are aware that the Serbian Cyrillic and language cannot be preserved by the owners of neither the restaurant nor the cafe nor the butyx, who will call the shops socially and responsibly Serbian names, and the advertisements can be written with Cyrillic, but it can be the state that will pass exactly this law that we are discussing today. And it is up to us as individuals to advocate and learn future generations that the Serbian Cyrillic and Serbian language is our name and name. The law also provides for relief for all those who use Cyrillic, but I think that we should put the accent on the youngest ones and direct young people through various promotions of the Serbian letter to use the Cyrillic as much as possible in informal conversation, as written, as worded as possible, because today it is modern to use various abbreviations from other languages, instead of using our words, and thank God, we have rich lexicon words. We should teach young people to be proud of the eternal struggle to preserve our language and culture. I was surprised today by the presentation of my colleague Jovanovic, who said that his son in the first grade first learned a song in English, while my generation learned one of the most beautiful songs of Ljubivo Rsumović "The House defends itself with beauty, honor and knowledge. The country defends itself with life and fine education. “ I think this verse speaks a lot and sends a clear message that by preserving our culture we have preserved ourselves. The struggle to preserve the Cyrillic seems to me to be lasting and whatever this proposed law will experience by favouring the Cyrillic over the Latin, the JS has no problem with that, because we know what is under the Constitution, which says that in the Republic of Serbia the use of the Serbian language and the Cyrillic letter is officially used, thus not jeopardising the letters of the national minorities, which will also be clearly defined by the amendments proposed. Thank you for your ministry, of course, and for the government that worked on this law, when you hear from representatives of political parties representing national minorities that in the day of the vote they will support this law. But are the constitutional rights of minority people everywhere guaranteed as they are in Serbia? I am not sure about that, because we know how the past Serbs, or cyrillic signboards, were on state institutions in Vukovar in 2013, even though the Constitution guaranteed that when the number of national minority residents crossed most of the population, the tables of the institutions, streets and traffic signs were shown and the language of the national minority. Otherwise, 34.87% of Serbs live on the latest census in Vukovar, which is slightly more than a third of the population, whose population is usually halved from the pre-war 1990s. Otherwise, in 2015, the City of Vukovar changed its statutes and the obligation of Cyrillic inscriptions to city institutions was lifted, regardless of constitutional obligations. I don't want to deepen this subject, but I only have one comment and one message for our neighbours, which is – keep yours and respect someone else's. And on these very principles is this Cyrillic protection law, which we have a chance to discuss today. As I said, I am sure that in Serbia, which has fought many defensive wars through its history, wishes, but above all, the obligation to preserve and preserve Serbian language and letter will have full support primarily of the social community, but also of each of us as an individual. That's why we need to think about future generations, about our children. The Cyrillic thing isn't just letters, it's the survival of a nation. We guard the beauty of the Cyrillic and show that the fight was not in vain, honoring those who fought for it long ago – Đura Daničić, Vuk Karadzic, Branko Radčević, Dositej Obradović and many others who understood the importance and beauty of our language and culture. As a party that cherishes and respects Serbian tradition and family, but primarily identity, i.e. who we are and what we are, JS in the voting day will support the proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-13-0.u9165	Thank you. The next is MP Hadji Milorad Stosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-13-0.u9166	The Honorable Chairman, a respected minister, with co-worker, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, respected citizens of Serbia, is on the agenda of today's session of the bill on the use of Serbian language in public life and the protection and preservation of the Cyrillic letter. At the very beginning, I would point out that the PUPS parliamentary group will be happy to support this law and vote for it. The bill on the use of Serbian language in public life and the protection and preservation of Cyrillic letters represents a kind of addition of constitutional matter itself. Our Constitution in Article 10(1) explicitly states that in the Republic of Serbia there is a Serbian language and a Cyrillic letter in official use. This constitutional provision is further elaborated by the Law on Official Use of Language and Letters, which in a very detailed way regulated the way in which languages and letters are used in the work of state authorities and in traffic signs, as well as the use of minority languages and letters according to the highest world standards in this area. Therefore, the concern of individual representatives of national minorities is unfounded that their rights will be compromised in the use of the language and the letter they serve. However, the matter itself was not intended by law to deal with the use of language and letters in the private-law area, i.e. The one that's not strictly tied to the country itself. Each of us can be convinced that the situation in that area is, most recently, at a very low level. When you cross any central city streets or squares, turn on television or buy daily or periodic press at the kiosk, in a predominant number of cases you will be waiting for a latinic letter, and an increasing number of foreign words and expressions introduced into the Serbian language, which is increasingly moving away from its original form and essence. There are several reasons for this current state of Serbian language. By entering the former federal state, i.e. the Federative state, as a people, we accepted the principles of a single Serbian-Croatian language with two principally equal letters. But the fact that other nations had a far higher degree of national awareness, and so on the use and protection of their language standards and letters, that accelerated industrialization, the development of technology and telecommunications and an ever-increasing opening to the world increasingly favored the expansion of Latin and the gradual suppression of Cyrillic, and that our generation, our children, later simply did not think about it and saw it as a problem. We here, unfortunately, with our own guilt have given up the principles of earlier Yugoslavia, and the mass use of Latina in all segments of public life has remained there for some momentum from that period. Of course, I don't want to say that now we need to go to some irrational, other extreme, to go to a complete ban on the Latin transcription of Serbian language in public. As constitutional provisions and legal lists on official use of language and letter have changed in this regard, it has long matured time for the Serbian language and Cyrillic letter to be protected and promoted in other spheres of public life, not to be neglected in a country that gave one Vuk Karadzic, which, through the reform of the Cyrillic letter, influenced not only the development of the Serbian language but also the surrounding Slovenian languages, such as the Bulgarian and Macedonian, where the paradoxical Cyrillic was far better protected, but in Serbia itself. The minister also noted an example of writing foreign investment accounts in Bulgaria. Remarkable Irish writer George Bernard Shaw, the only person in history to win the Nobel Prize and the Oscar Prize, considered Serbia's Cyrillic the most perfect letter in the world. In his will, Bernard Shaw left a fine of £367,000 to the Englishman who managed to reform and simplify the English alphabet modeled at Vuk's Cyrillic: one letter - one vote. To this day, no one has taken that award, because no British Vuk Karadzic has yet to appear, because the Vuko rule – "Write as spoken, read as written" would have repeatedly simplified the world's languages. These two wolf principles are certainly very important and they would simplify learning foreign languages in many ways. With all this in mind, I think that in our capital, we should like the other writers and Bernard Shaw to give one street, whose name would be written with his favorite Cyrillic. To protect the Cyrillic, this law provides for some, I would say, the most possible solutions aimed at increasing the share of Cyrillic in public areas. Article 3 defines which areas of Cyrillic will have to be used from now on, and these are companies with a majority share of public capital, scientific and research institutions, professional and professional associations at national level, as well as RTS and RTS. It is precisely defined in which specific areas of work of these companies and the institution will have to use Cyrillic. I think it is a correct solution to impose the mandatory use of Cyrillic, first of all, on those financed from public funds collected through taxes and compensation from the citizens themselves, and therefore it is logical to insist in these cases on a higher level of use of the native national letter. The second essential provision in this law is contained in Article 5, where one general standard creates the possibility of establishing tax and other types of relief for all those economic operators and media who have decided to use Cyrillic in their work. This is an entirely solid provision that creates the possibility of additionally helping those who want to work on protecting and promoting the Serbian native letter, instead of going to some kind of restrictive or sanctioning systems. I would take advantage of the opportunity to propose, in this sense, to make it possible for manufacturers to make their trademarks, stamps, models and designs of products of general consumption free of charge within a certain period of protection at the Institute of Intellectual Property and in Cyrillic versions of names and labels. In the media sphere, for example, you can reduce the tax rate to extra value for those daily newspapers and magazines that go out in Cyrillic. I think only these two measures would dramatically increase the visibility of the Cyrillic in our everyday environment. Finally, several members of the law regulate the protection of Serbian language at a broader and systematic level, through the formation of a Serbian language council and principles of social care for the protection and preservation of Serbian language and Cyrillic. Dear People's MPs, our party, the PUPS, launched a campaign on raising awareness of the importance of the use of Cyrillic 10 years ago. Unfortunately, at that time, she was left without a bigger echo in public. We are therefore very pleased to see that many of our ideas at the time have now been translated into legal frameworks, or legal texts. Therefore, we from PUPS will be pleased to vote in favour of the adoption of this law. However, the law itself can contribute to the improvement of the situation in practice, but here it will be crucial that we adopt our own awareness that Cyrillic is the primary letter of the Serbian language and that we treat it accordingly, and that we cultivate and preserve our own language without needing legal provisions for such a thing. Since we consider it to be good legal solutions, the PUPS parliamentary group- "Tri P" will give its support in voting day for the adoption of this law and I would like to thank the Ministry of Culture, above all Minister Gojkovic for finally coming into one legislative regulation and, I believe, being unanimously adopted on Voting Day. Dear friends, distinguished citizens of Serbia, I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-13-0.u9167	Thank you. The People's Messenger, George Milicevic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-13-0.u9168	I hesitate, Mr. Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, a respected minister, respected representatives of the ministry, today's session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I would say, has special significance for all of us, because today we are talking about an overwhelmingly identical issue of the Serbian people, which is the preservation of the Serbian language and Cyrillic as the original Serbian letter. We know that language and letter are part of a nation's national identity. The language and letter are the essence of the people, and every nation in the world keeps their language, their letter as the place of the people, as a spiritual bond and the essence of their identity. Without language and letters, the people do not exist, and therefore every language lives to have a representative of the people who speak it. Today, about six thousand languages are spoken in the world, and each language is part of the identity of one nation or ethnic group. It's this huge language variety that makes our planet rich, but unfortunately, according to the linguists' estimates, it disappears every day, and it's estimated that by the end of this century that more than half of the language will disappear. One of the reasons for the disappearance is so-called. "Emperialism of large languages", whose result is the language assimilation of small peoples and ethnic groups, which is usually accompanied by cultural assimilation in which small nations lose their national identity, unfortunately. That's why it's important to keep every language. The problem of quick language dying was recognized by the United Nations. That is how UNESCO established the International Mother Language Day in 1999, which was discussed by the esteemed professor Dr. Zarko Obradovic. For Serbia, which is an ethnic rather than a political state, the question of languages and letters has a special historical, they have special cultural but also identity significance. Serbian languages and Cyrillic are the guardians of our people. During history, as well as the Serbian people, the Cyrillic also went through different stages, through different stages, I would say. When our people were enslaved and the Cyrillic was held captive. And we can't say that these historical changes didn't reflect the linguistic issues of our identity, the position of our language, the position of our letter. A kind persecution of the Cyrillic has been going on since the time of Maria Teresa, when the radical strategy of alienating the Serbs from Cyrillic, in southern Bulgaria, forbidden Serbian schools and printing shops, and such a language policy, the Habsburg monarchy, led as part of the idea of the union of enslaved peoples. The Cyrillic ban was mostly one of the first decisions and all the later occupiers, unfortunately. The first thing that would be like an army, when an army after an occupation, when it occupied a country, was a ban on Cyrillics. In his work, "Notes from occupied Belgrade", describing World War I, Luka Lazarevic says, "The Serbian book was dangerous to the occupation authorities as a firearm." On April 6, 1941, when the Nazis targeted the National Library of Serbia, they destroyed the vast cultural treasure of the Serbian people. Some books were over a thousand years old. It destroys and forges the history of a nation. The fact that Serbia was part of multinational states during the 20th century led to the use as an official language of one called "Serbian-Croatian" language, while Cyrillic and Latin were two equal letters. However, with the creation of new states, each new state has constitutionally arranged its language and letter, the Serbian-Croatian language has replaced new languages, all created in the language and grammar root of the Serbian language, founded by Vuk Stefanovic Karadzic. Then they separated Croatian and created new languages, Bosniak and Montenegrin. Unfortunately, today, we can also conclude that there is no language policy in Serbia in the interest of preserving our national letter and preserving our national language, despite the 1990 Constitution. The Law on Official Language Use in Serbia has become Latin and remained as a letter that was equally, even predominantly used. It was to be returned, first of all, to type-write machines on Cyrillic which were largely thrown out of use during the socialist period, except in the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia. The result of this kind of negligence, somewhere random and somewhere intentional, is the threat of Cyrillic survival as a Serbian and official letter. Our poor language and words die using foreigners and foreign expressions that have become language fashion. Breaking the Serbian language is a day-to-day phenomenon, unfortunately. Unfortunately, our laws often contain foreign terms for which it would be easy to find and find an appropriate Serbian word. There are many reasons why a Cyrillic today in its home country is threatened with a letter. First, it is the fact that many have not yet realized that Yugoslavia and the Serbian-Croatian language have been gone for more than 30 years. Many deliberately predict that in Serbia the Serbian language is an official and Cyrillic official letter. The law of course allows the use of Latina, because Serbia is a multinational society, today we would say a multicultural society. The Latina also flooded us because of the decades-long process of globalisation, which was imposed by Latin and English throughout the world. The digitalization, the Internet, social networks, or the global media connection of the world in which the need for all to look alike, to disappear, does not take into account the loss of the speciality of the people and the particular language and letter as basic features. It is not only that global pressure on smaller languages and the letter is great, but that as a state, we are not adequately linguistically resisting such processes. The Serbian language appears to be on the defensive side, and language culture at a very low level. We are witnessing not knowing basic language and grammatical rules, incorrect speech and writing not only in the media, but also in the intellectual elite, often subject to certain foreign values, she is indifferent to her language and in her letter, and lately in fashion are "other-serbs" and autoskillers who are opposition to their people, to their language, to their culture, but also to their history. It's better for someone else, even if it's Latin. A decades-long lack of language policy has caused serious damage to Serbian national interests, as the Serbian language is at risk today, and a Cyrillic letter that is increasingly avoided in public use. You'll find it hard to find the home name of the company printed on Cyrillic. Most of the daily press is on the Latin. Subtitles on most Latin televisions and so on. So today, until it's as late as a state, we have an obligation to protect, first of all, our own language and our letter of dying, not only by implementing the law on official use of language and letter, but by much broader measures that involve the widest social action, the participation of all, and not just those which the law obliges to do so, and the obligation to do so. Whether it is the cause of the threat of Cyrillic globalisation or other processes that destroy Serbian language and Cyrillic and thus mark the issue of Serbian language as our identity issue, we must resist all these processes to the extent that provides the life of our language, i.e. Cyrillic. Clearly, some of the Cyrillic persecution processes are not random. Unfortunately, they are following other people's interests and interests, and we are free to call them opponents of Serbia's national identity and thus Serbian statehood. Everyone could have their own letter, their own language, but the Serbs couldn't, even if they wanted to protect their language, then there is Serbian hegemonism right now in their heads. Often, some of these advocates claim to be a Serb hegemonist people, and that the Cyrillic nationalist letter is found in state institutions, especially in the media where the Cyrillic bothers. One of the processes of humiliating the Cyrillic that some linguists point to is just so-called. croatisation and Latinisation of Serbian language both through the predominant use of Latina and through the corruption of Serbian language with expressions that are not in the spirit of Serbian language. The phenomenon of using a large number of foreign words and expressions hastily impoverished our language. Modern electronics, like I said, communicates also poor language. Especially young people today communicate in English, which is good, but the language in the jargon, they read and write Latin more often because they use mobile phones, the Internet, and if today there is a keyboard program both on Cyrillic and on computers and on phones. Other factors also affect their own indifference when it comes to Serbian language and Cyrillic. Consumer society and multinational companies seek to remove as many obstacles to movement, goods and capital as possible, especially when it comes to state or language barriers. It is the greatest danger in many world languages and in Serbian of course. It is therefore necessary in time to have a strategy to preserve the Serbian language and letter, as the essence of our national identity, but also as elements of national state policy. As a family can be destroyed when family values are destroyed, so the state is undermined when its identity features, history, culture, and especially language and letter are weakened. Of course, the fact that Serbian and Cyrillic are officially a state letter does not mean that national minorities living in Serbia do not have the right to use their own language and letter. Today, in Serbia, there is an education system in the use of 11 minority languages in the environments in which national minorities live, based on our laws that provide the rights of national minorities at the level of European standards, which I fully support. What is important to point out is that there is no need here for the definition of the Serbian state to protect its native language from the rights of minorities to use the languages of their countries of origin. With all due respect to all members of the national minorities, I must say that minorities should work on their integration and society by knowing the language and letter of the country in which they live, in which they are defined to live, because it allows them to go to school uninterruptedly, to work across the country, and not only in their local environments and minorities, they need to contribute to reducing their own ghettoisation. Today, it is estimated that the Serbs have about 12 million of us around the world, so about 12 million people who speak Serbian. That is why we must not forget Serbs in the region and the Serbian diaspora who around the world cultivates Serbian language and Cyrillic, because the diaspora is held together by our language and letter, our tradition, history and culture, Serbian fame. This bill, which will be passed on September 15th on the Day of Serbian Assembly, the Serbian flag and Serbian unity, will be adopted by the Parliament of the Republic of Serbia and the Republika Srpska, I see exactly as a determined strategic definition of our country to preserve the pillar of our national identity. We certainly have the right, like any other country, to whom no one disputes the need to protect their native languages and letters from the globalistic and other processes of dying language. Unfortunately, even today when we have updated this issue, opponents of the state's idea of protecting Cyrillic and Serbian language appear. Some individuals report to ban Serbia from protecting its language and letter. Some even appear with the thesis that they have been threatened by unmistakable human rights. It is those who, most of all, and every occasion used by the good for Serbia, are falsely moaning for themselves by sticking to the thesis -- the attack is the best defense as their standard of anti-Serbian politics. The only thing that is good for them is what is not for Serbia. Now they have fallen into Cyrillic and Serbian all of them expertly proving that it is not good for Cyrillic to live at all. It's really time for these midwives to leave Serbia and Serbia's interests alone at last. For those of us who live today, but also for our ancestors who have spent decades and centuries building a Serbian language and Cyrillic, one of the most perfect letters in the world, we certainly have an obligation to preserve our language and hand over our descendants to the most original edition. In the end, I will end with one message: the tongue is our lighthouse. Wherever we are scattered, we Serbs he gathers us together and protects us as a people. Let us also preserve the Serbian language and Cyrillic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-13-0.u9169	I thank my colleague Milicevic. The next MP is Prof. Dr. Ljubisa Stojmirovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-13-0.u9170	Dear colleagues and colleagues, today the Cyrillic is peaceful, quiet, as it is essentially, tanana, gentle as a flower, as a wheel played, as a song sung, set as music, as a deer of sweetness, but, above all, the resilient opened the door of its better and better future, the future in which it will dream and enjoy the heart and in the head of every Serb wherever it is, in which it will enjoy Serbia and around the world wherever there is Serbs and Serb storks. Those who like to say often get on my nerves – Serbia is small, Serbs are small people, what they fight for both their letter and their language, and I can't understand those ale and fools, if I can say so, who don't realize that Serbia is neither small, that the Serbian people are not small. How can the small state and its inhabitants who gave the world both Milos and Lazar and St. Sava and Karadjord and Milos and the Duke of Živojin Mišic, the Duke of Step, who gave Serbia Mileva Marić, Nikola Tesla, Pupina, who still have greats in their ranks today, such as Novak Djokovic? How can such a country and such people be small? It's just the evil and the evil of those who are jealous of us. When I go back now and remember what my colleague Bakarec said, who listed many of the words of our people who today are hoarding like theirs, what can I say? It's just, it's nothing new, it's nothing unknown. The Croats are known as thieves. They steal everything that's other people's. They steal the tongue, steal Tesla, and clothe him, and steal the Duke of Djujic, and clothe him. Why are they doing this? Because they have nothing of their own. They don't have anything that's good. Serbia must understand that there is a lot of what is worth, which is its authentic and must preserve it and preserve it. The language and the letter are two sacred things, and we have to keep it safe. We're not just gonna stop at Cyrillic on this Cyrillic Act right now. First, respected colleagues and colleagues, ministers and everyone who comes here, you have to learn and understand that this is a Parliament, not this Parliament. Leave these foreign words to Parliament. What do I need a parliament for? They have those who have parliaments, let them rise up with them. We use our words and are proud of our language and our words. We have a nice word that says -- a dictionary, not a vocabulary, but somehow it's a little bit too much for us. We are Serbs, the better it is, and the more we respect everything that is other than ours. And so it was with Cyrillic, so it was with our language, but hopefully better times are coming and it's going to turn in the right direction, it's going to be the right way and it's going to be the right way. Something that is particularly nice and nice, this school year the school year started with the Jimno "God of Justice". Every country, every nation must guard its signs, its anthem, its flag, its coat of arms. We were the only ones who forgot about it somehow. I went to Macedonia and as I started from Skopje up, according to Ohrid and Bitola, we had some counselling there, almost every Albanian house has their flag, their coat of arms. When did you see that with us? No, we have now come to the point that many dispute what was performed by an anthem at the beginning of the school year. Now, these midwives who don't like it, who don't like it, who don't like it, and whether they're NGOs, whether they're TV or individuals, people if you don't like it, your path is wide, go where you're going to be better. Well, what country in the world doesn't respect its anthem, doesn't respect its coat of arms and flag? She's gone. The only thing they'd want from us is that we don't respect it. There's not gonna be a new time, there's a lot of things going on, there's a lot to be done, and I'm convinced that everything's going to be in place for us, too. We have nothing against other people's letters, or other people's language, thank God we have the breadth and we allow it to be consumed at all times. Now, what's going on, here's what I liked about it. A fellow Glisic made a fine proposal, which should really be considered, all these TV stations that broadcast programmes at national and regional frequencies, why not use Cyrillic. Well, that would be extremely good and it would be useful for all of us. We Serbs and Serbia are a decent country, a decent people, a people who did not steal anything from anyone, who took nothing from anyone, who did nothing else, everything we had achieved, everything we had created, we created in the sweat and in the blood of our ancestors who, by their own knowledge, created Serbia with their own torment and created it as it is. Today she is like this, we have received her from our ancestors, we keep her, we develop her, we give her to the offspring in even better and better shape, if God gives her even greater condition. We must never forget our mother, mother Serbia, because she is the one who cares for all of us and never the mother dies, she will be the majority, she was the majority before us, during our lives and after us, and we have to keep that in mind. Wherever you are, whatever Serbia is doing has to be our first priority. None of us are bigger, nor more important than Serbia, Serbia must be above all. When I was in China, something that was very good for me and that's very nice for them, they all say -- it's China in the first place, and after all that, and unfortunately, there are those who would sell Serbia 100 euros, and they would even agree to dinars to get that compensation. I've already said it in this assembly once, and I'm going to try not to overdo it over time, because there are other colleagues who need to talk, I've already spoken here about culture, and I said that culture is a mirror of every country, every nation. Unfortunately, Mrs. Minister was out of the O.R. then, and I was very sorry, so now I repeat that culture, that mirror must be cleaned, that the iron should occur, that it shines on all sides, that all those who are both well-intentioned and not well-intentioned can see Serbia today, can also see Novak Djokovic and Tesla and Pupin, Prince Milos, all of our ancestors and all of our celebrities today. One of the things that will preserve our culture are libraries and I said then, unfortunately I say was not my co-worker with whom I shared the cabinet here in the Assembly, one of these essential institutions of temples and libraries. Unfortunately, whoever wants to destroy your culture, he's trying to destroy those written documents and destroy those warehouses of your culture. So on April 6, 1941, the Germans bombed our library and unfortunately destroyed a lot of things. There's now a campaign going on, an action to restore that library. I appealed to Mrs. Minister to help restore this library, to return to the state it was then. From what I've heard and how familiar I am, it's already been done and I'm particularly pleased. So what I couldn't do last time, I'll do now. Mayo, I give you this book "The Library of the City of Belgrade", and I believe it will benefit you greatly in your work.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-13-0.u9171	Thank you, Professor. Stojmirovic. The word is by MP Nenad Filipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-13-0.u9172	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, the JS parliamentary group is very pleased with today's debate in parliament on the proposal for a law on the use of Serbian language in public life and the protection and preservation of Cyrillic letters. Of course, we will crown our pleasure in voting day and absolutely support this bill. When considering this bill, we need to go from facts, which is that the 2006 Constitution defined that the Serbian language and Cyrillic letter were officially used. Did all those who were obliged to use the Cyrillic do so or did, in their own opinion, use a latin letter, likely to be more widespread and thus benefit more? Can we then say that all those who did not use Cyrillic and better say who today did not use Cyrillic, and were also obliged under the Constitution to do so, which is what representatives of state institutions, violated the Constitution? Yes, they are. If someone was responsible for it, had some consequences, probably not. Today, this law establishes a Council for Serbian Language, with the task of monitoring and analysing the situation in the area of use of Serbian language and Cyrillic letter. Of course, this law extends the list of all those who are obliged to apply a Cyrillic letter, therefore, to respect both the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and this law. Like every nation, so our Serbian people have an obligation to care for their cultural identity. The people are as rich as they keep their cultural heritage, language, custom and history. One of the basic pillars of our people's cultural national identity is our letter – the Serbian Cyrillic. I must note, even to say, that the Serbian people, through faith and language, which is a unique case in the world, have been melted into other peoples. The Serbs of Orthodoxs, the Serbs of Catholics, and the Serbs of Muslims, one language, form three peoples and three languages. That form can continue if we don't stop it. If we try to make comparisons today, we can certainly put signs of equivalence between Serbia and Cyrillic, between the Serbian Orthodox Church and Cyrillic, but absolutely nothing compares the use of our authentic letter with nationalism, as many try. Even using an authentic letter, for example. our branded authentic products can only contribute to their better promotion. That's why it needs to be used. That is why it is our duty to fulfill this obligation to our letter to the Serbian Cyrillic. I would also point out that in 1996, the EU itself has brought a programme to promote language diversity in Europe and in the information society, which gives us the right to place another such law on the Serbian Cyrillic as it belongs to it. Of course, many believe that by developing computers and various standard platforms of operating systems, the use of Cyrillic is becoming increasingly suppressed, but I would point out here that I am Windows, as the most widespread operating system has hundreds of defined letters from various peoples that users can simply download and make maximum use of. One of these letters is both Serbian Cyrillic and anyone who uses computers, mobile phones, tablets and the like. their applications, there is a possibility of using Cyrillic in everyday use. So the whole world realized that language differences should be nurtured. I would like to point out in particular that using mobile phones and tablets we return what we have long removed from use, and these are Cyrillic keyboards, previously Cyrillic typewriters that are of course programmable here, i.e.. Virtual and should be used maximum on both social networks and in continuous communication. The letter as a means of communication is what leaves a historical trail for all time about the peoples who lived in certain places. That's why he needs to be nursed and used. That's why it's part of every nation's identity, every man. Let us preserve what is ours and for the sake of us and for the sake of generations to come. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-13-0.u9173	I thank my colleague. The word is from the MPs of the people, Snezana Paunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-13-0.u9174	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, this time I am knowingly placing the accent on the post of Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia because this is an important assembly day and an important task for me, and it is of personal importance to me that you are Minister of Culture or Minister, to be born responsible, you are also Deputy Prime Minister. I think this is one step of government that was necessary. It is our obligation to adopt a law that will provide for a better mechanism, primarily to preserve and cultivate Serbian language and Cyrillic in public life. This is essential, above all, because language and letter are the identities of a nation, and we have a duty to preserve everything that makes us a people, so it is mandatory to return to the origin of our identity. What's the point of passing this law? At least as far as I understand the use of Serbian language in public life and the protection and preservation of Cyrillic letters, it is primarily affirmation and popularization of our language and letters, creating opportunities for its wider use, primarily in public life. The law is due to the fact that the Serbian language, and especially Cyrillic, is significantly neglected, and thus well threatened. So it is our job to build solid mechanisms based on decades of concern for our own language and letter that will not allow our language to disappear. It is unimaginable for us to lose our tongue, but it is possible if we do not view language as a pillar of the people, as all the nations of this world do. That's what Professor Zarko Obradovic is talking about, taking me as an example of France. The language is the being of a nation, the misery of its survival and a kind of living matter. It develops, rich or poor, survives or disappears, which depends on numerous factors of external or internal nature. When it comes to Cyrillic and Serbian language, especially our language culture, the decades-long efforts of our language experts and relevant institutions are to present to us the truth above all about the threat of Cyrillic and Serbian language. Many linguists warn of the destruction of our language, both because of globalist unifications, which mean that we all speak one language, that we all use the same coin and become one state. Of course, this is not a model that would not fit, in fact only corresponds to multinational capital, but to countries and nations that like us have their own language, history and culture, mondialization only brings harm. In the protection of languages and letters other than public authorities and institutions, experts, media play a major role and not only when it comes to the rule of language use and respect for language, or grammatical rules, but also in the use of Cyrillic and its affirmation. I won't repeat myself because my colleagues were talking about how many daily newspapers are on Cyrillic, how many TV channels are using Cyrillic. That's the data, we've heard it before, defeating. What I mean is, our language, like many others, is, above all, too much use of English and other foreign words. In order to do anything at all, if we're going to do it from the home of the National Assembly, as responsible people, then we need to take care of ourselves first. If we were responsible enough, and maybe read transcripts from the Serbian Parliament session, I'm afraid we'd be surprised how often we use words and terms that aren't authentically Serbian, and there's no need for that, because the Serbian language is rich and it seems to me that for every situation and moment has its own definition. To motivate everyone else to think this way, it is high time that we, as responsible people, firstly as representatives of the people, use as little other terms as possible, some terms that are not authentically Serbian, because again, I am convinced that there is no need for that, when it comes to this rich language. When it comes to these conflicting thoughts about the need to protect our official letter and Serbian language, it is amazing what all arguments we hear and which is what opponents or paroled opponents of Cyrillic protection are used to do. There's been a lot of noise in the days before this session. I would not talk about them, but about those of us who are still responsible for changing the condition of our mother tongue and mother tongue. Since the debate with opponents of our language policy, it is much more important to call for a council of all who care about national and national identity and integrity. It is not a question of the language of the formal question, what they want to be presented by individuals who say – whether they write it with Cyrillic or Latin. It doesn't matter. If it were, all the nations of the world would speak the same language, write in the same letter. It doesn't matter because Serbia is not a political state, but a national state that exists more than 10 centuries. It has its spiritual foundations, built elements of state and national identity, as other nations around the world have created their own countries. Unfortunately, today under the influence of globalists, the question of sovereignty that otherwise encourages the nations has become unnecessary. In fashion is the denial and denial of its own history and culture, its own language and letters, its own origin of the people. In recent decades, especially among the former Yugoslav republics, Cyrillic has become a rule of banishment. Croatia has banned the Cyrillic and Montenegro by disposing of Serbs as a constituent people from its constitution, which is an even greater non-sension for it even though it is a parent letter. I believe that if Negos could see today, it would be a miracle to see his Cyrillic manuscript "Luca" turned into Latin. What's worse, we often knew to be victims and ourselves, good ideas spoiling people who didn't know how to carry them out. Perhaps there was once a good idea to be what the basic Serbs are, and that is correct to everyone in their environment, and to accept that once the Serbian-Croatian language is used. I am saying this consciously that I would not be called out of the position of the successor of the Communist Party of Yugoslavia who inherited it, perhaps today as a socialist we are telling an empty story, no, we recognize a mistake so today we have the right to correct it and to say as someone who inherited all the liquids, and what may have been a mistake or trust without grounds, we say today – no, the Serbian language and Cyrillic must be the most important. It's no shame to admit a mistake. It's a shame not to talk about it. There is no greater obligation for this language and a letter than what it seems to me, Stefan Nemanja, did not seem to me, but I know, he said, and it was brought to life by the writer Mile Medic, then he told his son Savi, and today we could all hear him just as if we were Sava – watch my child's sweet tongue as a country. The word can be lost as the city, as the earth, as the soul, and what is the people if they lose their tongue, their earth, and their soul? Don't take someone else's word in your mouth. If you take someone else's word, you know you didn't win it, but you did. It is better to lose both the greatest and the strongest city of your country than the smallest and most insignificant word of your tongue. This is one of the reasons why we don't want to lose a word of our language. We want to influence this law to raise awareness of the need to keep the Serbian language and the letter, and the language is preserved by what is spoken. Cyrillic is kept by writing it. Unfortunately, I have no more time, because I must leave time for my colleague Dunjo, who will surely have more to say on this subject, so I will conclude by reminding that the Serbian language became the official language in 834 and introduced by Prince Milos by demanding that the correspondence with Turkish occupation authorities be exclusively in Serbian. Prince Milos then returned a letter to the Turkish vizier with a message – here I am sending a letter back with a recommendation to open it and translate it into Serbian, and then send it to me. We are determined to negotiate and make correspondence with all who have good will today, and we are entitled to ask to open it and send it to us in Serbian. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-13-0.u9175	Thank you, colleague. The word is made by the Vice-President of the National Assembly, MP Radovan Tvrdisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-13-0.u9176	Dear Vice President, the Honorable Minister with the co-worker, the honourable MPs, has passed 155 laws so far. I get the impression he's gonna be marked by this law. Not because the adoption of this law is carried out in a kind of constitutional obligation that we had a duty to respond to, not because, in essence, the Charter on Serbian Cultural Space is being fulfilled, through which we essentially demonstrate that this law is the basis of Serbian language policy. So, not only because of that, nor because of legal-technical perfection, although it seems quite tense and in a legal-technical sense. Of course, there's always room for some kind of maybe wider range, especially in the digitisation space as a rapidly developing sphere and to which we have to give an answer. No, I think this law is the most important law this Assembly has in this assembly because it shows a kind of institutional political will to respond to three random needs of the Serb people. The first need of the Serbian people, which essentially shows that this law is capable of coming out with its elected representatives, headed, of course, by the president of Serbia and headed by a member of the BiH presidency, who also submitted an initiative to pass this law, is the need to finally recognise and protect our identity values. This law, in that sense, since what has been through the Official Messenger, which is the law on the protection of the official language and the letter, shows the will to recognise its greatest identity values, and the people for the first time has the power to meet such a need, to have the political will to meet that need. It is something that is an exceptional advantage, an extremely good feature of this law that we are talking about today, and then we must remind ourselves that many MPs have spoken of everything being most valuable and most important written in Cyrillic and spoken in Serbian as part of a valuable code of the Serbian people. To remind us that the Cyrillic is written by Nomokhanon, which is only a monument to culture but also a legal monument that some call a medieval constitution, the first Serbian, so let's remind that the world's top monument of culture, such as Miroslav's gospel, is written in Cyrillic, so as to remind, for example, that the modern Serbian constitution, Sretenjski, which essentially gives the first such advanced categories as the separation of judicial, executive and legislative authorities, is also written in Cyrillic. Of course, let's not forget Dusan's code, which is also written in Cyrillic, as well as Christian and deed, all that defines us and defines us. It's all written in Cyrillic. And that about the Serbian letter and the Serbian language in which the beautiful folk epic poetry was spoken, we can also say about this, that the greatest colossus of European thoughts, such as Gete, Kedrkegor, or Pushkina, had one extraordinary, can say, a knee-colding relationship to Serbian language and what was created through Serbian epic poetry. So, this law is the first of those categories that clearly recognises and responds to the need of the Serbian people to finally recognise and protect Serbian values, in this sense related to the Cyrillic, which, of course, has its foundation in sacredity, in the Kosovo Testament, in the highest ethical standards that one nation can ever have, because they are all in their original origins related to the gospel and related to the most important ultimate ultimate ultimate ethical form that it says - loves one's neighbor as himself. That is why Cyrillic is important, not only for Serbs, of course, but it is important for members of those who recognize the law as national minorities, and I like to call them neighbours, friends, colleagues, who do not plead as Serbs. Because a man and a person who is founded in his identity will never have a problem with another identity, will not be afraid of meeting with another identity. Likewise, the community, which recognizes its identity cultural foundations, has no problem facing others. That's why I think he'll be honest and well-intentioned, and we've already seen that there are, of course, all those who are not members of the Serb people, who will recognize this law as the return of the Serb people to their identity and the highest ethics. That ethics is able to recognize both well in the second and able to rejoice with the good in the second, such as the one that recognized Jesus Mahmutovic, who, for example, was a Muslim from the White Field and who refused to destroy Serbian shrines, that is, to tear down the Negoshe’s chapel. The ethics recognised, apart from him, Dijana Budimirovic, who saved Serbian children from Jasenovac. The ethics recognized Tibora Cerna, Hungary, who had the courage and the abilities and his identity basis to say - can't go on, Serbia is behind us. So it's something that makes the adoption of this law extremely important. But that's not all that matters. It is important that the adoption of this law shows that the other great and random needs of the Serbian people are being met, and this need is finally for the Serbian people to act unitedly. And here is really this one unity that has rarely, unfortunately, made us beautiful. We have the institutions of Republika Srpska, we have the institutions of Serbia, we have one consultation at the widest level of all the important institutions and this famous Committee on Standardisation of Serbian Language, which absolutely handles this matter in the best possible way and within such an identity topic we show unity. This isn't the only time. We also show unity in the memory culture when we talk about Jasenovac, when we attended the Busi, so we simply attend on a number of levels, a new one appears, and we can almost say the historically unremembered Serb unity to which indeed every well-intentioned Serb should rejoice. This is the second key feature of why I think this law has special weight and that it will be recognized as the key to this congregational assembly. A third thing, but not least, which many of our predecessors have mentioned, I think it's a key thing that by passing a law like this we finally say "no" to the Serbian guilt policy. Because Serbian guilt from the Dresden Congress of the Communist Party of Yugoslavia is a narrative in which we have lived for a century. And the Serbian guilt at the moment of passing a law that recognises the most identical values and ethical values of the Serb people slowly begins to disappear and we come to be able to finally get off that indictee bench that we live on, as a nation for a whole century, as a people who have experienced three genocides, we live on one indictee bench that we are a genocide people, like a people who haven't changed the ethnic composition of their country, not after the wars, we experience a kind of terrible fate, to be called a genocide people. Such a law is bold and open and bold, which we often miss when we say that the Serbian language and Cyrillic is the identity of the people of Serbia and the most ethical value of the Serbian people because, I repeat, they are founded in the sanctum standing on the Gospel. When we say that, we are finally opening up the space that it is no longer a problem to say that we have the Serbian Orthodox Church, with the addition of "Serbian", the Serbian Academy of Science and Arts, the Matica Serbian, the Serbian president, and we are finally removing that education of shame that we do not know because of what other goals, not those of the Serbian people who are at our backs. I think these three key reasons represent this law by the most important law that this Assembly is likely to bring into this congregation. Finally, once again, with a reminder that I really think that all our fellow citizens who in this way recognize what we have spoken will recognize that the return to Serbian identity is the return to the highest ethics and the possibility of them being realized, regardless of whether the minority, as the law calls them, is defined differently, or as members of other national minorities. In any case, with great pride and great joy, in that famous voting day, I will vote for the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-13-0.u9177	Thank you. The word has a national MP, Dunja Simonović Bratić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-13-0.u9178	The esteemed chairman, a respected minister with a co-worker, dear fellow MPs, about two and a half thousand years ago, the Greeks called all those who did not speak Greek barbarians. We who speak Serbian and live surrounded by peoples who speak almost the same language as we call neighbors. Very well said and has a sound of good co-operation. But when we get to the field of our letter and our Cyrillics, we get into a big problem. In fact, this law requires that we finally correct what our neighbors have done to you long ago. In particular, no act of our War Crimes Prosecutor's Office goes to Croatia without translation to the Croatian and Latin. It does not go away, because Croatian state authorities return such acts. No Serbian letter addressed by Cyrillic arrives at the destination, but returns with the term "unauthorized". According to regulations on international legal aid in criminal matters, states can also pray in the country's language, but letters delivered to citizens must be translated into official language and letter, here the Republic of Serbia. The least you can expect is to respect, and now also to strengthen the principle of reciprocity. And now, very specifically, after the adoption of this law, will we be able to have judges in the Major Court War Crimes Department in Belgrade, such as the almost retired Milan Dilparic, who, at the request of our generals, has been able to provide them with a translation into the Serbian language and a Cyrillic letter from the new Croatian language, I quote: "I will read you in pure forestry language", all in front of the present prosecutor of the Republic of Croatia who smiled happily at the genius of this Dilparic? Also, a judicial associate in the War Crimes Department with suspected wartime pilots of our army, on request to be given solutions to conduct an investigation in our language and Cyrillic letter, it refused by reason that they had no right to do so, as The Hague court said that Bosnian, Croatian and Serbian languages are the same language. This is all in UK2PO2-116/2018. Are we going to choose this judge's associate in this holy house tomorrow? This is, unfortunately, something that's been going on for years. That is why, in this proposed law in the Council of the Government for Serbian Language, it should be both the representative of the Ministry of Justice and the representative of the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Serbia because, please, what is Cyrillic? Cyrillic is the reason for the banishment of 250,000 Serbs from Croatia in the military operation "Storm". Cyrillic is the reason for the missileing of a column of refugees on Petrovica Road in the town of Svodna where both children and women were killed and dozens wounded. If the language is a house of beings, as the famous German philosopher Martin Hedeger says, then who is the guardian of our being here? It's a big day. The law that we support with all our heart will be the fundamental law of our country that will stop the shame I was just talking about. But this law should only be a first step towards introducing another law, which is the law on the establishment of a Lexiographic Service of Serbia, a roof institution that will inherit and cultivate our language and our Cyrillic and our intellectuals who are real patriots to give the chance they're waiting for so much. We listen a lot to those who end our history and our language from the Hague regulations. These intellectuals from the so-called The circle of twos is constantly seen in the media, while patriotic intelligence lives not in the circle of two, but in the circles of hell, the so called. Come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, These are our heroes we love most, unfortunately, from the moment they're no longer with us. You, Mrs. Gojkovic, have openly and courageously declared a struggle for this matter in your interviews. You have both the will and the power to implement these things of vital importance for our identity. In this you have the unreserved support of all of us in the SPS and I trust all my colleagues here, as well as the entire Serbian people, wherever they are. I congratulate you on that courage and I want you to endure in that fight. Long live Serbia!
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-13-0.u9179	Thank you, colleague. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-13-0.u9180	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Stefan Nemanja and his words are often mentioned here that there are no nations without land and no people without tongue. There are no people without land and tongue. There isn't. We let them take both our land and our language. Here we are talking about protecting Serbian language within Republika Srpska and within the Republic of Serbia. And how do we protect the language outside Republika Srpska and outside the Republic of Serbia? Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Americans speaking what language? English, except for the Indians who were cleared from the territory of that continent, but they didn't leave their tongues to the Americans either. They're gone, but Americans don't speak Indian, some minority speaks, and they don't speak American. The Americans speak English, because the United Kingdom, the English don't just let their language go and that it's spoken by some other people, because the English know that the people make up land and language. Without language and communication, that people can't be complete. We Serbs have left the territory of AVNOJ in a country created by Serb warriors, the Serb Peasant Army. The country was divided into six or eight other countries under the state recipe. In the territory created by the Serbian peasants in the Balkan and First World War, the nation's states had failed, and the moment we united with the defeated, we divided with ourselves. The redistribution of the territory in favour of the realization of the State Convention's conclusions has created six or even eight national states. Not that we gave them states, but we allowed them to take millions of Serbs to that part of the country, because they had little to gain the territory that they had inhabited that nation, which was created by those national states on the territory of the land united by King Alexander. The moment we united with the defeated, that moment we divided ourselves. They created national states and each took several hundred thousand Serbs or several million, to make their newly created states as big as possible, and ours as little as possible. And we agreed to that. We agreed to that, no matter what it was, it was some dictatorial, communist, etc. The power, which, miraculously, all these allegedly democratic new nations have accepted all these gifts given to them by the communist dictatorship, all the territories given to them by the communists, all of them accepted it as a gift. But the Serbs were Balkan butchers, were Bolsheviks, communists, dictators, etc., and those gifts of the communist dictatorship were so gladly accepted, according to the recipe of Russian communists who donated Ukraine to territories, etc., and left millions of Russians outside the Russian Federation. Now, so did we, like Serbian communists, so in earlier times we also donated territories and languages and letters, etc. It's still going on. Suddenly a montenegrin, Montenegrin language or native language appeared, as they call it, behold, miracles, has 32 letters. It's a 32-letter letter. I have a pragmatic proposal that we empower the Serbs in Montenegro to speak Serbian, and these Mil's montenegrins speak their native language, which is made up of two letters. Let them, Mr. Martinovic, return our 30 letters to us, keep their - and - so that they can get their hands on their native tongue. Now, that's my suggestion. With us, about the Serbs write as they say, they speak as they read. In Montenegro, it is a little different in these former Yugoslav republics. They're mostly speaking against the Serbs. They usually write as they were told in foreign embassies, and they read as they were written in foreign embassies. Because of the pressures our country is exposed to, it's about our language and hate speech that can be an integral part of one language of the letter, mostly this letter and the speech directed towards us is hate speech. As we cultivate love for others and leave our letter and our language, they harbor hatred for Serbs, according to a hate speech that is mostly turned towards Serbs and the Serbian country, in the part we still have left. Ladies and gentlemen, I think we should take care of it because Shafarik says that in Dalmatia, Croatia, Bosnia, in those parts, he says it was spoken in Serbian. What Shafarik was saying, I guess we can talk too. Let's see, here, Bosniak. Take the 1991 census, you don't have anyone speaking Bosniak, or that nation at that time pleads as Bosniaks. In 1993, some national engineering, or as it is already called, was suddenly born a new nation that speaks a new language, which is actually a Serbian language. I am now asking – and what language did they speak while they were Muslims, Mr. Martinovic? You will certainly, as a more written man than me, be able to answer that question for me. It's in no way clear to me that we're just so easily allowing someone to adopt our letter, language, territories, which they've already acquired, that we have to pray to them, like, don't, don't let them, here, we'll be holding the lithium by helicopter, etc. We have to apologize to them, I'm sorry, you know, apologize to Brother Jury for beating you. So, completely torn apart our territory that we created in 1,264 million victims, and the Balkan wars before that, just to remind you, in Serbia's territory, 44% of the population in World War I died before the Balkans, in order to create one big state and one coast. Why, Mr. Martinovic, you must have forgotten, why, when we created that country and the great coast, etc., why the communists distributed it for the benefit of several peoples, leaving out those who won the territory in 1918. Boka Kotorska made a decision, as the Montenegrin coast was from Ulcinj to Bara, Boka Kotorska made a decision in 1918 to annex the Kingdom of Serbia, the same decision made in Srem Sremca in 1918, the same decision made by the Great Assembly of Bačka-Baranja-Banat. So, the same decision was made by them, and, behold, we are occupiers by banishing the Austro-Hungarians and by allowing them to later get ashore to Herceg Novi, the gun of Blaž Jovanovic and the leather coat, on the agenda in Kotor, was a session dedicated to supplying life supplies to the population and then he remembered that Boku Kotorska, to decide, under various points, that Boku Kotorska, Budva, etc., the coast of Sutomor-Bar, then to Herceg Novi, to attach to the Socialist Republic of Montenegro. Croatia, which for me as a socialist state, I have already said, was only a transition from one NDH to another NDH, to a large extent in the territory and Croatia is spoken in Serbian, which may be Latin, etc. Anyway, we need more attention to give language, letter, and territory. I'm not sure that the communists, those who left, left the ideology to these others, what should we call them, the montenegrins, that they didn't exactly draw the line as far as it could go to separate Serb territories in favour of some other nations. They're all separated from Serbia, all of them. Serbia can't, remember, and it wants to separate itself from its province. All those who separated, to whom Serbia, the Serb people, as a winner, were given, in a certain way, and the territory of the state, language, letter, etc., continued to treat Serbia as the rest of the SRFJ and wanted it to be arranged in the manner in which the SFRJ was created in Jajc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-13-0.u9181	Thank you, Mr. Risticevic. The next MP, Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-13-0.u9182	It's not easy to talk after Marjan Risticevic. Dear Mrs Gojkovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have an extremely important bill, a bill on the use of Serbian language in public life and the protection and preservation of Cyrillic letters, and which belongs, I would say in a group of laws that cherish the cultural and traditional values of our people, both in the country and in the environment. I would not like to repeat all that our authorised representative, Mr Marko Atlagic, and many MPs who spoke before me, but I would certainly like to point out that the government of the Republic of Serbia on the same day, when the Serbian government adopted this bill and proposed it to the National Assembly of Republika Srpska, well, it is expected that the parliaments of both our brother states and Serbia and Republika Srpska will adopt this law on the same day of 15 September. Why September 15th? Because on that day we mark both Serbia and Republika Srpska a common holiday, the Day of the Serbian Unity of Freedom and the national flag when we otherwise mark and break the Thessaloniki Front, thus sending a message of unity, unity and indivisibility of our people. Proud, ladies and gentlemen, that I belong to the team and the party led by Aleksandar Vukic because it is he who initiated the establishment of a joint holiday of Serbia and Republika Srpska, and with the aim of strengthening the unity, but also strengthening the cult of the national flag. I strongly welcome the initiative that all Serbs, wherever they live, whether they live in Belgrade or Banja Luka, Trebinj, Kosovo Mitrovica or Kumanovo, Podgorica, Herceg Novi, or Vukovar and Knin, highlight the flag, its flag, the Serbian troboy to show that we are all the same identity, Serbian identity and that we are proud to belong to the same people on September 15th. We want to mark this important day in a dignified way by not disturbing anyone, absolutely no one, by not jeopardizing anyone. By doing nothing against no one and wanting no one else any harm. We also want to highlight our people's membership, to proudly say that we are Serbs, and to respect our culture, tradition and national symbols. Unfortunately, this bill we are discussing today, as well as the upcoming holiday that I mentioned flows in the atmosphere of re-attacks and re-attacks, both for Serbia and for Republika Srpska, which come from various centres in the region, but come from some domestic autoskillers. It is difficult, ladies and gentlemen, to assess exactly where the stronger attacks are coming from and the more difficult accusations, whether from Podgorica, where Milo Djukanovic compares Vukic with, believe it or not, Hitler, and for Metropolitan Joanikia he says that he is a bloody Metropolitan or on the other hand, from Sarajevo, Zagreb, Pristina, where else every day there are all kinds of pointless accusations about some big Serbia and similar nonsense. It is now obvious that Serbia is stronger, that the more we progress in every sense, the stronger the pressures and attacks on us, and that trend will, unfortunately, continue in the coming period. It is clear that no one wants strong Serbia, that no one wants a vertical Serbia, an economically strong Serbia, a economically strong Serbia, a military overpowered Serbia, independent and independent in decision-making. That is exactly why almost every day they attack both Serbia and the Republika Srpska and the Serbian Orthodox Church and, in particular, Aleksandra Vukic, who are their daily target and topic. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, to be bothered by Alexander Vukic, it bothers them because Serbia today is not the same Serbia on its knees as it was, and not so long ago in the past. It bothers them because we have the highest rate of economic growth, it bothers them because we build infrastructure, it bothers them that we arrive and reach them on salaries and pensions, it bothers us because we are the best trained military personnel in the region and able to protect and defend our people. It bothers them because we're an absolute leader in the region and we're ready to help our people wherever they live. If we have in mind, ladies and gentlemen, that it is all due to Alexander Vukic, then it is quite clear why he is subject to daily attacks, because he is the key protector of Serbian national interests. Let them attack, let them continue to attack, we will continue to do our job even better and even more, to strengthen and strengthen our Serbia and to build even better and even more brotherly relations with our Republic of Serbia. Long live Serbia. Long live Republika Srpska.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-13-0.u9183	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. The word has a colleague, Milana Sakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-13-0.u9184	Thank you, Chairman. At the beginning of my address, I would like to point out that I am very pleased that these topics inspired many to speak of it, it confirms the importance of preserving the Serbian language and the Cyrillic letter, I can also say freely the national identity, because the language is the guardian of the people as long as they live, as long as we love and respect them, we speak and write to them, we cleanse, so long as they live and the people. I would point out here that the Law on the Use of Official Language and Letters already exists, and that these proposed legal solutions only specify additional measures to preserve the Serbian language and protect the Cyrillic letter. This amendment of the law may, by chance or intentionally, be misread, and it is important to note that the new measures do not aim at or respecting another, i.e. Latin letters, they do not dispute other and different cultures and forms of expression, do not deny the right to the cultural heritage of national minorities, but only put a Cyrillic in the first place when it comes to public use. Nowhere in the world is the subject of a dispute that will be spoken by language, agreed, written in formal address and business, and that is fine with us. But when the question of language is raised with us, it is mandatory to sew up a number of other often casual or unnecessary connotations. That is why we should commend the idea of setting up a Council of the Government for Serbian Language, which will be monitored from a professional point of view by the real state and use of Cyrillic letters in public life, first. That the legislators thought of everything saying and the fact that the start of law enforcement was delayed by six months from the date of entry into force, which would be enough for the entities to adapt their work and business to new legal solutions. "You're beautiful, you're well dressed, but talk about seeing how you really are! “, says Desanka Maksimovic, a conscious force that language has. He's a bridge that connects the past and the future, he's both root and wing. It's not just a matter of linguistics, it's a question of ethics, of history, but of patriotism, of which I would call healthy patriotism. Throughout history, we have defended our country with weapons and blood, today we try to defend it with memory, wisdom. The homeland defends itself with beauty, a rare feather, and the Cyrillic letter is ours and also the most perfect letter in the world. What would some nations give if they had a letter like our Cyrillic? That's why I'm giving full support to the Ministry of Culture in this, but also to similar ventures. I look forward to living in a country that, although small, proudly highlights its markings, which is not in some corner, humiliated, defiled. In the end, coincidence or not, we talk about the protection of Cyrillices on Sundays when in Vuko Trsic there are parliamentary days, and I invite you all to come to the Vukov Assembly, the oldest cultural event of Serbs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-13-0.u9185	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-13-0.u9186	Thank you. Mr. Vice-President of the National Assembly, Mrs. Gojkovic, Ministers of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and Deputy Prime Minister, I said in the first part that I would continue where I left off as an authorised representative of the parliamentary group. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, language is a key element of the nation, and we all understand that. The nation marks the community of people of the same origin. The wolf, Stefanovic Karadzic, is an allegation: "all breeders are Serbs, and all Serbs are cuckolds". This thesis on Serbian ethno-language identity has been confirmed by many Serb Catholics, Serbian Muslims, I repeat this because I saw that some MPs have been rebelling here today, and among them two Serbian writers, giants Ivo Andric and Mesa Selimovic. By taking over, adopting, and then renaming the Serbian language, by Croats, it served the geopolitical objectives, the Habsburg monarchy and the missionary proselytism of the objectives and objectives of the Roman Curia, not only that, but also served to expand the tri-hungarian, Cacauan, Croatian to the breadth of the Serbian-Stachish ethno-language area in Dalmatia, Slavonia, BiH and Dubrovnik. With space, Croatians also conquered Serbian and Catholic peoples, Serbian historical heritage and Serbian language and literature. The first meeting between Serbs and Croats, during the Ilir Movement, was their conflict over the acquisition of Serbian language, Serbian people and territory, unfortunately to this day. Serbs for Yugoslavia should not regret it. If they were smart, they wouldn't even have created it, because the first and second Yugoslavia was for the Serbs disconuity in every sense, in historical, linguistic, geopolitical, cultural and ethnic. The external factors, with the help of our internal "supply flies", have been performing and doing certain things today, you will recognize them, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the deforestation of the Balkans, more precisely the areas of the former Yugoslavia, and then the destruction of even Serbia, taking away its identity part of Kosovo and Metohija. Extermination was the first goal of breaking Yugoslavia. To that end, the West used all the funds, encouraged and co-organised the ethnic cleansing of Serbs from Republika Srpska, satanized the Serbian people until the peak. Montenegro is proof that the division of Serbs is possible not only in the religious line, but also in the framework of Orthodoxism. Montenegrin interference with Serbia has not been since yesterday, but the modern anti-Serbian foundation has come from the side, as always before. On the Montenegrin case, it is best to see the sins of Serbian philosophers and politicians in the past. By their compromises in science, in politics they have contributed greatly to the division of peoples by religion in Serbia's ethnic space, not by language, as is common in Europe, and thus to the formation of new nations and new states on the basis of Serbia's historical and linguistic space. Serbian philosophers and politicians have inflicted invaluable damage on their own Serbian people, which in the wind of history, on the geopolitical market in the Balkans has not been better, as they have formally called on Dosite Obradovic and Vuk Stefanovic Karadzic to give up until the arrival of SNS in power from their ethnic-language views. It should be pointed out that in 1992, Montenegro declared itself to be a common state with Serbia, almost 100%, is that so, gentlemen, the MPs? Of course it is. One of the Montenegrin leaders and proponents of the common state, then the great Serb Milo Djukanovic, today called Milor, Montenegro's president, unfortunately, the progenitor of anti-Serbian montenegrin politics, an advocate of Montenegrin language that did not exist nine centuries of the Montenegrin nation and the Montenegrin Orthodox Church, is trying to destroy the real and national Serbian identity in Montenegro for centuries and will normally fail. Honorable ladies and gentlemen, he attacked him in an interview with the Zagreb morning list of Presidents of the Republic of Aleksandr Vukic and the Republic of Serbia, accusing him of making great Serbia and that peace and stability in the region is in danger. He called on healthy forces in the region and the international community to oppose it. These attacks by Djukanovic on Aleksandr Vukic and Serbia are an attempt to cover up his political failures and failures on lies based on last century's rhetoric, thus causing a sense of threat and self-representing himself as the savior of the people of Montenegro. Mr Djukanovic, the success of the country's president is not measured by the lies of his country, is not measured by producing conflicts in his own society and his own country, but by increasing GDP, increasing wages and pensions, building highways and roads, building factories, building new schools, new hospitals, new covid hospitals, homes of health, clinical centres, building sewers, opening new jobs. You accused Serbia of wanting Kosovo and Metohija without Albanians and Montenegro without Montenegrins, without shame and without shame. It's not only that it's false and nonsense, but you've replaced the thesis. You, Mr. Djukanovic, have recognised a false state in Kosovo. Is that right, gentlemen, MPs and respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Montenegro? You deny the existence of Serbs in Montenegro, Mr Djukanovic, deny the right to use the Cyrillic letter after nine centuries, deny the right to language, deny the membership of the SPC. Compared to Nazi Germany and President Vukic with Hitler, Serbia is the height of your moral decline and moral misery, the height of your anxiety. Mr Djukanovic, he said of you gently by resting Patriarch Irinej in 2020, before he died, quote: "Dukanovic was brought to Patriarchy in 1998 and presented as the future and strong perspective of the Serbian people, and today, grief is upon me when I see how deep a fall can be. With such a demand for a compromise, I don't believe it. “ A quote has been completed. In independent Montenegro, the official language was called Serbian from 1992 to 2006. His name was Serbian eight centuries ago. It is known that Montenegrins in Tito's Yugoslavia have begun to change their national identity. In the 2004 census, about 39% of Montenegro's population reported as Montenegrins, about 32% as Serbs. At that time, 64% said they speak Serbian and slightly more than 20% Montenegrin, while the rest were Bosniak, Croatian and Albanian. Apart from Albanians, everyone else has one language, Serbian, but today they call it different. A good example, ladies and gentlemen, of the joint venture of Croatian-Montenegro falsification of history also represents a doctorate on Montenegrin language, which Bosnjak Adnan Cingrić, behold a miracle, defended at Osijek University. This Bosniak thus became the first doctor in the Montenegrin language, the non-existent, who wrote and defended it in the old Croatian and actually in Serbian. The fictional Montenegrin nation was also invented by the Montenegrin language, the Montenegrin Orthodox Church, for the purpose of instigating a new Montenegrin-national identity. Respected scientists in Montenegro and the former Yugoslavia, identity is not created overnight. This is what individuals do for political points. As Croatians cannot call on Dubrovnik writers - Gundulić, Zlatarić, Palmotic, Držić, Vojnović, Pucic, to establish their Croatian and ethnic language identities, because they are Serbian writers, so also national Montenegrins cannot call on Peter Cetinje Negos, Nikola Petrovic, Mitr Ljubisa, Marko Miljanov, without immediately meeting their heart. That Montenegrins are a local variant of the great sprawl tribe was also testified by Milovan Đilas, the creator of the Montenegrin political nation, and Batric Jovanovic proved Montenegro's primal Serbism in the book "The Serbiaing of Montenegrins". Today, more than ever, the Serbian people in Montenegro are resisting depletion. The history of Montenegro's renegade from the Serbian nation began with Sekula Drljevic, and it is known that during World War I, he also excelled Serbia and actively worked to unite two Serbian states. When he was dissatisfied with his position in one ministry, he became a fierce Serb hater. The second Montenegrin who took the road is Savic Markovic Štadimija, who, like Drljević, lived under the Ustasha regime in Zagreb and was sickened by heartache. While we're here, the third of them is Milo Djukanovic. Now, to see, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro, well-known Croatian linguist Dalibor Brozovic, one of the founders of the HDZ, the deputy president of Croatia then Franjo Tudjman, was asked why the averages from Montenegro get the opportunity to defend the doctorate in Zagreb, I quote: "Yes, it is all true. They are diletants, but we need them as our exposition in Montenegro, because they should work to prove the diversity of Montenegrin identity compared to Serbian and bring Montenegro closer to Croatia, so we need scientific calls in order to get their thesis on scientific research and to have a better echo and weight in the Montenegrin public. "Completed quote. Here, today you can see who Milo Djukanovic is. Sekula Drljević, whose ideas were accepted by the current Montenegrin summit, or Milo Djukanovic, completed studies in Zagreb, and during co-operation with Pavelic, launched the thesis that, I quote, an aggressive Serbian policy is to blame for all problems in the Balkans. It's a finished quote. Can you recognize Milo Djukanovic's speech in Bratislava? Of course you can. The Montenegrin nation was formed in the kitchen of the Communist and Communist Party, headed by Broza, and there is no dilemma. After the fall of Rankovic in 1966, an anti-Serbian branch in Montenegro, which lasts, here, with Milo to this day. I ask the question to the montenegrins of former Serb Mile Djukanovic -- are you the same ones who in 1992 plebiscitely pleaded to a common state with Serbia? The very act of turning and violent acquisition of independence in Montenegro in 2006 was the project of Serbian geopolitical and geostrategic opponents, and the Montenegrin brothers decided to do so and that is their choice. At that time, only 55%, for the sake of the general public, of the voters who went out, voted for Montenegro's independence. At that time, the right to vote is allowed for all Montenegrin citizens outside the diaspora and, behold, miracles, but not for those from Serbia, more than 260,000 of them. Montenegro's independence was not voted by Montenegrins, but by the Cypriots and Croats. All this did not bother former state president Boris Tadic to congratulate former Serb Mili Djukanovic on independence the next day. The open anti-Serbian regime today in full light showed Milo Djukanovic with recognition of Kosovo as an independent state in 2008, and accuses us of wanting Kosovo without Albanians, without shame and without shame, as he means to do so. It was a knife in the back of Serbia then, and it meant spiritual genocide over the Serb people. Dear Ministers, dear Gojkovic, thank you for putting this law on the agenda of President Aleksandr Vukic's initiative, because the people who do not have their letter and their language will not have a long time. In the end, don't let anyone realize this is a Latin fight. The Latin is as Serbian as Croatian. You linguists know that the Croats gave up their language in the 10th century and took someone else's Latin and other people's letter of Latin. So we're not against Latin, though, but we're for official use of Cyrillic. Thank you for coming back to our roots, because we are being repressed Serbianly in Kosovo. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-13-0.u9187	Thank you, Mr. Atlagic. The next People's MP, George Dabic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-13-0.u9188	Thank you, Chairman. Dear People's MPs, ladies and gentlemen, the distinguished minister with the co-worker, today is a particularly important session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, before us the Law on the Protection of Cyrillic Letters. Cyrillic is one of the basic pillars of our national identity, and that's how we testify and the fact that every occupier, when he comes to these premises, is the first thing he does is ban the Cyrillic. Matija Bećkovic said it was only a reason, that is enough reason for us to consider the Cyrillic as our sacred place, and that is why this law rightly treats this issue, because today and how public institutions will have to adapt their business to this law and use a Cyrillic letter in their correspondence, and we also make it easier for the private sector since all those who choose to highlight the Cyrillic on their companies will be stimulated, and that is certainly a good way to continue to promote Cyrillic in public life. We are witnessing that more and more media and textbooks are printed on the Latin, which first came between Serbs in 1915 with the Austro-Hungarian occupation. Hence, positive examples should be provided. The town of Belgrade, for example, has, over the past few years, had this practice of rearing a Cyrillic and all those tenants in the locals, which are located in the very property of the city of Belgrade, were stimulated, if they pointed out the Cyrillic in their locals, have these reliefs and this is an indication that it will continue to take place. So, the city of Belgrade has set a positive example for all of Serbia, and this will certainly be visible in the next period, and I am sure it will help to further promote the Cyrillic as our national symbol. What is also very happy is that we will adopt this law on September 15th on the Day of Serbian Unity, Freedom and Flag, together with parliaments of Republika Srpska and Serbia, thus showing that Drina cannot possibly share us, that the people of Serbian in these areas breathe as one, and certainly it is very important that they adopt such a law in one day of both parliaments. What should be mentioned is that all of us on the 15th of September on the Day of Serbian Unity will be proud of our triples, we cultivate our national identity, and this is happening, the fact is, since 2012 when the SNS came to power and when the idea of the need to cultivate Serbian national identity is finally being promoted, that it is not being trampled and that it is not done as it was before 2012. To remind all our neighbors, the Thessaloniki Front was breached on September 15, 1918. Our brave ancestors freed not only Serbia, but our neighbours here who were defeated. We gave them our hand and they went from the defeated side overnight to the winner's side, and it's thanks to our kindness done, and they, as you know, gave us back Jasenovci, brought back to the children's camps only 20 years after we translated them to the side of history that is victorious, so that they wouldn't disappear from practically the face of the earth. They first received something called the state, just in 1918, when we gave them all freedom and when they in Yugoslavia were absolutely able to get everything they didn't get for years or centuries before. So there was no thought of any other nation in the Austro-Hungarian monarchy. They were absolutely slaves, for 800 years they served faithfully to their interests, and only since coming to their premises of the Serb army have they been given the opportunity to affirm their national speciality and identity. I say, once again, we have really reason to be proud because our ancestors in those six years shot down then the two strongest empires in the world. So, in 1912, a Serb soldier broke the spine of the Turkish empire, we forced the Turks out of the Balkans. Then, just six years after that, in 1918, we managed to bring down another monarchy, the Austro-Hungarian monarchy. In this way, indeed, even today when we talk about it, we have the opportunity to be proud of our ancestors, we have the opportunity to talk about it and not forget how worthy they really were of the historical moment they were in, and to really wonder if we have and how much responsibility we have to cultivate that memory of them. I say, once again, I mention our neighbours a moment ago and we see a great halabuka lately on the Serbian people, we see an anti-Serbian hysteria on the entire Balkan peninsula, which is really amazing that they are persistently accusing us here as we are creating some Serbian worlds and great Serbia, they say -- you want to tear down our territorial integrity in the Balkans, and in fact you are told by people who have violated our national and territorial integrity by admitting a false state of Kosovo. It's that auto-projection. So they're telling you that we want to destroy their territorial integrity, and they're destroying us. But it's really incomprehensible, but it really needs to be understood. When you think about it, our ancestors, we can talk about them in superlative terms and that they had the kind of military merits that led to it, I say that the two empires in Europe then collapse, and thanks exclusively to the Serb soldier and the telegram that Bulgarian Emperor Wilhelm II sent to Ferdinand, the Bulgarian king, says – 62,000 Serbian soldiers decided war, shame. The fact is that the Serb soldier decided the outcome of World War I, and we should be disturbed today, I say once again, to cultivate the memory of them, and not to forget that all of our neighbours, who keep drilling and going with these anti-Serbian statements, were actually the descendants of those who were faithful servants of the Austrian monarchy, were particularly prominent in keeping the hygiene of the Austro-Hungarian stables. So today we are talking about this important law and we will continue to cultivate our letter, our national identity, and we will try to preserve peace in the Balkans, although it is difficult. It is really hard to maintain peace, given that we have daily attacks on the Serbian people here. We'll keep trying. See for yourself, they keep calling for war. You have a constant statement from Bakir Izetbegovic calling from Konjic for attacks on Republika Srpska. Yesterday, you have a manit Djukanovic who announces that some conflicts will also take place. You have some of their analysts, I hear, who are already announcing that if civil war occurs in Montenegro, Croatia will be a problem because the refugee sea will move towards Croatia. Indeed, some abnormal tones are heard in the region and this is the consequence, as President Aleksandar Vukic said yesterday, the fact that Serbia is progressing, developing, that today Serbia is not the punching bag it was until 2012, today Serbia can help its people in the region and it bothers them. They say - you are a factor of instability because you help Serbs in the environment. It says – Serbs in the environment are their concern, they should deal with them, and they are persistently jeopardizing their rights, and then the problem is when Serbia points to this violation of our country's rights, but it is not a problem that their rights threaten them. We ask – is it possible that 80 physical attacks you have had in the space of Kosovo and Metohija on the Serbian people during the last eight months? Is it normal for you to have so many ethnically motivated attacks in Europe? When we warn of it, then we are a factor of instability, not of those who do it. The last attack took place 20 days ago, when that boy Michael of Kamenica, a group of Albanians, broke his head, a 11-year-old boy. When we say and warn Europe of all that is happening, they say, so you are a factor of instability. Says Djukanovic – you are a factor of instability because we wanted to capitalize our Metropolitan in the century-old seat of the Mytropolis of the Montenegrin-Primordial Sea, founded by the Holy Sava. Imagine how far this madness has gone, but well, it has been seen, as some MPs have noticed here, that power of Montenegro in Podgorica, where there were 50,000 people at the reception of our patriarch and Metropolitan Joaniki, and in fact it has been seen to be ashamed of Cetinje of 1,500 people, the mahogany of atheists and members of the Muslim religion. We have nothing against Muslims and Albanians, but it's amazing that you really have one complete madness of these committees and all sorts, and I don't know what they're called, and by the way, that committee movement was the biggest Serbian movement. Look at the flag of the cometian movement, it's the most Serbian flag in the Serbian people, as many as nine Serbian troboys have on the comet flag. So we're really talking about some of these disturbed values here. I say once again, there was the strength of the Serbian people in Montenegro to welcome Patriarch Porfiri, to be seen in Berani on September 25th, so I really think Serbia is playing a constructive role. We are trying not to disturb the peace in these areas, but you are really dealing with an unstable region and politicians who are constantly on election activities, which are forecasting in the coming period, using Serbia as a punching bag, trying to get votes on the anti-Serbian rhetoric. Why is that? The fact that there really are people in the region who support such policies, that's not the case here. We really advocate peace, we advocate that Serbia continues to develop as it develops, how much, for the past nine years, we have really good results, the largest number of foreign investments. We don't need war, we don't need instability, we need peace here in these areas so we can continue to strengthen our economy, because that way we can actually achieve all our interests. When you have strong Serbia, when you have a strong economy, then your army is strong, then your health is strong, the state is building, the state is investing in highways. We're building thousands of kilometers of highways this year. We don't need any instability, we want to continue the rapid growth of our economy. We had, I say, watch out, this year 90,000 construction sites you have in Serbia, it's absolutely a fact and it's proof that simply capital flows into the country that there's money and that our people can really be proud of today's results and the politics that Alexander Vucic and SNS personify. Once again, not to be too long, I think today's law is very important. I am pleased that on September 15th, together with our colleagues from Banja Luka, we will vote in the Law on the Protection of Cyrillic Letters. It is really important that we continue to cultivate our identity and that, once again, all Serbs in the Balkans feel that they are breathing like one people, that we have a political vision that we must be unique in every sense and that we cultivate what our personality is and what we really have the opportunity to be proud of. Once again, I will be happy to support this law on September 15th. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-13-0.u9189	Thank you, Mr. Dabic. The next is MP Zoran Bojanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-13-0.u9190	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, Mrs Gojkovic, colleagues and colleagues, today is a very important law, I would say, historically, a law that is in line with all the laws that we passed in previous years, which concerned Serbia's economic recovery and awakening. This way, Serbia wakes up, shows its strength. You know, if you don't appreciate yourself, no one else will appreciate you. We have had a situation in recent years that when you cross the main streets of our cities, Belgrade, Kragujevac, my King, it seems to you in the evening that you are somewhere in London, Soho or somewhere in New York. All the inscriptions, all the ads are Latin and English. I'm not running away from it. Thank God, we have to be part of the world, but we also have to cultivate our own. It seems to me that in one period, it seemed like we were ashamed of our Serbian name, our Serbian language and our Serbian letter, everything was in English. I think the moment has come and this is the right moment to wake up Serbia's national, economic, financial recovery, a large Serbia. When I say big Serbia, Serbia is as big as its citizens and Serbs and Hungarians and Croats and Bosniaks and everyone else. If we are happy and satisfied, rich in spirit and economically independent, this will be one big Republic of Serbia. What I'm trying to say is that I don't take up much of my time because we have a little time left, and a lot of speakers, it's a pleasure to live in Serbia, in which all the faiths and all the nations are respected. Here, right next door to me, the yard next door is a Protestant church. Wonderful people, good neighbors, good and loyal citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Other faiths, so what? Perhaps we can learn something good from them and those of us and what is very important, 11 languages of national minorities are in official use in the Republic of Serbia, in official use and so should be. So wherever we have a number of citizens of another national minority, the language of that national minority should be equal to the official, according to the Constitution, the language of the Republic of Serbia, which is the Serbian language and the Cyrillic letter. The only thing that bothers me is that on many, very many traffic signs, if these are the names of settlements, cities, that Cyrillic inscription is usually covered in some black color. But that's about the culture of whoever did it and who wrote it. What else do I want to say? The oppression of the Serbian language and the oppression of Cyrillic, we also suppress our identity and I would not spread the subject much, since Professor Marko Atlagic has phenomenally explained everything about the Serbian language and the Cyrillic and about the Latin and all that we are interested in and what we should be interested in from the history of some from 2000 to 2000 and this present. What bothers me a lot at this point, and it seems to me that everything is under the heading of gender equality, if anyone is of gender equality, I'm the first to have a gender equality, but we've made so much of the language and in the media, I'm looking at these social networks, and even in simple speech, we're saying some words that aren't ours. First of all, it's about professions. Let us not, at all costs, make something nakaradamous and look a lot like this newly combined new Croatian language. Let's try, we can't, ordinary mortals, but those linguists, the literature professors, the professors of Serbian language, need to warn someone not to change at all costs what's right, what's in the spirit of language and what's in the spirit of our being. In order for anyone else to speak beside me, I will say – Serbia is large and larger. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-13-0.u9191	Thank you, Mr. Bojanic. The next is MP Milimir Vujadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-13-0.u9192	Dear colleagues, distinguished citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the distinguished minister with associates, here's half of September. Probably the terms, the period of the year, the days on which Serbia is proudest if it turns a little backwards and looks at its modern history. On this very day, the Chief of Staff of the Serbian Supreme Command, the famous Duke Zivojin Misic, issued his command and declaration commanding the Serb army in Thessaloniki, a final breakthrough, attack and pursuit of the country. The great Zivojin Mišic says in his command and in his declaration at the end: “In death, just don’t stop. With unwavering faith and hope, heroes, forward to the homeland." I rarely get up when I talk from this pay phone. However, today’s theme and today’s day are what they deserve. In fact, this topic of law that is today before us is much more than its formal meaning contained in several pages. This law and this topic are just the fulfillment of the vows and wishes of those who received the command of the great Zivojin Mišic on the day of 1918. Their vow and their wish was to preserve unity, liberate and preserve the identity of the Serb people in the Balkans, and then also release everyone else who lived with it. For this wish and their vow were ready to die many of their successors in the wars they followed, which Serbia and the Serbian people in the Balkans unfortunately did not miss in the last century. For this wish, they themselves were ready to leave their lives in Albanian gourds, in the Blue Tomb, in the Cayman, on the Thessaloniki Front. We today as some new political generation have the honor of perhaps for the first time defining their wishes in the right way, to preserve unity as they wanted and to preserve their identity as they dreamed it. We SNS MPs, in addition to having a great responsibility today and in the coming days that otherwise follows any passing, or passing any legal proposal, we also have a personal sense of happiness that we participate in a certain historical moment. I'm sure that's the feeling that follows our fellow citizens and our colleagues in Banja Luka in the National Assembly of Republika Srpska, where an almost identical legislative proposal will be passed the day after tomorrow. However, all of this required a vision, an initiative that came primarily from Serbian President Aleksandr Vukic, but also from the Spanish member of the presidency in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I hope that this or similar legislative proposal will be adopted at some point in the Montenegrin Assembly, because the truth about the will of Cyrillics as a letter in recent decades, and perhaps it is not for the honor of Serbia, has been the most used in Montenegro. Such an opinion has been offered by the events of the past days and hopes that those who are the biggest opponents of Serbia's identity and the SPC in Montenegro will become something else. My hope came from an event that happened over the past few hours, to say the least. Namely, members of the family of former Montenegrin Prime Minister Duško Markovic, recently, until last year and the current MP and one of the perjanics and leader of the SPC attacks were married yesterday, i.e. His niece, Milica, married at the temple of SPC in Podgorica. What else can a man think about already waking up in him hope that those who have stood up against the church will change their minds, and this is what led me to this process by members of the Duško Markovic family. I wish them all good luck in their personal life and that they will finally drop the work they have done in the past days with Montenegrin President Milo Djukanovic. As for us, to return to this Assembly and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, Honorary Minister Gojkovic, I hope that the vision of the president of the state will continue to appear in this House with such and similar laws and you and ministers in the National Assembly of Republika Srpska. You can certainly find the basis for this in the special and parallel relations agreement between Serbia and Republika Srpska and the Dayton Peace Agreement. This will preserve the identity of our people on both sides of the Drina, and you will not destroy the legislative, constitutional order of BiH, nor international law. Here's an example in the initiatives of the president of the state and of the Serbian member of the presidency. In the end, the chairman, I'm sure you're wondering why I put these flags next to me, I'm not used to breaking the Rules of Procedure, i.e. to work so that you are the one who violates the Rules of Procedure. This is also a kind of message in the September 15th meeting of our countrymen in the region to deignly mark this date by emphasising flags on windows across Serbia, Serbia, if you want to end up with both Montenegro and the region and the diaspora in which they live. We want to do the same thing that day, mark this date with dignity, but proudly. As far as I'm concerned as the MP, I, as part of the SNS parliamentary group, will support this law, the honourable minister, in the day of the vote. Finally, in advance of congratulating this great day that was before us with a greeting from our people -- lived the mother of Serbia, lived Republika Srpska, lived our people in the Balkans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-13-0.u9193	I thank Mr. Vujadinovic. Highlighting the state flag of the Republic of Serbia is certainly not a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Among other things, it's a flag that we all, I believe, proudly carry here every day. Is the People's Messenger Nenad Krstic in the O.R.? National MP Natasa Jovanovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-13-0.u9194	I thank the chairman. A respected minister with a co-worker, respected fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, this year I was back in Trsic and reminded myself of the enormous exploit of Vuk Karadzic, who is from a beautiful nature, from his village near Loznica, left the world on his life-long journey, both in his country and outside of it, of many challenges, difficulties and persecution. Often we Serbs forget and consider what Vuk Karadzic brought to the Serbian people by default. The wolf laid the foundation of Serbian language by uniting dialects, dialects and so that neither the most bitter anti-Serbian propaganda at the time knew the Montenegrin language but was the southern dialect. The Serbian language is the eastern dialects of ekavica and ekavica – a dialect in the current BiH area, then Dubrovnik, on the territory of the mighty Duklje. At that time, they also call their official language Serbian. In 1818, in the “Serbian dictionary” published in Vienna, “h” as a letter does not exist, not even “jj, nj, j, ð, æ, q”. What's new and now, especially in the 19th century, is that new letters are being introduced for existing votes, and that really makes our letter unique. The wolf traveled a lot and devoted his whole life to linguistic science. For example, he printed out people's Serbian proverbs on Cetinje, and he dedicated the book to His Lordship and wrote about it – a third of these offices would remain unaccounted for, and God knows these others when the world would have come to us if happiness had not met me. He and the Wolf were great friends. The wolf also received recognition for his work from the Vienna, Berlin, Petrov City Academy, and also received the status of an associate member of those academys. In its country, for example, only in 1860 is it allowed to use Wolf's spelling in all books, except for official textbooks because the struggle with domestic authority took a long time. What is certain is that today what we call Serbian literary language is not the language our ancestors spoke. In the near past, it was a Serbian-Croatian language. Today we are witnessing the creation of artificial languages in the desire to make as little as possible look like their root, Serbian. This is what happens in Croatia, Montenegro and BiH. Croatia has gone as far as it can be. For example, in Croatia they have called the 2020 "Dr Ivan Schreter" award for new words such as: the pandemic is a great honor, a respirator – a dissipator or a dissident, a lock-down – socialist or suspension, a visor – a umbrella, self-insulation – self-osom. Even many older Croatian citizens can't understand this new newly-compromised dictionary very well. Artificial languages are made up of individuals or groups, but in this case it's state policy. It's been tried in time with Esperat as a universal world language. That, of course, didn't work and English took over the primate. That's quite all right, but these previous examples of neighbouring countries have another purpose, so that their new language, full of new concepts, will become the native language for future generations and will not look like Serbian. The films should be titled Cyrillic, books also printed on Cyrillic, street names, buildings, official memos too. Sometimes we're not allowed to use Cyrillic. For example, I personally, on the mobile phone I use, have no possibility of using all Cyrillic letters. Product instructions should also be on Cyrillic. When importing products, it should also be taken into account whether they have the option. For example, Greeks are perfectly balanced as a member of the EU, their letter is so recognizable and they are really proud of it and I don't see why it wouldn't be the case with us. The faster Serbia develops and progresses, the more jealous countries in the region are growing. Our common task is to be complex and persistent in preserving our letter. This is a time of digitization, and we especially need to think about young generations that use Latin mostly through a computer, but they can't forget who they are and where they're from and where they're from, which they should be proud of -- Cyrillic. Do you remember, for example, taking down a board with a Cyrillic in Vukovar in 2013? This has never been the case in Serbia to take down the board, for example, in Hungarian. Serbia is a state of all citizens and has always had great respect for its national minorities and has advocated the preservation of their rights. But we must not do this on our own. We now have different orders and dialects, accentes, but the literary Serbian language and Cyrillic is what we must not lose, because we lose a part of ourselves. Differently, of course, in Novi Sad, different in Belgrade, different in Vranj. But we should always keep in mind what kind of googogue Vuk Karadzic went through to frame a letter that many envy -- one letter, one voice. In particular, it should be stressed that the same law will be found on the Assembly's agenda in Republika Srpska, which is further exposed to the pressures of the Bosniak language. Special attention should be paid to who teaches in schools, who are the leaders of television, because it is inadmissible to act erroneously and that, as the people say, is flirting with the parachutes. If it hadn't been for a lot of thorns on the road, I'm sure the grammar would have been much simpler and easier. Foreigners always say how easy it is to write and read, and how hard it is to learn our declines and our grammar. Vuk Karadzic has invested his entire life, huge work, but also diplomatic skills to have the letter we are now using. We Serbs have many times been wronged and we can forgive, but we must not forget our language, our letter, our culture, our customs. Because if we forget it, we lose our identity. This bill on the use of Serbian language in public life and the protection and preservation of Cyrillic letters had to come much earlier, but according to one proverb that Vuk Karadzic collected with the centuries-old experience of the Serbian people -- the language is the guardian of the people, as long as the language lives, as long as we love and honor it, we speak to and write to it, cleanse, mentally sowing, does not spill into another, does not fail. This is what the people said, and it is written to remain for the folk generations of Vuk Karadzic. Dear fellow MPs, dear citizens of Serbia, never forget this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-13-0.u9195	Thank you, Mrs. Jovanovic. The word has Dr. Boris Bursac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-13-0.u9196	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, respected fellow MPs, respected Serbian citizens, respected Mrs Gojkovic with a co-worker, stands before us today one of the national most important draft laws, and this is the unspeakable bill on the use of Serbian language in public life and the preservation of the Cyrillic letter. The language, as we know, is one of the basic constituent elements of every nation. They come together, the language and the people together survive, and they don't exist without each other. So the language and the people are fatefully connected. Because what happens in the people happens in his own language. As an ancient Slovenian heritage and the legacy of the Serbian language, Cyrillic remained a bonding thread of Serbian language throughout centuries in a wide area as far as it touched. The history of the Serbian people, along with everyone else, records two riots over a ban on Cyrillic. The first such rebellion took place in the space of the former capital of Karlovac and lasted from 1779 to 1785, and the attempt by the Empress Maria Teresa and then her son, Emperor Joseph, to ban the printing of books with Cyrillic and its use in schools in her empire. Also, it should be noted that during that time the ban on the use of Cyrillic has always meant the practical and banning of writing in Serbian, and Serbs intending to preserve their identity and the folk character of Cyrillic, did not want to write any other letter. The second almost completely forgotten and few known riots over the ban on Cyrillic have occurred in Montenegro, the same one that attacks all that is Serbian today. Namely, after her occupation in 1916, when the Austrian authorities banned the use of Cyrillic in schools, institutions and postal traffic by order of General Governor-General Viktor Weber, and excluded folk epic and patriotic songs, as well as the subject of "Serbian history". This, though dissatisfaction in other areas, was only determined to resign from the ministry by a group of teachers from Bijelopavlic, 14, for which they were soon arrested and placed under military court. The resignations they signed in the military command in Danilovgrad, 19 October 1916, were explained this way - Cyrillic is Serbian history, artery, aorta of Serbian nationalism, and we are ready to be Serbian teachers and we do not want to be anal. Furthermore, what the Cyrillic represents for Serbs and Serbian history through centuries and what it should represent today, if we understand its significance, speak the words of those who worked to suppress it. For example, General Sarkozy, as a representative of the military authorities in BiH during World War I, has seen the importance of the Cyrillic for Serbian history, culture, identity, and expressed better than ourselves. He quotes: "It is necessary to make the Serbian Cyrillic unusable as a means of combat, i.e. to remove the Cyrillic from public life and take away its Serbian national character. And since, according to the understanding of the Yugoslav peoples, the Cyrillic letter is an expression of Serbian languages, then the Cyrillic is high treasonous, so it must be expelled. For those who trespass against the ban on Cyrillic, a fine of 50 to 1,000 kuna is foreseen." Also, the first measure taken after the outbreak of World War I, specifically in Croatia, was to suppress Cyrillic from public use. Thus, on 3 October 1914, the Earth government in Croatia abolished Cyrillic teaching in public and primary schools, and a new government order of 3 January 1915 in Croatia was abolished in the work of the administration. There is no end to the persecution of the Serbian national letter. In fact, a few decades later, in World War II, just ten days after the takeover of power, on 21 April 1941 in NDH, a legal provision on the ban on Cyrillic, which came into force on 25 April 1945, of course, was signed directly by Ante Pavelic. But despite all the bans, persecutions, repression, Serbian language and Cyrillic scripts have survived and not only has it survived, but the Cyrillic is a witness to the continuity and identity of Serbian language and literature, Serbian culture and history, a recognizable sign and symbol, an indication of how rich and well-founded Serbian heritage is. Today, many Serbs, even some thinking people, many NGOs say that it is nevertheless written with Cyrillic or Latin, with Latin for them today being a letter of modern science and culture, a universal letter, without which the unimaginable life of a modern man is unimaginable, and that Cyrillic is not. I don't understand how to, for example. The Helsinki Committee did not announce when numerous inscriptions and tables on Cyrillics were torn and broken throughout Croatia, where they were then to defend freedoms and human rights, and at the same time they reacted when a law on the protection of Cyrillics was proposed, arguing, quote – Serbia does not need a law that discriminates, or there is no reason to protect Cyrillics. Gentlemen, there's no reason to protect the Cyrillic, so why has the Cyrillic been banned multiple times throughout history? Why were the books written in Cyrillic burned? Why were the libraries in which they were kept destroyed? Why is Cyrillic still being suppressed and banned in some neighboring countries today? Dear colleagues, citizens of Serbia, let us remember, such as language is the basis of national beings of the people, so the letter is the basis of national culture. The Serbian national letter is a Cyrillic. It has been used by Serbs for more than eight centuries, it has written out all the cultural traces of our people, it has created our culture, our culture of the European level, which is why we have to keep it at all costs. The reasons for the adoption of this law are quite clear and contained in the need for additional measures to be established, aimed at fostering Serbian language and Cyrillic letters as cultural and traditional values and to speed up, of course, the wider use of Cyrillic letters in public life in view of the historical, cultural and identity significance of this letter. So I will absolutely support this bill, and I hope that my colleagues will do the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-13-0.u9197	Thank you, Mr. Bursac. The word has a doctor, Dr. Ilija Živić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-13-0.u9198	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Orlic, the Honorable Minister of Co-operation, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, respected citizens, when we talk about the law on the protection of Cyrillic citizens should know, as my colleagues have repeatedly repeated, but it has not been repeated once more, that this law is not directed against any other letter, against any national minority, nor against any other rights, this law simply serves to protect our Cyrillic letter as a letter that determines our national identity. This law is a way to preserve Cyrillic as we have worked together, conservation works, on the one hand, but also the unity of the Serb people preserved churches, icons and monuments on KIM and in Montenegro, so now we have proof of the existence of the Serb people in those territories. It is interesting, however, that the law on the protection of Cyrillic and the Day of Serbian Unity, freedom and national flags are also attacking the same ones, all that has to do with Serbia and all that is Serbian hate. From the same one, Gilas – Solak's kitchen comes an attack on Serbia's MUP for vehicle control, in which he will turn out to be the son of the Montenegrin prime minister. As a former student of the Ministry of the Interior, I have studied this case well, and I have this opportunity to support the members of the MUP because in everything that has happened, they have acted exclusively under the Law on Police and Rules when stopping a person who is presumed to be armed. Of course, Gilas tried to present through his media by asking one basic question – why was that vehicle stopped in the first place, why did someone even report that vehicle? When we received notice that an anonymous application came after a random passerby saw a Montenegrin vehicle and armed people inside then Djilas and Marinika Tepic went to ask the question – why didn't you know that Mr. Krivokapic's son was inside? I must remind myself that the MUP on that day, the moment Mr. Krivokapic became Montenegro's prime minister, offered all his family whenever they offered physical and technical protection on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, but that they refused it. I want to tell you that as a Serbian citizen, I have repeatedly experienced that I have been stopped by a similar intervention patrol and that in one regular control, they control my permission to carry arms and have treated me as well. Simply, the procedure requires that you speak a little louder when you stop a vehicle, because you don't know if those persons inside really own a weapon and whether that gun license is valid. Then came the appeals of some NGOs and some voices from Montenegro that our officers, imagine, were screaming. Apparently, they were yelling at someone who was armed. What were they supposed to do? Did they ask them to get out of that vehicle and we don't know who's inside? Should we remind how many people were killed on the streets of Belgrade thanks to Montenegrin criminal clans, which was also a fundamental assumption when that anonymous citizen reported a person entering the vehicle of Montenegrin plates, which was armed. I will remind all citizens of Serbia, but also these people in Montenegro who rebelled, the gun-carrying license doesn't mean you're like you in Texas, that you can carry a gun as you please. You have an obligation to carry that weapon in a way that you will not arouse anyone around you, or that weapon cannot be seen. That if this Montenegrin security officer gets scared of yelling at our members of the intervention unit, so what can I say to the Montenegrins, find someone who's not afraid of yelling. I guess you'll find someone who's not afraid of yelling. Of course, when we talk about the day of the Serbian flag, Serbian unity couldn't have gone without certain attacks. The loudest in the attack on the Serbian flag were certainly members of the Democratic Party of Novi Sad, which in many places destroyed Serbia's drawn flags, as if they were living in another country, as if another country had tolerated them as we have tolerated them. Imagine what would happen to them if they had crossed the Croatian flag in Zagreb or Split? Although I don't think they would cross her in Zagreb and Split, they would bow before that flag as their former boss bowed to the former prime minister of Croatia, Josipovic. We must also say that the attacks on all of us, on members of the SNS, but also on the president every day are increasing, and here you can see today on Twitter a bunch of these attacks. Marinika Tepic, Dragan Djilas and Solak tried and already seen methods when the president of Serbia, but all of us members of the SNS, insulted us, continued according to what is most sacred, which is the national flag. The insult and ridicule of the anthem and the flag of two of the most sacred features of a state is the new level of the bottom that they touched. Dear citizens, it is they, the heirs of those villains who tried to poison everything Serbian in these areas, those who would for us Serbs re-activate "the naked island", because we celebrate fame, write with Cyrillic and go to church. Those who would impose a neutral anthem and a letter just to lose the word of Serbia and Serbia. However, they have changed a little. President Aleksandar Vukic and we members of the SNS, we are the heirs of the famous Serb army, the only army in the world whose no flag of war during the great war fell into the hands of the enemy, but today everything is being flagped, except for the flag of the Iron Regiment, which served as a cover to the Knight King at the Army Museum in Calemegdan. Thousands of our ancestors died for this higher goal to preserve the flag, and they, these brave Serb patriots, as well as our future generations, deserve to be preserved and our letter of Cyrillic and our anthem and our flag, which we will be proud of on September 15th. That is why I call on all citizens of Serbia to develop our famous flags together on September 15th, together as one, because Serbia is eternal while its children are faithful. Long live Serbia!
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-13-0.u9199	Thank you, Mr. Lifeic, who was last reported. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the principled search is concluded, I ask if the word is wanted by the authorised representatives, the president of the parliamentary groups, someone who has not used his right under Article 96? (No) I thank you. The word is from Deputy Prime Minister Maja Gojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-13-0.u9200	Just for a little while. Finally, I would like to thank all the MPs and all the MPs who participated in the debate in the principle of the bill on the use of Serbian language in public life and the protection and preservation of the Cyrillic letter, and to thank for one overall support and the idea of a proposal from the president of the state, Aleksandr Vukic, that we have a proposal like this before us today. What is most important is that I also thank the minister of culture from Republika Srpska, Mrs Natalija Trivic, who, along with her associates, worked with our Ministry of Culture and Information to bring our proposals to the fullest extent possible in order to adopt almost identical texts and such important areas as the preservation of the Cyrillic letter for the first time in the history of the Republic of Serbia and Republika Srpska. In fact, the main goal was to show our unity, our style, to show our patriotism in a way that has not been shown so far, and that is to fight together to preserve the cultural heritage and identity of the people who live in both Serbia and Republika Srpska. We heard today from our fellow SVM MPs that national minorities should not be defended from the majority people's proposal to protect their letter and their own language, because they themselves gave the best assessment that their right to protect their national identity and to protect and use their rights established by the Constitution and other laws that have defined the use of the official language and letters. Thanks for that. Of course, they worked to improve this bill by responding in the best possible way to all those who were, under the circumstances, extremely concerned about our second letter, which is either Latin or about endangering the rights of other peoples living in our country. You mentioned today and two events. Of course, when talking in parliament is not strictly discussed in the norms of one law, we are here to talk about both politics and political developments. One is recently where the concubines answered with a question why did our Ministry of the Interior exercise regular controls when they noticed that there were weapons and armed persons in a vehicle? There, it turned out to be the son of the prime minister of the Republic of Montenegro. Well, here's what happened to me. In 2000, I was Deputy Prime Minister of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, the police stopped me, and, imagine, a woman, vice president of the government, were looking for weapons in the car. They didn't find it, but I didn't say a word, because it's a regular job, and if you have nothing to hide, you, of course, respect what the M.O.P. does. There's something else behind all these attacks. You said the Helsinki Committee of Human Rights said we don't need this law, but I don't know what we need, I didn't understand them very well, and it's hard to understand the attacks for the sake of the attack. In fact, behind all these attacks is the problem that every day Serbia is becoming one and more political and economical and moral and national strong and conscious state. They are bothered, of course, by the President of the Republic of Serbia who is the engine of all these changes and strengthening our country, but also by each of us who supports such a policy and which is one part of all these changes. Of course our anthem bothers them, but that's why they admire when every kid in the U.S. at the start of the school year, and not at the beginning of the school year, because I have relatives in America, every day the kids start their classes by listening to the American anthem, and they raise the flag, and they say the oath and loyalty to the United States. It's supposed to be a role model for all of us. I am glad that we will have a wonderful holiday for the first time in the history of the Republic of Serbia and Republika Srpska. We're all looking forward to September 15th. The holiday has a wonderful name, it is the Day of Serbian Unity, Freedom and the national flag, and it has its historical background and refers to the day of the Thessaloniki Front. I invite you all to be proud that day to live in Serbia, that we belong to a magnificent people who have written bright pages, not only of our own, but of European and world history, because, as we are, we have always been on the right side in all wars and fought for the right values and for the right ideals. I call on both you and your neighbors to look forward to this holiday and become a tradition and not to be ashamed of our flag, but to highlight it in front of our houses and apartments, and symbolically September 15th, at 3 p.m., and we and the Republika Srpska Parliament will vote for this unique law and protect part of our identity in this way. Thank you again for participating in this debate. We'll discuss the amendments on Wednesday.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-13-0.u9201	I thank the Deputy Prime Minister and all the MPs. I hereby conclude the principle of the draft law. The debate will begin on Wednesday, 10:00 p.m.
