ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-07-0.u7333	Dear People's MPs, I am opening the Fourth Special Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 12th Assembly. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find that 133 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., I ask the Members of Parliament to insert the cards into the MPs' units. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 187 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that at least 84 MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that he has been prevented from attending the session of the National MP, Prof. Dr. Zarko Obradovic. I am honored to welcome, on behalf of the MPs and on behalf of my behalf, the Prime Minister and Minister in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the holders of the highest judicial and public prosecutorial functions in the Republic of Serbia, the judges of the Constitutional Court and members of the Venice Commission for Serbia, the Director of the Justice Academy, representatives of the EU Embassy, the United Kingdom, the United States and Canada, representatives of the OSCE Mission in the Republic of Serbia, the Office of the Council of Europe and the EU delegation in the Republic of Serbia. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of Parliament, for the fourth special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 12th Assembly, on the basis of Article 121 and on Article 119(3). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I have established the following Dn e n i d: 1. A proposal to change the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. We're going to work on the agenda. In accordance with Articles 90, paragraphs 1 and 143. I would like to inform you that the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly have been invited to attend: Ana Brnabić, Prime Minister Maja Popovic, Justice Minister Jadranka Joksimovic, Minister of European Integration Gordana Komic, Minister of Human and Minority Rights and Social Dialogue, Jovan Ćosic, Assistant Minister of Justice Marijana Savić Simic, Head of the Office of Justice and Zlatko Petrovic and Vladimir Vinš, Senior Advisors at the Ministry of Justice. You received a proposal to change the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the government. You have received a report from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. Before the debate begins, I would only like to inform you that, because of the time allocated to MPs, or MP groups, before you receive a written notice, MPs of the SPAS Group have joined the MP group "Alexander Vukic - For Our Children". According to Article 143. Rules of Procedure, I am opening a search for a proposal to amend the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. I give my word to the Prime Minister, Ani Brnabic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-07-0.u7334	Thank you. Dear President of the National Assembly, honourable MPs, respected citizens and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, it is a great honor for me to be here today with you and before you, to explain what the Government of the Republic of Serbia has done and what it is doing, not only in this mandate but also in the previous term, in the area of justice but also in the general rule of law, because this is a broader issue than the judiciary. This is a topic that is extremely important for the government of the Republic of Serbia, a topic which is one of the three key priorities of the government that I am leading, I would say to a large extent and a key priority, given that the most difficult and demanding economic reforms have been implemented in 2014 and 2015, when the prime minister was Aleksandar Vukic and they still deliver results today. Of course, we continue to work on reforms, but they are not nearly as difficult and demanding as they were in 2014 and 2015. But not only, or not for the sake of our European integration, but for the quality of life of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, what we have to do is strengthen the rule of law in the Republic of Serbia. This will, of course, lead to the growth of average salaries, the growth of pensions in the Republic of Serbia, in the area of the rule of law, the right of citizens to feel that they are all equal before the law, that justice is not slow but affordable, but that it is both fast and affordable in the Republic of Serbia, and that the judiciary in this country is certainly independent, but also responsible and much, much more efficient than it is today. The area of constitutional amendments and the judiciary is just one link, certainly one of the most important features, but one of the links in the wider area of rule of law, and I only wanted to show you at the beginning what the commitment of the Government of the Republic of Serbia is to the rule of law by giving you just some of the concrete activities and things that we have managed to do, with great help and support from you, the honourable Members of Parliament, and this home and I thank you for that. I've isolated some areas. I'm starting a fight against corruption. In the field of fighting corruption, the government of the Republic of Serbia is currently working on implementing those GRECO recommendations, just to clarify, GRECO - Council of Europe, a group of countries to fight corruption, so we are working with these countries and this body within the Council of Europe to implement recommendations that have not yet been fully implemented. Of the 13 recommendations we have, there was only one recommendation, that is, there was only one recommendation that was not fully implemented, and that is the code of conduct of the MPs, that is, the code of ethics in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and you have done so in this mandate and this assembly. We are like the Government and the Ministry of Justice, and certainly the Anti-Corruption Agency as an independent body, in constant contact with the Council of Europe and with GRECO. We received unofficially some comments, sent to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We will continue to work on this ethical code to reach the best possible standard in Europe. Also, on February 22nd this year, the Justice Ministry established a Working Group to develop an operational plan to fight corruption. The task force was working, the first meeting was on March 30th. They work intensively and our plan and expectations are from the task force to have this operational plan completed by the end of June. What is also extremely important and what our partners from the EU are constantly pointing to is so-called. "track record," or, in fact, which are the concrete results of everything we do. I watched only the first four months of 2021, and the first four months of 2021 increased the number of crimes detected with elements of corruption. 359 such crimes have been detected and this represents 75% of the target value planned for the end of 2021. So it seems to me that we've started out well, that all the authorities, the competent institutions are doing their jobs and that we will show, indeed, through this number what our commitment is and what our honesty is in this business, that is, in the fight against corruption. Finally, not to be long again, only during 2021 did we have two extremely visible cases in the fight against corruption. One in February of this year, when the president of the King's Criminal Court was brought in. So, the President of the King's Criminal Court, on suspicion of taking bribes to make illegal decisions in favour of the defendants. Two, Aleksandar Jovicic, president of Belgrade's Palilula municipality, so one of the capital's central municipalities, a member of the SNS presidency that I belong to, also because of corruption charges. It seems to me once again that not only will the Republic of Serbia not be protected, but that the membership card of any political party, and especially the SNS as it seems to me, and I stand behind it, the most responsible party in the Republic of Serbia, that our members will not be protected because we are a party working in the interests of citizens and strong Republika Srpska. In the first four months and somehow legal, normative, but also by examples, a good indicator of how important the rule of law is to us, how committed we are to fighting corruption, and this is how we will continue. In the area, for example, freedom of the media, which is also practically a sub-authority in the wider area of the rule of law, we have adopted an Action Plan for the implementation of the media strategy, set out in its implementation. Since the formation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, we have formed two extremely important, significant working groups. One working group for the implementation of the action plan is the complete implementation of a media strategy that practically plays a supervisory role and monitors whether the Government of the Republic of Serbia and all other competent institutions, including independent institutions, are acting on a media strategy adopted. The second task force to be formed is the Media Security and Media Protection Task Force. The security and media protection of the government of the Republic of Serbia is indeed extremely, extremely important to me. That is why I meet once a month with representatives of this Working Group, that is, with the Working Group to see what progress has been made, what progress has been made and what what the Government can do to ensure the maximum possible level of safety of journalists in the Republic of Serbia and the total media workers. Here are some of the results, so the concrete results of this Working Group, not to say that we just formed the Working Group and that it has regular meetings. Journalists and media workers at the request of media and news associations were included in the priority category for vaccination against the coronary virus, so in that category with the elderly, medical workers, all journalists and media workers who wanted to vaccinate were then vaccinated in the Republic of Serbia. The SOS line for reporting threats and endangering the safety of journalists working 24 hours seven days a week is open, the free phone number is 0800/100115. So far, some 70 calls have been received since she opened, which was in April. Of those seventy calls, five calls were made directly to the points in the MUP and the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office to continue to act on these threats. Other calls were either related to information about previous cases or had nothing to do with threats to people who received them because of their profession, so because of their journalistic work and already something else, so the legal advisers who kept on the phone on the phone kept on directing them properly, what should they do or were just informative calls. It is also open, and a web portal for the safety of journalists, security officials.rs. The Civil Protection Office is working to form a single database of attacks on journalists, and it does so together with all media and news associations so that in one place we have the exact number of all threats or possible attacks on the media, so that in the future we don't bid on that number, so we in the government say – so we have one number, we enter another number, NUNS has some third number, some fourth association some fourth number, but that we all know what we're talking about and we follow these cases, to see how a specific protected journalist is being threatened or who, God forbids, is attacked. We are working here in collaboration with the EU delegation in Serbia, the OSCE Office in the Republic of Serbia, the Kingdom of Norway and the Konrad Adenauer Foundation, which is precisely in this Task Force. Honestly, I thank them for their support and for the help they provide daily to see concrete steps here. I will also say, because I think it is one of the most important things that we will do in this area, that the OSCE has helped us to do an analysis of the criminal law code in order to see in what way we can further improve the safety of journalists, that this analysis is now submitted to the Ministry of Justice and that the Ministry of Justice continues to act in broad consultations, should also be with media and journalists associations, civil society organisations and all other relevant participants in going to change and supplement the Criminal Code or other laws needed to make journalists and media workers in the Republic of Serbia feel safer. I say, and that this justice would not only be available but also much faster and much more effective. Finally, and I am particularly proud of this, because we are focused on the results, there is also co-operation with the Supreme Cassation Court, whose representatives attended the work group on the security and protection of journalists I attended. It was April 23rd this year, which presented some examples of judicial decisions that concerned journalists, media and news associations. This co-operation will continue because we as an executive authority, as the Government of the Republic of Serbia certainly cannot influence the judiciary, we do not want to influence the judiciary and then in direct communication with media and news associations, it is important that the Supreme Cassation Court understands what their concerns are, what are the problems they face, to manage to improve judicial practice, but of course directly in communication with the judiciary itself. Crucially important, at the end of December 2020, the republican public prosecutor Zagorka Dolovac brought a general instructions for all prosecutors in which urgent action was imposed in cases where the victims were journalists. With this mandatory instructions under the threat of sanctions, I underline, under the threat of sanctions if the prosecutions do not follow this instruction, prosecutors will handle cases of threats and violence, i.e. endangering the safety of journalists and media workers, following an accelerated procedure. The first case that was handled by journalists, then journalist N1, then today is no longer on N1, journalist Jelena Zoric. Since then, in all cases threats have been followed by this binding instruction. Also, on February 23, 2021, I again underline, as this famous "third record" or concrete examples of what has changed in life in practice thanks to everything we have done previously, by the decision of the Second Basic Court in Belgrade, former President of the Municipality of Grocka Dragoljub Simonovic was also a member of the SNS and for inciting a difficult act against general security, and for burning the house to journalist Milan Jovanovic, first-degreed in four years and three months in prison. In just a month in this case, the police and the D.A.'s office resolved the case, initiating the indictment, the court reached a first-degree verdict in a trial that lasted about two years. Another concrete indication that Serbia today is a much different society than it has ever been before 2014. A society where there are not only protected, but also high officials of the leading party are not protected, that the party's book does not protect them, in any case, any threats or attacks on journalists, any corruption, or corruption charges, or anything else. So we are here to serve the people, to work in the interests of the citizens, and to strengthen the institutions and rule of law, so that each one is equally and equally responsible for the laws of the Republic of Serbia. Finally, if we are talking about concrete examples, two attacks that occurred or the threat this year, the attack on Daško Milinovic, April 16th. A working group on the security and protection of journalists held an emergency meeting, identified and detained the perpetrators within hours. The republican public prosecutor finished his part of the job, in the shortest possible time, and filed charges. A good example is also, and all threats addressed by Jeleni Zoric, where the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office has already filed charges. Finally, we seem to have an example of the fastest reaction by the MUP, the Prosecutor's Office, but also of courts in the event of the threat to Gordani Deletic, or to the South News, it happened on December 27th last year. We already have a final verdict in that case. So that's the result of everything we've done in the mandate of the previous government, and everything we do every day in this government's term. Basic human rights, also something that is part of the rule of law. A strategy on preventing violence against women has been adopted. The Law on Gender Equality has been passed, amendments and additions to the Law on the Prevention of Corruption have been adopted, and of course, the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights and Social Dialogue continues to be a very ambitious agenda, which is all they have to do by the end, or they want to do, or we as Government want to do by the end of this year. Now, let me not go further, what we do in areas such as election conditions, in areas such as funding political parties, in areas such as the judiciary, outside constitutional amendments, which will certainly be the opportunity to talk today. I would now like to move on to this topic that is on the agenda today, and these are constitutional amendments. Again, I am extremely proud of it, we have again shown here how different Serbia is than it was about 10 years ago. How much we set the standards high, compared to everything we've seen, in the area of constitutional amendments, that is, the amendment of the Constitution has been seen in the previous period. For the first time in the Republic of Serbia, we had a broad public debate on the proposal for constitutional amendments. These were practically informal consultations, conducted by the Ministry of Justice and the Government of the Republic of Serbia for 18 months, from 2016 to November 2018. A broad public debate, where we discussed how the Constitution needs to be changed, in order for the judiciary in Serbia to be independent, but also much more responsible and much more effective. That never happened in Serbia before this case. So, the Constitution has been changed before in the Republic of Serbia, and in a much wider scale than these constitutional amendments that concern only the judiciary itself, that no one lies to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, that we change anything else in the Constitution. So, just and exclusively the judiciary. So, never before, never before that public debate, there was no public debate, someone was working on amendments to the Constitution in a closed circle, citizens were going out on some referendums, which were being held on their noses, without practical knowledge of what was changing. I would add that these referendums were more than questionable in their validity, and were passing constitutional amendments. Now a completely different standard has been set. Whoever comes to power in the Republic of Serbia will never be able to go below that standard again, and that is if you want to change the Constitution, then you have to have a broad public debate, a real public debate, and you have to go to the consent of the Venice Commission, first to consult, then to the consent of the Venice Commission, to confirm that you have done everything in accordance with the world's greatest, or European norms. Then you go to the referendum, so the citizens know what they're voting for and what they decide. The whole society is familiar with what changes in the highest legislative act. It was first done in the mandate of the previous government. So, 18 months, there was a public debate, there were two rounds of consultations with the Venice Commission, in June 2018, there were 115th plenary session of the Venice Commission, they sent objections to the text of constitutional amendments, and the text of constitutional amendments, to which the government worked and then proposed a report on the consistency of the text with the comments, and on 30 November 2018, the government adopted a proposal to amend the Constitution in October 2018, after the elections it was withdrawn, and then again in December of last year we sent the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia an initiative to amend the Constitution. The assembly then launched additional consultations during this year, as it should be, it did not say, so well on this amendment we already have and have been consultations of 18 months, conducted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, or the Ministry of Justice. We have the Green Light of the Venice Commission, and let's adopt constitutional amendments and everything will be fine. There's nothing to tell us. The European Union has nothing to blame us for, realistically, if we only do it for the EU. No, at that time, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia insisted together with the Ministry of Justice that we try to find some minimum common denominator, to achieve the greatest social consensus, on how to amend the Constitution in the area of justice, and that we have the best possible system for the Republic of Serbia, for our citizens and for our economy. So let's see, once again, how do we sit down with associations like the Association of Judges of Serbia, or some other associations, to find this social consensus, and that's what the Assembly is currently working on, with great support from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and I want to say once again that we are here to help and support, to organise and to have consultations if we need one at a time, and every day, and day and night, to make this social consensus, and then that we do not only have the green light of the Venice Commission, which is formally enough for us, but that we have the overall social consensus, because I guess the Constitution is a question that we have to have at least some minimum social consensus and I hope that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will be able to achieve such a social consensus, and that with that consensus we will enter into a referendum. I remind you that today those of a large part of the opposition who respect our rule of law and how we work on constitutional amendments have shown that they respected the rule of law. I will remind you how many problems we had in 2014 only, to correct everything that was done to a famous, famous judicial reform by selecting judges in 2009. So in 2009, in two days over a thousand judges and prosecutors were cleared. None of them, but none of them knew why, by any standard. The epilogue is that the reform of the judiciary, at that time in 2009, cost citizens of the Republic of Serbia an incredible 44m euros, based on analyses by the Serbian Judges' Association, not the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Association of Judges of Serbia. The reform of the judiciary in 2009 cost citizens of the Republic of Serbia 44m euros, only in salaries of resolved judges and prosecutors. I'll quote the president of the Serbian Society of Judges. I quote - We became the paradigm in 2009 of not having the right to an inter-professional association in Europe, in the Council of Europe, in the institutions of the European Union, the immeasurable damage has been done. So those who were then responsible for living in Serbia, those who led the reform of the judiciary at the time, really should no longer be allowed the right of the judiciary, the rule of law, those words, the terms to take into their mouths, and not to honor us. We do not ever want Serbia to be a country in which, in two days, all the inappropriate prosecutors and judges who are the only criteria for being in the judiciary party membership are replaced by one political move. That's why we worked so hard on constitutional amendments, which is why we went to the Venice Commission. I will remind you, in 2007, only after the adoption of the Constitution and its entry into force was the Venice Commission consulted, so only after the amendments to the Constitution consulted the Venice Commission and then, of course, the Venice Commission had objections to our constitutional amendments and our judiciary, but this could no longer be taken into account at that point. Well, that's what we want. We want to continue to set standards both in the area of rule of law and in the area of justice, and by consulting all the actors and citizens of the Republic of Serbia on such an important topic. Finally, once again, thanks to all our international partners who have followed and helped us since 2014. I would once again like to thank you, honourable Members of the People for giving huge support to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, to adopt really many laws in this assembly that affect the rule of law in the Republic of Serbia. I would like to tell the citizens of the Republic of Serbia that we are here to set the best standards in this area, and finally that this is not because of the EU, although of course it will lead us towards European integration but, above all, because of our citizens and our economy, because their quality of life will improve and because this will make it easier for the economy and because it will ultimately lead to additional increases and wages and pensions in the Republic of Serbia. Thank you so much, and I'm so sorry I made it up.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-07-0.u7335	Thank you. The word has been made by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Jelena Zaric Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-07-0.u7336	Thank you, dear President of the National Assembly. Presidents of the Government, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, distinguished guests today from the balcony who will follow today's session, which is very important for all of us and for the citizens of Serbia, at a session held on 6 May 2021, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives discussed the Government's proposal for a change to the Constitution, which was addressed to the National Assembly in December of last year, and we have assessed that it was submitted by the authorising officer and in the prescribed form. Now we are somewhere, perhaps I can say, in half, or in one part of the process that requires discussion in the tide and which requires that all MPs be included absolutely and to give their opinion. So far, we have organized a series, so to speak, of public hearings, which in the National Assembly, which outside the seat of the National Assembly, for the sole reason that we have tried to carry out an absolutely transparent and inclusive procedure in which participation will be taken by absolutely everyone who is interested, not only those who have been invited to these public hearings, but also by those who have expressed their desire to come to public hearings and to make their views, attitudes and their proposals public hearings. Today, MPs will be given the opportunity to make their views known after these held public hearings, after a period in which the public has spoken, in a way and to sum up those views so that they can express their opinions in the plural. The rule of law is one of the priorities of government work and the participation of MPs today is of great importance, just as monitoring a session of distinguished guests is of great importance, because we decided to work together at consultations somewhere. First of all, to work together on constitutional changes because of the citizens of Serbia who deserve it, who will give a final word in a referendum that most likely awaits us in some future period, but also to work because of the position of our country as a whole, because in so many areas we have already achieved certain successes that, perhaps even greater successes, we want to achieve in the area of the rule of law that will certainly make us the foundation of our society. I will discuss later the whole process behind us and perhaps announce some of the things that await us after today's session. For the time being, I would just like to call on the MPs to support this proposal from the government, because I think that this way we will also support the government's intensities that indeed reforms are being implemented in the area of justice as we are expected to be good for our citizens, but that it would be good for Serbia to be a full member of the EU. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-07-0.u7337	Thank you. We are now going to the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups. The word has a People's MP, Shaip Kamberi. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-07-0.u7338	Mr. President, members of the government, representatives of the embassy, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, myrdits, good afternoon. There is no doubt that the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia should be changed and that there must certainly be more democratic procedures and public debates in the process of adopting a new constitution. In this country long ago the government is not public or transparent, it is not legally restricted, it is not committed to the freedom of equality of citizens, in this country the Constitution is only important as an instrument of state power. We all know that the speed of the EU negotiations process depends on the speed of reforms and compliance with EU rules, as well as on the pace of their ability to apply them. Negotiations are strict but just, former European delegation to Serbia head Michael Davenport said once. During this process, Serbia should show commitment to the common values, policies and standards of the EU, as well as to the rule of law and respect for the equality of fundamental rights. I believe that the current initiative to change the work of the Constitution, which brings domestic legislation into line with EU legislation, is insufficient, because it covers only the issue contained in chapters 23 and 24, and there are 33 chapters left to be brought into line with European legal assets and the European legal order. Starting from this and the need for Serbia's European path to step up, we believe it is necessary to change the entire constitution, not just certain parts of it, because partial changes, taking into account the complex procedure and the time period needed to change the constitution, can only delay Serbia's ultimate strategic goal, full membership in the EU. As there are today arguments for amending the Constitution in the area of justice, there are just as many relevant arguments for the change of the entire Constitution. I'll only get some of them on this occasion. Article 1 The constitution, which primarily defines the Republic of Serbia as a state of the Serbian people, is problematic from the aspect of minorities. The Republic of Serbia, according to the national structure of the population, is a heterogeneous state. More than 20% of its population are members of other minorities and communities, and its definition as the state of one majority nation strengthens the belief that members of the community of different origin are citizens of the second order. The Venice Commission has also expressed its view that there is room for criticism for emphasising the ethnic character of the state. If we look at the example in the region, it is enough to see an example of Montenegro whose Constitution in Article 2 prescribes that it is a citizen who has Montenegrin citizenship. The constitution of Kosovo is also in the position of Article 1(2), predicting that the Republic of Kosovo is the state of its citizens. Article 5 is also problematic. The critics of experts refer to Article 5, Article 3, which prescribes the ban on the functioning of political parties with the tax-based reasons for the ban. The opinion of the Venice Commission is that the application of this attitude must be in line with Article 20, which regulates the issue of limited human and minority rights, but also with Articles 10 and 11. The European Convention on Human Rights, i.e. only convincing and imperative reasons, can justify the restriction of freedom of political organisation. Article 10th language and letter. In the opinion of the Venice Commission, it is striking compared to the 1990 Constitution even. There is a reduction in the protection of the right to the language of minorities, as Article 8 of that Constitution explicitly provided that the latinic letter in official use was established by law. Although in Article 20(2), point 2 is replaced by the following: The Constitution stipulates that it does not reduce the level of human and minority rights achieved, since most members of national minorities whose numbers and territorial distribution are not negligible, the benefits of a mahma Latin letter should be considered whether such a Article 10 best regulates the official use of language and letter. Article 12 of the province and local autonomy. Although this member declares the province and local organisation of the rights of citizens, he is in conflict with the members of the seventh part of the Constitution called "Teritorial Regulation". As he says, Marijana Pajvancic, the Constitution does not regulate citizens' right to province and local autonomy, but leaves it to the legislation. The Constitution also does not regulate the issue of regionalisation, which is necessary because of the ethnic, geographical, religious and economic specificities of the region, to enable even economic development and to facilitate the achievement of guaranteed human and minority rights. Article 16 international relations. The Venice Commission has a critical view of the position of the 3rd member, which says international contracts must be in line with the constitution. The Venice Commission lists Article 27. The Vienna Convention on Contract Law, under which one member cannot be called on by the provisions of his internal right to justify the non-execution of the contract, and we are all witnesses that the Brussels Agreement on recognition of diplomas acquired in Kosovo is not respected. Human rights. Experts believe that part of the constitution that regulates human rights, fundamental principles, members 18 and 22, human rights and freedoms, members 23 and 74, rights of members of national minorities, members from 75 to 81, based on the UN Civil and Political Rights Pact, in 1966, which is a lack, since human rights have developed significantly and, therefore, a newer international document should be taken as a basis. For example, the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. A series of constitutional provisions are below European international standards that are necessary to standardise and bring closer to European standards, including women's rights, discrimination, provisions on restricting the freedom to gather citizens, provisions on restricting human rights under certain circumstances, part of social and economic rights. In expert analyses, part of the Constitution is often compared with the Charter of Human and Minority Rights of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, and it is noted that the current constitution lags behind on human rights in relation to the Charter, that the constitutional text has contributed to the repeal of the rights already acquired that were guaranteed by the 2003 Charter. Experts find that there is no legal framework in Serbia for the exercise of certain guaranteed rights in accordance with international standards because the text of the Constitution is too wide, a wide list of social, economic and cultural rights, as well as so-called so-called "the Constitution". The rights of the second and third generations, which will make their implementation dependent on the means provided by the legislator to include courts in the security of these funds, which will turn the entire human rights section into a list of aspirations instead of, quote, applicable rights. Applying international human rights standards are not directly listed as a source of law. Therefore, in practice, courts do not call for valid international human rights standards. It is a controversial provision of Article 20 which speaks of the restriction of human and minority rights, which, due to the ambiguity of the provision, causes problems in interpretation and implementation. Article 20 does not bind restrictions on rights and freedoms to a specific legitimate objective, but rather allows restrictions to any purpose, and such a formulation does not comply with the European Convention on Human Rights which speaks of a legitimate objective. In the current Constitution, Article 21, which provides for a prohibition of discrimination, is also disputed. Although the Constitution prohibits any form of discrimination, it is a problematic part of the Constitution relating to specific measures, i.e. measures of affirmative action or positive discrimination taken in order to remove the actual inequality and achieve full equality of persons who are in an unequal position with other citizens. With these measures, the problem is that these measures are not considered discrimination, but because they leave their non-discriminatory character in a more favourable position of the persons and groups in a factually unequal position with other persons, it is necessary to include in the text their non-discriminatory character in order not to be assessed as unconstitutional. In Article 39, experts consider the termological inconsistencies with regard to reasons which are based on restrictions on freedom of movement and housing. The Constitution lists different reasons as the basis for the restrictions on freedom - the defence of the Republic, the security of the Republic, public security, public order, national security. An unwary term may be a cause for a variety of practices when deciding on a restriction of law. In Article 50. The constitution is found to have no censorship in Serbia. Censorship is not explicitly prohibited, nor is its criminality prescribed. So the question arises how much her declaration of non-judgment makes sense. Article 58 guarantees the right to property, but provisions that prescribe the possibility of restrictions on the use of property rights do not contain a provision of proportionality of such a restriction, and does not comply with the international obligations that Serbia has made. In the case of a member of 76 who regulates the rights of national minorities, the Constitution regulates that special measures are being taken to achieve full equality of national minorities with citizens belonging to the majority, but the conditions of application of these measures have been set restrictively. Taking such measures allows for only the existence of extremely unfavourable living conditions affecting national minorities. The question is therefore raised, and the issue has also been raised by the Venice Commission in the Third Report of the Advisory Committee on the Implementation of the Framework Convention whether only the existence of extremely unfavourable living conditions can justify taking these measures without being considered discriminatory? The principle of the distribution of competences between the central authorities, the province and local self-government are not precise. Serbia needs decentralisation and regionalisation to become a better place for the lives of all citizens, as unbalanced regional development creates huge differences and promotes mass migration in certain parts of the country. Transferring responsibilities and revenues from central to local level so that citizens can make decisions and resolve the most important issues in municipalities and cities. Unfortunately, in a request for regionalisation and decentralisation, authorities are unargumented to see the fear of secession. Although some authors believe there is no legal obligation, for reasons of formal nature, because there are no sanctions, which is because of its content, because it cannot be said to be a legal norm because it does not prescribe rules of conduct, the Preamble of the Constitution is also an obstacle to Serbia's faster progress on the European path. It is common knowledge that during negotiations with the European Union, a general balance must be ensured with regard to progress made in the chapters. If the progress made under Chapters 23 and 24 is significantly lacking in relation to the overall progress of the negotiations, the European Commission can suspend negotiations in other chapters until balance is achieved and progress is achieved. Chapters 23 and 24 are closing last. Progress on the comprehensive normalisation of relations with Kosovo covered by Chapter 35 - other issues must also be constant throughout the negotiation process, as well as in Chapters 23 and 24 and this Chapter of the European Commission stands at the disposal of the possibility of suspending negotiations in other chapters unless Serbia makes progress in the comprehensive normalisation of relations with Kosovo. In accordance with the negotiating framework for Serbia, Chapter 35 has the same weight as Chapters 23 and 24. The preamble text is therefore an obstacle to any tendency to normalise relations with Kosovo. The basic argument to change the constitution in the work of the judiciary is the fact that today's Constitution leaves too much space to the influence of the executive and legislative authority on the choice of judicial institution holders, according to the government's proposal. The Venice Commission also mentioned the excessive role of parliament during its appointment in the judiciary. Therefore, the changes to the Constitution in the justice work may be an opportunity to establish a constitutional guarantee of the independence of the judicial branch of government from each type of political influence and pressure and to fully establish the principle of the division of power to help establish the rule of law, and to provide citizens with access to justice. In order to establish such important principles, cooperation of all factors in society is necessary. When it comes to the proposal for a change of the Constitution in the area of justice, it should be stated that, in order to avoid debate in constitutional solutions, and in particular because of the shift of attention from the primary subject, the independence of the judiciary, the Association of Judges of Serbia, the Association of Public Prosecutors and Deputy Prosecutors, the Centre for Judicial Research, the Association of Judges and Prosecutors of Serbia and the Human Rights Committee of the Jucom, have decided to suspend further participation in such a process, which certainly reduces the legitimacy of the process of amending the Constitution itself in the work of justice. If the 2009 reform is a back-to-back, it shouldn't be an alibi for a partial amendment to the Constitution, so we make unnecessary costs. Also, I was interested in criticism and the opinion of the professional public what the proposal says, and they say that the Ministry of Justice has not changed the current concept of constitutional changes for the area of justice, which puts this branch of government in a subordinated and controlled position, because it has proposed a concept of a government that allows the executive and legislative authority to check the judicial authority, which is why the independence of the judiciary is merely a mere formulation, has failed to define the content of the judicial authority, has left out essential guarantees, judicial budgets, salaries that correspond to the dignity of judges and weight of functions, as well as freedom of expression and freedom of association of judges, has introduced the possibility of reviewing any court ruling outside the court by the Constitutional Court, which is not part of the judicial system and whose judges do not have guarantees of independence, has compromised the guarantee of judges by extending the situation in which the judge and without its consent can be permanently transferred to another court, under the rule of law, which has not yet been subjected to justice, which is one of youth, which has been granted to justice, and one of law in any other law, which has been given. That's why they're asking for an earlier name to be returned to the highest court court. The Supreme Court should be entrusted with equating the application of the right through its decisions, abolishing the trial selection of judges and selecting judges and presidents to entrust the High Council of Justice. That's why with the exposure, our parliamentary group won't participate in a partial change of constitution, because this is how precious time is wasted, and it's exactly the time we have the least. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-07-0.u7339	Djordje Milicevic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure, reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-07-0.u7340	The Honorable President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the Honored Prime Minister, I advertise, or point to the violation of the Rules of Procedure of Articles 106 and 107. Article 106. - The speaker can talk about the agenda point. We today show Serbia's determination and commitment, confirm Serbia's determination and commitment on the path of European integration, talk about constitutional changes, precisely respecting the views, suggestions and proposals of the Venice Commission, and they are aimed only at once, which is to strengthen the independence of the Serbian judiciary and the efficiency of Serbia's judicial system. I don't see the previous speaker talking about it. Article 107, Mr. President, has injured the dignity of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I don't know if you noticed in the presentation of the previous speaker, but here it was said there was no democratic public debate. Here, among other things, it is said that the Constitution is used as an instrument of coercion or state power, which is unacceptable to say in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I respect national minorities, as each of us respects the rights of national minorities. The rights of national minorities have been discussed many times in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and are welcome in Serbia. We see them as citizens of Serbia, but national minorities must also respect the Constitution and the laws of the Republic of Serbia. On the other hand, we have absolutely no problem with any MP's identity, but we have a problem with what he's saying. And here it is, we understand, the essence of one. The point here is to send a message of preamble. Here's the preamble of the essence. To be clear, Serbia will not accept Kosovo and Metohija's unilaterally declared independence and point. I'm not asking the National Assembly in voting day to make a statement about the alleged violation of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-07-0.u7341	Thank you. Otherwise, when it comes to the institution of a breach of the Rules of Procedure, it is advertised exclusively related to the conduct of the National Assembly president, so keep that in mind in the following reports. If you have anything to do with the one who's talking, answer on another basis. The word has a prime minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-07-0.u7342	Thank you. Dear People's MP, therefore, here we are certainly talking and focusing on Chapters 23 and 24 and on the area of rule of law and justice, and this is what constitutional amendments in this area are doing. So we're not talking about other chapters. I think in that sense you've missed a little bit of a subject. As far as our European integration is concerned, and that's what I don't get right now, you're completely, you say, for our European integration, we have to go faster, more decisive, but then you get in the way of things that may be one of the most important on our European path right now. In doing so, I say, we haven't even initiated these constitutional amendments as a government, nor have we suggested that the village of three people into a room, wrote something, arranged something, and then referred to it, but after extensive public debates of 18 months and several rounds of consultation with the Venice Commission and finally, green light and consent by the Venice Commission, which is the first time that we have received and subsequently initiated constitutional amendments. If we are talking about European integration, I believe that you are familiar with this, but you have consciously decided to ignore it or ignore it, that, as far as the EU is concerned, our European partners, since there is no AKI, therefore, a common legal norm in the field of justice, they cannot in this sense define themselves according to constitutional amendments. The only thing relevant to our partners from the EU is whether she consulted and whether the Venice Commission has given consent or not. Given that the Venice Commission has given its consent to these amendments, which are somehow proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and I believe, it is certainly possible that they will change, of course, by the Assembly that has to and should do, as through the new round of consultations that are currently under way in order to achieve this social consensus, but I say, even if they do not change, I think that according to all the rules that we know and that we are familiar with, it is the EU that would have to support these constitutional amendments, even the way they are, while insisting finally and at the speed of their adoption. If we take all this into account, that you are not in favour of such constitutional amendments, and we can discuss whether the Constitution should finally change in some broader scope, but not now for these constitutional amendments, it directly states how sincere you are for our European integration and how much you are for Serbia in the EU. That's the thing, if I may say, really your personal hypocrisy, I wouldn't do it like that, but this is a free country and everyone has the right to behave as they wish and to speak as they please, but this is really an example, I think, an eclectic example of hypocrisy. As for some things, you've spoken several complete, obvious lies. I'm not going to answer anything, but just some people who kind of burned my ears. For one thing, when we talk about multiethnicity and we look at examples in the region, I will say again, several times in this House, I am, not only as the Prime Minister of Serbia before that, but as a citizen of the Republic of Serbia proud of my country and in that our country is home or we share it with, it seems to me, the largest number of minorities, that we have the highest percentage of ethnic and national diversity in Europe, not only in the region, which speaks enough about how we acted and how our citizens behaved during the heavy 90s, when these wars ended by having ethnically clean countries in the region and having Serbia that kept its ethnic and national diversity and further enriched. I think that's enough talking about how national minorities feel in the Republic of Serbia today, because they don't end up feeling like this is their home, because this is their home, and that's where I would disagree with the MP who came after you. You're welcome here, you're not welcome here, this is your home just like our home, so I'm proud of it. If we see examples, including in EU member countries and some of the other EU members, some of the EU founders, I would not like us to look up to them in these principles, you know, because they do not know some of them, they do not know the category of national minorities, and some EU members in the region do not know the category of national minorities. So, you can't be there, say, a Serb or an Albanian, I don't know in that country, but you're in that country, now not to name them, I think most of us know what countries they are, you can only be a citizen of that country, and that's that. In this regard, Serbia has also set human and legal standards that, according to many in Europe, in Europe itself and European bodies, ultimately set standards, such as the Council of Europe, which are among the best and the best in Europe. It is not enough for us, but we have a Republic Council for national minorities who meet regularly, a regular session to further in direct contact with national councils and national minorities to discuss what further we can do. If you want us to look up to some in the region, and even some EU Member States, I would not like that, and I am sure that you would not like it either, but finally, I say once again, I am proud that Serbia has come out of difficult times as a country that, not only has preserved its differences both national and ethnic, but has made them richer. Today we have local self-government in Serbia in which, as an official language, it is used between eight and 15 different languages, so show me another country in which it is so. As far as the Constitution itself is concerned, it is absolutely incorrect that the Society of Judges of Serbia, the Association of Judges and Prosecutors, or the Association of Judges and Prosecutors and others, left the consultation process. It is possible that, at one point, during 2017 or 2018, they were leaving, so they were coming back, which is something that is good again, because it shows a truly authentic public debate, a truly authentic debate and frustration that goes with this debate, anger, dialogue and attempts to find each other again. If that weren't the case, I'd say we didn't have a real public debate and we didn't have public consultation. At this point, the Ministry of Justice is in daily contact with these associations and is actively trying to find this social consensus that I hope we can find and that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will succeed in doing so. I wouldn't want anything more than that, regardless of the Green Light of the Venice Commission. I think this is one of the most important issues and we should try to find a social consensus. Let me tell you, when you mentioned it, as an MP in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the Constitution of Kosovo, first I must tell you, again, that it is not right because you are an MP in the Assembly of a country whose territory it is, that is our autonomous province and you legally and human must respect it. So, there is no such thing as this House of the Constitution of Kosovo, and let me tell you, this independence has been so developed that they haven't asked anyone, not one single citizen. There, they respected them so much, if we talk about basic human rights and the basic postulates of democracy. One day they said, "Okay, we're an independent state." There was no referendum, no referendum. No one living in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija could say whether or not they wanted to. Don't tell me, please, about those standards, because if you want such self-government, so much boasting power, from not even asking you, because if you happen to say you're against, I'll kill you, but then for that too, no one... I'm sorry, I was wrong, and no one will answer for it, as no one has ever been responsible for the crimes, any crime, against the Serbs in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija. If you want a country like that, I don't know what to tell you. I don't want to and I'll fight that we don't have it, as Serbia in its history didn't have. For this constitution of Kosovo, I will now tell you plastically what it means to me. I am from Karaburma, part of Belgrade called Karaburma, and one morning I could wake up and say, not asking anyone from this Karaburma -- I declare the state of Karaburma. The day after, I wrote and brought the Constitution of Karaburma myself, then I became an MP in the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and said, "Look, gentlemen, my constitution of Karaburma and see what rights there are in that constitution." This Karaburma constitution for this home is equal to or has equal importance or validity with that of your Kosovo constitution. The same. In front of this house it's the same. So once again, I'm not really sure that if you want to call on the interim institutions in Pristina that we can find anything, not what it is, but what it reminds you of the rule of law, including the way they declared their independence, the way they brought that constitution, but I certainly can tell you the way they respect it, because in that constitution, it's as valid and important not only to us but also to them obviously, if you want to make your own army you have to ask Serbs, they didn't ask, the army so-called. They did, and they also showed how important and significant this so-called “supervised ” is to them. The constitution. Finally let me tell you about the rule of law. Such an independent Kosovo has never been responsible for any single crime or children. I'll give you only three examples to remind you of the rule of law. Old Gacko, in 1999 beastly murdered 14 Serbs, no one answered. A woodworker, murdered two children, wounded four children who played and bathed in the River Bistrica. No one answered. In 2004, it was the destruction of churches and monasteries, some of which unfortunately today are used no less, no more, but as public toilets. No one answered. Thank you for calling on this constitution and that rule of law, but it will never be in Serbia. The citizens will be asked here about all the issues, and especially about the ones most important -- how they will live in the future and whether they will live with someone or not and how, and everyone who is responsible for everything, as I said, from threats and attacks on the media, don't give God, killing children, will answer in this Serbia. To me, it's not the rule of law. For me, it's a human, basic postulate. Then I hope that you will also pass on to colleagues from Pristina, temporary institutions to whom you call so much, once again I pray for just some of these truly, I would not tell the norms of the rule of law, the human norms to meet, so that we may continue to talk. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-07-0.u7343	The word is Shaip Kamberi. Replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-07-0.u7344	I don't have a replica, Mr. President. I point out the violation of the Rules of Procedure on your part, Article 109, because you should have warned the MP Milicevic who said he respected the minorities who came to Serbia, the minorities were indigenous to Serbia, they did not come, and Mrs. Prime Minister who violated point 6) of Article 109's stance on me. She called me hypocritical, and I'm here as a MP to define myself and vote on the basis of Article 37. The Law on the National Assembly by its own conviction. When it comes to killing Serbs, Madam President, you forgot to mention the Panda case, Batajnica and Petrovo Selo and other cases. It would be good if you mentioned those cases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-07-0.u7345	Okay. So you were looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-07-0.u7346	I'm not asking the Assembly to make a statement because I know how they'll plead.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-07-0.u7347	Okay. I remind you once again that the violation of the Rules of Procedure is referred to the President, and it is about the conduct of the President of the National Assembly. If you have anything to say about the presentations of MPs or representatives of the government, then you could have asked for a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-07-0.u7348	You were supposed to tell Mr. President.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-07-0.u7349	That's exactly what I keep trying to define some of the rules about how it should look not to abuse one and the other institution of violation of the Rules of Procedure and the right to replication. I'd like to ask everyone to come back on the subject. Today is a very important day for the constitutional system of the Republic of Serbia and, of course, with all these additional violations of the Rules of Procedure and replicas to focus on the Proposal for a Change of the Constitution. I just want to remind you one more time that we're not deciding about the amendments today. We are deciding on an initiative, or a proposal to change the Constitution. After that, our Committee on Constitutional Affairs will establish a concrete text of amendments on which the National Assembly will also declare itself by two-thirds of the majority, which means that the public debate is not only not interrupted but it will only actually begin on the text and the amendment proposal. A referendum is then called to confirm the change of the Constitution within 60 days of that second session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. So I'd like to ask you to focus on the subject now. Prime Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-07-0.u7350	Thank you. As far as hypocrisy is concerned, I tell you, you of course have every right to vote on your own conscience and on your own conviction. This right is not only that no one can take away from you, but in the Republic of Serbia no one will ever want to take away from you. I say loud and clear that it is hypocritical to say that someone wants the rapid European integration of the Republic of Serbia and is committed to the European integration of the Republic of Serbia, especially as the political representative of one part of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and then to the constitutional amendments that she welcomed and gave the Green Light to the Venice Commission, which the EU has then welcomed, which insists on bringing as soon as possible one of the most important things on the path of our European integration, says - I will not vote for it. It's a classic hypocrisy to me, and I don't really mean it as an insult. I think it's a fact, it's a definition of hypocrisy. Just once again, I'm sorry we're even going into this debate, but I really can't stay out of it. I can talk, if you like, about Batajnica, about Peter's village and some other places. I am infinitely sorry that these things were happening. I'm sorry about all the dead. I'm sorry about all their families. I'm sorry for all the missing people we're still looking for fate, but you know what? Let me tell you, the Republic of Serbia has explored in the territory of Central Serbia absolutely all the tombs for which we had data both from the Pristina delegation and from the International Committee of the Red Cross, or from anyone else with great help and support from foreign states, their armies, satellite recordings, absolutely everything, except two. For the two that the Pristina delegation has informed us at this time, we are gathering additional information and data, and of course we will investigate and do it quickly and efficiently and whenever there is at least any trace or information we are working on immediately. We did our last activity, or we ended about two weeks ago. It's the location of Kiževek Mines and we went one step further, which I think is extremely human and again I think it's the thing to point out because I think that's how everyone should behave in the territory of the entire former Yugoslavia. That's where the remains of nine bodies were found. We have identified these bodies, some are still being identified, but on 20 May we invited their families, Albanians from Kosovo and Metohija, to come and attend that if they wish to honor, of course, they place flowers, which they did. I think it's an example of how it's done and don't abuse it, because again I can tell you that Pristina absolutely did nothing, that the last activities they did in 2018 were, and somehow in 2018 they found the bodies of two murdered families of civilians, had nothing to do with any combat facts, of which three minor children killed by bullets in the back of the head. No one answered, since then Pristina has done nothing, regardless of all the information we have taught Pristina to dig up potential mass graves, and at this point in the Pristina morgue, you still have the remains of 350 people they do not want to identify. So, I really don't want to compete with you about this, but don't mention these topics to me, because we work on it every day and we go one step further – we invite the families of those victims to come, to see, to attend. We can't get long years, in some cases more than a decade, or information about bodies that are in Pristina at the morgue. So I ask you not to applaud on this, these are terrible subjects, terrible things, and I ask you, honourable messenger, indeed not to manipulate these things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-07-0.u7351	Thank you. As I said, I will give the word to Gordani Komic, but once again without any graduation of the topics we are talking about today. The central theme of today's session is the proposal for a change in the Constitution. Here at the gallery are the holders of the most important judicial and prosecutorial functions and representatives of international organisations and individual countries. What Serbia is doing today is a major step forward in European integration and let us focus on the topic. So I would ask you not to engage in controversy, but to deal with what is the essence of today's session and today, for no one will convey what we have decided today, but what we have said to one another. In that sense, I would ask Gordana Comic to bring out what she has, so that we can move forward in the debate. And the Adriatic girl answered, and I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-07-0.u7352	Thank you. With sincere regret, because of the decision by the political representatives of Albanians not to participate in the process of discussing the future content of the Serbian Constitution regarding the judiciary, and not in other processes, the observation that it is legal and legitimate for you as MPs and if there are at all some members of the executive government who will always defend the rights of MPs to integrity, then feel free to count on me among them, because I know exactly what it is to decide to vote differently than most vote. So it's a legal and legitimate attitude. We can have some kind of dialogue, and what will be the outcome of that attitude because such dialogue in decisions is very important. When the 2006 Constitution was adopted, there was no dialogue on the outcomes for all those who claimed that it should be different, so they boycotted or did not vote, either in the Assembly or in the referendum. My five minutes concern your comments on the members of the existing Constitution concerning human and minority rights. The majority of your observations are from the part of the expert debate, civil society debates and the Venice Commission, and come from 2007 and 2008, as a comment on the 2006 Constitution. Much has changed since then in the application of members who define human rights and freedoms in the Constitution in 2006. First, the Law on National Councils, which in a unique way defines the full autonomy of national minorities in the fields of education, culture, information and official use of languages and letters, was adopted. That wasn't in 2006. We need to get rid of whether we are going to talk about the provisions in the Constitution or we are going to talk about the problems we have in application and in the culture of human rights in practice. Unfortunately for this second one, this session does not serve, but wherever you say, whenever you say, including a session with the current topic in the National Assembly, I would love to talk about how they apply or do not apply the clearly written provisions of our Constitution regarding human rights and provisions concerning human and minority rights in laws stemming from a member of the Constitution. If there's anything good about the existing constitution, then it's that he is human rights, which in the first part clearly defines what kind of society we want to be. What does it mean that we later passed laws regarding minority rights? It means that you have the official use of language and letter in eight or 13 languages, that you have elements of the culture of the national minority with letters and languages, and that you have problems in application because they are related for example. for school directors who need to question parents whether we want to learn language and that we have elements of the culture of national minorities with official use of language and letter. You have a problem with deliberately, obviously you have a plate set up near the opšins like Bački Petrovac 500 metres from the road for which Baki Petrovac is responsible, so it doesn't say in Slovak. It's not a question of a bad solution to the Constitution, it's a question of who's dumber. It is often not known who wins the imaginative mockery of the provisions on human and minority rights that are good in this Constitution. Or you have an example of the Vrbas municipality, where you have 18% of Montenegrins who have their own portal in Montenegrin, but do not have it in official use, because that's what they agreed. They won't speak Montenegrin, they're just reading, according to the president of the municipality. It's the state of things called the development of democracy in every society, and so is ours. Informing, you have a grueling walk of minorities through the media, excluding from time to time the public service of RTV, where it is routinely introduced to mean that information in the language of the national minority is primarily served and most of us know how good it is that we are cultural, linguistic, ethnical, religious charred society, how rich it is. So far, the agreement with RTS is 10 years after the adoption of the law that they will also have a programming order in minority languages, which includes both Albanian and Roma, and weeds and other languages that you do not have on TV. So what I'm talking about is in the 2006 Constitution, and the laws that have developed the provisions are four, five or six years later. The second part of your remarks refers to this clearly, firmly and committed. In the Constitution, we call for international documents. There are still several conventions that the National Assembly has not adopted, but without any dilemma, Serbia is absolutely on the road, the profile, at the adherence to all conventions concerning human rights and freedoms, with all the difficulties that the direct application of these conventions entails, as we have difficulty directly applying the European Court of Human Rights rulings. So it would be good to separate whether what it says in some laws, in the Constitution is wrong or not, the way we apply it, because these are two separate things. If our constitution wasn't human rights, if it weren't for the principles of human freedoms and rights, we wouldn't be able to talk about the misapplication of the Law on National Councils, because there would be no such law. It's so simple. The second part of your remarks concerns the essence of European integration and commentary on preamble. I have to give a personal attitude here. How incorrect the claim and the intentional fiction and the lie that the coming changes to the Constitution to be decided by the National Assembly refer to the preamble are so accurate and so correct that the preamble bothers anything. It'll be a time for us to prove I'm right. The part you comment on, European integration, also related to the position of national minorities, and now we are with human rights and freedoms, with the rights of national minorities, about which Minister Jadranka Joksimovic will have much more knowledge, perhaps to comment, because she is in a cluster of fundamental rights. It will be good for the EU to see very carefully and in detail whether we are in control of how the rules of basic human freedoms and rights apply and to always be our partner and to really do so, so as to see that we are serious, but also to leave the well-being of doubts about all of its prejudices and perceptions about Serbia being irrevocably altered and that we are fully determined to build a society in which there is a culture of human rights and a culture of minority rights. In the end, what's the theme of this session. Whether the National Assembly will decide to approach a change in the Constitution, whatever the content of the amendment is, would be important to me, personally, so I am not speaking and as someone in charge of human and minority rights and social dialogue, I am speaking as a citizen of Serbia who considers something important. It would be important for me for you to participate in this debate as political representatives of Albanians, to have your own proposals, to explain why it must be a representative of national minorities both in the judiciary and in the prosecution and in the police and in the military and in all public services, to clarify why it is important to be bilingual, trilingual, once called the language of the social environment. It hasn't been popular for a long time. So, to explain what the request means, the justified request of national minorities, all the national minorities in Serbia, Roma, Albanians, Bosniaks, Hungarians, Slovaks, Russians, to not forget anyone, are all the same to me according to their demands, which we as a ministry of tools, why it is important to be representative of national minorities and in what way to be, simply to avoid public comment, why do you think the judge is great if he is Albanian or if he is Roma, or if he is Bosniak. What is meant by the independence of the judiciary in the content of the amendments that will be here and what our obligation and commitment to the representatives of national minorities is to be in all public services in all sectors of society, because it is good for both the majority and the minority. These are, I think, the main arguments in favour of that, I have a deep hope that you will change your mind as the political representatives of Albanians, however, take part in both the debate and the decision that the judiciary will eventually look to us and what the position of members of the national minorities with a new position, the new constitutional position of the judiciary in Serbia. I think it's terribly important because, you know, it's 2,000 years old, as the old Romans said, "juss six ars boni et aequi" ran and for 2,000 years we individually as humans are looking for happiness and the same 2,000 years of society are looking for the right to be truly the art of goodness and justice. There is no such thing without human rights and there is no good justice without all of us together and the minorities and the majority in society understanding why we want to propose to the Assembly, why the Assembly discusses how to change the position of justice in Serbia. Just for the end. The dialogue you mentioned about the necessity of changing the Constitution in a territorial organization. I'm very happy to be of service to you if you want to start an initiative that would take 18 months, 20 months, as long as you want, as well as that part of the constitutional arrangement, because I think you need to talk about it, because no one wants to talk about it. That there is a member in the current constitution who clearly defines that the AP KiM position is defined by a special law. As no one will talk about the Vojvodina being mentioned in that constitution only through a percentage that no one knows how to say what that percentage is. It needs dialogue, it needs to be discussed, without whether you want it to change or not. In order to somehow avoid unnecessary misunderstandings and to really talk about the picture of the judiciary that we will all agree on, in substance, so it would be important to think again and to show by your knowledge and your political skills and your rights as members of national minorities, that you will be part of the participation process in the future decisions of the National Assembly, and then where you see priorities for your minority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-07-0.u7353	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Jadranka Joksimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-07-0.u7354	Thank you, Mr. President. I really wouldn't be long. A lot of it's been said. However, several things have been said that deserve explanation, and I am obliged to give this explanation first of all to the citizens of Serbia, and not so many MPs because every MP has a clear and unambiguous obligation that if he prepares a comment rather than a question, because this was a comment, to prepare in an adequate way, to know what he's talking about, that he knows the subject he's talking about would in no way disinformation the citizens. So, you haven't asked the question yet, but you've been giving us findings and elaborated your vision of something that you don't really have enough information about, or you haven't yet filtered through what should be the apparatus of logical understanding. That's why I really owe the citizens an explanation. First, as regards today's day and adoption, i.e. the beginning of the debate on the initiative to adopt constitutional amendments, this is not the topic we are dealing with, as the prime minister said, and I completely agree, only because of the process of European integration. This process just seems to me to have given me a clear framework and a catalyst was something we needed to bring into our legal system, into that part of the justice that is part of the rule of law. Under the rule of law, within the framework of the negotiations that you have mentioned, there is also the fight against corruption and freedom, minority freedom, and in general freedom of the media, freedom of expression, the fight against corruption, organised crime, the processing of war crimes, basic freedoms and rights from all civil and human rights and political rights corpus. Therefore, this is indeed an important instrument for the overall improvement of what is the basis of a successful and democratic state, which is an independent and efficient judiciary. The fact that we are starting today in a sort of formal sense, although the process has long begun with all these activities that we had in the previous year and a half, but that fact speaks of being unequivocally committed to improving the rule of law in Serbia, and that will then, in a consistent and logical manner, lead to the process and the acceleration of the process of European integration, it is certain. So, to be clear, we are here for the rule of law, not for European integration. European integration will, in fact, be one of the consequences of logical and normal consequences of improving the rule of law in Serbia as defined by the new methodology of negotiations. You mentioned whether we are going slowly, we are going quickly into European integration, that is your dilemma, you have also mentioned, the MP mentioned the understanding that European integration is in fact the only criterion of European or European paces of European integration dynamics are reforms. Unfortunately, I have to tell you that this is how it should be in theory, and that in practice it is not because there are cross-, different interests, geopolitical, geoeconomic, geostrategic, ultimately leading to how the candidate transforms and changes, and so the EU transforms and changes and so comes to a hundred new topics. Only the irresponsible governments we had in Serbia, which were declared very pro-European, where we had the proliferation of some European declarative attitudes or the hyperproduction of the adoption of laws which in practice meant nothing and which were not applied, and where we had the eternal oath in the EU, noting that the EU was changing, not noticing that the EU was putting itself and its members new requirements and, in this sense, the obligation of a responsible government, such as this government, which also started formal negotiations in 2014 in January, is that by following what is happening in the EU itself, which strengthens the criteria for candidates, which brings new topics, that we are showing that we are effectively committed to the process, that we have strengthened ourselves, that we understand and that we understand what is happening, and not only to swear on a European path and that we do nothing in practice. I will remind you, many of those governments who have sworn, have brought and produced those disastrous results, and I believe that some of those present today know very well. For example, in 2009, the reform of the judiciary, which has been assessed not by the European Commission, which is even less relevant, but by those interested public, professional, above all in the area of justice, as a catastrophic one whose consequences seem to me today to be feeling and so much more important this process. Therefore, we have been defined as a government since the beginning of a sustainable, serious, serious approach to European integration. It may not always be the fastest, but at the same time it has happened in the EU a lot of things that have contributed to the fact that the enlargement policy is no longer in such a focus and support as it had in 2007 until 2013 and perhaps 2014. In that sense, I really think that in a responsible, serious, serious and, I would say, a thoughtful way we approach essential reforms. It is your obligation to speak in relation to your views, but I think it is truly amazing not to notice, and notices the EU and the Member States, as far as Serbia has shown in 2020 how sustainable the country is, how much it has done in its economy, how much it has done in the functioning of the system, not destroying the rule of law, which has not happened in all European countries, especially during the challenging year of the pandemic, how we have shown the European way of life and the basic value of solidarity, humanity, humanity and seriousness, and towards our citizens and our neighbours. You know, this 2005 rhetoric, from the hibernation, when it was said, I don't even blame you, why would you know that when self-proclaimed experts, here, I read yesterday, Subotic and Adus, comment, people didn't even understand what a new methodology is, they don't even know how many clusters there are, or how many clusters of common policy, or how Serbia, within all 35 chapters, now regrouped into six clusters, actually went deep into the network of our policies with common EU policies. I want to explain to the citizens, and my goal is that, and my duty and duty, but that you don't know so much and that here you're telling me about Chapter 35 which is in some status, as you said, implementing the agreement, it's not a substitute for dialogue. Chapter 35 was designed as monitoring, as a monitoring of implementation of the Brussels Agreement, and is not a substitute for dialogue. I don't really know what they could have followed in the last few years, given what hasn't been fulfilled, and above all the essential element, the community of Serb municipalities, which I think should be of great importance to you as a citizen of Serbia and to your great interest, and perhaps even some kind of influence that you might have on the other hand, so as to raise the importance of the Serb municipalities community to you as a citizen of the Republic of Serbia. In the end, I won't be long, but you mentioned the area of human and minority rights. I think co-worker Komic really responded well, but what I want you to know is that Serbia is fully and indirectly implementing what is part of EU soft law, which is actually all those joint declarations, resolutions, all the documents that regulate the area of human, minority and even fundamental rights. In that sense, in five or six years' time, I have never heard of it, except for some individual problems that have arisen and which we have dealt with bilaterally with our neighbours, I have never heard from the EU from any official that Serbia has been coerced with the problem of respect for the rights of national minorities. On the contrary, we are always praised as someone who goes beyond the average European standards in this area, and the prime minister spoke of countries that don't even know them, have no constitutional category of national minority. So, I think that Serbia as a country of indigenous, indigenous members of the national minority, equally important and equally significant citizens, so all of us who live here, must really introduce the system that Gordana Comic was talking about, and I totally agree, and that's the mertocrat. So, progress towards merit, not because we're a majority or we're a minority. These are the things that are learning democracy in walking, it has not been solved by many EU countries or at all countries in the world, but I think we are really on the right track and I assure you that the European policy of Serbia has been effectively improved, because we have seen some weaknesses, we have seen where we are weak, we have seen where weaknesses and with a new approach, or not weaknesses, but one dilemma that exists in the EU as we continue the accession process, not for Serbia but generally for enlargement policy, we have seen problems, we have seen weaknesses, we have redefine all our structures, we have adopted all new, not only forms, but also the documents on which we are designing our negotiating process, we have appointed people with a high level of political responsibility for implementing what will be done through all six clusters in which 35 chapters are now united, and that I am not talking about what the Prime Minister said about, about the list of importance, and I would say in the last two months that we have been in the sphere of law, which we say in the last two months. And to inform you, we're even fully ready for two clusters. Whether it will be opened or not, it is now a matter of political decisions and the EU's readiness to actively enter into the application of the new methodology, from an assessment of whether there has been sufficient progress in the area of the rule of law. I also consider it my right to say that I think it was for more than one cluster, but that is the assessment that will be made at the end of the Member State. We are prepared for Cluster 3 - Inclusive growth and competitiveness, there are eight negotiating chapters and there we are fully prepared, as well as for Cluster 4 - Green Digitalisation Agenda and Sustainable Connection, with four chapters, fully prepared, with all procedures approved in Parliament, resolution committees and national convention, civil society sector and sent to the European Commission. There are now numerous procedures. The question is whether the Member States will now be able to prepare their reports in time, to analyse everything, but what is certain is that we have done our part of the job, and for that I believe, as someone who says that it is pro-Europeanly defined, to be very pleased and to praise all this activity and this dynamic that we have brought into our negotiation process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-07-0.u7355	Thank you. The word is Shaip Kamberi, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-07-0.u7356	In my speech, I expressed my position and the position of my parliamentary group that we could not support a partial change in the Constitution, but should change the whole constitution, because there are objections that I have stated, as well as domestic experts, as well as the Venice Commission. I don't know what progress you're talking about, Madam Minister, Minister, I'm sorry we don't notice. If I and my MP group are the only problems here, then you have no problem, but the question is, why hasn't a chapter been opened all year 2020? That's the key question. The question is why is the report on Serbia's progress, the European Commission's report, the State Department's report speaks of insufficient respect for human and minority rights, insufficient representation, particularly Albanians and Bosniaks, in state institutions? These are the key issues that talk about human rights, minority rights and the rule of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-07-0.u7357	Okay. George, what did you want? The replica or...? (Jordje Milicevic: Injuring the Rules of Procedure. You have to sign up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-07-0.u7358	Article 27, Article 106. Your Honor, Mr. President, I think I'm being misread. I didn't mean to say it, it's a well-known view of the SPS parliamentary group, and that's why I said we talked many times about national minors in Serbia. Of course Serbia is their home and of course they should feel here as citizens of Serbia. It's absolutely not a dispute, but it's something else that someone wants to have, trying to have a monopoly on national minorities through sending political messages and political pamphlets. That's what I wanted, Your Honor. I want you to pass it on to the prime minister and colleagues, since I have to speak to you. With all due respect, I fully agree with you, President, that we should return to what is the agenda point today. So, they're not agenda points today about who doesn't respect the Brussels Agreement, they're not agenda points today that don't respect the Constitution through a violation of territorial integrity or an attempt to challenge secession, they're not agenda points today whether someone asked when KIM's unilateral independence was declared. No one has asked us anything, KIM's unilateral independence, a formed Kosovo security force, has been declared. No one asked you, the president, from the MPs of the National Assembly, that on the anniversary, an alleged anniversary of the marking of Kosovo's security forces as the MP of the National Assembly went to Pristina and addressed it as an MP for the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia even though he signed here that he would respect the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. I just wanted to ask you to go back to what is the point of the agenda and simply make it clear, because I think I'm being misread. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-07-0.u7359	Thank you. Let's move on. Just once again to draw attention that we are today discussing a proposal for a change to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, with a specific topic. This subject is a change in the order of Article 4. The constitution, which refers to the principle of division of power. The amendment concerns members from 142 to 165 relating to courts and public prosecutors and consequently to the provisions of Article 99, when it comes to the jurisdiction of the Assembly, means who elects judges and prosecutors, Article 105. The Constitution – the way of deciding on the National Assembly, and the provisions of Article 172. The Constitution, when it comes to the election and appointment of Judges of the Constitutional Court. I'd like to ask you to do this, because all the other topics that we're talking about right now, which are just as important, cloud the essence of what we're talking about today. Today, we are making a step which, rightly said the prime minister, is a step that every next meeting of the Assembly will have to respect or the constituents have to respect, which is that for the first time in the history of judges and prosecutors, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will not choose. It's a theme, not the topics of this thing that we discuss here and listen to every day. So, please, and that's why these people are here at the gallery. When it comes to other topics, they are not on the agenda, when it comes to changing the Constitution. To be honest, the ruling parties, first of all I mean SNS and SPS, we didn't participate in writing this Constitution. You know who wrote it and how this Constitution was brought in and you know that from the very beginning there have been requests by the Venice Commission to change the constitution on this subject, we are doing it now. It's a big thing that we do and we do with a clear message in which direction, as a society, we want to go. So, I'd like to ask you to do that, because that's the basic message of today's session. The word has been given to the People's Messenger Muamer Zukorlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-07-0.u7360	The Honorable President of the Assembly, the Honorable Prime Minister, the Honorable Minister, the Honorable Guests, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Honorable Citizens, when the theme of the Constitution, changes in the Constitution in general or in part to the MPs and becomes part of the agenda of the National Assembly, is definitely one of the most important topics that we, MPs, can face here. Therefore, dealing with this subject requires extreme seriousness and dedication. Thus, the MPs of the Justice and Reconciliation Party who, during the entire public debate, took full part through their experts, experts on law and constitutional law, will actually give full participation during this assembly, or during its session, but will also support the decision to change, the proposed amendment of the Constitution. For the sake of the above mentioned but also of our own reasons, we are certainly among those MPs who support the European path of the Republic of Serbia, as could already be seen in various other discussions and topics, not so blindly, indiscriminately, the way we support, but in accordance with these principles on this road, the principles of the EU, we remain consistent always to deal critically with all the topics that are ahead of us, and critically it means having positive and negative criticism, but if we have a basis and arguments. When we talk about special reasons, Justice and Reconciliation parties, and before that, the Constitution, definitely, is the fundamental and most important act, one country, the Constitution establishing a state, establishing the principles of society and state, and therefore the least part of that Constitution, cannot be irrelevant and requires and deserves full commitment and attention. Because of its importance, the Constitution is a conjecture, perhaps a key assumption, for good regulation and functioning of the state and society, truth is not the only one, because having a good constitution means having a good framework for quality regulation and functioning of the state and society. But having a good constitution, in terms of text and content, doesn't mean at all cost and that state and society will function. There are famous examples through history, the most famous is the so-called. Stalin's Constitution, according to constitutional law experts, was one of the best-ranked constitutions, not only in form, constitutionally legal, but also in content, and in democracy, therefore, and we know well what democracy was and what freedoms were, how the society worked during Stalin's time in the Soviet Union. And that actually shows that it's possible to have good constitutional solutions, and actually have a number of problems in practice, and we've heard some of the comments on that subject, and maybe during this presentation, I'll look back on some of it. So what we can't escape from is actually about the adoption of this existing constitution in 2006. It is not correct, it would not be ethical, nor political order, that we who are witnessing certain events that have crowned both the legality and legitimacy of this Constitution in 2006, are silent, and as if nothing had happened, although it could no longer be returned but by expressing its position and not agreeing with certain phenomena that marked the adoption of the Constitution in 2006, we are in fact both ethically and politically, against, or on such matters, in fact, noting that something like this should never be allowed to happen in the future. It is not a matter of any small matter, but of very serious failures and acts of lawlessness in the very procedure of the adoption of the Constitution in 2006, resulting in a lack of scarcity, a stain on both the legitimacy and the legality of this Constitution. Here we find another reason to support the amendments to the Constitution, any amendments to the Constitution, including these proposed changes, because we will at least, at least, wash, so to speak, because we have a procedure waiting for us in this Assembly, and then at the referendum, which, let me say, is what happened in 2006. At the time, I was not a political actor, however, as someone who led an important community, in which case the religious community, I was very interested in everything that is going on on on the political scene of the Republic of Serbia, especially when it comes to constitutional changes, and that is why I am witnessing certain events that can't just be crossed, which we can't observe, happened, we move on. What happened? So, in Novi Pazar, where I witnessed these events, because some smaller political parties came to me for help then, helping me buy equipment, to oversee a referendum on the adoption of the Constitution, that famous two-day and two-night referendum. Of course, as always we went out to meet them, we helped them secure five or seven cameras, I'm not sure, but at least five cameras, which were set up to monitor entry into the facilities where the vote was held in that referendum, and those most massive polling stations in Novi Pazar were chosen. Then the recorded material still exists, it can be checked. According to this material, therefore, the cameras recorded 48 hours in those polling stations appeared in Novi Pazar about 7% of the citizens, and you now return nicely, so take the official results, in which the record turnout in Novi Pazar, compared to the whole state, was actually official information, which was communicated to the citizens, in fact not only announced, in which both the law and the legitimacy were concluded, or both, and declared the Constitution. So whether that part or that number of counterfeited votes is now in that figure that would be considered completely illegal, it can be analysed, calculated. I wish it hadn't, because we'd actually be in agony of illegality, of illegality all these years. So, here I react more ethically than legally, because it's legally late, but I can't simply reconcile with insulting the elemental own intelligence because of what we're going on, because all events from the past, at least from such a close past, aren't always to get some court epilogue, but they are to simply point to them, so that nothing like that can ever happen again. How one state cannot afford itself to be so unserious, that it actually agrees with such settlements, to such counterfeits, of course, that it would not be a state, in fact, it was one authority, it was the government of Vojislav Kostunica, the government of Vojislav Kostunica, who carried it out with its partners, at a local level in Novi Pazar, among which some today, which disagree with that Constitution, among which today some say they will not participate, that they do not support, and that they do not agree with the whole constitution. So all this is important to know. I don't like to conduct debates in the National Assembly where I will, as a representative of a minority nation, bring negative criticism to representatives of other minorities and minorities. I feel very uncomfortable about it, but these are ethically and politically enormous things and they need to be known. So, then, these representatives of Bosniaks who then held local authority in Novi Pazar, who had ministerial positions here in Belgrade, in fact because of the coup with the then government and authorities because of their personal and political, day-to-day political interests, actually swallowed all their national, ethnic, cultural, minority interests, principles and issues of rights and, in fact, not only voted in favour of this constitution, but also participated in the criminal act of counterfeiting, so results in this referendum. Maybe it doesn't matter to anyone, it was, it passed the power. On the contrary, we, and as the current government, by our relationship to what was earlier if it is not possible by law, then moral and political. Actually, we're not talking about them, we're talking about ourselves, because definitely, I can't imagine that we can, with support or silence, let anything like that ever happen again. This is a big lesson. This is a big mess. That's why it takes a change of constitution, even if this partial one, and hopefully there will be some more thorough when the time comes, but this we'll sort of remove the stain and show that it's possible to change the Constitution differently, that it's possible to change the Constitution without these criminal deals and interpolitical actors, to fill the boxes, to hold those boxes 48 hours of day-to-day insertion and legal and illegal ballots, that it's possible that the state can be serious, that it can go through no easy discussions with the representatives of the judiciary, which I'm also glad, so let them be bitter, may be difficult. It's the dynamics and process we need here. The harder the debates are, the better we come to solutions, the better in the National Assembly, and beyond the National Assembly. So, we had some not incorrect at the time, not to say criminal but certainly illegal alliances around that constitution. Then what happens to us after 2006? In 2007, we're going through this constitution, actually under these political two or three who cooked us all up. We have a brutal attack on the Islamic community. An attempt to break up the Islamic community, whose consequences we feel to this day. So, under a fairy tale, the organization of the same people who faked the referendum results for the Constitution in Sandzak and Novi Pazar. These same defenders of our Bosniak, Muslim and general minority rights actually acted this way because certain structures, or behaviour of the leadership of the Islamic community, did not suit them politically. Since they couldn't use the Islamic community for their political, electoral and other needs, they decided to break up that Islamic community, kidnap it first, so when they failed to kidnap it, let's divide it, and make themselves one that listens to them, one, two, or I don't know how many they'll end up making. Of course, this could not have happened if it hadn't been for the authorities' open support since then, and not only for the support but for the abuse of authorities, even the authorities of the judicial and police authorities for such intentions. Whether it was, as the distinguished minister says, a contest in who was dumber, but it was, even if it did sound funny, but it was very brutal and the consequences were very bad. In 2010, there is an even more brutal event that relies on such constitutional leaders. The elections for the Bosniak National Council, i.e. for the national councils we all praise here. Otherwise, the idea of national councils, regardless of all the shortcomings, regardless of what we're talking about right now, is one significant political, civilization, cultural and every other step of this country, primarily towards minority peoples and communities. Of course, since it is being introduced as an institute and a mechanism for the first time, it needs to be done and promoted and we need to do it together, but what happened in 2010, it has to go into anals, textbooks. It's got to be something we're going to draw to kids from kindergarten to university so they can never do it again. Therefore, elections are organised as for all national councils. But something else happens in Sandzak. Win a list that shouldn't have won, and it wins so convincingly that it has a majority. What's going on? Of course, the state of emergency is in the rounds of government in Belgrade and their partners in Sandzak to prevent it. Since there was no room for manoeuvre to prevent it legally, they opted for a brutal violation of both the Constitution and the law to prevent the establishment of the Bosniak National Council or the Bosniak National Council by the majority who were legally and legitimately elected. In what way? All national advice shall be established under one Regulation that exists until then and only for the Bosniak National Council, i.e. greater changes in the walk of the Regulation, conditioning that at the constitutive session at least one third of the members of the Council should attend, or greater, and then, of course, one major part of a third does not come, and that is the alleged legal basis for not establishing the Bosniak National Council. Then the minister, whom I see, has brought something back to life politically, ask why you're changing the Bosniak rule? Do you know what his answer is? The Nazi answer – they are something else. If he wasn't, he was supposed to be in jail. If it's not too late, we should go to jail now, if it's too late, then what's never too late - to morally distance ourselves, fence ourselves, wash ourselves from one such phenomenon. To make evil bigger, it is called a democratic minister, etc. So that's something you can't forget, which is actually the product of such a political legal and constitutional production. What happens next? Since it's not just that you stopped the constitution, what about the council now? Do you know? You should know, never forget. Maybe this sounds crazy to you, like I'm talking about some other country. No, it was here in this same country, just under some other authority. Four years, no Bosniak National Council, no sword, no sword. What's going on? Nothing. We've been waiting for four years. And the same people who held the Council, because they're in line with the previous, with that authority, they function, they spend the money bigger, they get money from the Council, they eat blankets, they make travel expenses, etc., etc. So these are the same people we've heard voices about today's constitution. So these are the productions of exactly the constitution and such authorities with such a constitution. So, one moral-political phenomenon that I couldn't believe would happen and then four years later what do you actually do? Well, those 49% who voted for that list, what did they say in the next election? They don't care, which country, which bigger, which advice, which one does? So you'll have the election until yours wins. When they don't win, it doesn't work, we cancel everything, we move on. So, then, such a blow is due to trust in the relationship between the Bosniak community and the state, or more concrete government, and in the people it is mostly a country where we today have wounds and the consequences of such a relationship. So I've cited these two drastic examples. Believe me, there are many more, whether from the sphere of competition who's dumber or from the sphere of planned, deliberate violation and the Constitution and the law, but this is what needs to draw the line. Certainly, I repeat, we support the proposed constitutional changes as a first step where, if God does, we will be able to discuss both the first member of the Constitution and the definition of the state and the relationship between the minority and the majority in that definition, which is problematic and controversial, I believe, for all or for most members of the national minorities, or minority nations. But this is one step to support, and in any case, I believe that he will give his results, especially in the field of justice and what he was given. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-07-0.u7361	I would like to thank the Vice-President of the National Assembly, the authorised representative of the party of Justice and Reconciliation, the United Peasants' Party. The president of the Social Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary group, National MP Branimir Jovanovic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-07-0.u7362	Thank you, Vice President. Respected Prime Ministers, respected ministers, colleagues and colleagues, given the seriousness of today's discussion and the importance and severity of the decision that we need to make after the debate, I think it is necessary and I will make a retrospective one, i.e. reminding me of the history of the Constitution in the Republic of Serbia. I say this because it is good to remind ourselves that social, or historical circumstances have indicated the need to change the Constitution at some point, as we now have certain circumstances that simply make us change the Constitution in one of our parts. Countries with a more stable past, states with a more stable constitutional arrangement have a more stable constitutional continuity. Serbia has changed its constitution several times during its tumultuous history, sometimes partially, sometimes completely, but I must say that during the Middle Ages, Serbia had elements of the rule of law. The first such act was created in the early 13th century, and that is the legislation. Many provisions of Dusan's code as a set of feudal Serbian laws in their material terms also have constitutional provisions, and the most frequently cited provisions are precisely those on the unprejudgment and independence of judges even from the opinion of the emperor himself. This only speaks of the importance that the judiciary, or the judiciary, assumes in each Constitution. I will return to one of France's revolutions, to the Declaration of the Rights of Man and Citizens of 1789, and I will quote. The Declaration states: "Any society in which no guarantee of law is provided, in which no division of power is established, does not have its own constitution." That's exactly how much this legal framework is, how important justice is for every constitution. Such a finding in the declaration was created as a need to limit the rule of every ruler, the need to demonstrate national sovereignty and the same motive, and that in the creation of the first Serbian constitution, the Sretenjski Constitution in 1835, where the need to limit the absolute power of the then prince Milos. This constitution was at that moment one of the most modern constitutions in Europe, but unfortunately, because of the disagreement of the great forces, it lasted only 58 days. Later in the constitution, however many of them took a step back, they still had a significant impact on the development of democratic society in Serbia. Even the 1869 Constitution, which introduced a new form of state order, are forms that are still in force in the world today, and we have received the outlines of such a form of state order and today, of course, is in line with world trends. I will also remind you that the 1888 Constitution of the Kingdom of Serbia was one of the most modern constitutions in Europe. And he actually introduced it to the door, practically, parliamentaryism in Serbia. Every time and historic events reflect through the constitution as the highest legislative act. The constitution is a guarantee of every right. That is what the 1921 Vidovdan Constitution shows when the legislative authority is divided between the king and the National Assembly. Throughout history, any change in the constitution, or any change in the social system, had to be confirmed by the constitution. After World War II, we moved from the monarchy to the republican form of order and this was confirmed by the Constitution of 1946, where some other values were promoted, values such as the equality of all peoples who made up the Federation of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, but was promoted and a new economic concept through the Constitution. Constitutional laws were passed in 1953, as important as the Constitution, which had just promoted a concept of self-government that remained in force for many years afterwards. That the constitution can sometimes be a good basis for a new concept of state development, but it can also be the basis for the collapse of the state, shows the 1974 Constitution, which gave greater authority to republics, especially the provinces of the Republic of Serbia, Vojvodina and Kosovo and Metohija, and many believe that this constitution was the basis for the collapse of the SFRY. Today when we talk about changing the Constitution, we're talking about a constitution that was brought in a little less than 15 years ago. At the time, the political system of defacto was not changed, Serbia only became an independent state, was no longer a member of the Federation, but since the adoption of this constitution could hear criticism on his account. I have purposely presented a brief review of the development of our country's constitutionality over the past 200 years, because these are arguments that make it necessary to change and adapt constitutional standards, due to the violent historical and social changes in our space. So I think the question that can be heard these days -- whether we need constitutional changes, is an unnecessary question. We need constitutional changes. Representatives of these theories who claim that there is no need to change the Constitution often cite examples of other countries where the constitution has not changed for decades, cites an example of the United States, or we can cite an example of Great Britain, which does not even have a Constitution. But these are all specificities of one nation, as our specificities point to the need to change the Constitution. And our constitutions so far have been one of the best and most democratic in Europe, and we have been able to achieve this only thing we have been able to track down the development of social relations. The constitutional changes that we are initiating today's debate concern the area of the judiciary, that is, the part that concerns the choice of the holder of judicial functions. It's one area that's always been and will be under public eye, because the judge is such that he's expected to do his job without error. The reform of the judicial system is in the role of achieving the principle of rule of law as the basic principle of a democratic society. Plato was still talking about it, trying to find the best order for the state, eventually came to the conclusion that the only real order is the one where they are respected, as he called it, is the golden cords of the law. In the explanation and received from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which we could hear in a series of public hearings, it is said that changes to the Constitution are needed in order to have a goal, to improve the quality of justice, as well as independence, impartiality, expertise, accountability and efficiency of the judiciary. The aim is also to allow changes in judicial entry by objective criteria, based on fair procedures of choice and openness for all candidates who meet the requirements laid down by law and, of course, professional conditions. It is also necessary for the VSS and the State's Major Prosecutor's Office to be further strengthened, and I believe that we are capable of doing so, but it will in some ways increase their responsibility later in decision-making. Constitutional changes are necessary because of EU accession, but I do not think that this is the primary motive and should not be the main reason why we approach constitutional changes. We, first of all, must take care of our legal framework, to create such a legal framework, to have such a constitution before which all citizens will be treated equally. And the goal should be to unify judicial practice, which is a guarantee of citizens' equality under the law, which should be provided by just the judicial authorities. On this road we must take care, above all, to meet the needs of Serbian citizens, then, to meet the needs of people working in the judiciary and, of course, to bring our legal system into line with EU standards. So, the primary goal is to depolitise the judiciary, strengthen judicial independence and the prosecution's independence. All this is in line with the Action Plan, which, of course, is in line with negotiating Chapter 23. The partial revision of the Constitution is almost as difficult, as is the change of the entire Constitution, i.e. the adoption of a new Constitution and is equal to the responsibility of the Assembly, as is the legislative body that participates in the procedure of change of the Constitution. We are initiating proceedings under the government's proposal and there can be no changes to the Constitution in any other part of it. I especially point out that in the past months, public opinion, or attitudes, that are not true, will change the Constitution in some other parts. So, I remind you once again, the Constitution only changes in that section proposed by the Government and not in any other part. It is true that the constitutional authority belongs to the National Assembly, but it belongs to the voters. Even Karl Marks said that the Constitution did not create the people, but the people created the Constitution. And the Constitution is therefore understood as an expression of national sovereignty. And the legal expression of this kind of social conditions and relations that arise is actually the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. By respecting these principles, we are taking part in the decision-making process on the amendment of the Constitution, of course, with citizens of Serbia equally responsible, who will express their position in the referendum. The referendum can be academic, it can be binding, in our case it's binding. And only when Serbian citizens confirm constitutional decisions, or constitutional solutions, will the National Assembly vote such changes. We need to change our constitution, as I have already pointed out, because many other countries that have been in our situation have done, which have been on the European path. And these countries have amended their highest legislative act several times. Serbia faces this challenge of harmonising the constitution with the EU legal framework. Given that the existing Constitution of the Republic of Serbia defines Serbia as a country based on the rule of law and social justice, on the principles of civil democracy, on the principles of human and minority rights and freedoms and on the principles and values that apply in EU countries, we, as a social democratic Serbia, will very much support the initiative to change the Constitution, because these are simply the principles on which heritage and our programme, i.e. our programme principles. In particular, on the Government's proposal to change constitutional standards relating to the judiciary, with the aim of strengthening judicial independence, the independence of the prosecution, as one of the fundamental principles of rule of law, we believe that this proposal is justified. We also received suggestions from the Venice Commission. The suggestions refer to the fact that in the division of power in legislative, executive and judicial matters there is room for one political influence, in fact, that there can be a political influence of the legislative and executive authorities on judicial authority. In particular, this concerns the compositions of judicial councils, i.e. the election of their members, the VSS and the State's Major Prosecutor's Office. The opinion of the Venice Commission is not binding on us, but it can serve as a useful instruction, as a useful advice in which direction we should move and thus find a balance between the standards in force in the EU and our legal framework, in this case concrete constitutional solutions. When we talk about the influence of the legislative and executive authority on judicial authority, it is necessary, first of all, to define a clear relationship between the three branches of the government, in order not to get into a situation, or to remove any doubt in the way they relate to each other and control each other. With these constitutional changes, we need to find a balance. The position of the SDPS is clear, the impact of politics must be limited to expertise when we talk about justice. But, on the other hand, the waist can't lose any control mechanisms, it can't become a system for itself, it can't be a system that won't account for anyone. We must be aware that every branch of government, both legislative and executive and judicial, draws its legitimacy from the people. Of course, these constitutional changes will give certain solutions that will right now eliminate, I hope, this doubt, whether this expert part draws on certain professional legitimacy or legitimacy of all citizens of Serbia. In any case, when we talk about the division of power and the impact of one authority on another, we need to understand that we need to find such mechanisms where there will be no abuse, where each branch of government can bring certain provisions, certain acts from its jurisdiction, but that each branch of government must control the provisions of some other branch of government, or the other two branches of government, in order to establish a certain balance. The constitution is of great importance to the judicial branch of power, but yet independence, impartiality and integrity of the judges cannot guarantee what is just written in the Constitution. This is achieved by establishing one principle in the judicial authority. That's the principle of justice. So judges have to apply the right equally to equals, not equal to unequal cases. And the basic prerequisite for a judge to apply one of these principles in his work, or decision-making, is to preserve his independence and objectivity. On the other hand, it is necessary to ensure conditions to preserve the court's dignity and authority, and that is what we are doing now. Democracy is not in itself enough to preserve the independence of the judiciary, as we will also declare by the Constitution that the rule of law is not proof that we are in practice. We have to realize that in reality. The Prime Minister has just cited good examples, I will not repeat them, which show that we are now and that we are in practice fulfilling the principles of rule of law and that in practice no one is politically protected. In line with the above-mentioned changes to the judiciary, I must remind myself that it is also necessary to accept some constitutional norms relating to changes in the jurisdiction of the National Assembly, right in the area of the judiciary, that is to say, the choice of judges and members of the branch relating to the prosecution. The change in the constitution proposed by the government is certainly a condition for further reform of the judicial system. The result of this process should be solid constitutional pillars around which laws will be further built that can be said to be individual on hold, but also sublegal acts. On this occasion, I would like to commend all the activities undertaken by the National Assembly, taken by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, specifically the Ministry of Justice, which concerns the organisation of public hearings. And it is these public hearings of a good place where we can hear different opinions, where experts from this area and representatives of the civil sector are included, but also MPs, as representatives of citizens. This enables dialogue and a reasoned debate to bring about the best solutions. Anyone can point to certain suggestions, anyone can make comments, and hopefully we'll have a good result at the end of this process. I must also point out that there are different opinions whether it is time to move on to constitutional changes, as there are opinions where we are said to be late with the procedure. Representatives of the Association of Serbian Judges expressed their view in a public hearing that it is not a good time to initiate the procedure for changing the constitution and that view is justified by the fact that no deadline can and should have priority on the content. I believe that we have enough time and that the deadline will not be a limiting factor and that it is possible to find the best solutions that will be long-term. It's not the point of getting into these processes to change the Constitution just for his change. The bottom line is that we get the best legal solutions, that when this constitution is voted out in some way we are responsible, to bring this constitution into life. The constitution is a symbol of national unity, as is the flag. In some countries, the Constitution accepts mythic properties. And I just wanted to point out the importance of the Constitution, the importance of its application to a nation. Due to all this and to the importance that the Constitution has, that is, these constitutional changes, the SDPS will support an initiative to change Serbia's constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-07-0.u7363	I thank the president of Serbia's SDP parliamentary group. The word has the mandated representative of the Single Serbia parliamentary group, MP Vojislav Vujic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-07-0.u7364	Thank you, Your Honor, the President. Madam Prime Minister, Minister Joksimovic, Popovic and Komic, all of our friends from Europe are present, but as far as I can see, they remain the most persistent in any case, everyone on the balcony, greetings and for them. I will be the prime minister at the beginning of my speech to look back at what you said, which is that this amendment to the Constitution may be a little broader than the judiciary because you continue to intensively reform, and this is one of the most important things, which is the fight against corruption, as you said. We live in turbulent times, and as always in the Balkans, it is not easy to run the country and Serbia in the world, we may have more friends now than we have ever had, but certainly we have more enemies, I can say that freely. The people trusted the President of the Republic. We have put our trust in you, we have put our trust in the entire government and we insist, as the people demand that the president be the best and greatest host among us. Fortunately, we have such a president. That's what I can say for you, who are at the post of Prime Minister. The fact is that Serbia is seeking the EU and we are on this path insisting on what is important, what our European friends could see, that we always have brakers who have tried to turn this off the right path today, but fortunately the President of the Assembly, Mr Dacic, succeeded in returning the session to the right path. What is now symbolic is that we have five ladies currently dealing with the biggest change Serbia has at the moment, by changing the Constitution. So, the fact is, there are those who don't fit what we're doing, but we're certainly going to keep moving on the European path. I can always understand critics and it's great when every country, every government, every government has critics, but I never understood and I never supported the critics. Why do I say that? And you mentioned at one point that these days, at least when I can talk to the citizens, part of them is upset. Every time a change of constitution is said, and these days we also have those critics who keep referring to Kosovo, we have a duty, we have a duty, and that is why it is good that this Assembly is being transferred and that we all have the opportunity to talk about, that this amendment of the Constitution applies exclusively to the judicial system. So, there was no question about Kosovo. Just because we had one provocation at the beginning of the session, which was supposed to go that way, doesn't mean that the Assembly in that direction is going to work. So we'll only deal with what's on the agenda, as Mr. Dacic said. We talk about an independent judiciary all the time. At first, you said it was the basis for fighting corruption and what may be my impression, the most complete impression of your speech, is that at one point you said that we are doing these reforms and that we are seeking the EU, but that we are not doing these changes and changes to the Constitution in order to only adapt to Europe, rather than because we want the citizens of Serbia to live better, and the essence and message of the EU from its establishment so far is that. I'm sorry our European friends aren't here. This may have taken a little while and I understand them, but somehow throughout history, the Serbian people always had this courage, which was pointed out in the first place, and we always meant Europe somehow. We meant a lot more to Europe than Europe meant to us. What I want to say to you, Prime Minister, I apologize to you, Minister, if it is not a problem to pass as one message, Mr Dragan Markovic has just apostrophe at a meeting in Thessaloniki, as a business-political delegation headed by Dragan Markovic Palm these days in Greece. You are well aware that over 600 medical workers, of course, not on the cost of taxpayers, went through donors to rest, and above all those doctors and medical staff who were in curvature red zones. I greet them. Today is the last day of their vacation and they return to regular activities. What was interesting about the meeting with the Metropolitan of Thessaloniki is that Mr. Markovic said that spiritual and courageous were always something that characterized Serbia, and these were some of our character traits, but now the time has come to apostrophe spiritually and wisely, and so this change is on that path, in that direction. We accept everything that Europe requires, we adapt to the world, of course never to our own harm, always for the benefit of our citizens and try to meet them all. This is absolutely acceptable. When it comes to the JS parliamentary group, we will support this initiative and this first step, and what's interesting and what we have to potential over and over again, so these changes to the Constitution, here, are 13 times changing in the modern history of the Serbian Constitution. This is the 14th time we've changed the Constitution, this is one big exam, and for the state, the exam for you from the government, the exam for the president, the exam for all of us MPs. It is the citizens who give the final judgment on any amendments to the Constitution, and I count on these days, if we continue with this initiative to explain precisely and clearly to everyone what it is, that the citizens of the vast majority will also support all these initiatives and the work we are now dealing with. Once again, let me tell you that the JS parliamentary group, both this first step and last, will support the entire initiative and the change of the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-07-0.u7365	I thank the authorised representative of the JS parliamentary group. The word is from the president of the SVM parliamentary group, MP Dr Balint Pastor.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-07-0.u7366	Dear Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly, the Honorable Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia and the Honorable Member of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is time to discuss the proposal for a change of the Constitution. Change in the Constitution is not a day-to-day process. There are countries in the world that brought their constitutions 150, 170 years ago without these constitutions being changed at all or only changed on several occasions. Everyone knows of the 1787 U.S. Constitution, which has been changed 30 times, or about 30 amendments to the constitution, has not been changed 30 times. Many also know about cases from the north and west of Europe. The constitution of the Norwegian beginning of the 19th century or the Constitution of Belgium the beginning of the 19th century etc. As for the constitutional history of Serbia, colleagues before me mentioned the constitution of the history of the Republic of Serbia, that is, the constitutional history of Serbia, the Principality, the Kingdom, the Republic of Serbia. I will try to cite all the constitutions that this country and all its predecessors have had since 1835, when this constitution was brought here before you, or between the ministers and the MPs. It's the 1835 Happy Constitution. It's Serbia's first constitution. Just a few years later, in 1838, the so-called A Turkish constitution that is the second constitution during the existence of the Serbian Principality. After that, in 1869, the so-called The Deputy Constitution. It's the third Constitution of Serbia. The fourth constitution was passed in 1888. It's a radical constitution. That's the name he has. It is the constitution that was brought in at a time when the Radical Party was strong, not this Radical Party today, but it in the history of our country during King Milan, which is spoken of and said to be the most advanced constitution in Serbia's history. Of course, everything needs to be observed in the historical context and nothing can be compared to today's requirements and standards, but it was certainly an extremely advanced constitution, this 1888 Constitution. Afterwards, in 1901 the Oktroizan Constitution was brought back to the period of various Yugoslavias, i.e. in 1903 the Constitution of Vidovdan was brought back to the period of various Yugoslav states, and in 1921 the Constitution of Vidovdan was brought to the same place, in 1931 the Oktroitized Constitution, in 1946 the First Federal Constitution was brought into the framework of the Socialist Yugoslavia and in that era was re-established by the new names of our country, beginning from the DFJ, and then the SFRY, and then in 1947, the Constitution of Serbia was brought into force within the framework of the Federal Yugoslavia, in 1953 the new Constitution, again the new Constitution, and in 1974 the Constitution of the SFRY and then, of course, all the Member States brought their constitutions, in 1990, the first time the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which was brought into the Constitution of Serbia, in 1963, the Constitution of 1963, the Constitution of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia, in 2006. As you can see and as easily as can be counted, and I have not left out any single constitution, nor the Act of the Republic of Serbia and all its predecessors, this current constitution today is the 16th Constitution of Serbia. As of today, or practically since 4 December of last year, when the Government referred to the Assembly's procedure for amending the Constitution, we are in the process of amending this 16th Constitution. We could talk a lot today, but I would remind all of us of the procedure and we currently do not have the text of the amending Constitution, nor should we, nor can we, have the text of the Act amending the Constitution, because if today the National Assembly is to declare itself to the two-thirds majority of the proposal for a change to the Constitution, which the Government referred to in the Parliament procedure on December 4th of last year, then only the committee of the National Assembly, i.e. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives can and should draw up the text of constitutional changes itself or as it is called colloktically in the public of constitutional amendments and on this Act amending the Constitution will again be declared if the two-thirds majority of citizens are then declared to be in the referendum and if this referendum is successful, and it will certainly be successful because, unlike the previous constitution, it does not take 50% of citizens to declare the proposed changes, then in that case, we will change this by regular number of the 16th Constitution in Serbia's history. As for the proposal for a change to the Constitution, I said it was from the government of the Republic of Serbia. A proposal for a change of the Constitution can be submitted by the Government or by the President of the Republic or by at least one third of the MPs or by at least 150 thousand voters, citizens with voting rights. So, the proposal for a change of the Constitution was made by an authorised promoter, and the National Assembly is not only a legislative body and representative body of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, but is by law and constitutionalist. That's why I want to say that the procedure is fully respected. I'd like to reject all those views and all those thoughts that it seems in an illegal way, that it seems to avoid public debate, that it seems in an untransparent way. So far, there have been seven public hearings in Belgrade, Novi Sad, Kragujevac and Nis on a proposal for a change of the Constitution, but the job is only now following and the job is taking place, i.e. in the drafting of a proposal to amend the Constitution under the direction of the National Assembly's competent committee, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives. After that, I am sure there will be several public hearings again, there will be public debates that will continue, I am convinced for months, and then there will be only the next phase of the National Assembly's statement on the act, the amendment of the Constitution, and only after that will the citizens declare the Constitution. Why is it important that citizens declare themselves on the proposed amendments to the Constitution? This is important because this is about constitutional continuity and it can only be about constitutional continuity in democratic states. According to the current constitution, citizens are the holders of sovereignty which they carry out through the People's Initiative and the referendum and with the help of the freely elected representatives. For this reason, the National Assembly is a representative body, a constitutionalist and legislator, but on such important issues it should, in the letter of the now applicable Constitution, declare citizens who are the only holders of sovereignty in the Republic of Serbia. When it comes to the amendment of the Constitution, I said that at this point we cannot, nor should we engage in what exactly will be in the Treaty amending the Constitution because the drafting of this act can only follow today if the two-thirds majority is reached, but on the basis of the proposal for a change of the Constitution, which took place by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, we know which provisions would be amended. This is Article 4 concerning the principle of division of power, which is a member who speaks of the responsibilities of the National Assembly. In particular, a member who speaks about how to decide in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, members of the Constitution dealing with the judiciary, primarily the way in which judges, prosecutors and deputy public prosecutors are elected, as well as provisions concerning how judges of the Constitutional Court are elected. So, parliament, figuratively speaking, is bound by hands, in the sense that constitutional revision, that the topic of constitutional revision, is that the subject of constitutional review is limited by the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. We in SVM certainly agree that these provisions must be amended, but we are sorry that the opportunity to amend some of the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia has been missed. Perhaps now some of me expect to talk about some political topics, the position of members of the national minorities in the Constitution, the territorial arrangements and solutions related to the territorial arrangements of the Republic of Serbia from the Constitution and some other political topics, we in SVM believe that these parts of the Constitution must be improved. Gordana Comic spoke about the fact that Vojvodina was only projected by the Constitution and that is something that must change anyway. In the past, almost 15 years, we have talked about it countless times in this National Assembly, as we have spoken about, and that the position of members of national minorities must be regulated by the framework law or constitutional law, which the category and now the current constitution knows, for a simple reason not to have a situation every month, or at least every year that certain laws which deal with the position of members of national minorities of the Law on National Councils on the one hand and the Law on Culture, as well as the Law on Education or the Law on Information on the other. We talked about this in 2015 when the Political System Working Group was formed in this National Assembly. The working group was headed by Zoran Babic, then president of the SNS parliamentary group, and we then expressed our views. But we understand that it isn't now, and it can't be a topic, and that's why I said earlier that some of me might expect me to talk about it. I would not like to talk about it now, but when I said that the chance was missed, that the opportunity was missed to change some of the provisions of the Constitution within the current process, then I thought of some language and systemic illogicalities, which were simply not sustainable in the current Constitution, and we are extremely sorry that the Government did not have in mind when sending a proposal for a change of constitution. I am saying this because on several occasions today, as well as in previous months, the Constitution does not change because of what the EU expects us to do. It is certainly a good thing that we in the first row are not changing for this reason, but are changing because Serbian citizens would have the best constitution to make the judiciary work as well as possible. On the other hand, the prominent experts of constitutional law, the professors of constitutional law, have pointed out in the past 15 years what indifference and what mistakes, I will say so, now the current constitution contains. Professor Ratko Markovic, who was granted our constitutional right, who unfortunately died recently, spoke in even one scientific text and wrote that this current Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, quotes Prof. Markovica – the most illiterate constitution in the constitutional history of the Republic of Serbia. We saw a lot of fierce competition earlier, because this is the 16th Constitution in Serbia's history. Why was it written by Professor Fleischman? Markovic? Because today's current constitution mixes the concepts of property and property. It's something that can tell every law student in the first year. This is a constitution that regulates two ways in certain parts the same question. One member of the Constitution says that ratified international agreements must be in agreement with the Constitution, and another provision of the same constitution says that confirmed international agreements should not be contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Lawyers know the difference between having to be in agreement and not being contrary to the Constitution, in this case ratified international contracts. Let's say, we have the Legal Institute for Government Control, impelation, which is a tool that is unusable, because the Constitution provides for the interpretation to be directed by 50 MPs. We don't have 50 MPs at this point, and I don't regret it because we don't, don't get me wrong, but this is one ineffective asset. For example, there is a state in Hungary that any MP can give an interpretation. Then jurisdiction over the Constitutional Court and not to speak, and that was the same thing in the context of European integration in the past 15 years of blank resignation. Blanko resignations have not been applied for ten years but continue to make the text of the now applicable Constitution. We're sorry it won't be wiped out of the Constitution, which is why this chance hasn't been used. Don't take all this as a criticism. We will vote today for a proposal to change the Constitution and we look forward to what will change the Constitution and we understand that sensitive political topics are now not being touched, but certain technical, terminology and logical inconsistencies should, in our opinion, be changed, and this chance has been missed. Once again, the SVM is looking forward to changing the Constitution, to amend the Constitution, that is to say we hope to discuss some other elements of the Constitution in due course and to improve the 16th Constitution of Serbia and today we will vote in favour of a proposal for a change to the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-07-0.u7367	I thank the representative of the SVM parliamentary group. The word has the mandated representative of the PUPS Tri P parliamentary group, MP Hadzhi Milorad Stosic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-07-0.u7368	The Honorable President-in-Office of the Government with ministers and ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the respected citizens of Serbia today are ahead of us with a proposal to change the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Government representatives as an authorised promoter and previous speakers have said enough about the importance of the Constitution as one state's highest legal act. I'd just like to point out some details. This year, it ends 15 years after the adoption and application of the now valid constitutional text. For some countries and societies it is a short period of time, however, for Serbian political experiences, especially for a newer era, it is not such a short period of time. I will remind you that more than three decades have passed since the reconstruction of the multi-party in Serbia, so it turns out that under the conditions in force took place almost half of that time. After all, if we return to the past in times of Kingdom or socialism, we will see that unfortunately, none of the domestic constitutions have survived so many years. Our constitutions changed once at an inappropriate rate dictated on one side by life's reality, and on the other hand, I would say hasty in changes to the highest legal act. So I think the fact that there is no initiative at the moment that our Constitution is completely changing and bringing a new one or subjecting itself to a drastic and comprehensive revision and represents the best general positive assessment of this text. On the other hand, for 15 years it is still enough to create some real impact cuts and carry out the evaluation previously achieved, to see some shortcomings and worse solutions in its practical application, and to correct such things to new quality solutions in order to improve the functioning of the political legal system in the future. These are natural processes that occur in those most developed countries of the world that have constitutions with far longer importance, especially some examples. The Constitution of the United States, which took effect far 1789, has now submitted 27 amendments or 27 amendments. Also, the Constitution and European countries, primarily the Constitution of France adopted in 1958, has been changed 28 times. The basic law of the Federal Republic of Germany of 1949 was completed 50 times. The Constitution of Russia, which had a relatively similar history and traditional problems as our country, was brought in 1993 and changed on several occasions. It is therefore easy to conclude that the change in the Constitution is a normal process in the modern state and that this should not cause any automatic negative public reaction, that it is done from someone's whim or I don't know from any of the ocular goals. On the contrary, the proposed changes are the result of a careful analysis of the functioning of the situation in one segment of constitutional matter, which is the position and organisation of the judiciary as the third branch of the government. Certain solutions in the current constitutional matter, together with the provisions of the Constitutional Law for the implementation of the Constitution and subsequent practice, have proved weak, unarranged and have given generally bad effects on the judiciary. Of some of these problems, our prominent constitutional lawyers spoke and drew attention to the moment when the existing Constitution was adopted. It is therefore proposed that it be changed. Here I would like to mention that it is good that the Government, as one of the Constitution of Authorised Proposers, has referred its proposal for a change to the Constitution in a shorter general form, not prejudged in advance the concrete text of amendments that this National Assembly should adopt, but only precisely identified which constitutional matter and which constitutional members should be innovated, modified and in which direction. The submission shows that such identified provisions on the position and independence of judges, provisions on selecting judges to a permanent duty without restrictions on mandates, the composition of the VSS and the State Council of Prosecutors are to introduce grounds for resolution with a judicial function and better regulation of the provisions relating to their choice, as well as certain minor formal regulation of certain other provisions in the current text. In this respect, some of the amendments that were sent to this Parliament earlier in the period may constitute a useful starting point for a public debate that should be followed after we adopt this proposal here, but the fact that, after the adoption of this proposal, a certain committee to define the amendments will certainly be an opportunity to make public hearings and other ways of making objections to these amendments. About them, but also about any other concrete solutions that arise, they should first and foremost give their court professional and professional associations, or professors of constitutional law from our universities, but also judges and prosecutors themselves. I think that the vast majority of them are also aware that the direction of the proposed changes is good, that giving them an opinion in the constitutional process is also a sort of honor and commitment, and that they will therefore make their significant contribution to the really most qualitative and concrete solutions that we MPs could then accept with satisfaction and without major disagreements. Given the constitutional provisions for the change of this part of the Constitution, a special word will be given to our citizens. That is why it is a great obligation on all of us in the process that we are about to do our utmost to offer them solutions and procedures as best as possible to clarify and explain both through the media and in personal contacts and authority, so that they can make the right decision in the future referendum according to their own conscience and belief. I will certainly take part in this, and our PUPS parliamentary group will also give its support to vote on the proposed amendment to the Constitution. When I talk about this subject, I'd like to draw attention to some other aspect of this matter that I think they deserve to be mentioned. In our parliamentary group, we would like to point out that we could discuss some more issues about the importance of editing constitutional matter. We refer to those provisions that determine the issues of local self-government and the territorial organisation of the state, i.e. the provisions of Articles 188 to 193. The Constitution. They are set in one correct way, which is the basis for the functioning of our units of local self-government, municipalities, cities and the city of Belgrade. However, we in PUPS are of the opinion that a broad debate should finally be opened in our society on a number of issues of overall functioning and purpose of such a system of local self-government as we have today. The fact that our municipalities by population and per area are among the largest in Europe, that such a territorial layout is mainly formed in the mid-60s, under completely different political, social, demographic circumstances, and that the authorities of the municipality have remained at less than or more the same level since the restoration of the multi-party. We have so far not had any deeper social policy and no expert analysis in the direction, how much these solutions have contributed to marginalising our smaller places, especially villages in the process of political decision-making, and thus to their growing decline in every sense and depopulation. I'm sure these legal and practical features had their part in it. We in our PUPS Group "Tri P" believe that such a situation should change, that public debate should be opened. I would remind you that we, in the constitutions passed during the kingdom in the 19th and 20th centuries, had significant provisions on the rights and position of the municipalities that covered a village or a city. This was particularly expressed in the constitutions introduced in the Socialist Yugoslavia, where even several members of the federal or republican constitution were involved in local communities. Of course, we do not think that such provisions should now be prescribed mechanically after decades, automatically returned to such and so much constitutional matter, but we have the attitude to discuss local self-government and local self-government of our settlements, villages and cities still have to discuss constitutional changes in order to make them our place. This is important not only for political, legal, but also for all other reasons, economic, social, demographic, security. PuPS President Milan Krkobic's stance that a new territorial organisation of Serbia is needed through the organisation of rural municipalities comes as a necessity to change the constitution. Without a strong village, there is no strong Serbia. That is why we are in the PUPS Group "Tri P" opinion that the village as a specific social community should find its place in the Constitution. In this direction we will be open to every constructive solution and dialogue. If we have information that more than 40% of Serbia's population lives in the rural area without the village being defined by the Constitution, then it is certainly a major injustice towards that part of the population. I think it is necessary to think in the direction of how the city's municipalities should be regulated, which now have no status of units of local self-government, and have dozens and hundreds and thousands of inhabitants. This refers specifically to the town of Nis, which has five city municipalities of which some have more than 100,000 inhabitants, and unlike municipalities with less than 10,000 inhabitants do not have the status of local self-government. In that direction, I would present one information that has been released these days and could apply freely for the book "Ginis Records". Namely Black Trava, a municipality in Jablanic County with slightly more than or less than 1,000 inhabitants these days, according to a NADED survey, has been declared a champion of entrepreneurship in the past year, as it registered 550 companies. Unfortunately, none of the more than 500 registered business entities work, nor do they operate in Black Grass. Certainly, the municipality on this basis collects some funds for the municipality's budget, but it would be far better for the municipality of Crna Trava and for the state in general that some of these business entities work there and employ the population of the municipality. Meat self-government is a matter that needs to be addressed as well. If you look back at the solutions, we only had a few years ago to do something more detailed on the matter of local self-government within the Law on Local Self-Government, so it's only with a few added members. The local self-government is arranged through local communities and citizens' advice. It's not done in detail. I will also give an example of the city of Nis in which the city municipalities have arranged local self-government in different ways through the local community, and someone through citizens' advice. Unfortunately, no other type of organisation produces results in the interests of the citizens of these communities. That is why territorial reorganisation is necessary to ensure better conditions for the life of our citizens on the territory of Serbia as a whole. As part of this information I raised, a brief question for the Prime Minister, will the village be considered as one of the important social communities in some future amendments to the Constitution or law? Finally, I will repeat that our PUPS parliamentary group "Tri P" will give its support for launching the procedure for changing the Constitution. Dear friends, distinguished citizens of Serbia, I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-07-0.u7369	I would like to thank the authorised representative of the Three P P P P P P P. The word has been issued by the SPS parliamentary group president, MP Djordje Milicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-07-0.u7370	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, the Honorable Minister, representatives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Honorable Representative of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at the very beginning, I will agree with you, Mrs Brnabic, that this is a broader issue than the judiciary itself, what my colleague Vujic was talking about in the opening part of his presentation and that this certainly is one of the priorities of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and that the social consensus is needed. It is true that changes to the Constitution are heading towards European integration, because these are the suggestions and guidelines of the European Commission, that it was done in agreement with the Venice Commission, but everything we do and do primarily because of the citizens of Serbia. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the respected citizens of Serbia, I believe that you share my opinion that for every MP today, it is a great honor, first of all, to participate in the adoption of the Constitution or specifically, if we talk about today's session, of the amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. This assembly of the National Assembly has the right honor to bring about constitutional changes to advance one of the three independent branches of government. It is the judicial branch of the government, and besides constitutional changes, an even greater degree of independence should be contributed, and thus the responsibility of Serbia's judicial system. The proposed changes to the Constitution, I would say, are the results of a multi-year basic analysis of the contents of constitutional provisions relating to the judicial branch of the government. Such an analysis from the situation in the judiciary and the legal framework followed a number of recommendations as I said to the EU, given that Serbia has defined itself as a European path, and thus accepted the obligations of harmonisation of its legislation on EU law. In this respect, the act of changing the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia in the case of judicial authority is the highest level of reform of the judicial system. This act has great, I would also say political strength and importance, primarily because of the fact that exactly the judicial branch of power, as one of the three independent branches of government, protects and preserves the legal order and the rule of law. It is also an opportunity today to remind us of the importance of the Constitution as the highest legal and constitutional act of a state, but also of the history of the constitution, regardless of what one of the colleagues has been talking about for a little while. So the Constitution is the legal basis of every state. The constitution is the shortest said, it regulates state order, political system, socio-economic relations, such as freedom, rights and the duties of citizens in the country. All sovereign states of the world have their own constitutions, except, I think, is an interesting exception, the UK, which has no constitution. If we observe a new era, then the oldest constitution is considered the 1787 Constitution of the United States, and Serbia's first modern constitution is considered the 1835 Constitution, which was discussed by counterpart Balint Pastor for a little while. But Serbia's history didn't begin with the Happy Constitution. The first Serbian constitution is considered to be the Law or Nomocanon of the Holy Council, written in 1219, so over 800 years ago. St. Sava's Law was written by a united and civil and church law in order to legally regulate the then young Serbian Kingdom and an independent Serbian Orthodox Church, which were two pillars of the then state. So, we can freely say that Serbia was a constitutionally arranged country back in the 13th century. The second Constitution of the Serbian state is considered the Law of Emperor Dusan or Dusan's 1349 and 1354 code, which in fact replaced the Law of the Holy Sava. Just now, Dusan's law has for the first time regulated the independence of the judicial authority, which has remained an inevitable constitutional rule until now. The legislation and Dusan's code have enormous importance for Serbia's statehood, and we are holding them proudly and as a historical testimony to the centuries-old constitutionality of Serbia. Modern Serbia ranks among the first states in the world to adopt the Constitution, which was the Happy Constitution, the third in a row of the Serbian Constitution, but the first in Serbia's recent history, so that today's meeting, the day of adoption of this constitution, is now marked as the holiday of our statehood. As far as the 20th century's history is concerned, Serbia has adopted its Constitution after the break-up of the SFRY in 1990. This constitution introduces a multi-party, or parliamentary democracy. The government was elected in free, direct, secret elections. It is this year that three decades of multi-party in Serbia are being completed, as the first multi-party Assembly of the Republic of Serbia was established on 11 January 1991. The constitution that followed in 2006 was the consequence, as has already been said, of the constitution of the Republic of Serbia as an independent and sovereign state after the collapse of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro, by exiting Montenegro from the community. It's a constitution whose changes today, after almost 15 years of its application, we're talking about. Since the adoption of the current Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, much has changed and happened on the foreign and internal agenda. The fundamental change is the fact that Serbia has defined itself to go through Eurointegration, and this European path also provides for the fulfilment of certain obligations arising from two key documents. The first document is the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, and the second is the EU's negotiating framework for the Republic of Serbia. In the context of the topic we're talking about today, I would point out that point 14. The negotiating framework refers to the obligation of the Republic of Serbia to continue the process of harmonising its legislation with EU legal assets and to the obligation to ensure full implementation of key reforms, especially in the area of rule of law, including the fundamental reform of the judiciary. The judiciary is covered by the Negotiating Chapter 23 - Justice and Fundamental Rights, and the European Commission's monitoring reports repeatedly points to the need to further strengthen the judicial system, its efficiency, and, above all, independence as the basic preconditions for the implementation of EU legal flows. This fact also led to concrete remarks by the Venice Commission on constitutional provisions concerning the judiciary, and hence the need to make changes to the 2006 Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. In meeting the recognised needs of further reforms in the judiciary for its empowerment, Serbia brought first the National Strategy for the period from 2013 to 2018, and then for the period from 2025, which established five basic principles of judicial reform, namely independence, impartiality, expertise, accountability and efficiency of the judiciary, and as a goal of the Strategy, the preparation and training of the justice system for new challenges, in line with European standards. It is always necessary to highlight the fact that it is not the only motive for access to the long-term reform of the justice system only our European path and EU demand, but also our strategic goal, for Serbia to be governed, a rule of law, in which constitutionality and legality are the only masters. We know that an orderly state guards the law and justice guards the court. The work of the judicial authorities is mirrored by the state and guarantee of the existence of a regulated legal order, a guarantee of equality of all before the court, a guarantee of availability above all justice. Therefore, the judiciary or the judicial branch of the government is and must be independent, without any external or political influences, and the holders of judicial functions must be professional, decent, moral and above all responsible. The independence of the judiciary has also led to greater responsibility for performing an honorable judge and prosecutorial post. We have talked about the role and importance of the judiciary for the state and citizens many times so far in this house, and Serbia shows every day that it cannot be untouchable or protected, and everyone has to face justice. Whenever whoever did the crime has to be sanctioned. Such a relationship between the judiciary and the perpetrators of criminal acts brings faith back to the court, restores faith in the state above all, which must unconditionally rest on justice and rest on justice. For the sake of the public, I would like to draw attention to one more thing in particular, and the President of the National Assembly in his performances has always made it clear that the proposal for amendments to the Constitution, which the Government as an authorised proposal has submitted to the National Assembly, relates exclusively to the provisions of the Constitution concerning the judiciary. There are no other changes, there are no changes concerning the Preamble of the Constitution, which defined kiM as an integral part of the Republic of Serbia. So there's no other change. In order not to spread lies and misinformation to the public, this needs to be highlighted today. Unfortunately, disinformation and thus public harassment also contributes to some so-called opposition stories, I would say with one motive, which is to compromise constitutional changes, and thus the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, as a constitutional body, as is said about constitutional changes, which are not at all the subject of today's debate. This manipulation of falseness is for the purpose of collapse of institutions, but also to attempt to introduce the government as someone who will sell KIM to constitutional changes. Although the president has, many times so far, including during yesterday, and in previous days, made it absolutely clear and completely accurate, we will not accept the unilaterally declared independence of KIM, and we are ready for dialogue, we want to come to a compromise and fair solution through dialogue that will be acceptable to both sides, we respect the Brussels Agreement, we respect the Washington Agreement, we do not insist absolutely on anything, Serbia has respected everything that has been defined both by the Brussels and Washington Agreement. But what we expect is that the other side respects its obligations, especially when it comes to missing persons, and above all when it comes to forming a community of Serb municipalities. So all we could hear about today's change of preamble is notorious untruth, and I never understood why anyone even in this way had the need to oppose their country. Unfortunately, it is not a newspaper, nor is it for the first time in our political practice not to see the state's interest in the personal and partial interests of some political actors, starting probably from the thesis -- the worse for Serbia, the better for us. Such quasi politicians from the SPS parliamentary group, we absolutely never understood, quacking politicians whose state is not in the first place. We are facing today a concrete proposal from the Government of the Republic of Serbia to change the Constitution. For the sake of the public, I would like to reiterate and emphasise that the content of this proposal is not unknown to the public, because it has been spoken of in a transparent manner for a long time. So far, several public hearings have been organised in the National Assembly with the participation of the expert scientific community, with the participation of the NGO sector and from the highly engaged relationship between the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Dacic. The government's proposal, therefore, concerns the change of several constitutional provisions. These are Article 4. The constitution relating to the division of power, then members from 142 to 165 relating to courts and public prosecutors. Consequently, these changes are proposed and the provisions of Article 99 changed. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, jurisdiction of the National Assembly, Article 105. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the way of decision in the National Assembly, as well as the provisions of Article 172. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the election and appointment of judges of the Constitutional Court. So that's what we're talking about today, actually why we're starting the initiative, and in particular the amendments we're going to talk about at the next session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. After that, of course, follows a referendum, where the citizens will say what they think about changes to the Constitution. Therefore, the proposal for provisions that are being amended is quite clear that they refer exclusively to the judicial branch of the government. In addition to the proposal for a change of the Constitution, the government has given a broad explanation for each of these amendments. The point is to increase the independence of the judiciary through a change of ways, above all, the choice of judicial holders. This proposal reduces the election function of the National Assembly, i.e. the selection of judges from parliament, which has since the adoption of the Constitution been an observation by the Venice Commission which has expressed concern over the excessive role of parliament in the appointment of judicial officials. What is important in the context of the proposed changes to the Constitution is the positive position of the Venice Commission on the content of the changes, which speaks of the right direction of alignment of our Constitution with the communal law, i.e. with EU legal fluids. I won't deal with individual proposals, we'll talk about it, of course, when the time comes, when amendments are known. Today we are talking about the initiative we are launching, specifically when it comes to changing the Constitution, and I repeat again, in order to strengthen and improve, strengthen the independence of the Serbian judiciary and the efficiency of the judicial system in Serbia, and we will talk about amendments, I repeat, when the time comes. What I want to point out is that we need today as parliament to show the strength of the two-thirds majority and I hope far more than the two-thirds majority we need to continue our activities on constitutional changes. The result of parliament's work as a constitutional body should be a constitutional referendum and the adoption of acts on changes to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, the SPS parliamentary group will support this proposal in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-07-0.u7371	Thank you. The word is from the MP Jelena Žarić Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-07-0.u7372	Thank you, National Assembly President. Dear Mrs Brnabic, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, distinguished guests, the government of the Republic of Serbia submitted a proposal for a change in the Constitution in December 2020. At a session held on 6 May, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives discussed the proposal and found that it was submitted by an authorised promoter and in the prescribed form. It has been a formal moment since the deadline for the proposal to be found in the plenary before the MPs, more specifically the National Assembly had a deadline of not less than 30 days to schedule a session and to hear the views and all MPs here today on constitutional changes, in addition to, of course, that all MPs were able to attend the public hearings. Our activities, however, did not begin on 6 May, our activities began much earlier, early March of the month, first with a series of consultations with which the important conclusion was that we were all working together. Therefore, the Government of the Republic of Serbia as an authorised proposing, the National Assembly that is there to schedule a session, to set a referendum, to make certain decisions, to call a referendum, and, of course, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, which, in view of the constitutional provisions and provisions set out in the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, will eventually draw up a draft act amending the Constitution. Following a series of consultations, the Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee was on the agenda of the Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives on 16 April, when the prime minister and all the ministers present here presented the proposal. Also, the president of the assembly, as well as in all public hearings, took his contribution. At that time, at the session of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, we decided to start certain activities in the process of amending the Constitution, which primarily refers to organising different forms of debate, in order to give relevant, but also to all interested actors the opportunity to present their opinions and their proposals. I will remind you, and I have reason to do so, that after the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, we also had a press conference to get to know the public in the process of changing the Constitution, because of course we know and we are aware that the change in the Constitution is not only about the Government of the Republic of Serbia, it is about the citizens of Serbia who will eventually declare the referendum and it is our obligation for the citizens of Serbia to get acquainted with it, that is, with our activities. The press, of course, had the right to ask us questions. Every question they've asked has been answered. This is what I want to point out because we are always talking in this procedure about a high degree of transparency and public involvement from the very beginning of this process, and I am absolutely sure that this will be the end of this process. By supporting public hearings, and so far there have been seven, we have launched the widest possible public debate, the result of which should, of course, be to obtain certain useful suggestions and opinions from all stakeholders. The aim of these activities is also to achieve agreement on constitutional changes between relevant factors so as to know that these constitutional changes will be fair, efficient and above all long-term. To know if we were on the right track, we needed public hearings. In order to sum up these public hearings, it takes time and indeed, members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives all their time to devote, in particular to public hearings, but also to this subject in general because there is a great responsibility on the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law. I mentioned seven public hearings, three of which were held outside the seat of the National Assembly, so in order in Nis, Novi Sad and Kragujevac, as in the seats of appeals. Because of the measures that are in place because of the covida-19 public hearings are conceived so that there are more, but also in such a way that all interested factors in the process of changing the Constitution take part in the public hearings. Now I think we've already gained certain conditions that we might be able to schedule with all the factors that have participated in public hearings, and a public hearing that we're going to need a big joke, so hopefully in agreement with the President of the Assembly and with the Prime Minister that we'll be able to organize a big public hearing, where everyone will be invited here in the big hall. So, in addition to the Minister of Justice, I would like to say who was all called for public hearings, because I want to remove any suspicion that maybe someone was not invited to public hearing, President and Judges of the Constitutional Court, Supreme Cassation Court, Republic Public Prosecutor, Deputys, All Appealal Judges, Presidents and Judges, Economic Appealal, Criminal Appealal, High Council of the Judiciary, State Major Prosecutors, State Attorney, Justice Academy, also, Civilian Protector, Commissioner for the Protection of Equality, Commissioner for Information of Public Meaning, Agency for the Prevention of Corruption, Representatives of Bar Associations, Representatives of Professional Associations, Association of Judges and Prosecutors of Serbia, Association of Judges of Serbia, Forum Judges of Justice of Serbia, Association of Criminal Judges of the Republic of Serbia, Association of the Republic of Serbia, Association of Civil Society of Serbia, Association of Civilians and Civil Society of the EU, Associations of Civil Society of the EU, Association of the European Union and Civil Society of the EU, Associations of the European Union, Associations of the European Union of the European Unions of Laws of Laws of Laws of the European Unions of the European Unions of the European Unions of the European Unions of the European Unions of the European Unions of the European Unions of the European Unions, Associations, Laws of the European Unions of the European Unions of the European Unions of the European Unions of the European Unions of the European Unions of Justices of the European Unions of the European Unions of the Europeans of Justices of the Europeans of the European Unions of the European Unions of the Europeans of the European Unions of the Unions of the European Unions of the European Unions of the European Unions of the European Unions of the European Unions of the European Union of the European Unions of the European Unions of the European Unions of the Europeans of Justices of the European Unions of the European Unions of the European Unions of the European Unions of Justices of the European Unions of the European Unions of Justice of the European Unions of Justice of the European Unions of the European Unions of the European Unions of the European Unions of the European Unions of the Unions of the European Unions of the European Unions of the European Why am I repeating this? I repeat because this is how I start every public listening. I am now speaking to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia who I believe are following, and the question is whether everyone will follow public hearings in the organization of any committee of the National Assembly and I would like to inform all citizens of Serbia that on the subject of constitutional changes it has been called on to participate in all the professional public, taking into account absolutely all the actors in the area of justice, which, of course, concerns changes in the Constitution which, in the proposal and come from the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives will consider every proposal and every suggestion to get to the best solution, and I will take the opportunity to thank the guests today who from the balcony are following the session at their participation in our public hearings. The Republic of Serbia has been defined to go through Eurointegration. We want to be a full member of the EU and we want to meet the commitments we have made. In this regard, two documents -- the Stabilisation and Association Agreement and the EU's negotiating framework for Serbia -- are of particular importance to us. The proposed amendments to the Constitution are foreseen as an activity in the Action Plan for Negotiating Chapter 23, the judiciary and fundamental rights. The change of the Constitution in the area of justice is a condition for further reform in the area of rule of law, which represents the fundamental value of every democratic society and one of the EU policy priorities, but, of course, one of the priorities of the policy of the Republic of Serbia. The task of the Republic of Serbia was first to analyse the provisions of the Constitution relating to the judiciary from the points of view of European and international standards. It has been established that the provisions of the Constitution concerning the judiciary should be amended. The objective of the change is the positive effects expected in establishing, above all, a better system of proposal, election, transfer and termination of the office of judges, the president of courts, public prosecutors and deputy public prosecutors. Access to the judiciary should be made possible on the basis of objective criteria. The choice should be fair and transparent. Judges and prosecutors should have greater responsibility, as well as the High Council of the judiciary and the State's Major Prosecutors. Among other things, it will also affect the creation of a better judiciary. It is necessary to further specify the reasons for the resolution of judges and public prosecutors, as well as ways to evaluate their work, expertise, dignity, etc. The constitution guaranteeing the continuity of the judicial function would mean that there is no trial period of three years, which should raise their level of responsibility. The proposal submitted by the Government clearly states that changes must be comprehensive and clearly stands to amend certain provisions. First, it says that the provisions are not absolutely systematic, especially those relating to judicial authority. They are located in different parts of the Constitution and should be determined, in fact, by order of editing priorities. These are provisions relating to the continuity of the judge's office, the independence of the judge and the immutability of the judge. Further, inconsistencies may be observed between certain provisions. For example, in one provision, we see that the courts judge by the Constitution, the laws and other general acts, and when it is overlooked by the law, the general rules of international law and the approved international agreements, while secondly, the Constitution and the law, which indicates the need for the provisions to be changed as perhaps at first sight could be determined by the exact sources of rights of the constitution. When we talk about the provisions that are undermining, this refers to the lack of grounds for the termination of office and the resolution of judges, public prosecutors and deputy public prosecutors. It is also necessary to standardise the rules on the disciplinary responsibility of the judges. In its opinion on the 2006 Constitution, the Venice Commission concluded that it is a fine solution to which decisions on the termination of the judicial office are taken by the Supreme Council of the judiciary, of course with the right to appeal at the Constitutional Court, but it is also necessary to regulate it by the Constitution, not only by law. Furthermore, the objection to the current constitution is the name of the highest court - the Supreme Cassation Court, which is contradictory. The Supreme Court implies that the highest court in the case of legal remedy decides on the measure of the dispute, i.e. it can resolve the dispute, and the Court of Cassation does not involve such a decision, but only assumes the right to annul the judgment and return to a retrial and the name of the country's highest court should be determined because of this situation. When we talk about the continuity of the judge's office, on the one hand, the Constitution declares continuity, but it is also said that the person elected for the first time as judge is elected for three years and is believed not to have given the expected results. At the same time, the probation mandate has been criticised by both the professional public, the academic community and the Venice Commission and, in addition, the probationary mandate can bring down the independence of judges at some point if it is viewed as a type of pressure in terms of loyalty or obedience. On the other hand, it may lead to uncertainty, since the choice of permanent judicial office makes it uncertain, so that it should also consider abolishing the probationary mandate. In our constitutional right, the continuity of the judge's office is the standard of constitutional guarantee of judicial independence. This institute also has a long tradition, which we can see in the 1903 Constitution, for example, of the Kingdom of Serbia. We have now come up with perhaps a basic argument to amend the Constitution in the work of the judiciary, which is a space that can be used for the influence of the legislative and executive authorities on judicial authority, which would lead to the politicisation of the choice of judicial officials. According to the current constitution, the Supreme Council of the judiciary has 11 members. Therefore, there are the President of the Supreme Cassation Court, the Minister of Justice and the President of the Court of Justice and the State Administration and the Local Self-Government of the National Assembly as members of the office and eight other election members elected by the National Assembly. So, if we look beyond that, the National Assembly of Elections and members of the High Council of the Judiciary and Judges on a proposal from the High Council of the Judiciary. The Action Plan for Chapter 23 states that the choice of such functions should be independent of political influence, that criteria should be objective and the procedure fair and transparent. The election process should be conducted by the High Council of Justice and the State's Major Prosecutors and should make the judiciary more independent, but also more responsible. Before the entry into force of the systematic legislative changes in 2001, the choice of judges was in the exclusive jurisdiction of the National Assembly. The selection and setting of criteria procedure was in the power of the minister of justice. It can be said that there were opportunities for applying various political or party criteria. The 2001 court-law package also introduced the institution of the High Council of Justice as the sole authority to elect judges, which is separate from the executive authority. The 2006 constitution has taken a step further by introducing the Supreme Council of the judiciary and the State Major Prosecutors to be constitutional categories separate from the executive government, in order to significantly reduce the influence of the political and political parties on the choice of judicial holders and to create a particular professional circle that will objectively determine the criteria for choice, i.e. for the resolution of judges. In 2009, however, there is a reform in the judiciary, conducted by the Democratic Party, which was then in power, precisely with the aim of playing all these rules and putting the judiciary in the service of politics. We must always remember that Serbia's reform cost tens of millions of euros, and the consequences of today are also suffering both our judiciary and our citizens, who, in the end, were costing and were rarely the victims of a political orderly verdict. Finally, a formulation should be changed, which reads – the relationship of three branches of government is based on balance and mutual control, as this could mean that legislative and executive powers can control judicial decisions. So the point is that all three branches of government are pervading, checking each other or limiting each other, but they can't control each other. It is up to us to make the judiciary more effective, more professional, more independent and impartial. As you can see, and it is important that the citizens of Serbia know this, the amendments to the Constitution concern only the judiciary, no preamble nor Kosovo nor Metohija. We have entered justice reform, primarily because of citizens, because of our country, for which we want to be on the basis of democracy and the rule of law, we have entered for full membership in the EU, where we will be with countries that we can already mate with development in all areas. I therefore ask the MPs to support the procedure for changing the Constitution and the Serbian Government, which is also trying to set high standards in this area. In any case, today we are witnessing a historic moment that will certainly remember future generations as another effort to change for the better. The citizens will say the last word in the referendum, and I believe that the citizens will decide this time to move on incessantly. Long live Serbia!
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-07-0.u7373	Thank you. Before we move on to speakers on the basis of a list of MPs, I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Articles 27 and 87, and Articles 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure, the National Assembly is working today even after 1800 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to pass an act from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. By the way, I would also like to point out that the vote is scheduled to be around 6:15, 6:30 p.m. Dear Members of the People, and now, in accordance with Article 87. Rules of Procedure, I'm setting a break of one hour. We continue work at 3:10 p.m. Thank you. [[After a break.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we continue to work and move on to the list of MPs. The word is Samir Tandir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-07-0.u7375	I want to say that I am a member of the Bosniak people, that I was born here, that I am not even from where I came, that this is my country and that I want to make it the best place to live. Since 2014, it has been noticeable to repair the situation in all segments, when it comes to our society and our country and when it comes to the government that Alexander Vukic led at the time and now that Prime Minister Ana Brnabic is headed by the government. I want to point out that in 2006, I was a student and, although I was not politically active, I was against the adoption of the Constitution at the time in the way it was adopted and the way it was voted. I believe that what we are doing now is one good thing and we, as the Justice and Reconciliation Party, as the strongest Bosniak party, will absolutely support these amendments to the legislation and concerning the judiciary. I think we can talk about other segments, but it's not a topic today, and that's why I'm not going to look back on it. There's no perfect document, neither is the Constitution, he's prone to change. The times and challenges we face require the adoption of some new solutions. As far as the EU is concerned, it is our most important foreign political priority, it is a system of values that we seek, not because someone is conditioning us, not because someone is setting us up homework, but simply because we want to make the country we live in, Serbia, the best place to live. As for the amendments proposed, we believe that they are adequate and as far as the Constitution itself is concerned, although, as I said, there are some segments that we can discuss. I believe that the key thing that we have in both the Constitution and some other laws is implementation and when it comes to the official use of language and letter and when we have teaching in the languages of minority communities and when it comes to decentralisation, etc. What I want to point out is that the rights of minority communities over the past period have improved, that we no longer have the situation of our party's leader, Academyman Muamer Zukorlic, that someone is contesting elections for national councils, that there is open discrimination against one nation, that ministers directly participate in this discrimination. On the contrary, the cabinet of the Prime Minister, the president of the state and all ministers is open to all citizens and citizens, to the MPs, and I can testify. That's what I want to point out and work together to make this country the best place to live and that people can live politely from their work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-07-0.u7376	Thank you. The word is Vladan Glisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-07-0.u7377	I was proud in 2006, as I am proud today, because I voted with the vast majority of our citizens and our people for this Kostunica Constitution. Then, if you remember, perhaps for the first time in your life and perhaps the only time in your life and the blissful rest of the patriarch Paule voted for this Constitution. Today I am in the position of the constitutional defender, and I will vote against your proposals for change, not only because I respect the political legate of Vojislav Kostunica and for respecting Patriarch Pavle. I will vote first and foremost because I believe that, no matter what we have heard here, this is not the authentic will of our people and the need of our society. This is a dictatorship from Brussels. I'm sorry that the gentlemen of Brussels aren't here to hear what we think. When I say, I mean all those whose representative I am here, and they belong to the Serb people, and they disagree with your authority. This dictatorship from Brussels leads us to the fact that we have been going to Europe for more than 20 years without alternative, on a European path with no alternative, crawling towards this path to humiliate ourselves and disowning our sovereignty. One such example is the postponement of the Jasenovac resolution, which was submitted by the campers, and we postponed it so that we would not accidentally offend Croatia, because it could cause problems on the road to the EU. So, it's just one picturesque example that I'm going to talk more about tomorrow at a press conference, because I don't have time here. Now I want to talk about us remembering, no matter what I think about this Parliament's assembly, whatever we are, we are the only government elected by our citizens and the only ones who represent the sovereignty of our people and our citizens. In addition to us and the president of Serbia is elected, but if he were to stick to the constitution he would be much weaker in political terms than this Assembly. When we are the only authority this people chooses and can influence, which they can change tomorrow, it is absolutely amazing that we give up the right to control in the name of that people another branch of power called the judiciary. The story of the independence of the judiciary would have freshened 30 years ago, when we could still believe that there were independent media and independent judiciary. In this way, the judiciary will be independent of our citizens and our people, and it will not be independent of foreign embassies, not from banks, not from foreign corporations, not from party bosses, not from domestic tycoons and all those who make up those lobbies that do so well in Brussels. There are over 50,000 lobbyists there, and lobbying is a nice name for corruption and institutionalized, respected colleagues. What legislation has the Brussels Union left in our society, in our administration, in our judiciary? To remind ourselves that these fine gentlemen of the Brussels Union, they are those who belong to the policy that imposed on us the sanctions of the 1990s, which bombed us, their soldiers killed and bombed us, which in the 2000s demanded this form of privatisation that destroyed our economy. In these nine years, when you came to power, there was privatisation in the depths of society, so we got private forced perpetrators, instead of those executive departments in courts that took care of the property, those who were debtors, and they weren't only effective to skin off the back of citizens, so we got notaries whose fees are such that the poor people couldn't pay for it anymore. Then we got an emergency bill, i.e. The amendment of the Law on a litigation procedure that could have led to this, and there is still a danger that poor citizens who cannot pay taxes cannot even reach courts. This is all the legislation of the European Union and times – the European Union has no alternative. It's a privatisation of our judiciary, our judiciary. It is the privatisation of our administration, it is privatisation, because it is how the European Union works as part of the globalistic process and project of the political West. So I urge you to remember that we are the only representatives of this people here and that we should vote that this people can influence their judiciary and that is why I will vote against these proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-07-0.u7378	Thank you. The word is made by Prime Minister Brnabic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-07-0.u7379	Thank you. I really have to react to this, because something has been said that has really startled me, the honourable MP. I haven't heard this rhetoric in quite a long time from anyone and a few things that can't really stand. First, you say you voted proudly in 2006 for the Constitution, and that what we are now initiating and proposing is not the authentic will of our people but the dictatorship of Brussels. Now I don't know whose dictatorship was that in 2006 because no one was involved except a few people in writing these constitutional amendments. Our most called experts and most professional people were certainly not involved in writing this Constitution in 2006. We heard during the debate what some of our most famous experts, legal experts just said about the issue of the Constitution in 2006, which is an embarrassment, I think, to Serbia, which is known as a country of truly modern, advanced and freedom constitutions where in 2006, we get a constitution that our legal experts say is the most illiterate until then. We can't really blame it on our legal experts, we can't blame Brussels either, we can't blame Moscow, we can't blame Beijing, we can't blame Washington, we can't blame anyone else, except for the unserious and extremely irresponsible political elites at the time. There was then no public debate and public debate on these constitutional amendments. So no one is questioned, no judges, no prosecutors, no relevant associations, no relevant organisations, no civil society organisations, no political parties. So no one's been asked. Then there was that famous 48-hour referendum, how well I remember it, where I barely remember it, and people who know more than I do say, in extremely innovative ways that most of them came across. If you're proud of it, that's fine. Then I understand why you don't even support this whole procedure, and you didn't follow it. This isn't the dictatorship of Brussels. I will tell you, at least two reasons why this is not the dictatorship of Brussels, which I talked about with Minister Joksimovic and some MPs. First and foremost, constitutional amendments cannot be a dictatorship of Brussels, because if you look at different EU Member States, they all have very different models of how judges, prosecutors, whether executive power, sometimes exclusively the minister of justice, and some parliaments have an impact on how they are elected, so the EU does not have a single legal norm or legal property, but is relying on the practical services of the Venice Commission. So he wanted Brussels to dictate to us that our constitutional amendments would never have been able to do so. Another thing, keeping our sovereignty, but again I will talk about it later in my response, no one prepared this constitutional amendment to our professors when the government set out in this and initiated constitutional amendments, constitutional law. They were also further changed, built, written in a broad public consultation involving all relevant associations of judges, prosecutors, civil society organisations, international practice as a reference. We wrote and prepared and then consulted everyone else, as the Assembly is now consulting all over Serbia and Belgrade, and in Novi Sad, and Nis, and in Kragujevac and other cities. None of this happened in 2006. No one's been consulted. Where was the public debate? Who asked people or judges or prosecutors in Kragujevac or Nis or Novi Sad what they think of these constitutional amendments? So if you're already saying that something is not the authentic will of our people, I really don't think it's correct to say it in the context of when no people have asked, or relevant associations. This time it's different. As far as Europe is concerned, I am not here to defend Europe and the EU. I'm only here to defend Serbia, our citizens, our economy. You say that the EU's path without an alternative has led us to fail, that we are humiliating ourselves and sacrificing our sovereignty for the sake of the EU. I'd say nothing can really be further from the truth. So, firstly, Europe, or the EU, is 70% of our market, the markets of our products, the products that make citizens of the Republic of Serbia, our small, micro, medium-sized enterprises and family companies, and we did it because we have special connections with the EU, so we have practically and free trade or free trade agreement through the SAA. Also, over 70% of investments in the Republic of Serbia are from the EU, from EU member states. This is where many families of our people work who before we started reforming in 2014 were unemployed, because I will remind you, unemployment was over 25%, youth unemployment above 51%. We had the support of our partners from the EU, but we also knew how to use that support to create jobs and jobs for our people. Europe, when we hear here – there's this Europe, so I don't know which Europe. We belong to Europe, belong to it historically and geographically and traditionally belong to that Europe. Our choice is to be members of the EU because we think it is best for our citizens and for our economy. After all, when we have finished our negotiations, the citizens of the Republic of Serbia will give their final position on this. But to be told by someone who was proud of sovereignty during 2006 or 2007 or 2008 or 2009, what sovereignty when foreign ambassadors were elected to us at the time, whether someone could be in the government and who would be the coalition partners, or who would act as the ruling majority and coalition? Foreign ambassadors and tycoons. What was that state's sovereignty then? No one orders us today, no one determines what we will, as well as who we will do to ourselves, legitimately elected representatives of this country, therefore, of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia themselves. It is often heard in the world today, around the world, in many countries, that Serbia is one of the few countries in today's complex geopolitical circumstances, which has preserved and fully maintained its true sovereignty. I'm sorry that you don't share this view obviously, that view of things, but I don't think that the state of Serbia has had this sovereignty for a long, long, long time and I'm proud of it. Finally, let me repeat what I said at the beginning. We are not doing this for the EU. We are doing this for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. As you could hear from some of the MPs who spoke before you, many have other objections to some other members of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia that should change, to explain themselves because they were written as they were written, and many more professional than me people have said that the most illiterate constitution, as I said, is something that I could agree with to a large extent and that as a government we should certainly have in mind in the future. But we did this, first of all, as I said, for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and for the economy of the Republic of Serbia to correct some illogicalities, to make the judiciary that I am undermining is not only independent, but it is much more responsible, primarily for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and it is much more effective for the citizens and for the economy of the Republic of Serbia, and these are the three things that we need. Independently, yes. Not entirely independent of all three branches of government because they must be limited, restricted and controlled, but independent of the direct influence of the political and executive authorities, I hope, in the long run, to ensure that the judiciary is mertocratised, and not as it was in 2009, that the only criterion for the election of judges and prosecutors would be party political membership, so it was possible for 1,000 judges and prosecutors to change in two days. So that's the point, we have to do something that will speed up our judiciary. Because you're probably also witnessing that you've heard one million times one of our citizens or one of our sayers -- so what do I have to file a lawsuit when I'm gonna have 10 or 20 years of trial. And that's why we're changing the Constitution. Among other things. So, I think it will provide justice for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and that we are only doing it for them. Finally, whether it can affect the judiciary, you see there are mechanisms and the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, of course, is not completely excluded, the executive power is, but the Assembly is not. I don't know if you've read carefully at least what the Government of the Republic of Serbia did, and now it's up to you to accept it and to what extent you accept it, you're still changing, but the Serbian Parliament isn't completely excluded, because it's impossible. Because it is the Assembly that draws legitimacy from citizens directly, so that neither the judiciary can be independent of the executive authority nor the legislative authority and that it chooses, chooses and works for itself. So you may not have looked closely at the constitutional amendments. After all, to return to those, about 70% and the markets that make up the EU for our products and 70% or 75% of the EU-based investments. This has helped us to have a single-digit unemployment today, which is the only one in the region, that we have the highest salary in the region, that by the end of this year, hopefully, we reach Bulgaria as a member of the EU, in average salaries, but also that between 2012 and 2021, so if you want parallel to the European integration process that practically started in 2014 when we opened negotiations, we increase pensions 23%. So 23% increased pensions between 2012 and 2021, if you're looking at euros. If you're looking at dinars, 28% are increased pensions and ultimately that this year, it seems to me pretty much minimal to have our 6% GDP growth, which means, if you're counting on the Swiss formula that on January 1, 2022, pensions will certainly grow by a minimum of 5%. So an extra 5% will definitely grow pensions if we keep doing this, and we'll try to make it a little bit more. So, as I say, politics is one thing, political passions and acuity are one thing, economics and life is another. I think that the state of Serbia has set one or a course since 2014, which is best seen in economic indicators, although this is the hardest way, defends our sovereignty, protects and fights for the interests of citizens and the economy of our country, which is best seen in economic indicators, but is also going towards the EU as the best choice for us and finally preserves its traditional partnerships with both the NRC and the Russian Federation, but also with other countries, such as the USA, India, UAE, Brazil, Argentina, Turkey, etc. It is one clear direction, but at this point, certainly our strategic direction is the EU direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-07-0.u7380	Thank you. The word is from Ambassador Glisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-07-0.u7381	I will refer to this last thing you said about the path to the EU being justified, meaningful, and that 70% of our economic commitment is in many ways for the EU, something that is good. This could have been good provided it wasn't a geostrategic project that would require that we hand KIM over to Albanians. That would be good if it wasn't a geostrategic project that would require that we impose sanctions on Russia. That would be good if it wasn't a geostrategic project that just these days past the Dayton Agreement supported the election, someone if they were to be the governor of our people in Republika Srpska. So, in that sense, that's the problem. What you said as an advantage to that 70% of our commitment, it's actually a channel that you're going to suffer pressure in the coming days to accept all of this that you just said would ask of us. Then we'll be in a position to ask if we're for a better life or whether we're for sovereignty? This is what this constitution was at in 2008 a defeated policy that said Kosovo was the heart of Serbia, and in 2006 when it was passed this constitution were much less inclined to the geopolitical circumstances of our people than what you have today. You today have China that becomes the world leader in the economy, you have Russia that can help in many ways. We didn't have it all in 2006. In 2006, Putin had not yet delivered his Munich speech, which came a year later. So this constitution is not ideal and this constitution is worth changing, but in those things that are spoken of, these are some illogical things that can change. This constitution was the last defence and an attempt to preserve some statehood and sovereignty since they illegally took Montenegro away from us, while at the same time preparing to declare an independent state in Kosovo and all this has led to you today having a much better position that you could use, to find a replacement for those 70% of our public ties to the EU that is working against our interests. So that would be a serious state-of-the-art act.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-07-0.u7382	Prime Minister Brnabic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-07-0.u7383	Here's some more stuff. So you're saying a geostrategic project that's gonna make us give up KIM. That or-or it was never on the table, nor would we ever accept it, as we would not accept it or-or that it comes from either side because we love it too much, we respect it too much, we value our country too much and its free spirit. So it's never been, and it doesn't say anywhere. It says we have a long-term Stabilisation Agreement with Pristina. What this agreement means is that we will see it, but I think that most will never agree to it if you recognise Kosovo you can in the EU. That was never on the table. That's not on the table right now. These are some fantasy stories, fictional stories, myths that have no foothold in reality. No one ever said that, none of us ever asked. You have five EU member states that do not recognise the so-called the Republic of Kosovo. What do we do with them? That and them, with what you say, you humiliate them. So I don't know, I understand politically how you want to present it, but it's just not true. It is amazing what kind of alibi you give to the previous authorities, the destroying authorities, who are really, rightly, destroyed Serbia, quite so far, led unemployment to over 25%, led Serbia to fight Albania on average, and then Macedonia, today Northern Macedonia, led to bankruptcy, a few months from bankruptcy, and it is an incredible alibi that you give saying -- it's all according to the Brussels dictatorship. Robbery privatisations in 2000 were under Brussels's dictatorship, it's absolutely not true. It doesn't have any foothold in reality, it really doesn't have any foothold in logic, in the brain, it doesn't exist. So in 2000, they started robbing privatisations because then some state leadership went into such a kind of privatisation. In 2014, the Council adopted The government of Aleksandar Vukic, then my government, has shown how you can privatise something and ensure that this privatisation guarantees jobs for those working here, opens additional jobs and increases production and some of the biggest exporters from the Republic of Serbia. Here, "The Iron" Smeder is such an example for you. So, in 2000, you see the robbery privatisation, unfortunately I would say, for our country, it has nothing to do with Brussels. Let's say that Brussels ordered us to destroy our economy, but people didn't interfere, they didn't say or privatize, and don't, or sell to this one, and don't sell to that one. So, they didn't interfere, and unfortunately that's just us doing it. Our people, our government, our political parties back then, our political leaders destroyed the country, many families thanks to looting privatisations, not by someone's dictatorship, but because they were corrupt, greedy, boastful and sometimes ignorant. What does that have to do with Brussels? We have shown how this can be different and parallel to going, to move forward on the European path. What does Brussels have to do with Montenegro now? Wait, what were our authorities doing there in the then common state to preserve that union of Serbia-Montenegro? Absolutely nothing. Just like they did when Pristina declared independence without a referendum, without any basis in international law. What were they doing? Nothing, give a press release. So, believe all these things, they have nothing to do with Brussels, unfortunately. I say, unfortunately, because it would have been easier for me if some stranger had forced all of this on us. No, that's what our people did, our people in all their pride, our self-love, our love of money, our power, our corruption. They did it to their own country. Please, we're just not going to this really that these things are under Brussels's patronage because Brussels really had nothing to do with it. We did these things to ourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-07-0.u7384	Thank you. The word is Jadranka Joksimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-07-0.u7385	Thank you. The prime minister has very well explained all aspects, but simply as Minister for European Integration in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I have to react to one dictionary that personally bothers me about these dictatorships, indicates and other and counting patriotic blood cells whether you are for the EU, so you are a nepatriot or you are a great patriot, so you will undo everything that comes from the EU and Europe and thus prove your dogmatic nature, and I see that you are also experiencing the Constitution in a dogmatic way that has been a major problem long time in Serbia that exists. The Constitution is a document that should be in the modern world a living document that monitors reality, which tracks new paths, which sees what is and reflects what is best for the country. You know, the 2006 Constitution, among other things, if someone had asked me, I would have asked for much earlier to change and to respect the fact that Serbia had entered the accession process and had become an associated country in 2013. Serbia became the stage of a Stabilisation and Association Agreement in Serbia first in 2009, and then in 2013 in the EU, an associated country. It's a contractual relationship. It is something that should be reflected and reflected in the Constitution of a country. I guess that's normal. So we don't have to change every item of the Constitution whenever something changes, and the big and big things require, of course, that the Constitution as the highest legal act that gives the framework to the whole system really follows some changes and goes into step with reality. As far as judicial reform is concerned, that is, judicial reform. You know what, if you really think that we needed Brussels to point to problems that our citizens have been notifying for years – what do you see as the biggest challenge and problem in the country, in everyday life? For years it has been health care, corruption and inefficient justice. Then, of course, there goes the economic standard, for a time, now it's in the perception of people much better, but these are three topics that have been constantly challenging. Well, do you really think that Brussels needs someone to explain to us well whether the problem is inefficient justice and whether the 2006 Constitution has provided sufficient guarantees for independent justice and not? So it's not, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it' it' it's, it's, it's, it' it's, it's, it's, it''''' it'' it' it' it's, it' it's, it's, it's, it's, it''' it' it' it's, it' it's, it' it' He did not step forward with the essential reforms that were necessary, he had another goal, perhaps at that moment and justified, of which we can discuss, but, therefore, he left out the key segments of a transformation that is taking place in society. You mentioned privatisations, if I remember a good list of 24 privatisations came from the European Commission from the European Union, not that they weren't made by order of dictatorships, and, as we called them, Burzer's savage privatisations, but were not in the famous 24 privatization document that was recorded as a really big choice and corruption and poor transitions, so, bad privatisations, etc. I mean, you know, ideologically, it's just fine that you don't want to be Serbia's entry into the EU, that's your right. Your right and obligation is to explain to the citizens in a reasonable and objective way your position, whether they accept it or not, I would say they do not accept you because you are not the majority in this House. One responsible relationship to Serbia's future through the processes of European integration with all the problems it occasionally carries and with some difficult political decisions, which you mentioned, in the context of the Brussels Agreement, but I ask you again whether if there were no European integration you would leave aside the issue of Kosovo and Metohija and you would never do anything in terms of any sustainable dialogue, any conversation about it, because there is some reality that we do not like, but we want to protect our interests to come to some objective, sustainable, as far as it sounds phraseological, but that is so, objective and sustainable situation. So you'd let everything aside if life went by, that others would solve their strategic plans, set up their strategic trajectories, and we'd sit back and defend the 2006 Constitution. You, as some founder of the 2006 Constitution, are the only founder, as I recall, of that so-called Turkish so-called. The constitution and the struggle for freedom, the introduction of property rights, respect for the law, I mean some democratic principles at the time very significant. You've just turned a little bit, I think, a set of values in this constitution of yours. I don't mind, I'm glad to always pollute with someone who thinks Serbia's not a good path to the EU just wish I really knew what concrete arguments are. What you have stated is that it is not an argument, that you are confusing our citizens and that there is really no dilemma about it, and the citizens have shown that for one serious, serious approach. No one dictates anything to us, this is a voluntary process, so this is the process that you are going into voluntarily, and no one has forced us to talk to us like that, and I don't know how they talked to the predecessors who did this job, but I assure you that in the Government of the Republic of Serbia they always have an equally well-prepared partner, who knows what our national interests are, who also knows that our national interest is Serbia's membership in the EU. I consider it a great patriotism, and I do not allow, indeed, at least in my presence that everyone who advocates the EU and membership of Serbia to count our blood cells as patriotic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-07-0.u7386	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-07-0.u7387	I would answer for your allegations that the dictatorship of Brussels is the adoption of amendments and the addition of the Law on the litigation of litigation. It is absolutely not the dictatorship of Brussels, it is the insatiable need of the Republic of Serbia. We have come to the situation that in the first-degree litigation departments judges have 1,000 and 2,000 cases in work, that hearings are scheduled for a year and two days. It was simply necessary for us to act. It has absolutely nothing to do with Brussels and the dictatorship of Brussels. It is true that it is one of the items in the Action Plan for Chapter 23, but what the state of Serbia had to do, is to make one systemic solution to address the issue of judicial efficiency. It was in this direction that this draft for amending and supplementing the Law on Prosecution, however, that a specific situation occurred, instead of entering a public debate, in the normal course of the exchange of arguments, that public debate began to take place in the media, even some protests by lawyers occurred, there was resignation in Belgrade's Bar of Lawyers. It all went in one direction inappropriate for lawyers of that level of education. However, during all these events, in light of all these events, the ministry of justice responded, and the task force itself has reached one conclusion that it will withdraw part of the proposal on judicial fees. It gave up, for the purely reason it turned into a political issue, came out of the legal framework. Something that was discussed on one legal issue, the parexelans, all of it got a political framework, which it shouldn't have gotten. In this respect, the Ministry of Justice, or the Working Group, has waived these provisions of amendments and additions to the Law on litigation. It also immediately gave up the retroactive fact of certain provisions, all of which should have been aimed at reducing the number of cases in first-degree civil departments, as last month, the Supreme Cassation Court executed a delegation of 96,000 cases. It just wasn't a normal condition. It was necessary to react to the jargon's expression, to break off the first degree of the court's case, the third court and the Court of Justice in Novi Sad. However, this is not a system solution, we need to find a system, change the law by delegation of these cases in Serbia. The problem has arisen, and I have to point it out, and because of the citizens of this country, it is with these massive lawsuits in banking disputes. Here, I've received data that currently there are hundreds of thousands of cases of litigation at the Third Basic Court in Belgrade. Of those 100,000 litigation cases, 89 thousand are exclusively these banking disputes. So my position, and the attitude and the whole task force, that we will continue to go on changing this law. What we have achieved in this agreement with the lawyer is that in this Working Group working on amendments and amendments to the law, let us extend some more representatives from the bar, which will certainly contribute to this constructive solution to the problem. No one has the desire to ruin a lawyership, to disable them in any way in their business, but we must be aware that we as a state, in one system way, must prevent this abuse of procedural powers. In this regard, we continue with a public debate and it will last until the moment until the consensus is reached within both judicial structures and lawyers. In this regard, we have also invited lawyers, however, we cannot react nor can we negotiate with some extreme currents whose demonstration is the only option and the suspension of work is the only option. This is not the way to negotiate with the state, only argument and dialogue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-07-0.u7388	Thank you. Ambassador Glisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-07-0.u7389	I'll try to be brief. As far as the amendments to the Law on a litigation procedure are concerned, I'm talking about the atmosphere that led to it. So, you're all right about what you said, but the thing is that we don't have enough court interns, we don't have enough expert associates, and we don't have them amongst other things because there's been a transfer of certification from the court departments and that money that goes to the notaries, that they were put into court budget, that these people are employed, there would be a lot less cases. Why we have such a notary, which is, in fact, a public-private partnership, some kind of that, is the dictatorship of an atmosphere from the EU. It's this model of thinking, as well as forced perpetrators, it's all the opposite of what we once had as a state that was shaped towards man, not capital. Now, on the one hand, when we ask the question about the 2006, 2008 or 2012, I strictly kept mentioning Vojislav Kostunica and his group of people, because they were people who under these impossible circumstances struggled to preserve a certain level of sovereignty. Mrs. Brnabic, the Prime Minister, said foreign embassies were setting up governments at the time. What are these foreign embassies? It certainly wasn't the Russian and Chinese embassies. So if they're the Brussels embassy, then they're the ones who decided to say the G17 was the one who decided our privatisations. And there's a lot of G17 in your party, too. This is one continuity of one relationship that the EU has towards us, which is that it sees us as its colony, which, of course, will not give a dictatorship, because they do not dictate, are hypocritical enough to make recommendations as the Venice Commission, to tell us that the SPP will get a special status. I'm just saying, I haven't counted the patriotic grains for anyone. I'm talking about ideas. I'm not talking about people. I believe and say what I know that many people in the SNS think, that many people in the SPS think, and think that these changes are not in line with what we need. There's only one thing I'm talking about here, and this is about giving justice away from the control that people through their chosen representative body should have over those courts. Wherever the judiciary became so independent, it became independent of its people and the need for its population, and for the expense of the natural elites that function very well globally.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-07-0.u7390	Thank you. Let's move on. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-07-0.u7391	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we who deal with agriculture know that something is good at the plant, and that something is sweet has to mature the circumstances and that there is an air conditioning outside that will contribute to it. Premature harvest has never produced a healthy fruit. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think our judiciary, and this is what I think although I'm going to vote for this, but I don't think our judiciary has matured at the moment to give them total independence, given that the famous reform or deformity of the judiciary was carried out in 2008 and 2009. But I say I'll vote for it, because it's one of the conditions. In politics you often get, you get far more what others want than you think, so politics is a strange science and often you have to accept what others want, not just what you want. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, our judiciary is independent of this authority. There's no political pressure on the judiciary by this authority, I can almost swear. It's either in very small quantities or in small numbers. It depends on the former government and the political pressure of the former government. In 2008 and 2009, they almost established the court of their party. Their court has not been completely expelled from the machine yet most of their party's court is still trying to gain total independence and that the court judges other parties, or members of only other parties, but not those who sent them there. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have from the World Bank's research, which are, say, to begin with by citizens, judges or prosecutors. What does research say? What do the citizens say about courts? Who's jeopardizing citizens' trust? So they say this: corruption in the justice system 81%. That's what citizens judge, not me. It says: inadequate penalties for corruption 83%. What do citizens say about court personnel? It says 81% bad court shots. That's what the citizens say. What do the judges and prosecutors say? They say this - poor non-transparent personnel policy. Judges say 85%. So they know there's bad footage among them. Let's move on. They say corruption is 68% affecting the integrity of the judiciary. That's what they said. He says inadequate penalties for corruption in the judiciary. The judges themselves say 79 percent. That's what the judges say, for themselves. That's an argument to what I'm saying that we're going to give excessive freedom and excessive independence to change the Constitution to a court that's not matured for it. Here's what the World Bank says. According to research, the percentage of judges, who say the following sources tried to resort to illicit funds to influence their work. So, the illegal means of their work, the influence on their work, and they say this - lawyers. What I'm saying is that there are law offices in Serbia, especially in the province that often order judgments easier than drinks and burgers. We'll give them total independence. Says the lawyer's influence is 38%, 35% to 38%, say court employees 42%, so that's influence, sources and say they're illegal funds to affect their work. That's what the judges say. So employees in court are 42%, lawyers 35 to 38%, and ministries 5 to 6%. Therefore, there is no assessment of the pressure of today's policy itself, the judges say it is in very small percentages. Let me ask you, what about the influence of judges on politicians? What about that influence, is someone going to deal with it, what about Judge Majic? The man's a clean politician, so he's doing our job. It would be as if they were giving me judgments, and I believe they'd give me better judgments than he did. We certainly would not have freed a paedophile, and that is certain that they would not have set him free. It is certain that they would not release 11 Albanian terrorists who killed 80 people, and they certainly would not. We are not the ones who believe that the verdict was illegal, but was done by the VSS, or the Supreme Cassation Court, and the VSS never sanctioned the unlawful behaviour of the judge, Hadji Omerovic, and the mentioned Majic. The T-shirt's doing our job. What about the influence of the judges on politics? Do you know how many times they've told us what laws we need to pass? The constitution is the law of all laws. Do we agree on that? The constitution on the one hand stops excessive freedom of citizens, and on the other hand it stops power, that it cannot do what it pleases. But does this constitution stop judicial authority? It's stopping us. Does it stop the judiciary, because if we break something, the judicial authority says, you broke the Constitution, the law gives us back, which was often the case. So it's not the first time it's gonna happen, but who's stopping the judiciary, and we're tearing this thin thread off, to meet some conditions, and that's why I'm saying it's a very bitter grapes that we're going to have to eat in the next period. On this thorn, which is trampled by Jesus, by some judges, honor of exceptions, is not harvested sweet grapes, here must be bitter and resilient. What about Judge Majic? Did someone punish him? Look, here, so he says, a new demonstration of haughtiness in the Assembly and my picture. Look, this is on Cepris, on their portal, and what's excessively boasting on my part, so he says, the amendment and addition of the Law on Electronic Media, which I have submitted, and they say further, has entered the Assembly, that is, the procedure, and these are my powers. By the way, the law is estimated to be in line with European legislation. What else does he say? He says there's a danger of adoption, because Solak and the business are at the top of the whole business, and that's the ones that affect the judiciary the most. You know, Solak sued us. The influence of the law offices is great in the world. There will be a great danger for the state of Serbia, since it has black funds, it can affect in an unauthorized way in international courts not to give God a verdict. And the government has to be very careful about that lawsuit, because there are resources that you don't have. So neither are international judges, and The Hague is our best example, operated on by various authorised and unauthorized funds that Solak and Gilas can serve. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like this constitutional change to create a truly independent judiciary, to share justice and not injustice, to make the law equal for all, and when it protects and punishes, not only punishes the poor and rewards the rich, to truly be the same for all, as Beltazar Bogisic said - The law is for every law. But he said the following, that the greatest injustice is when one of the evils of his work has yet to benefit. Did they punish the one who benefited the most, and that is Gilas, and that is the Solak? They never punished it, nor will they punish it, because they were selected in that yellow workshop. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-07-0.u7392	Thank you. The word has Enis Imamovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-07-0.u7393	Thank you. The Honorable President, the Honorable Prime Minister, a member of the Government, has created the need for the establishment of the institutions of justice for every healthy society or for an individual for justice. The most important institutions for justice in a modern society are certainly judicial authorities, i.e. courts and prosecutors. They basically exist as a civil response to injustice so that individuals would not take justice into their own hands or interpret it freely. In such a concept of society, it is equally important to respect the equality of all citizens, as well as the independence of judicial authorities. When, as representatives of the Bosniak people of this country's citizens, we talk about justice, its position in constitutional matter, we must first ask the question - what is the status of the Bosniak people in the constitution itself today, but also the status of other non-Serb peoples in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia? Why is this an important question? All the judgments to be made begin with - in the name of the people. That's why my first question is in the name of what people? If we start with the first member of the Constitution, which primarily defines Serbia as a state of the Serbian people, what can be concluded here? In the name of what nation do the courts judge you? Does this mean that justice, righteousness, rule of law, identify and belong to only one nation? This is a question that brings us to the first reason why it is important, and why do we think it is necessary to come out of these frameworks of constitutional changes that the Government has made with this proposal? We also believe that it is necessary for the Assembly to use its constitutional powers and to extend this reform of the Constitution to as wide as possible matter as possible, in order to get a modern, efficient, modern constitution, to the extent that all citizens here live. Regarding the judiciary, Bosniaks are also important in the way the Constitution will ensure the equal participation of Bosniaks in these judicial institutions. Each report by the European Commission on Serbia's progress speaks of insufficient representation of Bosniaks and Albanians in judicial institutions, or state bodies with public powers. We have cases here that Bosniak candidates are challenged by the choice without any explanation, even though the Rules of Procedure are explicitly seeking an explanation. So, their name and name are listed, their choice is challenged, and that's it. They're under the impression that they're only being challenged because of their name and name. So, to us as representatives of the Bosniaks, the first priority in reforming the Constitution, including the judiciary itself, is to return to the Bosniaks the status of the people. This is especially important because Bosniaks in Serbia, and primarily in Sandzak, are an indigenous European people. We're on our own here. We didn't come from anywhere, nor do we intend to go anywhere. We don't depend and ask for no one's help, no protectorate, we're only looking for what the Constitution and the laws allow us to do. No less, no more. If we are already entering changes to the Constitution that require a referendum, such as judicial reform, we think it would be useful to use this referendum to come together to a new, modern, more efficient constitution, because we as a country have no more time to wait and delay these reform processes. We're born of new generations, they're standing up and leaving. All go -- Bosniaks, Serbs, Albanians, Croats. So our constitutional system reforms must respond to this problem, they must answer that question. As representatives of the citizens of Sandzak, all the citizens of Sandzak, we also believe that it is necessary to approach effective regionalisation. The most important thing for us is to define Sandzak as a new autonomous province, which also allows the Constitution, existing and valid, in its Article 12, which says the state government is limited to the rights of citizens to the province and local self-government. This right also gives Article 182, paragraph 3, which says new autonomous provinces can be established, existing abolished, merged, etc. The establishment of autonomous regions with its special status and recommendations of Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe Resolution No. 1985 of 8 April 2014, which says and recommends establishing these special statuses of autonomous regions as conflict prevention, such as conflict resolution and the resolution of many socio-economic problems. This resolution makes it clear that the existing and newly formed special statuses of autonomous regions have given positive effects in both the regions and the whole countries in which they were founded. So autonomy is the constitutional, legal and legitimate right of all citizens of Serbia. That right should belong to all citizens, no matter where they live or how they plead. I don't want to believe that there are two groups of citizens -- the ones who have the right to do so, who have the right and use it and other groups of citizens who are not even allowed to think about it. The concept of autonomy is, and every definition of it, as a kind of territorial arrangement of a state. Each other's interpretation is a malicious substitute for thesis, which essentially has the task of creating a public retreat to this idea, and among those who claim to use this right, to hesitate or discourage them from that idea. So, in short, we in Sandzak want to decide on our own issues that are important to our lives, so all policy issues, science, culture, economy, health care.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-07-0.u7394	Just to let you know that your time is up. Since you started short, you should have left immediately.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-07-0.u7395	If we can continue the discussion with a civilized tone to come up with an exchange of views, we will be very grateful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-07-0.u7396	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Gordana Comic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-07-0.u7397	Thank you. No one happier than me if this dialogue allows enough replicas to complete what you want to share as an attitude and those you represent to the political and general public of Serbia. So, a few remarks. One, first, perhaps as rhetorical as your question was, since the name on the verdicts "in the name of the people" stems from a period when there were defined and nationalities, so if no one was interested in why it does not say "in the name of the people and peoples" and if everyone knew that this was about state sovereignty to which the judicial system belongs, then you have the answer for today for all judgments. If you want within the Assembly, I am at your disposal to organise a public hearing on the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, on the Committee on Justice, wherever you want, on the Committee on Human Rights to elaborate on why it bothers you to read the judgments "on behalf of the people". This is where it is spoken of and your participation is more than desirable to clarify what it means "in the name of the people", since when it stands in our judgments and why it does not say "in the name of the people" or when it is introduced, and today it is difficult to write "in the name of the people, national minorities and citizens". So, as much as I say, my answer is as rhetorical as your question. As for the EU Report, we also closely follow the EU Report, with gratitude, especially critical remarks, since they are tools, a guideline for each government and each Assembly, which is what you need to change for the better with very often well-intentioned representatives of the European Commission or the Council of Europe or the EOBS, who tell you how to change for the better. It is possible that my personal failure, but in official reports, I did not find the information to name Albanians and Bosniaks as people whose representatives are missing in local self-government public services, in the judiciary, in the police, in the military. What I have come across is our Law on National Councils, which the state of Serbia itself has committed itself to representing national minorities at the level of local self-government, agencies, public services, police, judiciary, military, all because it is normal, because it is natural, because it is, apart from being a clear message, what the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights and Social Dialogue advocates, that anyone who thinks that minorities in Serbia is looking at patronizing, and not equally, immediately of that. If we are even, then we should also be in state bodies, institutions, agencies, public services for which we pay the tax equally, whether we are a majority or a minority. With the process of presentation, the ministry has decided on a social dialogue that will take place during July to represent representatives of national minorities everywhere. The first dialogue is in the media, public services. Others will be in what public policy services are and in time you will be informed and asked to participate because Serbia has evidence that it wants minority representatives above all. The evidence is members of Albanians -- not enough, Bosniaks -- not enough, Roma -- particularly insufficient. So when you have members of the Roma national minority equally educated, equally professional, then you will very often hear from many – don't hear from him, Rom is, don't from her, Roma is. But you also have Judge Roma and I know that all representatives of national minorities are very closely following whether this law is being applied and is an excellent part of the dialogue to warn us where it is missing. Not as a percentage, it's not just about whether the percentage of Bosniaks' presence is relevant in the territory, it's about whether the law applies. That's what this is about. You also have reverse cases in local self-governments where your minorities are an absolute or relative majority, that you do not then have representatives of the majority people. Of course, because they don't know the language, because they don't want to hang out with each other. So, simply, the way of life is organized that you have to have a law that would give people a message that they should be humanised and that they build a culture of human and minority rights, that equality before the law is understood. If we want to assess whether there is success or a shift in this and how much Serbia has changed, how attached it is to the culture of human and minority rights, I would be very pleased to talk about this in relation to the time period of 10 years, of five years, of 30 years or 50 years from the time we lived in the environment of people and peoples. The identity that, for now, both by law and by the way the Bosniaks went to the national council elections and as they plead, is such that they are called a national minority by law. All the political representatives of the Bosniaks, what the National Council of Bosniaks wants to possibly change in the law, are more than welcome to open dialogue within the ministry, and you and anyone else, as we have a special dialogue with the Roma national minority, because they have a previous step, a strategy to involve Roma in all sectors of life, and then the status on which they are, because the indigenous people living in Sandzak, in Serbia forever. The Bosniaks, by nature, have what is the autonomy of the National Council for Culture, Information, Education and Official Use of Language and Letters. The part also produces problems on the ground because the Bosniak National Council, by all rules governing their autonomy in areas defined by the Law on National Councils, addresses some authorities and then because of the word "Sandzak", which is a natural word for members of the Bosniak national minority, returns with a remark that it should be called differently officially. And there can be conversations about it, because I read the papers about how I'm a minister, so I don't return the papers to anyone. You know, I'm not a minister, I'm a minister, because the minister said and said, and it can't be said that Minister Comic said, because I didn't "pronounce" but I "pronounced", so I don't return the papers to anyone, what do I do? Let me explain to you a little bit that the structure of the language of the state administration is not directed against the Bosniaks, so if you get what communication is with your position about wanting to be a nation, not a national minority, and that Sandzak is written everywhere, that this is a topic for dialogue, and that is not a topic for constitutional dialogue. This is the topic of applying the rights of national minorities that are defined. If you want to amend the Law on National Councils, and for that you are more than welcome with the initiative how to change, but so also other national minorities or ethnicities, if you want to call yourself so in the future, indeed agree. It's an idea run by the state administration that's written with you when you say it rightly -- my name is, I live there, and this one says the language of the state administration is like this. It can hardly be an obstacle to our language to harmonize our lives and live together. In the end, only two remarks that everyone has the right to territorial autonomy. By chance, I've lived and my family for the last 300 years, as far as I know about my families, we've lived in territorial autonomy and territorial autonomy of Vojvodina, which is a state of mind, it doesn't bow down to the Constitution, you live it every day, you live it by knowing two or three languages, you live it by going to bilingual schools, you live it by having two Christmases and two Easters, and your first neighbor is always there, whatever religion and nations you never ask anyone who believes and nations because it's a state of mind to look for each other similarity, and not different. It cannot stand in any constitution, but it can stand in dialogue on the way of life, on proposals across Serbia that people across Serbia want to decide in the future in this Assembly on territorial autonomy, on autonomy in general, and then propose it for future constitutional changes. All kinds of criticism and remarks you made on the Constitution that is in force exist because it was missing or missing. It will be up to you to choose whether there will be a future dialogue on the application of existing laws and existing solutions from the Constitution, much more than what your assessment implies that, based on the misapplication of existing laws, you consider that new constitutional solutions should be done. I don't mind, time and place. This Serbian government, I think, has shown enough openness for every kind of proposal, for every kind of dialogue, for a dialogue that is not limited, because this Serbian government knows it has to prove it does what it thinks. If there's a perception in you that it's only for the majority people, you have the right to this perception. Unfortunately, there is a lack of facts. Minority, all minorities in Serbia have the rights set out in the law, written in the Constitution, and your job is on both the national council and political representatives to hold responsible those who apply the law so that there is indeed law enforcement and evidence that solutions are good in the laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-07-0.u7398	Thank you. I would ask you to return to the topic, since the issue of national minorities is not at all the subject of these constitutional changes. On the other hand, let's not fool ourselves that Enis Imamovic does not know what it is. Of course he knows and knows what it's about when it comes to the people and that when people say it, you can think about ethnos, and you can think about it, like in this case, demos, or population. And it is not said that democracy is, in vain, the rule of the people. No people are said in ethnic terms, but that's not the point now. I think this is just to keep what we're about to say, and I think we're all aware of that. But this isn't a day for that. That's why I appealed at the beginning. Speaking of which, now Minister Comic reminds me to ask the government to come born equal next time, because indeed, the only man you've put in the ranks of a counselor is down in the second row. Enis Imamovic has the right to reply. Then I'd like to ask you to move on.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-07-0.u7399	Thank you, Your Honor. So it was just the subject of my clarification. So when we speak on behalf of the people, we ask that this Constitution, during its first reforms, accept all the peoples living in Serbia as equal peoples and equal citizens. So, not to create citizens of the First Order and the Second Order, as it is now created in this Constitution, to remove any ambiguity. That was our request. So there's no need for you to educate me, what, how, in the name of what people. I didn't say I object to the beginning of the verdicts that say they're being made on behalf of the people. You may have misunderstood that, you certainly misread it. So my goal was to give the people I represent the same status as all other peoples living in the Republic of Serbia. And I want my people to feel that judgments are made on behalf of the Bosniaks, not on behalf of the Serb people and all others living in the Republic of Serbia. So, secondly, you said another interesting thing, when you say that autonomy can be sought when autonomy begins to live. We've been living autonomy in Sandzak for centuries. Three religions and five nations live in Sandzak in harom. We're great neighbors to each other. We are equally proud of our cultural and historical heritage and Orthodox people, Orthodox faith and the Serbian people and the Albanian people and the Bosniak people and the Montenegrin people. So that's our tradition. In Novi Pazar, we are equally proud of the Altun-Alem mosque and Peter's Church and the Giurdje's Pillars.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-07-0.u7400	Thanks, buddy. Time's up for your two-minute replica. We're moving on.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-07-0.u7401	If that's an element and it's proof that we belong to autonomy, then we already have more rights than you have in Vojvodina. But it's unclear for us that Vojvodina can... [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-07-0.u7402	Comrade, please respect your time. The next speaker is Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-07-0.u7403	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mrs. Brnabic, I am a National MP at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. As a National MP in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I represent all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, no matter what part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia, regardless of their people's belongings, regardless of their religion or other belongings. That's probably how every MP in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia should think. Mrs. Brnabic, it is a state-of-the-art indignity if some MP is elected under this Constitution and represents citizens under this Constitution, this Constitution applies only in the part that suits him alone. There is no selective application of the Constitution, as there is no selective application of the law. The constitution applies to everything and the law applies to everything and is applied equally, and we need to clear that up right now. That applies to some of my colleagues. We can discuss whether we are a civil or a national state, but we forget if we delete this, that we are primarily a state that has its own territory and a people who have built it and become only a civil state, then we no longer have national minorities, because there are no people who are majority. Well, when they decide to weigh, let them weigh it all the way. We had one civil state, when it was forbidden for me to be a Serb and for them to plead by any principle, we were just citizens. But I think we're historical, we're mature enough, it's a time we don't need anymore, and we need to build a new, modern society where we all have the same rights. I accept that members of nations who are minority nations have even more rights, which is seen by our laws, above all by the electoral law, because members of the majority people must achieve censorship in order to sit in the National Assembly and the votes of citizens of the Serb people whose list does not get 3% less worth but whether citizens for whom national minorities have declared themselves and had only a natural threshold. What's autonomy? For autonomy, there must be territory and, by some act, it must achieve that autonomy. Are local self-government a form of autonomy? They did. So why don't they use these instruments that they can't afford to exercise their rights and aspirations on their territory, which are guaranteed to them, above all, by the Constitution, and later by law. It seems to me that we've passed the law along the territorial division between cities and municipalities. That's why I'm saying we can't apply some act to half. We are now initiating a procedure for changing the Constitution and is referring to a part relating to a serious part of the arrangement of power. To be clear, the state government is indivisible, sovereign and unique in the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia. Furthermore, in Articles 2 and 4 we have indications of the start of the arrangements of the authorities, as in this Constitution which is present and valid and so under attack is arranged. But I must remind some that those who most attack the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, today, what is it, and those who most attack the procedure of changing the Constitution in one part, to ask the question – and how has the constitution of the SRJ been changed? Does anyone remember? Violent, constitutional. 176 thugs came to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and said – The constitution brought by some citizens no longer applies. And now they're telling us how we need to change the Constitution. Do you know what their explanation was? The Constitution of the SRJ shall not apply to one member, i.e. in Montenegro. According to that same logic, those who attack us will give up Kosovo and Metohija, according to their logic, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia cannot currently apply to the territory of our southern province. Does this mean that we need an ad hoc, as we say, it has nothing to do with Serbia anymore because we can't enforce our laws there? That's how they changed the constitution during the former regime. How did they apply the present Constitution? We are having a debate on what level of independence, independence should be given to public prosecutors and judicial functions, and this is not only being debated by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, but also by the professional public in order to finally come to the proposal for a text of amendments that would be the most qualitative and most possible to respect all of this, as regards Article 2. The Constitution and Article 4. The constitution, which refers to one part of the government's arrangement and not to violate the fundamental rights of the Constitution as science and civil state. That's what's on our mind. And how did they change that? How'd they apply it? We have determined that MPs are the holders of the sovereignty of citizens in the last elections and that this sovereignty has been passed on in the election of prosecutors, some of the sovereignty has been passed on to them, as far as I understand myself in that area, my knowledge is really modest here, and on this basis they have been passed on these judgments, it is appreciated what is valued, motionful procedures etc. I am not going in, and yet this sovereignty of the citizens is being annulled in 2009, not by the MPs, but by one authority that had no right to do so on behalf of the National Assembly, nor could it, but that is why Mr. Gilas and the Solak team cleaned up all the judges and prosecutors as it suits them. We are being attacked by one part of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Let's see how they applied it and how we apply it. Article 2 says – no state body, political organisation, group or individual can claim sovereignty from citizens, nor establish power beyond the free will of citizens. Article 2. 2. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Now I ask the question – did the DS take decisions at its meetings of its party bodies who should be the prosecutor or judge? Yes, it is. My fellow MPs have even read and shown this, all nicely, neatly, with a seal certified, signed, that one party past the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, besides the will of the citizens, refers to a letter based on a part of the law that is not at all in agreement with the Constitution, on which one other state body decides which judge, although elected by the National Assembly, and this same state body determines who will be the re-judger, or that re-election is carried out. Is this not the usurpation of power beyond the will of the citizens and past the bearers of the sovereignty of the citizens? Yes, and today we are most attacked by these changes to the Constitution, that they are not democratic, that they are not conducted with a serious public debate because they consider the most important asset deleted, even though they knew it would not be the subject of the debate of these amendments. They're very sorry, Mrs. Brnabic, that the National Assembly is not discussing the preamble. They're very sorry. They would like Serbia to lose Kosovo. They'd love it all the time as if they were doing it. They did it all the time while they were in power. They don't care at all about judicial and prosecutorial officials. They don't care at all that the rights and freedoms of citizens increase, that we make a normal developed democratic society. They only have one goal to cloud, kidnap, cheat and be richer. That is why I expect both the judge and the prosecutors who have already been elected and the ones we will choose, I hope, will be elected under the new provisions of the Constitution and the law, to finally end with those in Serbia. You know what, I started the discussion that the state's power is indivisible, sovereign, unique because you, as Prime Minister or Minister of the Interior, can't do anything without a prosecutor's office that is part of the executive government, but the prosecution can't do anything without a judge, and the judge can't do anything without the National Assembly. This is where the sovereignty is seen, and that is where the unity of power is seen. The former unity of the government was in a political party called DS, led by, among other things, Dragan Gilas, even boasted that it was an DS institution. One political party is an institution only for its members, the state is an institution for all its citizens, and they have always forgotten it and have always done exactly the opposite of what they should do in the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I think the step being taken around the Constitution's initiative to change the constitution is a very brave thing because you will always face the fierce resistance of those who would return to Serbia in the decades that preceded our coming to power and who were during their rule. Their wish is for that time to come back again. If you have judges and prosecutors that no one can influence, and only one small part of the surveillance has, I say, the National Assembly during their appointment, you set up institutions that work on their own, and when you set up institutions that work on their own, a large number of criminals and tycoons will answer to the law. I guess that's what constitutional reform is all about. I guess that's the goal of every law we've passed in the National Assembly, which is that they're all equal before the law, and whoever breaks that law has to answer and bear the consequences.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-07-0.u7404	Thank you. The People's Messenger George Komlensky has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-07-0.u7405	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Mrs Brnabic, Prime Minister, Honored Ministers, Mrs Komic and Mrs Joksimovic, distinguished colleagues, after a good analysis of the consistency of all inconsistencies, contradictions and inconsistencies arising from the very text of the Constitution, which was written in 2006, then the Rules of Procedure on Labour, following the public debate from 2018 to today, listening to the opinions of many colleagues and professors, I am not in a position to present my opinion at the very beginning today in a different way. My opinion was that the promoter was obliged to deliver, in addition to the amendment proposal, the normative part of the change, not only to propose changes and reasoning. What we have in front of us today can most of all have status, possibly initiatives to change the Constitution, but the status of the proposal can't be. Since the motion cannot be an MP, as a single one, but the proposing can be the President of the Republic of Serbia, the Government, 150 thousand citizens or at least a third of the MPs, which is the only indisputable specificities of the Constitution's procedure in relation to the law-making process, these provisions are also the right of committees, and the Constitutional Affairs Committee to be deprived of the right to participate as the creator of the text when it comes to the Constitution. Provisions of the Constitution, Art. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Rules of Procedure, the level of possible proposings has been raised to an extremely difficult level, subject to stricter conditions for the appointment of a session of the Assembly, with the prescribed minimum period of 30 days, as the fastest time limit for a session, two-round decision-making, i.e. a statement or even three rounds depending on whether the text goes to a referendum or not. The qualified majority of two-thirds of the Assembly for the adoption of the proposal, as well as the conditional qualified majority of the committee, as a majority of the total number of board members, and not members present at the sitting, etc. So it's absolutely illogical and unacceptable that for a change in the Constitution, far lower standards are set, than for, if I may allow myself to say, for ordinary and other laws. The existence of a constitutionally established proposal for the amendment of the Constitution, with such high authority and legitimacy, indicates that the Constitution not only empowers them, but also obliges them to, except by pointing out to the National Assembly the need for a change in the Constitution, but also obliges them to submit normative, concrete changes to which the National Assembly will declare. So, like I said, I really think that in terms of the constitution that we have today, and that's the only one that we have, this can't be treated with an adequate proposal to change the Constitution. Although the long-standing media preparation that all the evil work in the judiciary has come out of the National Assembly has done its part, I can clearly and unequivocally say that it is simply not true or Serbian said it is a pure lie. Sometimes, though, the lie repeated a thousand times begins to look like the truth, but the truth is completely different. The lack of judicial work is due to the ignorance and incurable and incurable consequences of the 2010 re-election. I can talk about this all day, but I think we've talked about this too many times both in this home and elsewhere, there's no need to repeat it. What really needs to be pursued is the independence of judges in the work and decision-making, and that, however drastically, sounded a completely different matter than the quasi of judicial independence. Although this may at first sound strange to someone independent of the citizens, it will only reduce the independence of judges in their work and decision-making, thus reducing the justice, justice and legality of the decisions they make. So the thesis has been completely replaced, and under the alleged independence of the judiciary, in fact, the full alienation of the judiciary from the citizens of the Republic of Serbia on whose behalf judges are being pushed. So I can tell you that my absolute position is that the National Assembly must remain competent at least to make the first choice of judges, to elect the President of the Supreme Court, to elect the Republic Public Prosecutor, to elect members of the VSS and the State Council of Prosecutors, and that even if the Assembly does not execute the election, no one else has the right to do so for her, and especially those elected by the Assembly. With the simplest explanation that it is the only way to have the right to judge on behalf of the people and the fact that the balance in the present Constitution is well balanced, which is that the Assembly may not choose someone proposed by the VSS or the State's Major Prosecutors, but cannot choose someone in which these two authorities in which judges and prosecutors have an absolute majority do not propose. No five or as many delegates or prominent lawyers in the VSS can replace the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and will never properly represent the will of citizens and have the right to transfer power on behalf of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Calling on the EU's views and proposals defined either through the EU itself or the Venice Commission on the issue under the "introduction of European Standards", simply I cannot, nor would I accept as relevant here for what reasons. Do we still believe in any word or written promises from the Lord of Brussels, and these are the same gentlemen who, by their signature in 2013, guaranteed the establishment of a Community of Serb municipalities on KIM? It's 2021 today, and it's nothing. The European Union has guaranteed, and we now need to expect that, based on an agreement, which does not guarantee anything, we expect that what has verbally told us will happen. We have too much of the sovereignty of the Republic of Serbia with such constitutional changes for something that is absolutely uncertain. In coincidence, I do not believe what I think is by any chance a mere coincidence is that almost everything that is going on at the Tehran Conference, and written in the Churchill Memoirs, especially in the Fifth Time, called "The Ring is tightening" is today to be fully matured as a long-term plan that is at the end of the realization. The best and most summed up about it and the simplest thing is to read it, because this is, however, extensive literature, in his book "Novostaska čedina" says Petar Djadzic when he calls for an analysis of Sava Kosanovic, otherwise to remind him of the man who brought Tesla's legacy to Serbia, which is that Churchill planned and left in an amanet projection of a new Europe suffering for the destruction of the Austro-Hungarian monarchy, making a practical strategy for creating three regional federations. It is common knowledge of what Churchill thought of Serbia, and he brutally said it in every place, but not to remind you, probably we all know it well enough. The three regional federations, according to his plan, were meant to be Scandinavian, clear, who and this should take over, the Podunavska to which Bavaria, Austria, Hungary, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Croatia, Vojvodina, BiH, the Balkan Federation where Serbia would enter the Nedic borders, Bulgaria, Romania, something like Montenegro and Albania. Dear ones, considering that such constitutional solutions have so far been accepted by Romania, Bulgaria, Croatia, Montenegro and that somewhere in the EU but in Portugal, we cannot really talk about any European rules, but about Balkan rules. Any similarity to the predictions and plans in Churchill's memoirs, for which he otherwise won the Nobel Prize, is absolutely intentional to me. After all, dear colleagues, as long as tomorrow as we will not be in session, we will have the opportunity to closely monitor the verdict of Ratko Mladic, to see how much truth there is in all of what I am saying today, once again we will get confirmation of how much rights and justice there is in the game that simulates the trial before a quasi-judgment who only has the task of humiliating us and declaring us a people who are allegedly responsible for the fictional genocide and who are so hearing someone's undeniable responsibility for the 20th century genocide. Dearly respected, this procedure, which we are talking about today, is not the right procedure and will by no means lead us in the right direction, and unconditional acceptance of Balkan rules or will lead us into the EU, nor will it increase the independence of judges, nor will it be better for the citizens of Serbia, and for this reason I cannot vote for such a proposal today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-07-0.u7406	I thank my colleague. The word has been made by the People's Messenger Dejan Kesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-07-0.u7407	The honourable prime minister with ministers, the Honored Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia, discusses the amendment of the Constitution as the highest legal act of one sovereign state is, above all, a great honor, responsibility, but also a commitment for all participants of this responsible dialogue. The very change of the Constitution or some of its parts, and in this case the parts of the judiciary, in itself, bear a high degree of responsibility. And that responsibility lies also with the Government, as the mandated promoter and the National Assembly, as the highest legislative body and MPs and representatives of the civil sector of the judiciary, as well as representatives of the non-governmental sector. And that responsibility existed and that responsibility will exist during the whole process of changing the Constitution, because only so can the citizens of the Republic of Serbia expect the process of changing the Constitution to be justified and legal. But the principle of legality can only be realized if the process of change of the Constitution is objective, transparent and impartial. That fact is supported by the fact that the relevant Assembly Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law has organised a large number of public hearings, showing a clear desire and the intention that all relevant factors can express their reasoned views, and attitudes are very important. They are primarily important for specific issues of crucial importance for the Republic of Serbia and for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, to receive concrete proposals on how to improve the area of justice and the work of judicial authorities. The jurisdiction of the judiciary forms a pillar of an orderly and democratic society. Human relations we certainly cannot edit and they are left to individuals to edit them. But what the state, the competent authorities and the competent institutions can certainly do, is that certain behaviors are under the law of defined norms. And we wouldn't have legal traffic without it. Without that, we would not be able to clearly conclude what is allowed and what illicit conduct would not have a clear legal order without it. But what certain behaviors are standardized is exactly the law. And these laws are subject to the Constitution, as the highest legal act of a state. And this is exactly what we can draw from the conclusion that the Constitution, apart from being the highest legal act, and I would say on the one hand, is a political act, it is just the backbone of a sovereign and democratic state. In 2006 The Republic of Serbia has received a new Constitution of the Republic of Serbia through the will of citizens at the referendum and attestation in this House of the National Assembly. But 20 years ago, we decided to go clearly through Eurointegration. And on that path of Eurointegration, we have shown that we have both been a serious and responsible partner on a comprehensive pathway of Eurointegration, but we have also shown that we have been and will be a serious and responsible partner to all relevant European institutions. And that's where we worked really responsibly and diligently. Since 2012, we have made huge successes on the path of Eurointegration, but in order to complete this process with the highest marks, with the highest success, we have to pass laws, we have to adopt sublegal acts and we have to regulate certain behaviours. But the best mechanisms to regulate certain disputed behaviours, so he has the judiciary right now, and they have the courts, and they are strictly being called upon by the laws in that process. In 2013, the Republic of Serbia adopted a National Strategy relating to the judiciary for the period from 2013 to 2018 with five clearly defined principles – non-transparency, objectivity, expertise, more efficient work of courts. The National Strategy provides for the need to change some parts of the Constitution, so that they do not get, or that it would not later happen, and what happened in 2009, if we had the influence of the legislative, executive authorities and the direct influence of political parties in selecting certain judges and prosecutors. It is also important to establish the position of the Judicial Academy in which the professional training of judges, prosecutors, deputy prosecutors and future judicial associates is carried out in courts. And this necessity has been established by the National Strategy from 2020 to 2025. The adoption of the Constitution in 2006 was preceded by drafts of the future text of the Constitution, and in June 2005, the constitutionalists, who were the people close to the then Democratic Party, requested the opinion of the Venice Commission, i.e. in the part of the Constitution relating to the judiciary. And the Venice Commission then gave its criticism. A certain part of the criticism has been incorporated into the text of the Constitution, but unfortunately a large number of criticisms have not been taken into consideration. As early as 2005, the Venice Commission expressed serious concern about the future influence of political parties in the election of judges and prosecutors, as it envisions a general choice of judges not founded either in the Constitution, nor in the law and a clear influence of the executive and legislative authorities in the election of judges. And already in 2010, we see that the appeals of the Venice Commission were fully justified. The then Justice Ministry, the then VSS, is conducting one of the most prominent judicial reforms in Serbia's recent history. They advertise a general election, or advertise an invitation for a general election from the judge for future basics, more, appeals and VKS. There is a reform that was neither necessary at that time, because you had a clearly regulated jurisdiction of the courts, you had a clearly defined network of courts, but it was neither in line with the Constitution. This reform was entirely delicate, unprofessional, non-transparent. By the Justice Department's decision, which led the DS people, I will always repeat that in this house, because such decisions by their decisions and decisions by the VSS are 1500 judicial officials in one day remain on the street. The others are on the street prosecutors, deputy public prosecutors, other judges. They stayed just because they weren't close to the DS at the time, they couldn't meet the ideological needs of DS. That procedure itself was completely non-transparent. The first advice of the VSS held talks with judges using data that had been completely falsified. The data relating to the success of the judges who were real were not shown. In this reform of justice, you had a violation of fundamental human rights in the most flagrant way because the unofficial attitude was that if both spouses were in the judiciary that they had to divorce, that they would rule on divorce in order to keep working. So you directly influence certain human rights, the existence of these families by making them divorce. Then the second advice of the VSS conducts these same conversations to justify himself, to justify his conscience. And then it is said that this reform of the judiciary will advance the judiciary. The Minister then says that working disputes will end in six months, litigious in a year, what do we get? We received three million pending cases, we received 44m euros in costs and we received serious concerns from both the Venice Commission and all other relevant international institutions that the reform showed a clear impact of the political party and their political satellites in the election of judges. But that's not the most dramatic thing. Today, a public statement by the People's Party headed by Vuk Jeremic appears. It's the same party that was founded thanks to the money that Vuk Jeremic took from Patrick Ho. It's illegal, of course. And the People's Party says -- President Vukic changes the constitution to fully control the choice of judges. The People's Party today announced that the proposed amendments to the Serbian Constitution have been calculated to facilitate the influence of political power on judges and prosecutors. People, we're here talking about the amendment of the Constitution being aimed at reducing the influence of the executive and legislative authority in the VSS and the State Council of Prosecutors. You obviously haven't read the proposal to change the Constitution. I don't blame you, you have nothing to do with the well-being of the Serbian people and citizens of Serbia, you don't read. You're just used to giving certain flat-rate statements to get cheap political points. Well, how can that affect the SNS if the Justice Minister is not in the High Council of the Judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors? In this statement you mention certain affairs, I don't know, mention the affair "Jovanja", "Krusik" etc. These affairs are already under trial, but it is obvious that Vuk Jeremic and Miki Aleksic fell very hard because the First Basic Court, i.e. Miki Aleksic, obliged them to pay 300,000 dinars in the name of the damage because it was not proven that President Andrej Vukic's brother contacted anyone from the "Jovanjica" affair. Miki Aleksic must understand, I don't know which way, that his party people want him to be put on board like a rock. They give him false information. He, for God's sake, is getting information from reliable sources, so these people from his party, these people who are his coalition partners, they're giving him false information. Also, what I would like to return to, you are during the general election of judges in a rough way, i.e. you have broken several basic rules defined by the Constitution and the law, which was the continuity of the judge's office because the law clearly defined that the judge performs a judicial, or judicial function from the moment of the first election to the completion of the working century. You have just called the general election in the most obvious way to violate the provisions of the Constitution and the law. The continuity of the judge's office, which you and the minister know well, implies that the judge cannot be deprived of his calling and position by anyone's will or will that there has been a case here, other than his own voluntarily or by the law of established reasons. Also, I fully agree that the parts of the Constitution relating to the trial period of up to three years are changing, as you directly influence the independence of future Judge Officers and all of these are the things we need to discuss in order to improve the judiciary and avoid the possibility of a catastrophic 2009-2010 reform happening to us. Serbian citizens expect us as always, seriousness, commitment and protection of their interests, and we will demonstrate to the best proposals and hopefully future constitutional amendments that we are fully committed to these objectives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-07-0.u7408	Thank you. The word has the People's MP, Ugljesa Mrdić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-07-0.u7409	The Honorable President, the Honorable Prime Minister, the Honorable Ministers of the Government and the Honorable fellow Members of the People's Parliament and the Honorable Citizens of Serbia, is a very important session today, and Serbia has shown when it leads one responsible policy, a policy led by our President Aleksandar Vucic, along with you from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, Serbia is recording great results. In order for Serbia to continue with new results, we must also have an effective judiciary, we must also take certain steps, safe steps on the road to European integration. As we know, Serbia has defined itself as the path of European integration and it all goes its course, but in order for all of this to be quick and efficient, we also have to make certain adjustments to the Constitution. Both I and as a member of the SNS and as a member of the Legislative Group Aleksandar Vukic – I fully support for our children the Amendment of the Constitution in the area of justice. I think it's good for Serbia. I think it's good for European integration, but I think it's primarily good for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. We are not only making changes to the Constitution because of Serbia's European path to the EU, but also doing so as to make our judiciary effective. In her presentation of the Ministers, Mrs Maja Popovic herself said how important it is to have an effective judiciary, and I am adding here, and what we had the opportunity to hear at the seven public hearings we had in Belgrade, Novi Sad, Nis and Kragujevac, that we make these changes to the Constitution of our judiciary completely independent. So, judges have been independent so far, they will now have full independence and no one will bother them in their work, but I also want to break certain prejudices regarding the change in the constitution that my colleagues have spoken of and above all, Committee President Mrs Jelena Zaric Kovacevic. So these changes to the constitution are not about Kosovo and Metohija, they are not about preambles. Kosovo and Metohija remain the southern Serbian province. The amendments to the Constitution concern only the judiciary. This is what all citizens of Serbia should know, but I also want to quote the prime minister, Mrs Ana Brnabic, who clearly said that the forever corruption affairs we had until 2012 and this shameful privatisation, there is no EU fault for us, there is nothing to blame for the EU and various proposed European rules, European laws. It's those who ran the former regime until 2012. These were led by Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic and Boris Tadic, who not only destroyed the Serbian judiciary, but destroyed our entire system, violated the constitution and laws, destroyed our country and thus prevented Serbia from walking safely towards the EU. Why are we going to the EU? Because we want Serbia to be who it is now, it is a modern European democratic state that will continue to strengthen its capacities year after year and show again to the whole world how Serbia is acting in times of crisis. The best example, and I keep saying that, is the situation with the coronary virus. Serbia has shown thanks to Alexander Vukic, our President and the Government of the Republic of Serbia and all our doctors that it is fighting the crown of the virus, that we are among the best in Europe and the world. Serbia also made it clear at the time how excellent economic policy is being led, according to indicators for the past and this year's best in Europe. Serbia has proved itself both west and east, and Brussels and Moscow, Washington and Beijing, and Tokyo, and Berlin, and all of our friendly states that we want to build this Serbia into a modern state that will have a modern constitution adapted to world standards and European integration. Why? For all of us, for all of us. Those critics of these changes in the Constitution, if they want to be well-intentioned, have to make that criticism just as well, and we have had the opportunity to hear both lawyers and judges, and prosecutors and representatives of professional associations, and we have had the opportunity to hear the representatives of the NGO sector and the embassy, and everyone has supported this. All in public hearings supported changes in the Constitution in the area of justice. Here in Parliament, we have a maltene complete unity for it. Even some opposition parties have understood the importance of changing the constitution, but there are also opposition parties led by Dragan Gilas and his parliaments to which changes to the constitution do not correspond. Why? They're not fit by a strong state, they're not fit by a modern constitution, they're not fit by law and constitution, they're suited by what was before 2012, by the rule of crime and corruption. Fortunately, the Serbian government led you by Mrs. Brnabic and our state led by Aleksandra Vukic, she said both stop and crime and corruption. She said stop and the mob. You announced at the end of October a great war on the mafia. We see serious results. But in order for this fight against the mafia in the coming period to be more effective because of all citizens of Serbia, we must also have an effective judiciary. To have an effective judiciary, we need these changes to the Constitution. So, to conclude in the end, the change of the Constitution in the area of justice is necessary. Number one, because of all the citizens of Serbia and our interest. Number two, because of our European integration. Number three, for the fight against crime and corruption, i.e. The fight against the mob. Because, Serbia only by respecting the Constitution and if it has good laws and if it has a good team of the Serbian government, which we have today, and if we have our country headed by President Aleksandr Vukic, it will be a country of law and order, a country that achieves serious results every day in the fields of economy, health, education, energy, agriculture and economy, but primarily achieves serious results in the fight against the mafia. Thank you and live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-07-0.u7410	I thank the Messenger of the people. The word has the People's MP Luke Kebar.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-07-0.u7411	Thank you. The Honorable President-in-Office, Mrs. Kovac, the Honorable Head of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the Honorable Prime Minister Brnabic, the Honorable Minister Joksimovic, the Honorable Minister Popovic, the Honorable Minister of Justice, the Honorable Senior Councilors Vins, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honored Representatives of the OSCE, the EU in Serbia, other professional associations, organisations dealing with the subject of justice, respected colleagues from civil society and all other representatives of the Bars, judges and prosecutors, dear citizens and citizens of Serbia, at today's special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, we are talking about a very important topic, and this is a proposal for a change of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. I can tell you that these proposed changes are in line with our euro integration. As you know, we are a country that is a candidate for EU membership, we have made quite a step away on this path of European integration, and these proposed constitutional changes will very much help us on this path and, of course, will affect the overall democratisation of our society and the improvement of our entire justice system. These proposed constitutional changes are not only important from that angle. When you look at me as a sovereign state, and how and if we were not on that path of European integration, we would bring such constitutional changes because they are necessary to further democratisation our society. The judiciary in Serbia is independent and indeed independent, and when you look at the 2006 Constitution and later practice, you will see that the judiciary, or judicial authority in Serbia, is independent, but there are certain shortcomings in the effectiveness and effectiveness of that judiciary. In this Constitution of 2006 certain shortcomings, i.e. inconsistencies and some provisions are even in collegiate, some provisions are partially exaggerated or partially substantiated, unclearly regulated, and therefore it is necessary that, or simply small, are defined differently, and therefore it is necessary to implement these constitutional changes in the best possible way. A 20 year ago, the Republic of Serbia defined itself to go through European integration, and we have brought together a number of acts, and with the EU we have signed several bilateral agreements, which with the EU, which with its Member States, individually. For example, we have a national strategy for judicial reform that identified the need to amend the Constitution in order to remove the possible existing influence of the legislative executive authority when it comes to the judiciary, the election of members of the High Council of Justice, judges, prosecutors and other bodies. The need for change of the Constitution is also recognised in this Justice Development Strategy for 2020 to 2025. The strategy was adopted on 10 July 2020 at a session of the government of the Republic of Serbia and it is also recognised, a series of weaknesses were observed, but not in the sense that the judiciary is not independent, but only that it is ineffective in certain segments and ineffective. Of course, a number of problems that violate this level of efficiency in relation to the effectiveness of our judicial system in practice have been found to be the root of a number of these problems precisely stemming from these constitutional provisions that have to be changed, and how this proposal for change has been supported by a number of organisations, a number of bodies dealing with this problem, and this green light has also given us the Venice Commission which is somehow the most wondering when these changes are concerned. Again, it has the greatest legitimacy and the greatest expertise to say whether these changes are in line with "aki communitre", that is, with that EU law corpus and in line with some European principles, norms and fluids of democracy. Justice Minister Maja Popovic recognized that in this action plan for the negotiating chapter 23, it is important to implement the necessary reform to further democratisation the system and to ensure that some European fluids are incorporated into our system. Of course, Chapter 24 is included, but these two chapters are as we know key to the whole process of European integration and it will contribute to the whole of this one cluster, when it comes to our European integration as soon as possible and open. Of course, the Republic of Serbia is scheduled to analyse these existing provisions of the Constitution from the standpoints of these generally accepted European norms and principles, and of course, they are expressed through EU, UN documents, OSCE organisations, the Advisory Council of European Judges, the Advisory Council of European Prosecutors, the organisation of the state to fight corruption, the SEPEŠ organisation and the European Network of Justice Councils. In particular, these constitutional changes would concern allowing young judges, young prosecutors, and they would constantly go through a process of professional training and advancement in the service, of course, with respect to the continuity of the judicial office. So we won't have that trial mandate for three years anymore, but once the judge or prosecutor is elected, he will remain in office. They'll go through, I say, that professional training process, and that's what the Judicial Academy will be in charge of. The judicial academy will be a constitutional category and it will contribute to the improvement of these new judges and prosecutors. It is necessary to establish this greater responsibility of the High Council of the judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors. Of course, we will later specify in the next phase of these constitutional changes, the amendments themselves, but it is likely that the State's Chief Prosecutors will change the name to the High Council of Prosecutors, there was no analogy with the already existing High Council of Justice, and so did the High Council of Prosecutors. They'll have ten members, instead of eleven. I also mentioned the continuity of the judge's office, and of course it is necessary to change the very name of the Supreme Cassation Court. As we know in the legal theory, we have these two models, either it's a cassation court or it's the Supreme Court. So either he returns to re-determination, if he's Casation or simply Supreme, to decide on the measure of the decision of those lower courts. We will define ourselves for this model of the Supreme Court where they will decide on the measure of the decision of lower courts and this is one practice in many European countries that is very positive and has given positive results. We have recognised that it is necessary to implement these constitutional reforms in Serbia in this way. Of course, the key, the political question, is simply important to note, that this Constitution does not change our preamble. We will not change the preamble, we will not change that provision regarding Kosovo and Metohija. Kosovo and Metohija remain definitely in the composition of the Republic of Serbia. Kosovo and Metohija are an integral part of the Republic of Serbia and will be and will never change. We new constitutional reforms, changes, laws, Kosovo and Metohija are an integral part of the Republic of Serbia. Those provisions, concerning the catalogs of human rights, economic arrangements, territorial arrangements or general elections or arrangements of authorities, will not be amended. I must point out one more thing, that the constitutional change process from the very beginning is transparent, inclusive, and the chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia Jelena Zaric Kovacevic said in today's statement that all the actors, all who were interested in taking part in this dialogue, were invited to participate in the public hearings that we organised as a Committee. They could have come to give their opinion, to make some suggestions, some suggestions. I would also like to point out that we have organized as many as seven public hearings. Seven public hearings in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, but we have also organised public listening in Novi Sad, public listening in Nis, public listening in Kragujevac, all to achieve as broad a social consensus as possible, because this is the most important issue, ladies and gentlemen. Constitutional changes are the most important issue for a National Assembly, perhaps from the budget. It is therefore important to achieve as widespread a social consensus as possible in order to have the legitimacy to actually make these decisions, i.e. these constitutional changes in the best possible way. That is why I am asking all the MPs present to accept these constitutional changes, namely this proposal for constitutional changes to accept, because this process is, the whole process of change of the Constitution has been officially and started, and this is Professor Petrov, who is otherwise a member of the Venice Commission in front of the Republic of Serbia, he explained well in previous public hearings that this process was officially started the moment when the government was as an authorised promoter, I think, on December 4th, she still sent to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, or to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Proposal for the Change of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. We started this process, so I ask all the citizens, and above all, all the MPs to simply realize that this is a very important job for us and this is no longer a political issue, we cannot, nor who we belong to, which foreigners, this concerns all the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and therefore I ask everyone, but all the MPs to vote, to support these changes, because with these changes our judiciary will be even more effective, even more effectively, the whole society will be further democratisation and thus our whole country will progress. That is why I appeal again and pray for all the people present to vote, to support this, because this is a question that concerns all of us, all of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Long live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-07-0.u7412	Thank you. The word is from the vice president of the National Assembly, Marija Jevdzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-07-0.u7413	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Prime Minister, respected ministers, the Unique Serbia welcomes an open and transparent approach to changing the constitution. Knowing that for a year and a half, we have public hearings organised throughout Serbia, including all relevant social factors with the aim of hearing attitudes and suggestions and thus ensuring as much agreement as possible on the future constitutional text. The change of the Constitution is not, nor should it be an easy job, because the Constitution is the highest legal act of one country and therefore the change of the Constitution needs to be approached with special attention and we could see today through the discussion of my colleagues that each in his own way has expressed his opinion on the change of the Constitution, but we see that there is broad consensus and that MPs will vote to launch an initiative to amend the text of the Constitution. I have a need for some of the concerns that have arisen in the public to clarify exactly what I have just said, that we are just launching an initiative to amend those provisions of the Constitution, which concern the choice of judicial functions, or the holder of judicial functions, and no other changes are we talking about today, nor is there a word about it. There is a kind of tension rising among citizens, and that is one, in my opinion, the political game of some so-called. politicians who don't know or want to learn about the procedure envisioning the change of the Constitution, because when the constitution was last changed, when some politicians were in power, we had objections from the Venice Commission, because, as I said, they didn't care about the procedure, they changed the Constitution first, and then they asked for the opinion of the commission. Today we have a completely different situation. We've included all the public, we've asked for the opinion of the commission, we're having a public debate, so the citizens will know clearly what change in the Constitution they're voting for. The referendum is important because it represents one of the key elements of citizens' opinion in the democratic process. The basic arguments for the change of the Constitution in the work of the judiciary are the fact that the current Constitution leaves great space to the influence of the legislative and executive authority on the choice of judicial holders, but the responsibility in the future should be shared by both the Assembly and the High Council of the judiciary and the State Greater Prosecutors, because half of the judges, or prosecutors, are proposed by the National Assembly, and the other VSS, or the State Greater Prosecutors. I think we can have an independent and impartial judiciary in this balanced way, which is the goal of all of us who are here. This government wants to strengthen the local judiciary and this intention is expressed through the National Strategy for Justice Reform, which we adopted several years ago in the Assembly, and it foresees independence, impartiality, expertise and efficiency of the judiciary as basic principles, judicial reform, and I would touch on the most efficiency, because I think it is unacceptable that some processes last for decades, that someone in the inheritance next to property, inherits and trials. We talked a lot about the 2009 reform here, and I would have touched that efficiency, because there is no need to forget that from 1 January 2010, or I mean 1 May 2010, the courts did not work, no hearing was scheduled, because in those months the newly elected judges were to get acquainted with the new reform of the judiciary. When I mentioned judicial reform, I would like to compare the current one with the one in 2009, we heard several times during the day, in two days almost 800 judges and public deputies were out of work, although the Constitution then guaranteed them the continuity of office during the authorities of those who today respect the independence of the judiciary, and in 2009, this independence was reflected in political belongings or in the membership card of one of the judges or deputy prosecutors. Today they invent affairs, raise tensions among citizens, abuse and abuse women, label someone's mothers, daughters, sisters, for what? Because of the political affirmation or I don't know any political points, or I don't know what reason. All I know is that it's sad that in the absence of a political program and vision, you're using imaginary affairs that you're going through nonexistent victims, you're inventing nonexistent situations, and you're abusing a mother's problem and concern. And here we have seen from the opposition's representatives today how they use and misread today's agenda, because they have neither weight nor anything concrete to say, to resent, because this is the kind of approach that the Constitution can only praise. To return to this 2009 reform, which cost this country 44m euros, and many non-chosen judges had serious health problems, we had deaths and suicides, and the question is how much a human life cost. That doesn't have a price. Is it the rule of law that is spoken of by those who first mistreated and beat up their most born, and then come and talk to us here and honor and talk about some rule of law. But, well, we fight it with works and truth, by fact, and I keep saying: dogs bark, and caravans pass. And today's initiative to change the Constitution is something that other countries that are EU members, have had to change several times, have even changed the text of the Constitution, to successfully bring an end to the EU accession process, so Serbia is also in membership candidate status and constitutional reform ahead, which concerns the judiciary with the goal of strengthening judicial independence, and prosecutorial independence, as one of the basic principles of rule of law and thus once again Serbia confirms commitment to implementing reform processes, fulfilling activities, from the revised action plan in Chapter 23. We just need to be aware that in the past 10 years Serbia has gone through comprehensive judicial reforms, and all in order for the new organisation, the courts to present all the burden of reform, and as a ultimate goal, only development in the country's own judiciary is visible. Unique Serbia believes that the principles of judicial independence and impartiality are the central basis for the development of a democratic and modern society based on the rule of law and that judicial independence is an institutional tool for the protection of human rights and freedoms. There must be no abuse on any basis because the only interest of this state should and must be equality and equality for all citizens, and a few weeks ago we passed a law on the prohibition of discrimination, and the Law on Equality, and around that law there have been some misunderstandings. The law can interpret as it pleases, and whether the law will change and we'll see it, but I just want to say that it's not a woman's law, that it's a law that gives equal and equal chances to both men and women. I believe that, as a society, we are responsible and mature to build a country exactly on these principles, and one of the essential roles for building just like this society has judges, and a good judge is the one who has sworn to judge by justice and law, which is not subject to will, but does his job honestly. For Unity Serbia, the only motive is not the only motive for changing the Constitution just because of our obligations to join the EU, but also the need for our constitutional system to be such as to enable maximum protection, equality of citizens against the law, with the guarantee of these rights being just one more modern choice of legal holders. For every country that claims to be democratic, it is important that it has a good and efficient judicial system, which gives rise to good indicators for other pillars of the rule of law, and Serbia is the country that seeks it. On its way to the EU, whose basic values include the rule of law and respect for human rights, Serbia has regulated this area through Chapter 23. The European Commission's general conclusion is that Serbia's judicial system has achieved a certain level of preparedness. I will refer to today's presentation by Prime Minister Brnabic. It's certainly not getting out of the topic. When she spoke of no protection in the fight against corruption. As one of the main objectives of this government, since I come from the King, where a court against organised crime was opened a few years ago, we have shown that we are seeking decentralisation, that we have shown decentralisation in the judiciary, I am sure that there are judges throughout Serbia, in every city in Serbia, there are prosecutors who are willing to get caught in the most difficult fight, not only in Serbia, but the problem that has the whole world, which is the fight against organised crime. Unique Serbia supports every effort by this government to strengthen the rule of law and together create a modern and strong Serbia with great international respect. MPs of the Single Serbia parliamentary group in the voting day will support the launched initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-07-0.u7414	I would like to thank the Vice-President of the National Assembly, in particular, because it strictly adhered to the time foreseen for the parliamentary group, which has now been spent. The word is made by MP Borisav Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-07-0.u7415	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Dear Prime Minister, I think we've had one of the few today, that doesn't mean we have bad sessions anyway, but one of the most constructive discussions on a particular subject that is very sensitive and requires a very broad approach to be discussed in quality. Madam Prime Minister, yesterday I read especially, with great attention, the explanation of the proposal that came. I ended a day dissatisfied with it because I missed many things in that explanation. Thank you for the opening presentation, because that's exactly what I've been missing to see all the way and to make it clear to me. Without that opening statement of yours, I'd still be denied. It's clear to me like this, since my colleagues talked a lot during the day. Today, I also have a characteristic session because in the debates of individuals, at least compared to previous sessions we have repeated ourselves before, rather than anyone in his discussion throwing a focus on what has not already been spoken of. I'll respect that, too, and in fact from what I was going to say before the session started, a lot of it was said, so I'm going to stay for a few shorter things. First of all, I think that one key thing that applies in the structure of legislation, first of all, by the Constitution of this country, is the existence of three forms of government and their independence and independence. There's one problem I've been getting into all the time. We often have in our society an escalation of some problem that lasts for months, so not to mention years. I'm going to mention only one current one, here's not going through the session so we don't mention Gilas and everything that's connected to him. I keep asking myself when such things are in action, I don't remember when someone from the judiciary has independently initiated what is in his jurisdiction, that the case or the occurrence or the event that is being developed, and the damage to society is very directly, that they never approach themselves. So, someone, government or someone, not to tell them an order, and on the other hand, you're looking for independence and you're not doing it. The strangest part is this, I don't know how to behave as justice minister, who, like the Minister of Justice now, is a direct member of the highest executive authority, and on the other hand, is run by the ministry, led by the judiciary. Are we now going to make the statutes possible and say directly that the minister must and has the right to launch judicial authorities, not to say order, agree and ask them to do so? Will it be said that it is an influence on the judiciary? That the judiciary isn't on its own? On the other hand, if it doesn't, then it doesn't execute what the government is supposed to do. I think that's where we should find some more elaborate and additions of provisions that would clearly and precisely regulate it. Let me finish with that subject. I don't think the judiciary can be independent and independent of what I said, but it can be and should be directly said, can be and should be independent in professional work, in decision-making, judgment-making, etc. There must be no pressure from these two other branches of government. That's one thing I wanted to say. It's another thing. I'm sorry that the people who have left today's performances have broken that constructive and constructive approach to what was on our agenda today. It's interesting here right now, I've been paying attention to it, it's characteristic that with these kinds of acts that deviate from the overall and unique direction of action in any area that we're discussing, it's always the same people, it's three, four people who care very much, besides what they're discussing and discussing that they're decided, clearly, precisely saying that they're against it and that they won't vote. It's my impression, let me make a mistake, that they're saying it for someone they're supposed to account for. I don't think they got into it on their own, because they wouldn't perform like that every time, there'd be at least some kind of constructive approach and approach, but if someone on the side had been involved. I wish they were here today, and I'm not going to talk more widely about it, and I thought I was saying that they're here and I'd argue with them about it. That's not how it can be said in this assembly, in the Assembly of their country, whose citizens are, that the three of them can't say, and that same formulation, that this country can't be just one people, a Serb people, not theirs. That's why I say they didn't say it themselves, but someone told them that, and they didn't even look at it. The first sentence in the Constitution, in the first article, says -- the Republic of Serbia is the state of the Serbian people and of all citizens living in it. So they're coming to break what we're creating. I'll tell them in person. I don't think that's how we can cooperate here in the Assembly. You can say it another way. But, I'm sorry, I felt it the way they were saying it, it's a simple hostile act. I felt uncomfortable. The other one's pulling it, and he's writing it to him. I suggest, I'm sorry the president of the assembly isn't here, but I think that we fellow MPs should agree and have our working sessions closed occasionally, at which point we should discuss how we should behave. I'm sorry, what they were saying today was listening to our entire public. So, to have such sessions of the congregation that we will negotiate how we must work, how we must behave. We forgot the code, we forgot everything. At least individuals, I apologize to the others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-07-0.u7416	Thank you. The time foreseen for the parliamentary group has been spent. The word has a national MP, Dunja Simonović Bratić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-07-0.u7417	The President-in-Office, Prime Minister and Associate, respected colleagues, the change of the Constitution, the highest legal act, the symbol of statehood in the strong sense of the word, is an event of first-class importance. It should be brought in in joy and joy. However, we have the discomfort and the atmosphere of expectation, should we vote in favour of the law on the amendment of the Constitution. The eternal question is what do we get and what do we lose? For many years, our leadership, since 2000, has, therefore, been in a resolution that the European Union has no alternative to any measure of dignity, both self and state. This time, the longer we go, the closer we get, there's always some incredible monsters, the pandemics of the coronary virus, before it's the economic crisis, so the migrants, and everything, they're still going on. Since 2013, when we received the status of a country associated with the EU, the so-called the negotiations and alignment of our legislation with the EU legislation we are committed to. On this occasion, I would like to congratulate all of our diplomatic representatives who have been skeptical and overly prejudiced by the representatives of certain countries in relation to the forces great over the small have managed to make and improve much of the original drafts put on the table. On the other hand, we came to the point where we as representatives of the people who have so far had the only true full legitimacy in choosing the holders of judicial functions, we have a chance to define ourselves. For example, for five members of the Supreme Council of the judiciary and four members of the Prosecutor's Council and most of three-fifths of the votes of all MPs, we elect Serbia's chief public prosecutor and decide on the termination of his post. Compared to earlier, we have come to the back of the legislation of the MPs of the people, and all due to the chronic objection of the Venice Commission to reduce the impact of policy on the independence of the judiciary. There is no need to be trained cynics and to say that there are no independents and that if there are, it is reduced to a prime number and in society there is a living legend of the one who is always different and raises the voice, i.e. the one whom the victim stands on the cross for all of us who depend and watch over our small fates. Therefore, the provision of independence and qualifications to our republic that young democracy is acting, at the very least, inappropriate. Because if it defends the judiciary against the influence of politics, what does it not defend against the influence of large corporations, embassies, financial lobbies, say, foreign banks? When it comes to "young democracy", it must be said that we are a much longer democracy than most EU members. By that I mean our famous constitutions. For example, the 1831 Happy Constitution, which was inspired by the French revolutionary heritage and for the first time introduced the division into executive, legislative and judicial power in our country. It counts here that democracy arrived a year after NATO bombed our country, where it was struck bloody, destroyed and poisoned by the 2000 famous elections. And this bright home that we were in today was the victim of a frenzy pirate. Many of our critics are now more sincere than at that time, little and disappointed that instead of blood and poor uranium, honey and milk did not come. We must not allow all our victims, and also our children to have artificial shame and shame that they want to instill in us, where our heroes and patriots make criminals, to believe, because it was a little short of them to succeed. That is why I hope and believe that we will succeed from all these negotiations, and only after us are the hardest ones, be at the height of the task we have been given, which we have not chosen in many ways. Many of our constituents are not among us today. First of all, I mean the great Ratko Markovic. His contribution to theoretical and practical meaning is immeasurable and will yet be subject to serious study. From the Government's proposal to amend the Constitution in the area of justice, we can see the need to relax division into executive, legislative and judicial power, with a shift in court. Odfrid Hefe, one of the most famous German professors of philosophy and state and law theorists, wrote about it in his "Justice" section. He called this phenomenon a state judge and carried out a historical-legal analysis that the judicial branch of the government was initially the weakest link, and that it now captured the others. We, as ambassadors of the people, are in some way castrated. We're being taken away from something that every parliament has a legacy. It's not appropriate to applaud that much right now, but what's done is done. What our people would say is, we surrendered without a bullet fired. So in the work that follows, I urge us all to be as careful and alert as possible to any suggestion or suggested step forward as compared to earlier acts. We live in life, relying on hope, and in politics on sharp senses and clearly drawn red lines. In the end, we will live our laws and their laws. Implications to our judiciary and, more importantly, our citizens will certainly be one of the topics we will deal with intensively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-07-0.u7418	I thank Parliamentarian Dunji Simonović Bratić, especially that this was her first presentation, I suppose, in this session. The People's Messenger, Vuk Mircetic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-07-0.u7419	Thank you. The Honorable President-in-Office, respected prime minister, respected ministers in the government of the Republic of Serbia with co-workers, respected guests and dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, all who follow this transfer, Prime Minister Brnabic spoke of the commitment of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to the rule of law in various areas, from fighting corruption, media, electoral conditions etc. I'll look back on only one of them. I will talk about fighting corruption as one of the six objectives of the government of the Republic of Serbia, which is one of the six objectives set before all of us. We were dealing with implementation of GRECO recommendations and when I say GRECO recommendations, I mean, first of all, on those 13 GRECO recommendations. Of those 13 recommendations, one hasn't been started recently. It is a recommendation relating to the Code of Conduct of People's MPs and we have even adopted it in this mandate. A task force has also been formed to develop an operational plan to fight corruption. Prime Minister Brnabic, you said the plan should be completed by the end of this month, which is extremely good news. The results are concrete. If we look at only the first four months of this year, we'll see that there's a huge increase in the number of criminal offences detected involving corruption itself, and there's clearly no protection. It doesn't matter if they belong to the SNS or any other political option, simply protected is not and should not be. Before the presentation itself, because of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I must point out that today we agree here in principle on whether or not we will accept the proposal from the Government of the Republic of Serbia. So, we here need to express our agreement, whether we agree to make any changes to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia or not. With the adoption of the proposal sent by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, we agree whether or not we will begin the procedure. Serbia is on a European path and there are certain obligations arising from negotiations with the EU. However, we are not entering this big and serious process just because of our European integration process, but also because of improving the quality of life of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and this indirectly contributes to increasing wages, pensions, etc. What is very important to us is the feeling of citizens that all citizens are equal before the law and what we all should be working on together is that justice should be, as the prime minister said this morning, both swift and accessible, and the judiciary independent and responsible. Unlike the time when judicial reform cost more than 40m euros, one serious preparatory period that lasted 18 months preceded this session today. This is the first time we've had a serious, wide debate to achieve a broad social consensus. Twice, there was even a consultation with the Venice Commission and finally, in December of last year, the government of the Republic of Serbia sent a proposal to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for a change of the Constitution. Regardless of the previous consultations made by the government and previous public hearings and a positive assessment by the Venice Commission, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia organised public listening. It is a series of public hearings that were also in the seat of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, but also outside the seat and participation could be taken by all those who were interested in public listening and giving some of their suggestions or possibly expressing their position. On this occasion, and you will not, Prime Minister, resent me particularly to congratulate the chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, Jelena Zaric Kovacevic, on the excellent organisation of public hearings, because absolutely all representatives of the profession and representatives of all branches of government had the opportunity to express their opinions and give their contribution and also to thank us for being members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives for having the opportunity to actively take part and contribute. Public hearings are important, first of all, to allow as wide a social consensus as possible. With that in mind, I have already said, we have also organised public hearings in Belgrade, therefore, at the seat of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, but also outside Belgrade, in Nis, Novi Sad and Kragujevac. It is important to make today's decision to accept the proposal, as well as any other decision on changes to the Constitution, to be transparent and inclusive, but also to hear the opinion of the profession. In line with this, it was really important to organize these public hearings. Committee President Jelena Zaric Kovacevic said that this was the widest possible public debate and obtaining some useful opinions and suggestions and achieving agreement on constitutional changes that should be, and I liked this part very much, and fair and efficient, but also long-term, because the proposal, more specifically, is a process of change of the Constitution very complex and relatively long and simply, the Constitution does not change every day, so that, and should be as widespread as social consensus. Minister Popovic, I am very pleased that you were present for absolutely every public debate and that you, by being a minister and having been present, gave additional strength and additional strength to our public hearings. All representatives of the government's branches, diplomatic crusts, international institutions, representatives of the profession were present, but not just them, but all those who wanted to express their position. And this broad social consensus is important to achieve, above all, because of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. At the very end, the citizens of the Republic of Serbia will have the final word and they will say in a referendum whether these changes should happen or not. What is extremely important for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, my colleagues have repeated it several times, and I will repeat it once again, so the amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which we are talking about today, concern only the judiciary. So, they do not cover in any single segment of the Constitution preamble or any other part, any other segment of the Constitution, they do not touch the territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia and therefore, Kosovo and Metohija remain an integral part of the Republic of Serbia. So, this was important to mention most because, and you, the prime minister, spoke about the topic, and the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I think all my colleagues who had the opportunity to talk about in the media, but also what is more important, in the tide, about what is changing, what we are talking about today, whether only part of the judiciary is changing or not. That is why it was important and it is important to mention once again that only the part relating to the judiciary is changing. In line with all that we have heard today, it is clear that both you and President Alexander Vukic, as well as the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, are committed to the rule of law. And I think we should adopt a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I will support this proposal for that in the voting day. Thank you for your initiative.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-07-0.u7420	Thank you. The word has a People's Messenger, Deep King. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-07-0.u7421	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. The Honorable Prime Minister, distinguished members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today as the first exhibitor of our party, should have spoken to Mr. Tom Phil, who unfortunately was late and here, if he had arrived two minutes earlier, he would have spoken now, which might have been more interesting, but I will try very briefly to express some of my views on the proposal for a change of constitution, and of course I will refrain from prejudicing concrete solutions. The amendments the ministry has proposed continue to figure out earlier. Whether they will become a proposal for the text of amendments that will come to the debate before the Assembly or suffer some adjustments, we will see more. It'll only be the subject of discussion. Among them great solutions, there are some I could find a grudge. But, like I said, we're just gonna discuss it at one of the next sessions. Now I want to comment on two decisions, two obligations. I'm just asking my colleagues for a little patience. I understand that we've been here all day, and it's been pretty hard for everyone, but just so this exposure makes sense, I'm just asking for a little quiet. I'm going to shorten my exposure at best, even though I could talk a lot about the judiciary. I just want to say that we, as a country that holds a firm course on the path to EU membership, of course need to meet the obligations that we have made to the Stabilisation and Association Agreement and, in that sense, support for the SPS, of course, will not be left behind. My personal observation is that we are asked to introduce standards that are at a higher level than standards that exist in EU member states, but there is no problem. I agree with the prime minister and with the MPs who spoke earlier, that the much more important obligation we have towards the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, because they are very often perceived by the state's attitude towards them through the work of courts and prosecutors. That is why we need an independent, independent and efficient judiciary. It is also necessary to improve the position of the judges and prosecutors themselves, and this has been done in the previous period. At one of the previous sessions, I was also talking about the country's huge investment in judicial infrastructure. The palaces of justice in many cities have been renovated. Also, the state's attitude towards judicial assistants and associates has been improved, which is also important. They really have the opportunity to advance and were first admitted to a permanent working relationship several years ago. But to return to the question of independence and impartiality, which is extremely important for citizens, the state sends a message every day and demonstrates that there are no protected ones, and that is extremely important. Through an effective judiciary, we need to send a message that there are no unprotected ones, but that everyone will be able to get protection of his rights before courts and prosecutors. That is why it is necessary for court and prosecution to be handled in good time. I therefore welcome the government's efforts to find a normative way to improve the efficiency of the courts, as well as the preparedness of the justice minister to compromise in finding the best solutions. I had my own proposal, which would have been, but now I'm going to skip it. In any case, what is up to us is to ensure institutional independence of the judiciary, to ensure that guarantees are as strong and stronger as possible, as well as mechanisms for achieving them in practice are effective. Of course, and that we, as legislative and executive authorities, are to the greatest extent possible to refrain from any influence on the judiciary that could possibly come from us. In practice, I have very little experience, but quite enough that I have managed to see that the Serbian judiciary has extraordinary judges and prosecutors who, with their knowledge and authority, truly guarantee the independence of the judiciary, but also has exceptions in terms of judges and prosecutors who are uninterested, who, through the improvement of the constitutional framework, should be motivated, and in no case punishable. But there won't be much success in this whole story unless it's in the synthesis with the personal component of independence. Therefore, judges must fight as well as the legislative authority for their reputation and their independence, and in terms of finding the best normative solutions. You know that saying that it's not a man's function, it's a man's function. That applies, of course, to both the judge's office and the prosecution's office. I would like to give an example, because when the National Assembly was established, there was an observation that the function of the National Assembly president was less important, that it was protocoral and might have been so before, but now that Ivica Dacic, now the president of the Republic of Serbia's Assembly is applauded by the Russian Dum, now the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is delighted to welcome the most important Russian ministers, now the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia participates in economic form in St. Petersburg. President, thank you for the pride you've given us. For this reason, in all areas, we must strive to enable the best, the best in all areas to come to terms. We also need to establish a system of choice of judges and prosecutors that will allow them to really be people of knowledge and integrity, which is not easy in any area, in any society, but let's try justice first. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-07-0.u7422	Thank you, Dubravka, I'll keep in mind this is what you've been praising me for. They told me they made a terrible mistake, that they forgot Milletic. Two minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-07-0.u7423	I would like to thank the President of the Assembly. I accept your apology. My colleague was always right and now there's no mistake, but you're here to correct a mistake. It is my pleasure to speak after my colleague Dubravka, who is indeed an example of how to behave, what a letter looks like, but no one resents me, it is a very serious issue - the change of the Constitution, the Honorable Prime Minister, fellow MPs, citizens of Serbia, I am Milija Miletic, coming from the most beautiful municipality in Serbia, it is the municipality of Svrlig, which is next to the most beautiful city in Serbia, it is the city of Nis. By the way, here in the Assembly I represent the United Peasant Party, I was selected from the list For our children – Aleksandar Vukic. As I have now given, I will support the Government's proposal for a change in the Constitution because it is necessary and because we need to bring a great deal of things into line with EU law, but on the other hand, it is very important for us to have the judiciary and that it is what we say – for the people. Otherwise, we have shown that our country, that our judiciary is doing its job, that those who are responsible for it, that those who are guilty, who have made mistakes, must answer for those mistakes, regardless of whose party book they carry. I think it is right for us to support this, by adding a few things, as well as a fellow MP before me, which is Hadzhi Milorad Stosic, about rural areas, about the village, about urban municipalities. For example, the city municipality in Nis has several city municipalities, they do not have the status of local self-government, and they need some changes, but we will talk about it next time. Otherwise, I think this is a necessary thing and that the Constitution needs to change, that we agree on all of this for the benefit of all of us, and most of all because the need for our judiciary to be independent, as it is so far. Sometimes when it comes to justice, Marijan Risticevic said a few things that are so under the influence of certain functions, i.e. certain people dealing with the judiciary. Maybe some judges should go to the polls, vote for them, as they are voted in America, but here we have democracy, we do things differently, and I will support this government proposal to make it better, to work for the people, and that those who are responsible for it respond. Thank you again to the President of the Assembly. You fixed the mistake. Thanks again and all the best.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-07-0.u7424	Thank you. The word is by Aleksandra Tomic, and it is the last reported debater. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-07-0.u7425	The Honorable President of Parliament, a respected prime minister, respected ministers and ministers, as everyone today has the right to define himself as a native sensitive language, so I am using this right to show my colleagues that this is a possibility. The constitution as the highest legal and political act implies a right equally for all citizens of Serbia, but that right also obliges those who are now serving as speaker of parliament and all those who have performed that role as Parliament's president before. There are no protocol functions, but there are precisely defined powers defined by the Serbian Constitution. Why am I saying this? Because today when we talk about a proposal for constitutional amendments, which the National Assembly should consider and make a final proposal on which Serbian citizens will plead through a referendum, we today have had the opportunity to hear both the issue of national minorities and the formal issue of making such decisions, and we have seen that some MPs have different views on this topic today. In fact, it is also the essence of democracy, that on one subject we can have different views and that, with the help of a certain consensus in society, we make decisions that will be generally acceptable to society as a whole. Through seven public debates, 32 draft amendments, we are today talking about the practical detachment of MPs to make decisions here that the judge will be elected to, in which court and how he will perform his judicial office. So far, we have an existing constitution on the proposal from the VSS to the Assembly, and it is the MPs who make decisions on the judicial system that it will function through each individual's choice. By transferring practically our responsibilities to professions to the election of the High Council of the Judiciary which will make exclusive decisions on who will be the judge, we essentially delegate our right to justice itself and thus we are in fact showing a high degree of democracy and achieving high standards in human rights, and that is what is one step in society that requires everyone to participate equally. I must say that by 2012, we had an attempt by those who today call themselves an authentic opposition, both Gilas and Vuk Jeremic, to simply try to make this reform, and they did not implement it just because they were unable to do it, but because they simply did not understand politically how important it is in matters in society to have independent institutions. That is not what I, nor the SNS, says Mrs Vida Petrovic Skero, president of the Supreme Court of Serbia, who served from 2005 to 2009 and in 2007 spoke openly to the public about the problem. As a result of this problem, we had a failed reform in 2007. We had damages of 44m euros and we saw what it looks like to make decisions over the knee and in line with the petty own party interests where we had cases of DS municipal committees making direct proposals that the judge should be in which judicial place. Since then, we have had a big job and implemented major economic and financial reforms first so that we can open up the possibility of implementing such reforms in society such as judicial reform. Since 2017, the Council of Europe as an international organisation in which Serbia has been a member along with 47 countries for 18 years is simply a joint force in co-operation with both the European Union and the OSCE in the way of democratisation of this society. We have implemented all the recommendations of GRECO, and above all we have passed the Law on lobbying as one of the most important laws in which the practical democratisation of society is carried out in this economic sense, and then we have a whole new Law on the Anti-Corruption Agency, which so far has been the Anti-Corruption Agency, which has not had two-stage decision-making and finally we have adopted this Code of Conduct which the MPs here were supposed to implement on their own in a completely new way. Now the part that wasn't finished was practically amendments to the Constitution. The amendments to the Constitution suffered more public debates independent of these public hearings that the Assembly had. I will remind you that we had a public debate concerning the organisation of the Council of Europe and the Embassy of the Netherlands where representatives of international organisations were present, then the Society of Judges and the Center for Judicial Research. Why am I saying this? Because you all know that the individual judges who today represent themselves as authentic independent judges, and in fact represent the policy of those who today on Twitter are completely wrongly representing this country's intention to democratisation their society and make this democratic step of change in the Constitution, have practically agreed with all these changes. And that agreement has always been there when representatives of individual embassies and international organisations, and when they come home to the home field, when we have simple representatives of domestic professional associations then they act out their independence somewhere through a certain kind of criticism that just doesn't stand. That is why it is very important today to say that they have also supported constitutional changes and reforms and that Aleksandar Vukic has unequivocally supported those who criticise him daily. These criticisms show that they are simply empty rifles and that they do not stand and that what our paradigms of society and politics of Alexander Vukic are actually results. The results show that we are able to open certain chapters and adopt here in the congregation and when it comes to Chapter 15. – energy, and when it comes to taxes, the issue of Chapter 16 adopted recently by the Assembly committees here in the Assembly and returned to the government that as negotiating positions for competition-related clusters and the green agenda we are prepared as a society in negotiations with the EU as one of the most difficult chapters we are talking to them. The EU will assess whether we are ready to really go further on that path, but it is important that we have created conditions, an environment in the country that they exist. As a result of the reform of the judiciary in general, it should be said that the number of cases in international courts has been reduced, that the recommendations we have made from international institutions in democratisation of this society is greater than 95% and that support in fact for all those organisations that have given consent, including the Venice Commission and the OSCE, and the Council of Europe, in fact, on the part of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the President of the State and all the ministries that participated in this big deal, and ultimately the Parliament itself, which is simply common on this task. I thank you for hearing all these proposals today and all the MPs had to say, perhaps some have seen the simple subject in a completely different way, but it is important to hear those opinions, because based on these opinions we are really showing the degree of EU standards we apply here. We showed it best during the pandemic. You today, EU member states have the opportunity to see what democracy looks like in these countries, and what it looks like in Serbia and when it comes to the state of emergency, and when it comes to the part relating to the movement of citizens, to the movement of goods and services, to what is the issue of economic reforms at all, and that we never get in the way. So our path is the constant change and graduation of society in a positive direction. This gives us the conditions to really think about the future of our children and not to worry about that future as long as we have really at the head of Mr. Alexander Vukic's country, which has shown that he is really ready at all times for the sake of higher interests to do a lot of things, perhaps which is not politically popular for the SNS either, but has shown that we should simply all follow such a political path here, because it is in the interest of our future. That's why in the voting day we'll support the draft of these proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-07-0.u7426	Thank you. Since there are no more reports on the lists of parliamentary groups, before the search is concluded, I ask if the Presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone who has not yet exercised his right to do so? The word has an Ana Brnabic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-07-0.u7427	Thank you. I would just once again like to take this opportunity to thank all the MPs for the good debate, for the constructive advice that we need, after all, from the Government of the Republic of Serbia to do, that in this extremely important and important work for our whole country and all our citizens I wish, as the Assembly, much happiness, that, of course, the Government of the Republic of Serbia will be there with the Assembly, the Committee on Constitutional Change, to continue to work on concrete amendments now if we have a two-thirds majority for this tonight. To ask once again for maximum flexibility in order to achieve the social consensus needed on such an extremely important issue, but in the end, with really constantly keeping in mind that this parexelance is a national issue, a question of national importance. And that we must ultimately be guided by this social consensus, but also by the fact that citizens, all citizens, the people of the Republic of Serbia really get an effective judiciary that fits the needs of a modern modern country and democracy that will ultimately allow us to grow even faster, even better, economic growth, progress, rule of law, equal rights for all and as I have said, therefore, and swift, but also attainable justice. Good luck and I pray once again for support from this initiative of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, because I honestly think this is a huge step in the right direction for the rule of law and for our country at all. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-07-0.u7428	Thank you. On the basis of Article 98(4), I hereby conclude the search for a proposal to amend the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. According to Article 87(5), I hereby appoint the Rules of Procedure on Monday 7 June starting at 18 and 37 p.m. as a day for voting on the agenda of the Fourth Special Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in XII. I would like to thank the Prime Minister and the members of the government. Bon appétit. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, before we move to a decision on the agenda, we need to determine the quorum. According to Article 88(5), The Rules of Procedure of the Quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the voting day exist if most of the total number of MPs are present at the National Assembly session. I ask the Members of Parliament to insert the cards into the MPs' units. Thank you. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 209 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and therefore there are conditions for decision-making. We're moving on to a decision. Before we move on to a decision, I remind you that the National Assembly, in accordance with Article 203(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, is in line with Article 203(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, a proposal to change the Constitution, adopts the two-thirds majority of the total number of MPs. I am putting the motion to change the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am suspending the vote: of a total of 213 MPs, for – 207, against – three, with abstention – two, did not vote one MP. I find that the National Assembly has adopted by two-thirds a proposal to amend the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Since the National Assembly has carried out an examination of the single agenda item of this session and its decision on it, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby conclude the fourth special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in XII. Also, just to let you know, I'd like to remind you that we are continuing to work at the Fourth Extraordinary Session, the day after tomorrow, at 1:00 p.m. The draft law on the national database for preventing and combating terrorism, three laws on gas pipelines in the Republic of Serbia and a report on the work of several independent bodies are on the agenda. It's planned to work on Wednesday and Thursday. I thank you all for your presence and your work. Thank you. (The session was closed at 1840 hours. )
