ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-13-0.u6491	Dear People's MPs, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to at first, on behalf of the National Assembly, the chieftain and all members of the Muslim community in the Republic of Serbia, wish that the joy of Ramadan Bajram should be spent in good health, with its neighbours, neighbours and friends, working together for a better future of the Republic of Serbia, fostering the qualities of peace and tolerance. Dear ladies and gentlemen, we continue the work of the 11th session of the First Regular Session. Based on the official record, 57 MPs have been registered. Please, in order to determine the exact number of MPs, insert your cards into the MPs' units. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, it is found that there are at this time 108 MPs present in the hall, i.e. that there are at least 84 MPs present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Milija Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-13-0.u6492	I thank the President of the Assembly. Dear fellow MPs, citizens of Serbia, as MP and president of the United Peasants' Party, I would like to wish all citizens of Serbia who are Muslim believers happy this day "Bairam Sheriff Mubarek Olsun". May Bajram be happy, my dear friends, because we as a country Serbia always respect everyone, respect every faith, and therefore respect us the whole world. Otherwise, for all of us who are in Serbia in the first plan, as our Patriarch Paul said, he said, "We are people," and therefore again to all the people and citizens of Serbia who are Muslim religions congratulate Bajram, with a desire for health and happiness to be with everyone and for their prosperity to be in every part of the family. Otherwise, today and yesterday began to rain. It's a good sign for all of us that this year will be born and noble and that this will be good for our agriculture. When it's good for our agriculture, it's good for the Republic of Serbia's budget as well. I will ask the question specifically to the Ministry of Culture and Information, as a few days ago, he completed a competition by calling for help from media houses, radio stations, television houses, portals, where a number of these houses were applied by media and portals to the competent ministry to assist co-financing related to culture and information. Based on a report released on the ministry's website, it appears that by waving larger centres, larger cities have received funds to help these media houses. In particular, it is good, because it is necessary to know what it is and how it can be, but it is very important to me, because there is a large number of small communities, small municipalities, these portals, and their radio stations, and their televisions have not been helped to co-finance, so I think that it would be necessary in the next period, if that budget of the Republic is allowed and if there is any other competition, to put an accent on these small communities, on these small municipalities, that those within their units of local self-government can get the funds, and their cells, the portals that work there, that work there, so that they can also inform their citizens about all the necessary things that concern them and their units of local self-government, to hear how and what they do, in which way they can promote something. This would be the need of a large number of local self-governments and these media houses and these portals that have not now received funds from this competition, and I say, the largest number of these houses, these portals, these radio stations are a wave from larger centres, and therefore I think that in the next competition they should also provide funds for those media houses, portals that come from small areas, because they also need to survive, and the citizens of these municipalities certainly want to hear what is happening in them. Normally, they may not care what happens in Belgrade, whether something is done, although it is the capital, but they are interested in what is done and how it is done in their hometown. Once again, will there be another competition and will there be an opportunity to put an accent on the small environments and for these media houses, or those portals from these small environments, so that they can get the funds? Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-13-0.u6493	Thank you, Milia. Let's move on, word has Arpad Fremond.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-13-0.u6494	Dear President, I would like to ask the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Vojvodjanski Hungarians, and the question is about the start of the work of the new home of students in Backo Topoli, in order to ensure that more than a hundred students are entitled to accommodation, nutrition and educational work. The completion of work on the home of students is accompanied by mixed feelings, on the one hand relief, and on the other hand a great concern. It is a relief for parents and teachers, especially in the time of the pandemic when daily travel carries an increased risk of children being infected, and a total of 1200 students attend to Bačka Topoli. More than half, about 600 students are passengers. The most enrolled students attend a farm school, near which a student's home was built. It's a school that's about to become a farm school with a student home. However, the home will be open to students of all secondary schools in the territory of Backa Topola. It's planned to be in school 2021/2022. A year in 51 rooms, which have been built and equipped according to the highest standards, will accommodate 102 students, with one room prepared for disabled students. Homework has recently been completed and we have only a few months left until the start of the new school year, which means the tense fulfilment of numerous legal obligations within very short deadlines. In the sports dictionary, we could say that we are in the finale of the activities that are to be completed so that home can be used since September of the current year. These activities are, among other things, the following: establishing a network of students' homes and other institutions of the student standard in the territory of the AP Vojvodina, obtaining consent in the act, organisation and systematicisation, launching a procedure for obtaining consent for new employment, opening competitions for the reception of 21 workers in the home, as well as the opening of competitions for the admission of students into the home. According to the information received from the school, these procedures are ongoing, and the key question for the Ministry of Education is how is the funding of this institution planned? How is the planned provision of funding for new jobs and the cost of functioning of the House of Students in Backo Topoli? We are aware that all the prescribed procedures must be resolved within the next few months, but that all these procedures mean that the budget funds are already provided. The financial support provided is also important in order to comply with Article 3(1). Regulation on the procedure for obtaining consent for new employment and additional employment by public-funds users also launched a procedure for obtaining consent for 21 workers in the student's home before the Commission for giving consent to new employment and additional employment by public-funds users. The financial support provided is also important in order to comply with Article 6(3). Law on student and student standards and Article 8(1) The rules on the accommodation and feeding of pupils and students of the Ministry of Education no later than three months before the start of the school year have opened a competition for the admission of high school students to the institution for the accommodation and feeding of students. In addition to the school and the National Council of the Hungarian National Minority, as well as the Regional Secretariat for Education, Administration, Regulations and National Minorities and National Communities, we sincerely hope that the Ministry is planning a network of students' homes for school 202122. A year, including the new home of the students I'm talking about today. We expect the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development to work together with us to make additional efforts so that the new home of students at the Agricultural School in Backo Topoli begins working from the next school year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-13-0.u6495	Thank you. I've only got Tom Phil on file yet. If anyone else wants to sign up, we'll go after Tom Phil. Here you go, Tomo.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-13-0.u6496	Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs, because of the seriousness of the topic I want to talk about, I will read what I wrote together with my colleague Zoran Zivanovic, one of the lawyers who signed up to represent Serbian victims in The Hague. This year, on May 7th, Kosovo's special council in The Hague appointed two representatives for two groups of victims, one in Hashim Thaci's case, where besides many crimes, the kidnapping of people many of whom ended up as victims of organ trafficking and the other in the Mustafa Seljemi case. The personal data of the victims are unknown and should not be known, but it is certain that among them the largest number of citizens of the Republic of Serbia is Serbian nationality. A large number of lawyers from the Republic of Serbia with years of experience and in the work of international criminal courts and domestic justice have been admitted to the Kosovo court's list. With all due respect to elected MPs, I think the Republic of Serbia should examine the reasons why this court has denied the possibility for our victims to be represented in a high-risk procedure by lawyers who cannot speak their language without interpreters. In accordance with the rules of this court, the representatives shall be assigned by consultation of the victims involved in the proceedings, taking into account their views and interests. I suspect that the position of Serbian victims in the Seljimi and Thaci cases was that they wanted Professor Pujes and lawyer Los as their agents, because I don't think they've ever heard of them before. I believe they were neither questioned or anonymous to whom these victims were known and available convinced that they would best protect their interests. The low credibility of the Kosovo court is apparently expressed by his move from Pristina to The Hague, placing on judicial and prosecutorial functions exclusively by international judges and prosecutors. Setting up representatives of victims who cannot communicate with them in the same language without the presence of third parties, translators, imposing unknown people whose expertise is unquestionable, but with whom they cannot establish ordinary communication in their own language, does not contribute to the credibility of the court, at least in Serbia. I therefore propose that the competent authorities of the Republic of Serbia show this to the special councils for Kosovo and that in an adequate way they follow the further work of these councils, particularly taking into account the protection of citizens of the Republic of Serbia's nationality, who appear as victims and witnesses in these proceedings. I remind you that I have already proposed once and have not come across a good response from the government that someone has to follow what's going on. If I hadn't reacted on Friday, I would have reacted when I was at the patriarch's on Friday and showed the Kosovo online portal. Secondly, it's very important who's gonna be the power of attorney because a lawyer who's a defense attorney can look into the files. The same power of attorney of the damaged may be able to look into the prosecution's files and influence the evidence when it is carried out. Like this, we're deprived of people out there. We don't watch trial, nor do our people represent our people. That's what I want to ask you government as a question. Is he thinking of doing anything about it? I will later, as an authorised representative of the SPS Group, read even more in detail. Now I just thank Zoran Zivanovic for helping me do this, especially this part I'm going to read later. Thank you very much. I hope everyone, especially the lawyers and lawyers here, must understand that our victims and witnesses are crying out for justice. It's hard on us if we leave them. You know, the only lawyers the court pays were court lawyers. The Croats paid their dues, the Muslims paid theirs, the Cypriots paid theirs. Haradinaj paid $15 million and got witnesses, of course. We have to think of each other. Thank you very much. I'm out of time.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-13-0.u6497	The word is made by MP Dragoljub Ackovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-13-0.u6498	Mr. President, the Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to ask a few questions to the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Culture. One of the questions I want to ask is permanent court interpreters and translators. In fact, there are tens of millions of Roma living in the world whose native language is Roma, and with it alone they speak. In Serbia, tens of thousands of Roma do not know other languages well, but only Roma, and therefore there should be judicial interpreters and translators for the Roma language. The solutions to the establishment of permanent court interpreters, permanent court translators for Roma and others are brought by the minister of justice. The minister of justice, as far as I know, is obliged to call a contest twice a year for such faces. In earlier times there were judicial interpreters for Roma language, now there are two in some courts, but I think it's completely insufficient. In this way, a legal obligation would be fulfilled, but he would also employ a number of people with a high level of expertise, as interpreters must have high professional equipment and have adequate language skills, except for Roma and other languages and have had experience in translation work for at least five years. So, we'd get very qualified people. A candidate who does not have the appropriate higher education is subject to verification and this would be done as soon as they are accepted. So much for this issue. Let me tell you that in all European countries, Roma have their own lists and magazines, it's not a newspaper. We've had them since 1935, "Krlo e romengo", then in 1972, then "Em" in 1980, well, "Romano Nevipe" in 2000, and then we don't have any more. My question is – why not pay attention to such an important area, because the paper serves not only information but also language codification, and serves everything that newspapers and newspapers are intended for? We also had two magazines, a magazine "Romology" and a magazine "Romeological Studies". At this point, the Roma have neither. The situation in which the Roma are involved would have to change, because there are no reasons, there are people, there are opportunities, there are also money, and there are wishes, as far as I can see among the officials in the country to resolve this issue. That is why I believe that this should be discussed at the most recent time, and the Roma subcommittee in the Serbian Parliament will raise these issues. What I particularly want to apostrophe is a review of Roma Serbia's cultural achievements, which this year celebrates 50 years of existence. Unfortunately, she's been gone for 20 years. Why isn't she here? It's not there because there's not enough interest, I have to say among the Roma themselves, but above all, in a state that provided mostly financial resources. Dear People's MPs, the Review of Roma's cultural achievements has brought together over 50,000 Roma, who participated in these events, and it is very sad and sad that such a thing should be extinguished only because it is negligence. There's nothing else, there's not much money, there's no hate, there's no sin, there's nothing, it's just negligence. My proposal is that the Review of Roma Serbia's cultural achievements is being renewed at the most recent time, that the Ministry of Culture and Information and other ministries, because this event was not only a cultural event, security of funds, and that the Roma leaders and the National Council of the Roma National Minorities are particularly interested in what this institution has done, this event, over the past 50 years. I will make a small contribution, do a small study on the staying of Roma Serbia's Policy of Culture and will be helped by the Ministry of Information and Culture, which I am very grateful for. Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-13-0.u6499	Thank you. Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, answer for word, we continue to work. I would like to inform you that it was prevented the session from being attended by Parliament MP Jelisaveta Veljkovic. We continue to work and move on to a joint single search on the proposals for decisions set out in points 11 and 12 of the agenda. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. According to Articles 192, paragraphs 3 and 202, and in accordance with Article 157(2). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, I am opening a joint single search on - a motion for a decision to suspend the office of President of the Criminal Court in Lazarevec and a proposal for a decision to amend the decision on the election of members and deputies of members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Do the representatives of the motionor want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary clubs, want a word? Respecting the obligations made by our chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Jelena Zaric Kovacevic, when it comes to constitutional changes, I am, in addition to what we have done so far, giving the first word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-13-0.u6500	Thank you, President Dacic, for your understanding. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, what I would like to start with today and what I can safely say is that Serbia today is a different country than in 2012, more advanced than in 2014 and 2016. Today we are more advanced and more developed than we were yesterday, because every day we can see the work and the results of that work. Every day it negotiates with investors, every day it is working to improve citizens' living standards, strengthen economy and economy, strengthen Serbia's political position and strengthen its strength, above all as a leader of development in the region. For the fundamental change in our country, will was needed first of all, but also vision, determination, courage and love for Serbia, which was always the first to show Aleksandar Vucic, especially after 2014, when he became Prime Minister and took responsibility for leading Serbia unconstitutionally forward. He then made it clear that he would always put citizens' and Serbia's interests first and thus remain until today. We started to work and we all enjoyed the results of work, new hospitals, roads, schools, better education and justice systems, better quality services provided by state authorities. We have done all of this together with citizens who have given us support and legitimacy in the elections at different levels to fight for the better tomorrow. If we just remind ourselves what Serbia looked like when the government took over the Serbian Progressive Party we will remember that we were on the verge of bankruptcy with a growing public debt, with an enormous deficit in the budget, without domestic or foreign investments, without capital projects, with high inflation and a unstable dinar, with an unemployment rate of around 26%, with a weakened military and police, with a unstable health system, with no open chapters in accession negotiations with the EU, faced with unstable and unstable salaries and pensions and faced with job shutting down. What Aleksandar Vucic first did when he became Prime Minister in 2014, was setting goals, whose fulfillment meant great work, denials and citizens and government members, a huge responsibility that government members were carrying on their backs, knowing that they were implementing measures that were not popular, but were only possible for Serbian citizens, to open new jobs, to reduce the unemployment rate below 10%, creating conditions for attracting investment, implementing reforms in all areas and creations based on which our country will be built. Serbia has changed in some areas, even faster than many countries in Europe. This first refers to reforms in the education system where we have become the leader in introducing changes in the education of students in the field of information technologies. Also, we used digitisation and the fourth industrial revolution to raise standards that were not Serbia-specific in education, in the way public administration works, in the economy, in the planning of infrastructure. This, among other things, affected GDP growth and improved our economic performance. What I would consider good is the fact that we had so-called. The governments of continuity, i.e. that we ended up with new projects and infrastructure construction from year to year, faced problems and solved them, showed that all the benefits of citizens will be able to see and feel in the near future, continued economic and political continuity, took care of the stability of finance, fought for faster economic growth, strengthened infrastructure and connected our cities and municipalities with each other, but also Serbia, in a region where today is recognised as a leader. I spoke earlier about six objectives put ahead of all of us – concern about the health of citizens, strengthening health and fighting the crown of the virus, caring about the interests of our people in KIM, fighting organised crime and corruption, preserving Serbia's independence and independence, the rule of law and implementing reforms that will make Serbia faster to become a full member of the EU, further economic strengthening of Serbia. What we have shown so far is that we have capacities and that we are able to work at the same time to achieve all six set goals, of course, with a good organisation and everyone in our area and within the competences that everyone belongs to. I will now look to the area of rule of law which is fundamentally important for our country's functioning, to establish high standards on which our judicial system will be based, as well as reforms that will contribute faster to the status of a full member of the EU for our country. Full membership in the EU is certainly our foreign policy priority, not only in terms of the civilization, cultural or economic membership of such a community, but also formal membership in the European Community, and we are ready to stand side by side with Europe's most developed countries. The reasons for such a pursuit are in reaching a more developed, fairer, safer society, building a modern and modern state that will offer its citizens the same and better conditions for life. In this way we achieve another goal, which is to keep young people in Serbia, to stay with their families and friends to live and work in Serbia and to be on the same task together, and that is certainly a better standard of living day by day. The reforms we are conducting in the area of justice years ago and the efforts we are making to create an effective, independent and independent judiciary show our willingness to fix the situation in the judiciary and raise it to a higher level, but also the willingness to carry out the commitments we have made as a state in the EU accession process. From the proposal for a law that comes to us from the government as an authorised promoter and we are discussing in the tide, we see that we are constantly working to bring our legislation into line with EU rules. Several international agreements have been concluded on the road to Serbia's EU accession, perhaps the most important for us is the Stabilisation and Association Agreement and the European Union's Negotiation Framework for the Republic of Serbia. The Stabilisation and Association Agreement has given Serbia the status of an EU-enjoyed state. It was then confirmed that the importance of harmonising our legislation with EU legislation is high and that we will focus first and foremost on the fundamental elements of legal fluids on justice. As priority areas, the rule of law and strengthening institutions, strengthening the independence of the judiciary and improving its efficiency have been set up. The EU's negotiating framework for the Republic of Serbia is a document that defines the principles and procedures of the negotiating process, with a focus on the conditions we agreed to, under which we will adopt and implement EU legal assets. A strong judicial system in terms of efficiency and independence of the judiciary is the main prerequisite for effective application of EU legal flows. Serbia has developed a National Strategy for Justice Reform for the period from 2013 to 2018 precisely with the aim of strengthening our judicial system and as five basic principles in the Strategy, the independence, impartiality, expertise, accountability and efficiency of the judiciary are cited. Certainly, the Strategy has worked to link judicial reform with the Eurointegration process, and above all in terms of training the judicial system for amending the normative framework and applying recommendations in the area of judicial reform. The strategy also contains guidelines on how the Constitution should be amended, regardless of the fact that the Strategy is not a binding document. First of all, the need to amend the Constitution in the work relating to the influence of the legislative and executive authorities on the process of election and resolution of judges, the president of courts, public prosecutors, election members of the Supreme Council of the judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors, as well as to specify exactly what the Judicial Academy means and implies. The new strategy for the period from 2020 to 2025 confirms the need for a change of the Constitution in the justice work. The 2016 Action Plan for Chapter 23, which was revised in 2020, provides for concrete moves in line with the European Commission's Recommendations on Scanning for Negotiating Chapter 23. Therefore, the existing provisions of the Constitution should first be analysed and amendments should be proposed, in line with the European standards and proposals of the Venice Commission. We are aware of the fact that this process requires fundamental and fundamental changes in the judicial system, as well as in the areas of the fight against corruption and the protection of fundamental rights, both in the normative plan and in the implementation. In this regard, when creating reform steps under Chapter 23, we were primarily in charge of the EU's legal assets. When assessing the current situation, we must be objective, but in setting targets ambitious, if we take into account European standards that we should achieve and the extent of the changes we are going to make. Of course, it also involves facing the administrative capacities we have, but also a certain financial moment. It should be said that there is a shift in the area of judicial reform that has facilitated the development of the Action Plan, and in particular strategic documents in the area of justice, the fight against corruption, the prevention of discrimination, the repair of the situation in the exercise of the rights of national minorities, etc. The Serbian government is working daily to strengthen a democratic society in which all citizens have equal rights and opportunities to participate in all segments of political, economic, cultural and social life in general. In that sense, we are fighting discrimination and prejudice and we are also trying as individuals, but we are also institutionally strengthening the protection of human and minority rights. From all I have stated, there is a willingness and consistency in carrying out the obligations we have made in this process that will mean full membership for Serbia in the EU, but also a much better judicial system that will mean, above all, greater efficiency in the work of courts. Strengthening independence and independence, impartiality in work and professionalism is of equal importance, as well as improving efficiency, but lack of efficiency seems to be the biggest problem for citizens to lose confidence in the judiciary. First of all, it is thought of the trial within a reasonable period of time, i.e. the tendency to reduce the duration of the court proceedings and to satisfy justice within reasonable time limits and legal certainty raised to a higher level. The fight against corruption and all forms of crime is certainly one of the government's priorities. We remember that Aleksandar Vukic, the first in an unequivocal way, openly went into the fight against crime and the mafia and urged the competent state authorities to do their job in accordance with the law to bring criminals to justice. Organized crime groups want to get into the economy, politics, sport, media, justice, they want the money they have to invest in the wrong way, of course, to make more money to themselves, to obtain illegal property benefits by committing crimes and thus, ultimately, endangering the lives of citizens and the budget of the Republic. Alexander Vukic stood up against the mob and therefore experienced criminalization both himself and his family. No one could have expected it to go so far, that even through the media and through certain political parties belonging to the opposition, lies and misinformation about the President of the Republic and his family would be placed. Then they moved on to threats that directly referred to children with the most disgusting insults on social networks and in the media, to influence the public and to try to weaken the position of Alexander Vukic, which they did not succeed in, and they will not succeed. The creation of an affair was meant to rock citizens' confidence in the highest state functions and the state itself, so criminals could deal with criminal activities without a problem. However, the state reacted, discovered crimes in due time, perpetrators, clans and mob groups, and each time struck them with blows that show that crime is not, nor will it ever be stronger than the state. One of the key conditions for respecting the rule of law is the functional judiciary that follows basic principles and values, such as legal certainty, equality with other branches of government, in which way the economic progress of our country will be helped, protection against the influence of other authorities or private interests, as well as the expertise of judges and prosecutors who will make decisions in accordance with the law. The representatives of the judiciary are with the president of the state, with the government of Serbia and with all of us on a joint mission, which is the fight against crime and corruption, in order to keep our society from falling apart. And while we are trying to track Alexander Vukic and the fight against crime and the mafia, at the same time we have to witness the scariest campaign against him in the dirtiest way through children. Drawing a target on the head of children, not just the President of the Republic, but anyone's children's horrors, and drawing a target on the head of the son of the President of the Republic is a kind of act of trying to strike a coup and trying to weaken that function and our entire country. Call on politicians, who do so through media and portals financed by tycoons, show weakness and impotence, but show also insolence and give a clear signal that authorities need to do their job more intensively and protect all children in Serbia from such attacks. By who knows what time the border of jurisdiction was crossed yesterday in a political struggle, which is unfortunately fought through Danil Vukic. That's inadmissible for every conviction. Unfortunately, Dragan Djilas and his associates in the Vucic family's policy do not yet realize that their time has passed and that citizens will never give them the chance to exercise power again, but will give priority to the policy of peace, stability and progress represented by Aleksandar Vukic and SNS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-13-0.u6501	I thank the authorised representative of the parliamentary group Aleksandar Vukic – For our children. Dear People's MPs, to inform you of your planned work today, the vote is expected sometime before the end of the day, around 6:00 p.m. The next is Milija Miletic, who later applied. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-13-0.u6502	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues, citizens of Serbia, I, as authorized in front of the parliamentary club and as deputy head of the SPP-USS parliamentary club, will congratulate Bajram once again to all Serbian citizens, Muslim faith. May their noble be blessed. That's what I'm saying because they're at the Parliament Club with me and academicist Zukorlic, who's vice president of the Assembly, and Samir, who's head of the Parliament Club, and Jahja. These are all people who also want good for our Serbia, and that is why we have shown as a parliamentary club that we can do it together. I, as an Orthodox believer, who respects Orthodoxness, who respects God, respects every man, any faith that he is. That's why we Serbian people who always respect everyone and who, when someone came to us, wanted to give the last bite of bread to the guest. I think it is very important that here in both the Assembly and all of Serbia there is reconciliation, that we respect ourselves, that we appreciate ourselves, that we respect each other, because at all times no one knows who will need us. We have one thing in common, and that's our state of Serbia, our country that goes through huge steps forward, our country that gives great support, for one thing, to human health. We are as a state now among the first in the world by the number of vaccines, among the first in the world according to the number of those to be vaccinated. I'm sure we'll be able to get out of this pandemic problem very quickly, because more than 55% to 60% of the people will be vaccinated. The vaccines are provided. There are them in every local self-government, every city, every place. I thank the state of Serbia once again, thanking the president of Serbia, who, by his efforts, has provided the vaccine with his wise conduct. That vaccine is now worth the gold. I would once again call from this place, as an MP and as president of the USS, all the people who haven't vaccinated to be vaccinated, to do what they can to protect themselves, to protect their loved ones, and to make them safer tomorrow. That way tomorrow we'll be able to function normally, that there are no more of these restrictions. The most important thing of all is that in small areas, vaccinations have taken place, in rural areas, in local offices. Enough vaccines are provided. People working in the field are also provided, which is a great thanks to both the Ministry of Health and the Government, and especially to our President Aleksandr Vukic, who was vaccinated for the first time in a small environment, in the Ruden Glava. That's the village of Majdanpek. He wanted to show support for small communities, rural areas. I think it's the right thing to do, and I'd like to ask all the citizens to be vaccinated one more time if they haven't done it by now. As far as this law is concerned, these proposals concerning these judges, as far as the judges are concerned, there are some initiatives to equalise the remuneration of judges for violations and judges of the basic courts and other courts. I think it's the right thing to do, and it's probably going to be even in some future period. I'd say one thing about the judiciary, and that's a big problem with small environments, small local self-governments that don't have basic courts, no judicial units, no trial days. I point out the need to provide themselves in such environments... Once again, I call on the competent Justice Ministry to find the possibility that through the basic courts these days for places where there is no need, and where there is a need, because a large number of citizens from such communities, living in the border areas of such municipalities, living in villages, have no possibility, have no transport, no bus lines due to the detachment of the terrain, and when they have a court call, engage themselves, provide greater resources. From 1,500 to 2,000 dinars, it costs to leave a further place, from Svrlig, to the center of Svrlig, or to Nis, more, perhaps 3,500, 4,000 dinars. He's going to an appointment hearing or he gets there and one of those who's in that dispute is putting it off and he's supposed to do it again. I think it is necessary to provide for the days in these small environments and that the Justice Ministry does it as soon as possible to avoid costs for these people, to give them the opportunity to have the same rights as those citizens who live in larger places, because that's how we put the accent on that we all have the same rights, the same opportunities, the same obligations. Otherwise, I can say once again that people in rural areas, that people in areas such as Svrljig, Bela Palanka, Gajin Han, Meroshina, Babusnica, and other places in Rasko, that southeastern Serbia, where there are a large number of people in the old ageing population, where the poor municipalities are devastated, where demographically threatened municipalities are devastated, that in these municipalities there must be more attention, not only when we speak, but also the attention of direct separation, to direct giving, to ensure that these people have the possibility of not only judging days, to have the opportunity to seek their rights, but also to have health homes in those municipalities, to have doctors, specialists, for example. internal medicine because in municipalities that have less than 20,000 inhabitants, they do not have those rights under the rule. We all know what the problem is about such environments, related to hypertension, high pressure, diabetes, and these people in these environments have no right, but they have to provide funds from local budgets or from their resources, and everything they say is too sudden and has a lot of problems in these environments, because budgets are weak, because budgets are low and it's a very difficult situation. Another important thing, of course, is that in such environments, these are undeveloped areas that we are talking about, mountain-mounted areas, to ensure that there are more doctors, that there are, that there are still infirmarys in rural areas, because as time goes by within the rules, in the framework of the systemization, all these people who are the elderly population in these rural areas are being reduced, the perpetrators, doctors and technicians, the performers on the ground, and all of this is reflected that the number of hospitals will be reduced, that now these people who are in these rural areas are not able to go to the infirmary as they went until then to do the pressure measurements, sugar, to be given certain therapy, to be examined, but they have to come to the center of these municipalities in the health home. I don't think that's right. It is necessary that these hospitals continue to exist and we must have a special accent and different behaviour for the municipalities that I was just talking about. These are the municipalities I come from, Svrljig and Bela Palanka, not to repeat myself again, because that's what I've been talking about since 2014. I'm saying what I'm saying, I'm speaking directly from the field. That's field information. I feel the need and the problems of these people because I live here and I think it is necessary for the competent health ministry within the framework of certain regulations to distinguish such environments where demographically threatened municipalities are, where the ageing population of people, where there are very few children born and rural areas, if we want to live there people can live, these areas must be provided with health care. The same goes for school education, for preschool education. The same goes for culture, same for sport. For example, it is very important that in such municipalities security and sports activities, that these municipalities, if they do not have sports halls, such as the municipality of Svrlig, which has no sports hall, would be good to provide funds to the competent ministry together with the municipality budget, otherwise I was saying that in 2017 with the president of Serbia, when he was president, we spoke here in the Assembly that 100 million dinars were provided in the 2017 budget for the construction of the sports hall itself in Svrlig. It's a mixed gym that would have 550 seats, but to this day nothing's done. It's only left on that story, separate funds, and that's where the dot or three dots are put. I don't know when that's gonna be. I've spoken several times, and I think, if someone wants to help tomorrow, it's really those kind of environments that have to be provided and these halls, as they say, that these young people can play sports there because there are a lot of young people who want and are quite successful athletes. I am sure that we will have opportunities because Serbia's President, Mr. Vukic, Gadjin Han, spoke with the president of Svrliga Municipality, Miroslav Markovic, and we expect this to be resolved positively, as regards the construction of this sports or physical hall in Svrlig, which means engaging in sports is very important, in school sport and we all have to work together. As far as other things are concerned about those small environments that I've always talked about, the big problem is catastran. That's the first time I've talked about it. I guess what I'm saying here is that one of them might hear it, because I've asked for the reception of Director Katastra in Belgrade more than once. I didn't get a call. I asked officially as a folk MP to talk about the problems of enrolling property in the cadastre, about the problems of all the old things that are happening around the catastrophe. We are witnessing that a large number of investment problems, investment in the economy, in agriculture, all depends on the cadastre because more of these parcels are not listed in the way it should be, but rather a former owner stands. I think it is necessary both in the catastra and around the catastros to talk because the same in small areas, as I said earlier, and municipalities such as my municipality and a large number of such municipalities in southeastern Serbia, and in other parts of Serbia, say Rasko and other parts of Serbia, the small communities no longer have their bosses in the cataster, no longer have the possibility that this man who runs the cataster in those small municipalities, that he can sign a solution, but it must be sent to some major centre. I don't think that's right, and I think that's supposed to change urgently, because it's not right, let's say, specifically right now, I'm talking about Srlig, and that's true for Meroshina, and that's true for the White Palanca, and that's true for Gajin Han, for a large number of such municipalities. This applies even to Doljevac, it applies to a large number of such municipalities, because tomorrow if one of my friends, a neighbor from my village or another village wants to prescribe something, write it down, it can't get a solution in Catastro in Srlig, which until recently had that possibility, but that solution must be signed by his boss who is in Alexinac. What is the distance of the Scrlig - Alexine? Maybe it's close for those people from Raja, like they're closer to Alexine, but for us from Srlig's boss in Aleksinec to sign some sort of cataster solution, I don't think it leads to anything. If we want to make sure tomorrow that our people living in those small communities can stay there, they have to give them the opportunity to finish their jobs. It's about the cataster. As for the tax administration, the tax administration in particular, we had in these small areas and units of local self-government not only within the local self-government, we had these people working in the administration, but the tax administration of the Republic had their own workers in those small communities, small municipalities. Now it doesn't exist anymore. I think it is necessary for the Tax Administration at the level of the Republic of Serbia to have its employees in Srlig, that they can, and in the White Palanca, these small areas, that they can do certain jobs there and that tomorrow for all those solutions regarding employment, out, tax payments and everything else, they don't have to do it in Nis, because really, people, there's a big problem and leaving and coming back. It's expenses, it's certain obligations. Maybe now this is going to be about "eGovernment" that might be done electronically, but we all have to work together, it's also good that it's done, because it's a need that we can solve a lot of things by electronic means, but right now people in my area can't finish anything, but they have to go to Nis. It's another one of the things we have to look at to change for the good of those small environments. The other things I wanted to talk about, specifically, for agriculture, for the village, we'll definitely work on. It's nice what we're talking about, we have a few ministries that take care of the family, take care of the village, take care of the agriculture, but the bottom line is that the result has to be visible. The result must be at the right time in the right place. I'm just saying, it would be good for those people who run those responsible ministries to be, to come to us in these small environments, to come to us, to be a few days, to be with me in my village, to feel the problems of doing agriculture, that the problem when a man doesn't have strong electricity, when a man has no mail, when a man doesn't have health care, when a man doesn't have the elemental stuff, and a man wants to deal with agriculture, wants to stay in his hearth, but that's why we have to give him a chance through certain financial support, because that's what's very necessary for those environments. The most important thing is that these people and those of us that I voted for in the government, who run those responsible ministries, must have a sense and a need to feel on their skin what a problem means. I'm saying what I'm saying because I know what the problems are. I feel these problems on me and they feel it next to me. That's why I'm talking here, because I'm saying what people in that community say. The problems that are evident in these environments are the problems that I talk about here every day when I answer the phone. The great need is for us to work together, to go to the field, to be in these areas for a few days, in these villages, to see what it means when one man who's engaged in agriculture and who's had a few cows, to sell one cow, another cow, then that land is closed, and we all know those who deal with livestock how long it takes when one cow is sold tomorrow, or if something worse happens, how long it takes for such a throat to function. For four to five years, it means that it takes so long to enter livestock and to provide a high-quality breeding throat and to put that breeding throat into operation tomorrow and to be productive, to be kidnapped and to have a future from tomorrow to some future, to have a vision of it. All this stuff I'm saying. As far as livestock farming is concerned, it is said that large means are being allocated to livestock, which is good, but it is a little visible in our field because a small number of such people from my municipality, from such municipalities, such as my municipality, have the opportunity to compete because certain limits that are below are impossible for them to achieve. In particular, this now good project, the Ministry of Agriculture programme for 50% of the country's participation, i.e. 50% of the banks and 50% of them to participate, and 25%, respectively. That's a nice thing, but 20,000 euros for my farmer from my village is a big problem because they can't afford that participation 25%. Therefore, I think that when we make decisions, when we make regulations, when the Government is working for the area through the competent ministry tomorrow, there must be a different criterion for areas that are demographically endangered, for areas that are mountainous, for undeveloped areas, for areas that are fourth and fifth groups of underdevelopment. With this area, we need to put different criteria, different attention and greater isolation. It also means for marriage communities, for newborn children, for non-employees, there must be greater separations in such areas, I say, at least 50% must have greater separation for each woman, for each newborn child, for each marriage community. The state of Serbia now singles out these funds, and it's good for the first, second and third children, it's a great thing, but I'm also saying that there has to be a difference for those who live in undeveloped areas, mountainous areas and villages in such areas, because if a child is born in a village now, it's a chance that this village can live, and before that, 10, 15 years ago, no child, if a child is born, a married couple comes back, we have to provide those people with higher income, greater giving, and that these people can be an example of how to live tomorrow. Once again, honourable fellow MPs, citizens of Serbia, I think what I'm saying is really problems in the field. I am an MP who has been selected from the list “Alexander Vukic – For Our Children” in front of the USS and here in the Assembly I speak those problems that are evident, which are real and which can be seen at any moment. We need to look for solutions together, the solutions are there, with a little bit of something to be taken away from somewhere, that particular point of view of some of the givings that we may be talking about in some future period, and we need to provide these larger gifts for such areas, for undeveloped areas, for rural areas in southeastern Serbia, and for other parts of Serbia, which are mountain-mounted, fourth group of underdevelopment, or fifth group of underdevelopment. Once again, distinguished fellow MPs, the citizens of Serbia, I will support all the proposals and these changes specifically related to the judiciary now, and I will support that, but once again, I will point out that it has to be more isolated for undeveloped areas, mountainous areas, and so that tomorrow people remain there to live, to remain women and couples there so that they can make their families come true, and it is normal that tomorrow they will have the opportunity to continue to develop the country of Serbia. Thank you again, Madam Vice President, you have always been just and I support you always and I want you to continue doing so.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-13-0.u6503	I thank the authorised representative of the Group of Members of the Justice and Reconciliation Party, the United Peasant Party. Let me just ask the finest MPs to get back on the agenda. Mr. Milly, you'll have six more minutes as time for your parliamentary group on the list. We're moving on. The next is the mandated representative of the SDPS parliamentary group Branimir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-13-0.u6504	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues, respected colleagues, MPs of the SDPS always prepare thoroughly for debates in the tide, and we know very well what's on the agenda. Let me remind you one more time and I will try to get this debate back on the agenda, to those points that are on the agenda, which is the termination of the office of the judge to the Lazarevec Criminal Court and the replacement of members of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs. During this assembly session, there were often proposals on the agenda concerning either the choice of judges or the termination of the office of judges. And it is always a good opportunity for us as representatives of our parties to express our position on the work of the judiciary, to assess this work, to point out how important it is for judges to act professionally and justly. Aristotle still spoke – to go to the judge means to go to justice and these words are current and 24 centuries after being spoken because the judge should be a figure of righteousness. Each judge must also cultivate the principle of justice, which means that he is legally acting equally towards the equal and unequal situations. The basic prerequisite for a judge to apply such a principle in his work is to preserve his independence and objectivity. On the other hand, it is necessary to ensure conditions in order to preserve the dignity and authority of the court. Democracy is not in itself enough and democracy itself does not guarantee that it will ensure the independence of the judiciary, or the independence of the judges. Independence in the work of the judiciary must be ensured in particular in practice. This means that, in accordance with the principles of constitutionality and legality, legality and legitimacy are ensured, and I must mention that the procedures for constitutional changes are under way, which relate first and foremost to the choice of judges, and I hope that we will successfully begin this process. The independent judiciary implies self-proclaiming independence and introducing the continuity and unchangeability of judges. It implies constant changes in social relations and ensuring a guarantee of full independence of the judiciary, and some of the conditions to be provided are socio-economic status of judges, their economic independence and should provide adequate conditions for their work. We should be working on that field when we speak to the judges of a criminal court. Namely, the judges of the criminal court are not in the same rank when we talk about paying groups with their colleagues. They are classified as payment rank, i.e. a pay group that is lower than other judges who act at the same level, only in certain different areas. That's what we should be working on in the next period. Currently, there are 44 criminal courts in Serbia and over 650 judges are working there. I'll remind you that criminal courts were introduced into our judicial system 10 years ago and their jurisdiction was very complex, very complex. They apply around 270 laws and over 800 regulations in daily work. I'll list just some areas where they work. In addition to traffic violations and violations under the Law on Public Order and Peace, they also judge for customs offences, cases in the field of combating corruption, the budgetary system, foreign exchange, access to information of public importance, work and military regulations, protect against fires. And these are just some of the areas the judges of the criminal court are handling. I purposely stated this to show that this area is very complex and that we need to motivate judges to do their job in the best possible way and highly professionally. Motivation also involves comparing your own work and compensation for this work with the work of other colleagues and salaries received by other colleagues. Of course, whoever works in any field of social life, including in courts, looks at the quality of his work and looks at the quality of his colleague's work, also sees how paid he is, and how paid his colleague is accordingly motivated to do his job professionally. This is why I'm saying this, to get back to the thesis from a moment ago, that we should be working to keep the criminal judges in the higher level of pay grade so they don't get tempted not to be under pressure, because the judiciary is the last area where we need to think, where there's a suspicion that corruption can happen. We can never say that by adopting and implementing concrete solutions, by adopting the law, we have circled the process of creating a rule of law. We must be aware that it is necessary to re-examine ourselves, to improve and improve the legal framework, to constantly insist on the application of the law, to be equal to every citizen wherever he lives in Serbia and therefore do all of this, so we are implementing reforms in the judiciary and it is important to raise this area to one higher level. The second topic we are talking about today is a more formal nature and concerns the replacement of a board member. It is a practice to reach a consensus on the representation of parliamentary groups within the Assembly committees, and we usually do so at the beginning of the mandate, by agreement of all political parties, so I am sure that we will confirm this one proposal. We are witnessing that, for years, a bad picture of Parliament has been transmitted to the public. It's kind of understandable because we're always here at the tide in direct transmission, we're under the public eye and we don't need to run away from responsibility, so it should be, and we should be on the radar, but unfortunately the public's attention is often occupied by some news that is unusual, some incident situations, such situations have been in previous years, there have been even some physical accounts here in the tide, in front of the Assembly. These are some situations that do not contribute to the good image of parliament and it is up to us to highlight those positive things, all the good that we do in the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Often citizens, i.e. the general public thinks that our work in the Assembly is only about the work of the plenary on concrete debates according to the agenda points. However, we in the Assembly have permanent working bodies in the Rules of Procedure and in these permanent working bodies are the representatives of the authorities and the opposition, and should say that every law before it comes to debate here in plenary, that before that it is considered on committees, and often on these committees, the debate is more jumbled than at the debate in the tide. Also, every legislative proposal is a good opportunity for committees to give concrete suggestions, to point to a lack if there is a need to improve the area in any way. On the other hand, ministers often attend board meetings. They defend the laws there, they explain why something is needed to bring and answer all questions, and together with MPs, they create a framework that comes later on on the agenda to us in the tide. The committees are also often attended by ministers to report on their work and thus through the work of the committee the control role of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is achieved. I should like to commend, and we must in no way ignore the importance of the board when we talk about the organisation of public hearings and I think that we have really made progress in this area lately and that is very visible. I have listed only some of the activities of the Assembly board, because not everyone has come to know that working at the plenary is on the agenda as just one of the segments of work in Parliament's jurisdiction today. It's also positive that in the current assembly, it's my impression, and the public's impression is a more appropriate dictionary of expression, that we have introduced a new culture in political life, and I hope that's the way it will be in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-13-0.u6505	I thank the president of the Social Democratic Party of Serbia parliamentary group. The word has the deputy president of the Single Serbia Group, Life Starcevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-13-0.u6506	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we are talking on the agenda of the motion to suspend the office of President of the Criminal Court in Lazarevec on the basis of the conditions for retirement. A JS parliamentary group that respects the institutions of this state, which trusts the institutions of this state, who believes in the holders of judicial functions, will vote for this decision in the day of voting, and we wish the president of the Criminal Court happy retirement and thank you for his dedicated and years of work. However, there is one group, an interesting group gathered around Dragan Djilas and Vuk Jeremic, who does not respect, who is constantly unargumentedly criticising and who is constantly trying to undermine all the institutions of the Serbian state and Serbia itself both on the outside and on the inside. That interesting group doesn't run away from anything. It's not foreign to her or violence, I was talking about it in this high house the day before yesterday, using the lowest, dirtiest, ugliest lies to defile an institution, one individual, members of their families. They do this unscrupulously, insensitively, not taking into account the consequences both for the institutions and for the state of Serbia, and for individuals, for their family members. They are also heavy hypocrites, because they fight for democracy, while not respecting a single democratic principle in their functioning. To remind you, in the theory of state and society democracy is the rule of law, an orderly society that involves respect for human freedoms, but also the protection of every individual, his freedom, his honor and integrity. Democratic society means that every institution is doing its job, that the police and the prosecution are investigating, that the court is judging. But that's not the case with them. They gave themselves the right and that's why I told the political Pharisees of Serbia, they gave themselves the right to be both the police and the prosecution and the court, while denying the same institutions of the state in which they live. These hypocrites are fighting for women's rights, fighting against domestic violence, and I talked about it the other day in this high house, and I won't repeat myself, beating up their wives, beating up their family members, publicly sending the most difficult insults to women for cheap political points, bringing lies, not taking care of whether this lie will cause permanent pain, that this lie will cause a lasting sense of stigmatisation of women, minors or children. There are many examples in favour of this claim, but I will now look only at the freshest example, at yesterday's press conference for this Gilas employee, on-call liar, that Gilas Pinocchio, Marinka Tepic. This Gilas Pinocchio, of course, announced that yesterday's press conference a day earlier by saying that he was going to present spectacular information and knowledge about how in the fake affair of Palma, an affair that exists only in her corrupt imagination and dirty passions, and I apologize to Boris Djordjevic for using his verse on such an obscenity, in this false affair where he says that some state authorities are hiding evidence, hiding some pictures of girls from the phone of his closest associate Dragan Markovic Palma, that some of the witnesses of the events have filed criminal charges against Dragan Markovic Palma. What she did at that press conference first, of course, attacked the state's institutions, attacked the prosecution, attacked the police, attacked the judiciary. He says they, for God's sake, know some evidence on the phone of the closest associate Dragan Markovic Palma, but they hide them and won't publish them, and they have the phone since June of last year to vote in the local elections. Of course this is another one in a series of lies by Marinika Tepic and it is nothing new. What exactly is this about? Let's get this whole thing straight. In fact, in the day of the election, in June of last year, an adult who was and was an activist of an opposition group in Jagodina threatened the mother of a minor daughter that she would publicly publish on social networks and post explicit photographs of the underage daughter. Of course my mother reacted immediately and reported it to the police. Police immediately reacted, engaged their high-tech crime unit, the D.A.'s Office of High-Tech Crime. This adult, this opposition activist has been arrested and his phone has been taken away, and the victim's mother, the girl, is the director of the Centre for Social Work in Jagodina. So they totally turned the story around. The phone is not owned by the closest associate Dragan Markovic Palma, but by an opposition member, and the victim is the daughter, the underage daughter of the Centre for Social Labour Director Biserka Jakovljevic. So, she lied to Marinika Tepic at that press conference, she turned everything around. And it's not the worst thing she lied about, it's the worst thing she didn't even blink in the whole story when she used a private problem and a underage girl to score cheap political points. Well, that's what we're different from her. On that day, we were able to reproduce what happened in June 2020, and with that political announcement, we could reduce the number of votes to that opposition act that went to the vote, and to increase our number of votes, but we did not want to politicise it, but we wanted to preserve first and foremost the peace of a minor girl, the peace of a fair, healthy five-member family, and we did not want to abuse it for political purposes. But it didn't bother Marinika Tepic to lie a year after that, abuse, using the gossip she received from her source of information from Jagodina and, not blinking, at a press conference yesterday, as an elephant in a glass shop, to break up a girl's life, to make a big riot and a disturbance in a five-member family, just for the sake of getting some cheap political point and to find a way out of her cycle of corruption and from all these lies she started before, here, she still has a month. Of course, she was last night... Before I say it, let me say one well-intentioned advice to Mrs. Tepic. Speaking of the strawberry source of information, my warm recommendation is that it raises its hands from that source of information as soon as possible, because its strawberry source was unable or able to solve its own life problems and resorted to very interesting ways to escape from reality and the whole of Jagodina knows about it. As her witness, so are her lies. Of course, last night came the public mother of the underage daughter, Biserka Jakovljevic, director of the Social Labour Centre, the mother of the cyber victim and any other violence, peer violence and any other violence, came out because she no longer wants anyone to blackmail her or Marinika Tepic. She wanted to put an end to that story once and for all. Her daughter is the victim of this peer violence, her daughter is the victim of cyber violence. The whole family's been tried multiple times to blackmail themselves. Now, in the end, as a cake cream, the very Marinika Tepic came. It was a shame! But it is no accident why Biserka Jakovljevic was chosen as a target by Marinika Tepic and why she targeted it yesterday at a press conference. I'll tell you why. If someone listened to me last week, I told here about the lie by Sanda Raskovic Ivić, the famous Serbian ambassador to Rome, who lied all about Professor Veraldi, I said here that in addition to Professor Veraldi, Biserka Jakovljevic, mother of three children and serious women, had just sat there in 2011. She's an acquaintance, she knows Professor Veraldi personally, and she was his host back then. She is the main witness who testified in the prosecution against all the lies brought by Sanda Raskovic Ivic. Another in a group of Serb political Pharisees. Of course, such a witness should be disavowed, even at the expense of plowing the family and using her underage daughter. Well, is it lower? Is there sufficient lowness in the political struggle and dirt and mud in this cycle of corruption of Marinika Tepic? I ask the question to Dragan Gilas -- how long will you approve and support such a dirty way of political struggle? The second lie at the press conference yesterday was that Dragan Markovic Palma committed a crime by revealing the identity of this false witness, Marinika Tepic, whom she called a protected witness. To remind you, this is the criminal who was arrested six times in 2008 and 2009, who was convicted in 2015, who hid for ten years in Jagodina, which in Subotica, and again in Jagodina, and eventually found protection first at Vuk Jeremic, and later at Dragan Djilas, and who was reportedly crushed by the voice and blurred his face because he was afraid of Dragan Markovic Palma. I said the day before yesterday - and he's not afraid to steal a car, he's not afraid to lie facelessly? Here, today I can also show a picture, which is just one of the pictures on Gilas's party's instagram, where this false witness is walking around Belgrade these days, doing various political action around Belgrade, putting pots in the Cvetni Square, laughing and kneeling with his party activists. Is that what a man who's afraid does? No, that man's not afraid of anything. This is all a fictional story for the purpose of a dirty political campaign. Of course, she said - that false witness released him from criminal charges because Dragan Markovic Palma committed a crime because he discovered the identity of a protected witness. Who gave this witness the status of a protected witness? Who gave this witness witness witness status in the first place? Yesterday, we heard from Marinika Tepic, he was heard, but as a citizen. Why? Because there's just no criminal record. So we can't wait, here I am inviting Marinika Tepic to file a criminal report against Dragan Markovic Palma. If he believes, indeed, in all her lies, so let him file criminal charges against Dragan Markovic Palma. But, no, gentlemen dear, no, because her legal team, who is rich in Dragan Gilas's fat pay, has been advised. There's nothing there, it's all a lie. Don't file any criminal charges because if you drop a criminal record, you'll be sued for public reporting, followed by a fat punishment. The whole story's in it. It's all a lie. Marinika Tepic herself does not believe her lies, because if she believed she would go and respect the institutions of this system, she would honour the prosecution and release a criminal report. Of course, none of it does. Of course, she said yesterday that she did not trust the prosecution, that she did not trust the police, that she did not believe in the Serbian court, because she and her Dragan Gilas were both the court and the prosecution, only their court is the only real court. They don't admit other justice to their justice. They say - my criminals and associates are the only relevant witnesses, my lies are the only true truth, and the one we lie about has no right to defend, no right to honor, no right to a dignified life. For their lies are divine truth and divine justice. It's the only truth that the media can convey. If they pass on someone else's truth, it's regimeal media immediately, it's regimeal magazines and television, and if journalists show all the integrity, then they give themselves the right to step on foot crossings. Why are they doing this? Why are Dragan Djilas and Marinika Tepic doing this? There's a lot of reasons. First, to draw public attention from facts that speak of the enormously acquired wealth of Dragan Gilas. Dragan Markovic just asked Palm: “Do you have that money or not? If you have them, did you pay your taxes? If you paid your taxes, why did you take them abroad? “ Nothing else. It's not just Dragan Markovic Palm. Well, there are almost no MPs in this National Assembly who haven't asked that question. There is no man in Serbia who has not asked a question – where did you get such money, Dragan Gilasu? Of course, we didn't get the answer today. The other thing is to get attention from an affair of violence in the Dragan Gilas family. And that's what I've been talking about, and I don't want to repeat myself. So, just once again I appeal to the institutions of this country, because we have the victim, we have the official note, we have witnesses, we have everything, and that case isn't processed. Once again, I urge the state authorities to start processing the case. Of course, one reason is that Marinika Tepic herself, in one pompous way, goes into her most filthy political campaign. One reason is to harm not only Dragan Markovic Palma, but also the state of Serbia. Just remember that dirtiest first press conference of hers about this situation, when she said - if this doesn't make the government fall, I don't know why. Well, Mrs. Tepic, this is not why the government falls, because of this country Serbia will not fall to its knees, on the contrary, and this country Serbia and this government and all its institutions, Unique Serbia, including Dragan Markovic Palma, we will continue to do even better and to create the works that we create and leave to future generations, because the only parameters of our political action are our actions. That is why Dragan Markovic Palm will be led by 550 doctors and medical staff in Paraly on June 3rd to 10th, as a token of gratitude to these heroes of today for everything they have done for the state and the people over the past year. And this journey, again to deny some media, does not go and is not paid from budget funds, any, or the city of Jagodina, but exclusively from funds provided by donors. Of course, among these donors there is no Dragan Gilas, because he is not used to giving. He's got a little different habits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-13-0.u6507	I thank the deputy president of the Single Serbia Group. The word has the mandated representative of the SPS parliamentary group, MP Tom Fila. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-13-0.u6508	As I told you, Madam Vice President, I am your destiny. Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, when the SPS MPs vote for the entire agenda, we will be with the coalition partners, as always. I want to use this time to repeat what I asked as a question, but with much more details. I never spoke in my life without knowing why. The reason I'm saying it is to remain that it is not possible for this Assembly to pass and that no one pays attention to Kosovo's justice applied in The Hague. If someone doesn't like it, I'm very sorry, but I consider it an extension of what I did in The Hague from 1996 to 2014. That's why I'm going to read it again, because it's easier for me to read it, because of the data that's inside, and because I think it's necessary to keep it as a response from the Serbian Parliament. On May 7th of this year, Kosovo's special council in The Hague appointed two representatives for two groups of victims, one in the Hashim Thaci case, three more Kosovo Albanians and the other in the Mustafa Selimi case. In the Thaci case, it is known that a British lawyer has been designated as the representative of nine victims, although twice as many have been sought by a lawyer, while in the Selimi case, five victims were appointed as professor of international law at Glasgow University. Hashim Thaci, Kadri Vesenji, Recep Seljimi and Jakup Krasniqi have been charged with a large number of crimes against humanity, persecution on a political and national basis, imprisonment and other inhumane proceedings, torture, murder and forced disappearances of persons and war crimes, including murder, torture, cruel treatment and illegal or arbitrary arrest and imprisonment of liberty. Although the charges published do not contain any closer data on the victims, as usual, it is certain that the largest number among them is Serbian nationality. The illustrations for this purpose, in the case of Hashim Thaci and other victims are classified in three categories and are listed in three tables, a, b and c, attached to the indictment. The list "a" lists victims of illegal arrests, with the largest number per municipality, including Albania, only partially published. Namely, 453 people have been arrested unlawfully and held in various locations throughout Kosovo, 37 of them in Albania, they are for organ trafficking. The number of victims of these arrests with 10 locations is not displayed. The list "b" lists victims killed in 11 Kosovo municipalities and one location in Albania. The number of people killed was not publicly published, except that at one location, a Roma was killed. The list "c" lists missing persons from five Kosovo municipalities, but their number is not publicly published. Of this mass of victims, only from the indictment of Hashim Thaci and other legal aid has so far been provided only for nine victims. You saw how many there were. I'm worried about two things. First, that only 19 victims of at least 453 known victims, illegal arrests so far seem to be, and who knows how many unspeakable victims of these and other crimes, we're looking for legal aid in the first place. And in the case of Selimi Mustafa, one representative was appointed, five victims. It's a professor at the University of Glagz Ana Pues, whose theoretical knowledge of international criminal law is undeniable, she teaches it. But I don't know if in her professional career she represented any victim, the victim in criminal proceedings in front of domestic courts, their courts. But it's not her representation, if not her representation will be a debut in the international criminal justice arena. I just wonder why it is necessary for our citizens in an extremely sensitive procedure, of international importance, to represent someone without practical experience, or someone who is not a lawyer at all, and it never seemed to be. I am personally convinced that the team, all of these victims, is in need of legal assistance, as it is a serious case being tried in front of international judges and prosecutors. If such a large number of victims did not seek legal help, I attribute it to their ignorance and ignorance. They're not doctors of our victim's science. I therefore believe that the Republic of Serbia should take appropriate measures before the Special Major, Greater for Kosovo, by asking that all its citizens who appear in these proceedings as damaged and victims in an adequate manner, in their own language, to be familiar with their right to seek legal assistance through lawyers. These are our Serbian lawyers who have experience with the previous UN tribunal in The Hague. The victims should also be informed that, according to the Rules of Procedure of this Court, the representatives are assigned by consultation with the victims involved in the procedure, taking into account their views and interests. They should not be disturbed to choose a lawyer freely, but they should also be given the opportunity to know the names of lawyers on the list, they are Serbian lawyers. I suspect that the position of Serbian victims in the Seljimi and Thaci cases was that they wanted Professor Pus and Attorney Los as their agents, because I don't think they've ever heard of them before. I believe they were neither questioned or anonymous to whom the identity of these victims was known convinced that they would best protect their interests. This provided that they were even tried to know their views and interests. With all due respect, both the British lawyer and the Glasgian teacher and their theoretical and practical knowledge of international law, I think they lack the most basic thing to gain the trust of victims, which is the knowledge of their native language, I mean the victims. Although the identity of those victims, to whom they were assigned, is not known as their nationality, I think most of them are Serbs and do not speak any other language other than Serbian. On the other hand, I don't believe that lawyer Los and Professor Pues speak Serbian. In short, their communication with clients will be done through translators, which prevents direct communication between lawyers and clients necessary to gain client confidence from a competing lawyer. On the other hand, a large number of lawyers from the Republic of Serbia for years of experience are lawyers who acted before the UN tribunal in The Hague, an ad hoc tribunal in The Hague. Those lawyers reported, they had more years of experience working there. They were received on the Kosovo court list. I think that the Republic of Serbia should examine the reasons why this court has denied the possibility for our citizens, victims to be represented in a high-risk procedure by lawyers they cannot speak to in their own language. The low credibility of the Kosovo court is clearly expressed by moving its headquarters from Pristina to The Hague, and by placing on judicial and prosecutorial functions exclusively international judges and prosecutors. The appointment of representatives of victims who cannot communicate with them in the same language, without the presence of third parties, translators, by imposing unknown people whose expertise is unquestionable, but with whom they cannot establish ordinary communication, does not contribute to the credibility of the court, so I suggest that the competent authorities of the Republic of Serbia point out to the special councils for Kosovo. In addition, I think that the further work of this court should be monitored, particularly taking into account the protection of citizens of the Republic of Serbia's nationality who appear as victims and witnesses. The reason I'm telling you this isn't because you listen carefully to me, because most of you obviously don't care, but it leaves behind, behind every MP, there's going to be some sort of trail, smelly or smelly. I'm behind myself in a short stay here in politics, I won't leave that kind of trail. What I'm saying to you, I'm talking for the good of the nation, for Serbia's sake. Whether you're interested or not, you don't have to be interested, I'm interested in saying it. On today, yesterday, the government decided, the ad hoc tribunal in The Hague to send Karadzic to Great Britain to maintain the life sentence. Only a few years ago, while I was still in The Hague, he was a lawyer for Krstic, was convicted General Krstic and was sent to serve time in Great Britain. There the Muslims tried to slaughter him, slaughtered him, beaten him with a knife and pieces of razor blades. Fortunately, the guards came and he was returned to Cheveningen. Karadzic's departure to Great Britain is a condemnation of man to death, there are 90% Muslim prisoners. And I want it to be known that we have to take care of every man, because if the state didn't care about us and the people who were accused and convicted in The Hague, then let him start worrying now. The only bright spot I see is the government and president of the Republic's decision not to send Verice to Radet and a colleague of Jojic to The Hague. Is that enough? Well, it's not, we have to take care of people. What I'm trying to say, or we'll go through the embassy. Once Serbia can pay one lawyer, be there all the time and report to us on what's going on in The Hague. What happens to our victims will happen to us. That's the more natural-trained thing I've pulled out of The Hague, that they're doing what they want, and the Great Britain is a bariatrist against the Serbs, even the Americans have listened to what the Great Britain is doing. The group I defended from Kosovo was convicted on the basis of UK reports and their embassies. I wouldn't keep you any longer. I don't want to use time to just tell stories. I think this is good to say, and it's good to keep a record, and you do what you want. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-13-0.u6509	I thank the authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group. Honorable Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that today the National Assembly will be working after 18 hours for the need for the National Assembly to bring in acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Since there are no more authorised representatives or presidents of parliamentary groups in the system, we are moving on to the list of speakers. As I have announced, the word has a People's MP, Milija Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-13-0.u6510	Thank you. Dear Vice President, honourable fellow MPs, citizens of Serbia, I am Milija Miletic coming from Svrlig. It is the most beautiful municipality in Serbia located near the town of Nis, which is the most beautiful city in Serbia. By the way, I was elected from the list Aleksandar Vukic – For our children and in the Assembly I am president and represent the United Peasant Party. As so far as I've been saying, in the opening part, what I'm saying now after fellow Members of Parliament, Phil, I think the man is really competent. He said all the necessary things that concern rights, professions and all that matters. I'm the only one who can confirm that. What I wanted to say was, I said in the opening part a little while ago, as far as the courts are concerned, where the need for these little sons is, as I was saying. I'm going to be in the agenda, which I'm saying, but all the things I said earlier, I'm going to say the same thing in one part. I think it is necessary to put a maximum accent on the judiciary, the courts, all of it to provide conditions for work, that courts can function in small communities, or municipalities where they were once basic courts. Such municipalities were sufficient, now there are not even days in those municipalities. I think it's unfair, we have to make it right. We have to do differently under the law and the possibility, to give that opportunity, judging by the days, to have judges there for a few days who will be tasked with working on cases concerning citizens from that local self-government. Once again, as I was saying, the big problem is the dissension of municipalities, the ageing population of people. That's what hurts me the most when some man who lives in a remote village, who lives alone or lives with his grandmother, or with his wife, is the wave of old people, has an object, an invitation to come to Nis for trial on that day. They pay for the cab, pay for the transport, go there, and someone put that trial off, and he went, made the cost, and these people are a wave of people who have health problems and they just can't handle it. Because of these people, I call upon and appeal to the Department of Justice to find the possibility of providing judicial units, or judging by the days if they can't judicial units in such environments, as I said earlier, to these small municipalities where they used to be basic courts. It's the need not only of courts, but of other parts, which is said by the authorities, specifically the tax administration, the catastran, that's what I was talking about. I'll talk about the cataster more than once and always ask for certain things to be resolved for the sake of such small environments. I think it would be a good idea for the director of the catastra to see me as an MP if I could bring him problems, otherwise I'm going to be speaking here at the Assembly. I have no reason to be ashamed of anything, because all I have to say is that I can say it publicly, transparently, and for the benefit of everyone, for the sake of the good and for the workers of the cataster, for the benefit of the citizens and local self-government. The one thing that matters to me is that health care. Once again, I potentiate the vaccine, to vaccinate as many as possible. Who didn't vaccinate from people to do so as soon as possible to achieve that percentage of 55%, 60% and thus protect our country from Serbia so that we can put into service everything that is needed, to make business and agriculture, to be without those masks, or to free people from something, or that they can breathe more freely. Here, I'll thank all my colleagues one more time. I'm going to vote for all these bill proposals that we're going to vote on today. Otherwise, for the end, I'd like to address some of the citizens, or the citizens of Srlig, as I come from there. Now I'd like to congratulate my birthday on the radio station "Buba Mara". It's 29th birthday. It's one of the oldest radio stations in southeastern Serbia. I think it's a big success. It would be good, once again, to say that the competent Ministry of Culture and Information within their respective competences, within their financial capabilities, help such media that are in these small communities, that they can inform citizens, that it is heard about the necessary things to help these small communities to hear as much about them as possible, and that it is not only here in Serbia or here in Belgrade, some major centres, that it is also in small towns such as the municipality of Svrljig, Bela Palanka, Gajin Han, Babushnica and such municipalities that have a future. Together with our president, together with our government, we will work on it together. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-13-0.u6511	Thank you. The word has a folk MP Sanja Jefic Brankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-13-0.u6512	Thank you. The esteemed chairman, fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, may not often talk at the National Assembly meetings about committee members, delegations and other working bodies, but I also feel it is very good to bring citizens together in a better way and how committees, who are their members, who are their responsibilities and how committees and working bodies work in general. Like any parliamentary democracy, Serbia is often in a position to fight, i.e. to take care of how it will build its institutions, particularly on democratic principles, and parliament as a central democratic and capitalist institution takes a special place in this regard. Since the adoption of the Constitution in 2006, and then the first law in the National Assembly in 2010, and ultimately by realising the financial independence of the National Assembly in relation to the executive power, there have been conditions for improving the legislative work of the National Assembly, and this is certainly achieved by strengthening the capacities of the committees and other working bodies of the National Assembly. I also mention that the functioning of the National Assembly is the subject of an analysis of the European Commission's annual report on Serbia's progress, together with the existence of the 2013 Resolution, of the role of the National Assembly, in the negotiations in the accession of the EU, and all of this further obliges us to talk in a transparent way about work, but also about the composition of all the Assembly committees and bodies made up of the MPs in this Assembly. The Assembly's supervisory role as one of the four most important functions of the National Assembly is a framework for today's debate, given the growing value, and supervision, as well as controls in parliamentary life around the world, seen on a global scale, as well as in Serbia, but whether or not the perception of the Assembly's supervisory role by the general public is good, or whether it is necessary to bring this function closer to the public, by talking about it and more about it and by our own actions and by referring to it. It is indisputable that parliament represents a key, directly elected and representative political institution, it represents what is least said, it can be called "vox populi". All that congregation committees do, in fact, is, in some way, advocating the MPs for what they are in the interest of the citizens. The Assembly committees shall consider reports to which national parliaments, in accordance with the law, are also submitted by independent institutions, bodies and bodies, after which committees shall submit their reports to the National Assembly, which shall continue to make recommendations, i.e. proposals based on what is on the committee. Also, in order to obtain information, i.e. expert opinions, MPs on committees may receive further explanations, clarifications on each of the issues relating not only to drafts of the law, but also to other reports submitted to the committees. In this regard, I would mention public listening, which is a mechanism available to the Assembly committees. It is indeed a good way to spread the public as well as civil society organisations, and to learn about the work of the draft legislation that will come into the agenda, but also to influence the work of the Assembly by making suggestions and suggestions possible for certain proposals to be either promoted or amended, which again corresponds to the interests that each of them advocates. Also, another important issue, which is related to the essential effectiveness of the public hearings themselves as a control mechanism of the National Assembly, is the topics discussed in public hearings, i.e. the topics that public hearings are dedicated to. Practice has shown that in organising public hearings, mostly selected life topics, i.e. those that are relevant to citizens' problems and systemic problems in society. It is one of the best ways to talk about it in a transparent way, but also to make constructive proposals. I'll take an example from the Committee on Human and Minority Rights. Over the past month, Islamic religious citizens have marked Ramadan. Respecting the decision of the Crisis Staff on working hours of catering facilities, this would practically mean that hosts from this part of Serbia, above all from Novi Pazar, are unable to work during the iftars. Thanks to the appeal of the Committee on Human and Minority Rights, the Serbian government has come to the meeting and has made it possible for New Pazar hosts to change their working hours, so that the Muslim population from this part of Serbia can, in terms of the pandemic, respecting all those measures prescribed by the Crisis Headquarters, maintain its usual Ramadan habits. Is this not the best indication of the government's sincere desire, but also of the MPs themselves, to come up with some common results with mutual respect and respect for the religious specialities of our citizens? I will give another example in which cooperation can be good, or the results of cooperation can be good despite the fact that it is not just formal assembly bodies, or committees, but it is achieved through the co-operation of informal bodies, i.e. informal groups, as well as those that formally represent the work of the National Assembly. First of all, I am referring to the proposal for a law on climate change, which, by the Green Parliamentary Group, brings together MPs who belong to different political parties participating in parliament's work, submitted four amendments to the proposal for a law on climate change from which the Government of the Republic of Serbia adopted three, and they have become as such an integral, i.e. an integral part of the proposal for a law on climate change. This is the first time in the ten-year history of the work of the Green Parliament Group that for some legislation in the field of environmental protection, common, I stress, inter-party amendments have been submitted. To conclude, the committees of the National Assembly really represent an important link in carrying out parliamentary control. Assembly committees are often seen as a place where the work of parliament is essential and real. Control through parliamentary committees, which I spoke of earlier, is also highlighted as the most systematic method for controlling the work of the executive authority. For this reason, taking into account the importance of the work of the committees themselves, the way in which it participates but also respecting the party proposals submitted by the candidates for these committees, starting with the fact that they are competent enough with their work to improve all those topics that will be found on the board by the SDS in the voting day to support their proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-13-0.u6513	I would like to thank Parliamentarian Sanja Jefic Brankovic. The word has the People's MP Vojislav Vujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-13-0.u6514	Thank you, Chairman. A memo came today, a memo, saying that the President of the Lazarevec Criminal Court, Mrs. Milica Zivojinovic, has filed a request for retirement because of the completed working century. I don't know the lady personally, but since she's been performing a very honorable function, and I don't doubt that her entire working life has been marked, I congratulate her on her retirement, and I want her to receive that pension as long as possible, of course, as well as all the other pensioners. We here today for the topic, here, is imposed by circumstances, we have a mistrial, I personally, because of all the events that are free to say, and the president of my party Dragan Markovic Palma, my party and all of us who are here together, can relate to my colleague's Life of Starčević and to comment very briefly on all this that Marinika Tepic is doing. The consequences of her slander are absolutely inconceivable. She's hitting on individuals. She's hitting on families, no responsibility whatsoever. The worst, after two three such waves of such performances, serious slanders, it continues to come public. Every day someone is forced to deny Marinika Tepic, whether they are individuals, whether they are families, whether they are us who are involved in politics, but she continues to muddle people. I can't understand what her desire is here with these performances. Is it some kind of personal promotion of hers, if she really cares about promoting herself with these false accusations, then she's, I'm free to say, a disturbed personality, because a normal man can't do this kind of damage to people to promote himself. She's playing with the fates of several hundred people. I get the circumstances, I know a lot of these people and I know them myself. I know what kind of hell they're going through right now, no guilt, no debt. What they're wondering, which I don't know anymore, is what kind of answer I could give them, how to stop this torture? How do you stop what Marinika Tepic is doing? As much as those people defend themselves with facts and count on them to defend themselves, after seven days, the lady re-convenings the Facebook conference and re-indicts all these same people. They were forced again, they wanted to, they didn't want to, and we, along with them, because we think it's human to go out and to deny in public what Marinika is saying. Today, given that judges are also topics, please judges, please prosecutors, please police inspectors, please health care, please psychiatrists, please engage to try together to find a solution. Guys, this is like Sisife's job. We can't explain to the people everything she's muddying through some of her media shows. It's like pulling out a feathered pillow, no matter how hard you try to collect those feathers, it's just impossible. A normal man as he has some knowledge he's going to court, not going to Facebook. What do media shows like this do instead of going to court? It's just getting more attention. There's no work here, there's no victims, there's no witnesses, there's just her empty story. Personally, I can also say with certainty that this is just the beginning of a political campaign, a campaign to be run for the next election. I'm sure she and the people gathered around her are making an ugly and terminal political pig, because with that kind of behavior, young people are driving them out of politics. You know, people get involved in politics so they can help someone else. Politics is a noble skill and a noble profession, but because of this kind of behavior, Marinika Tepic, young people will say – wait, what would we get into such mud, that anyone can say anything to you without having any responsibility? Then young people or people in business at all, people in life say -- we don't need this, we're gonna back down. We don't want any part of this. We all get a little uncomfortable about the politics we're dealing with right now. This is a normal man who can't listen without reacting. On the contrary, I urge all young people to engage in politics, to fight with healthy ideas, to make healthy programs, to help everyone as much as possible. New people must appear on the political scene. Marinika Tepic is a representative of the opposition. I don't argue that every country should have both power and opposition, it's normal for function, but a normal opposition, an opposition that fights for other people, an opposition that fights for some ideas contrary to what we, say, represent here. But, you make a program, you run, you run out, you promote those values, not to engage in personal interests, and the only way your political struggles are the accusations you make from day to day. Secondly, you can't do politics until you look people in the eye. You can't do Facebook politics. I'm not saying that you can't, you can't, it's social networks, everyone has the right to do whatever they want, but that you are constantly talking to Facebook with a crazed voice and a hidden face of your own witnesses that you're pulling out, and when the judiciary says, well, let's get that started, you're nowhere. Then you say, "Well, I said it, and you go ahead." Guys, the law doesn't work that way. And again, as much as it doesn't suit her, young people, get involved in politics. I invite you to come to the United Serbia as well. We have been on the political scene of Serbia for 17 years. You know what we do, you know what we do. We're ready to give everyone a hand and invite him to be our associate. If you think we need to change something in our work, say so. If you have any good ideas, come, we'll be happy to accept it. And that's a normal way of working in politics. As far as we're concerned, we're not giving up on any of the things, so no matter how much they attack us and no matter how they attack us. The two most important things I'm going to say, not to present the entire Single Serbia political programme, which is family, the family is sacred to us, the two men, in our opinion, can never adopt the child and Kosovo is an integral part of Serbia. That's the basis of our operation. Come to fight together for Serbia, to fight these lies and fake secises on the political scene, come to fight Marinika Tepic, the woman who changed three parties and is now on the fourth party payroll. The saddest of all, and when it comes to my colleagues and I, is that we are forced to function by acting as these people and families who are clothed, we need to justify ourselves and defend ourselves. I call on the state authorities to do their job and feel free to speed up all procedures. Dragan Markovica is asking you and insisting that you speed up all the criminal charges that have been filed. Well, that's the only thing we're looking for. And I'm sorry we're wasting our time, because we don't get to talk about laws, we don't get to talk about our proposals that have always been constructive. We still have them today. By preparing myself for this, I have tried to extract from the statistics of the Criminal Court what it is that the Criminal Court judges the most, what it is that can help the Criminal Court, what it is that directly affects our budget. You know, when someone deals with the work of a judge, whether it's a misdemeanor, guilty person or whoever, he's bound by one side and a pedagogue to act on people, he's obliged to direct people, not every time to punish with maximum punishment, but a normal man who's made some kind of unconscious mistake to give guidance on how to correct himself. And given the circumstances, one of the topics that we can talk about is, say, the charge for speeding on the highway. About 7,000 people, citizens of Serbia, our domestic drivers, pay the penalty for speeding over 130 km, based on electronic measurement, and we have three times as many foreigners who are committing the offence at a much higher speed at which, unfortunately, we cannot... (President: Time. That's what I'm talking about. You know, in order to do constructive things, we need to bother Marinik Tepic. That's not what we all do. We all have the same problem here. It's just that the state has to do something. The whole system is about one person, who definitely needs someone's help, and I've called for that help from both judges and prosecutors and police inspectors, doctors, psychiatrists, psychologists, you have to do something to keep the system working normally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-13-0.u6515	Dear People's MPs, I would continue to appeal to all of you to return to the topic of the agenda, how much time it allows us and I would ask all the MPs to adapt to the rhetoric and expressions they use in their exhibitions to respect this high house. The word has a People's Messenger, Deep King.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-13-0.u6516	Thank you, Your Honor. I will respond to your appeal and I will talk about the motion for a decision on the termination of the office of President of the Criminal Court in Lazarevec. Namely, the current president informed the National Assembly that she had met the conditions for exercising the right to retirement and the SPS congratulated her on the completion of the working century. We appeal to her colleagues at the Lazarevec Criminal Court that in a nice way she was retired, as we wish her to spend her retirement days well and in pleasure. Anyone who has earned his pension in the judiciary, sharing justice and fighting for the construction of the rule of law deserves attention and deserves our gratitude, especially the presidents of courts who have enormous responsibility for the proper and timely work of courts. I'm just asking my colleagues if they can keep their voice down, since they're really distracting me with the noise. I'd also like the chairman to respond to that. In order to make it clear that the courts have to lead the proceedings in accordance with the constitutional guarantee of the right to a fair trial and within a reasonable period of time, and in order to do so, a good organisation is necessary in judicial bodies, especially in criminal courts, because the infringement is particularly marked by the request for effective action. It is generally known that the misdemeanor courts are overloaded. I read somewhere that the annual inflow of cases in criminal courts is about 800,000. We often talk about how many misdemeanor courts contribute to the budget and, here, since it is the President of the Lazarevec Criminal Court, I will present the information for the Lazarjeva Court, which has received almost 34 million on the basis of fines imposed and charged. However, this is not the information that needs to make us happy, but unfortunately, it is an indication that infringing courts are really burdened by the scope of the work, and that the very frequent actions that constitute a violation of the conduct, i.e. the frequent actions that should be sanctioned. In order to facilitate work by breaking courts, it is important that we expand its human resources and it is good that, two weeks ago, we elected almost 20 judges in breaking courts in different cities, however, we should continue to work on it. There's still new judges to be hired. Of course, they need to be adequately stimulated and rewarded, I mean on their salary, for all the expectations we have from them, which I am in that sitting where judges of the criminal court were elected and stressed. It is also important that we have a good normative framework on which an effective trial would take place. I'm glad my colleague Vujic mentioned fines for a quick ride. Indeed, it is a misdemeanor which, in that case, is extremely dangerous, but it is important that the state also assists citizens who have committed a violation of a fine in a difficult situation, and I would therefore mention the possibility that if, within eight days of the day of issuing the criminal order, half of the fine is paid, the state comes out to meet the citizens and the other half, to say, forgive, which is certainly significant for the citizens, because no criminal punishment is a meaningless burden, nor are their amounts, if we are honest, small. It is also important that an agreement on the recognition of the offence, which is also an important instrument for improving the efficiency of the trial, because courts are disputing discussions on one part of the case, therefore, in cases of people who want to accept their criminal liability, and the incentive to conclude such an agreement with the police may also be that the agreement with the police can provide relief on the amount of fines. What is particularly important and what I want to say to the citizens, especially those who need a car to carry out daily activities, that, through this agreement, they can assume the obligation to pay a slightly larger fine, but in exchange for not being told the measure of banning the management of a motor vehicle. So, as I said before, we must help citizens to overcome the situation that is difficult for them, but of course that neither the state is damaged at the same time. Certainly the best solution for both the state and the citizens and the problem of the burden of criminal courts is to educate citizens and to appeal to them to refrain from all kinds of safe traffic, since traffic violations are the most common. I read somewhere that they participate in about 60% of the total number of violations, and I think they are extremely dangerous. So when we tell the citizens to fasten their seat belts, to follow traffic rules, we actually tell them to take care of them. That's the message I want to send them today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-13-0.u6517	Thank you. The People's Messenger, Nebojsa Bakarec, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-13-0.u6518	Thank you, Your Honors Chairman. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honourable citizens, I will speak at the beginning of the court in Lazarevec. So this point about the court in Lazarevec is also proof that today the judiciary is working normally and that it is free. I will remind only briefly that everything was nakaradic at the time of the regimes of Gilas and Tadic. The regime, decorated in Justice Minister Snezani Malovic, Slobodan Homen, Bosko Ristic and Supreme Court President Nati Mesarovic, carried out the 2009 murder of the judiciary, a crime against the judiciary, with the goal of placing it fully in the service of the DS. The regime, with the help of DS municipal and city committees across Serbia, has carried out a party re-election of judges and prosecutors, with the aim of clearing the judiciary from prosecutors and judges who are inadequate DS. Against the law and against the constitution of Tadic and Gilas and the DS regime, 836 judges and 200 prosecutors were fired. Tadic and Djilas's Serbia have become a paradigm of injustice and injustice and among professional associations in Europe and in the Council of Europe and in the institutions of the other EU. When the SNS came to power in 2012, it acted by law and the Constitution and returned to work and all judges and all prosecutors. Unfortunately, some judges did not welcome it, died or committed suicide. Five judges committed suicide, and at least 20 of them got sick and died. All this stuff I'm talking about has been confirmed by the Association of Judges of Serbia and the Prosecutors' Association two years ago, marking the start of a ten-year fake judicial reform. The result of the killing of the judiciary by Tadic and Gilas was a huge leap in the number of pending cases, and by the end of 2008, before the false reform, there were 780,000 unsolved cases, and in 2012, therefore, after a false reform, the number grew to more than three million cases. During the killing of the judiciary, during a false reform, the re-elected, for example, the deceased judge. The other judge also found himself in a choice decision, as well as on the list of unselected. Some judges were elected to two courts, and one judge was elected both as judge and as deputy prosecutor, and there were no re-elected judges and prosecutors whose spouses were judges, prosecutors and lawyers, which was no obstacle. Not re-elected judges and prosecutors who weren't close to the DS. There are no re-elected judges and prosecutors who had very little until retirement, under the password - the prosecution should rejuvenate. This was done by Tadic and Djilas and you will see why it is important in the further course of the text. That today the judiciary is independent and that this authority does not affect the judiciary to testify and the actions of two judges who are practically Gilas' private judges. These are the actions of Judges Stepanovic and Majic. Stepanovic is the president of the Supreme Court. He completely privatized the Supreme Court. The evidence for this is his private statement from March 1st this year, which is falsely shown as the position of the High Court. Otherwise, Mr Stepanovic issued a threat to all of us in the Assembly and the whole government of Serbia when he sent word to all the Jilassian media on January 1st 2021 – judges who have the power to attack will decide on them too. How does he know that? He threatens all of us to be tried, and apparently he supports those threats of the Gilasites to the courts of the revolution that he will judge the members of the current government if they come to power and will, of course, carry out the revolution in blood. Majic has been the judge of the Court of Appeal in Belgrade since 2010 and is precisely the child of this false reform between Tadic and Djilas. Judge Majic admitted on March 8th 2021 in an interview with Djilas' portal "Nova S" and this is proof that he is a political judge, that he is considering candidacy in next year's presidential elections and that he wishes to be a candidate for the entire opposition, which is amazing. It's rightly related to the next one. The Commission's decisions on complaints, and I hereby inform this Assembly, the Commission's decisions on complaints from the Press Council, which were founded by both UNS and NUNS and other journalists' associations, by two complaints I filed against the portal "directly" and "New S", have been proven that these jilasian portals have been publishing false news. This is an important evidence of the lies given to the public by the press Board's Board of Appeals. This kind of fake news usually appears every day on "direct" and "New S" sites and I will talk about it again later. That's why this is important. To remind you, these two Jilasian portals have also released false news that I have called for the liquidation of the entire opposition, Gilas and his associates, etc. They had different versions of it. The press council found out and three days ago, he informed me that he had imposed two of the biggest penalties at his disposal on the "directly" portal because he had two violations, and the "Nova S" portal. The press Board's appeal committee found, I quote, that the "directly" portal violated section 2 of the truthfulness of the report by the Serbian Journalist Code and that the portal "directly RS" also violated section 1 of Section 2. – independence from pressure, by which the title of the text should not be contrary to the essence of the text. Who makes this Board of Appeal? Journalists, experts and judges. These are the members of the press Board's appeal committee. And all of these, and you'll hear, I'll thank them, are squads of the unthinkers of this government, even critics. And thank you to the members of this commission – Dragan Djordjevic, Tamari Skrozi, Ljiljani Smailović, Vladi Maresu, Zlatko Čobović, Zorica Višnić, Vidi Petrovic Škero, former Supreme Court President, who is a member of the commission, Snezani Andrejevic, Jelki Jovanovic, Bojana Cvejic and Olivera Milosevic, for realizing that they "directly" and "new" lie and deceive the public. So I beat these portals of lies and now it's proof that they're cheating on the public. Now I get to the point. Gilas' portal "directly" every day, I said, publishes the most monstrous lies. So "directly" announced yesterday a statement, a monstrous lie, the fiction of the Belivuk mob clan, an armed wing of terror, that Danilo Vukic was allegedly involved in the affairs and conflicts of the Partizan fans. In these circumstances, when the state is fighting against the Belivuk mob clan, which was otherwise falsely represented as a Partizan fan group, and in fact engaged in drug trafficking, robbery and murder, under these circumstances to publish false news on, watch out, on six sides, is to publish the news on six pages of Daniel Vukic, the oldest son of the President of the Republic, is to draw a target on his forehead and is to call straight to his lynch and murder. The portal is a direct message of deception and lies, and with this text about Daniel Vukic, the portal Directly, the Gilas portal, proved that the Belivuk clan, the voice of the armed wing of the mafia and terror. The owner of the portal is Dragan Gilas directly. That's how Dragan Gilas deals with President Aleksandar Vukic's family. I will remind you, for at least three years, the military and political wings of terror and mafia have been preparing the ground in Serbia for the assassination of President Vukic. Remember the testimony of the arrested killer Cabe Der that the Serbian mob offered him money to kill the president. Let's remember the weapon found in the Lambs, near the house of President Vukic, which was prepared for the assassination. Let's remember the attempted murder of President Vukic in Srebrenica. Let's remember the sniper cover and the target of President Vukic in the Gilasovski media. Let us remember the years of dehumanisation of all members of the family of President Vukic. We remember the great threats to the murder of President Vukic and all of his family. Let us remember that Gilas and the brothers have been preparing the ground since 2018 when they start spreading lies about Vucic's fascism in Serbia. We remember the great threats of the Gilasovites, the public figures, who have been calling for three years for the violent change of government in the blood on the street. The final evidence surfaced after the arrest of the Belivuk mob clan. In the hideouts of the Belivuk mob clan, a vast arsenal of weapons was found, worthy of a smaller army. We remember that UNKP chief Bogdan Pusic, in the context of the arrest of the Belivuk mafia clan, said that on the day of the discovery of the monument, Stefan Nemanja was scheduled for the execution of the assassination of Serbia's president. After this murderous text in Gilas's portal of lies, called Directly, it is a clear link between the armed and political wings of the mafia and terror. It is clear that Gilas is the head of the political wing of the mafia and terror, and that Gilas' party is the political wing of the mafia. Is Gilas the head of the orderer and the fund-raiser of the prepared assassination of President Vukic? Let the authorities answer. Let us remember that Gilas has enormous material resources at his disposal and that he has senseless hatred for President Vukic. We remember the terrible connections between Djilas and Marinika Tepic-Cobanu-Zivko with criminals Vlada japanc, Novak Filipović, Milutin Dabovic, Milutin Bakic and Milan Dabovic, pardon. When some three years of sowing lies that Vukic is a fascist and a criminal, that members of his family are involved in crime, when he threatens to liquidate and hang them, when he dehumanizes them and demonizes them for years, then he prepares the ground for an assassination that was supposed to be carried out by a mob clan called Belivuk. As we can see, after this text on Gilas's portal Directly, it is clear that there are both assassins and assassins' financials, that there are assassins, both in criminal terms and incentivists and helpers. There is a simple political background for the assassination of Vukic. According to this text, which I cited in Gilas' murderous portal, it appears they decided to liquidate Daniel Vukic first. Does Danilo Vukic have human rights? Do the children of Alexander Wolfie have human rights? Does the family of Alexander Vukic have human rights? It's unnecessary, but I'll repeat because some Gilasovians have disrupted the suspicion that Angelina, Angelko, Tamara, Ksenija, Milica, Danilo, Andrey, Alexander and Vukan have the same human rights as Gilas, Marinika and all the Gilasovites. How can anyone ignore that a three-year-old child, a Malina Vulcan, must be protected? How can anyone ignore that brilliant young man Danilo Vukic, son, grandson, brother, must be protected just as the children of Dragan Djilas and Marinika Tepic? Gilas' portal directly decided that Danilo had no human rights and that he needed to be dehumanized and liquidated. Did Gilas give orders to the director of the portal Directly, Djorđa Stefanovic, to publish these deadly lies about Daniel? Let him answer. Finally, to paraphrasise, I will do it again, the great poet Vladislav Petkovic Dis, who just as if he wrote about Gilas in the cult song "Our Days": "He stole all the temples and the living life, mocked all the virtues and honesty, humiliated all the graves and lives, dirtyed and roasted and baptized, stole all the temples and the living." We will also defend the Vukic family and Serbia. Long live Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-13-0.u6519	Thank you. The People's Messenger, George Milicevic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-13-0.u6520	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at the very beginning, I would like to take the opportunity to congratulate all citizens of Serbia's Islamic religion on their holiday, Bajram, celebrating after the month of Ramadan. Serbia is a society where solidarity, mutual understanding, respect for diversity, trust in one another is a fundamental democratic postulate, and they are the foundations of every democratic society that Serbia actually is. Human, religious and civil freedoms are guaranteed by our Constitution. We're proud of those fluids. The great holidays always remind us of these fundamental values, to always be friends, first of all, to be solid, to be human, because the only way we can make society together in general better. I want this holiday to bring happiness, spiritual peace, wisdom, and strength to overcome all temptations and to encourage further strengthening of mutual respect and trust. I wish those who celebrate Bajram today family and personal happiness and good health. As far as today's agenda is concerned, we have on the agenda a draft decision on the termination of the role of the President of the Criminal Court in Lazarevec, as well as one on the item on the agenda proposed by the SPS. It is a more technical issue, but as so far, this is an opportunity to talk about the importance of the judicial system, to talk about the rule of law, as is important for every legal and regulated state. In Serbia's judicial system, judges play a very important role. The court is the one who, as counterpart Dubravka said, implements laws, removes social disturbances and provides citizens with justice. Judges have been shown great trust in the Constitution and the law, and they are just you, let's say, dealers of justice. It is therefore important that the judge's duties are carried out most professionally, that the judge's duties are performed by the most worthy, the persons of high integrity and moral qualities and moral abilities, which could not be said of the gentleman whom Mr Bakarec mentioned a moment ago. On the other hand, when a person in the judiciary spends most of his working century and welcomes a pension in court, as is the case with the President of the Criminal Court in Lazarevec, then it means that the responsibility of the Justice Dealer was done exactly as required by the law, as defined by the law of the Republic of Serbia. The efficiency of the judiciary, in addition to expertise, impartiality, implies a reasonable trial, above all. Unfortunately, the judges are very often overworked, and this is especially true of criminal courts and judges of these courts, so we believe that it was not easy to be the president of a law-abiding court who, by law, today has only 44 in Serbia's territory. The judiciary is one of Serbia's priorities on its European path, so that the following remarks, including suggestions, are not critical, but suggestions and proposals from the European Commission shown in the annual report on Serbia's progress, the Serbian government has adopted a new National Strategy for the Development of Justice, which is precisely between 2020 and 2025, and the Action Plan for the Negotiating Chapter 23 has been revised. For us, an extremely important and significant negotiating chapter 23 – the judiciary and fundamental rights. The new Strategy has been developed in line with the needs of further strengthening the rule of law, better availability of justice and greater legal certainty. At the same time, it is a confirmation and evidence that Serbia is ready to continue implementing European legislation. We strive to get even closer to European standards. I guess that's visible, that's recognizable. This approach is achieved through the creation of a good legal framework, as well as through the practical work of judicial authorities, a uniform case law that enables all before the law to be placed on the same footing. The judicial and public prosecutor's authorities should ensure the uniform judicial application of the rights and equality of parties in judicial proceedings, the improvement of the expertise of the judiciary, the improvement of the transparency and availability of the judiciary, the improvement of the efficiency of the judiciary and, above all, the institutional strengthening of the court. In its EU accession process, Serbia has committed itself to implementing important constitutional reforms aimed primarily at strengthening the independence and impartiality of the judiciary, as well as the responsibilities of judicial holders. So, one of the suggestions and the proposal, I don't say the criticism on purpose, because I really want European Parliamentarians, and I'm going to say today, and I see the representatives of the European Commission as equal and well-intentioned partners on Serbia's European path. So one of the suggestions and the proposal addressed to Serbia as a candidate for membership is total independence from the judicial branch of power. The reform of the judiciary in order to strengthen its independence and efficiency is a priority in the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, is a priority in the work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The government has drawn up a proposal for accession to constitutional reforms, which is addressed to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and is at this stage in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's committee. I would like to remind you that in April of this year, the president of the National Assembly, Mr. Ivica Dacic, held a meeting with Prime Minister Ana Brnabic, Justice Minister Maja Popovic, with representatives of the resolution committees of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, on which it was agreed to move forward with procedures concerning exactly constitutional changes. The first Public Listening on Constitutional Changes was also held in the National Assembly, and two other public hearings were planned on May 19th and 24th 2021. I am saying all of this to show the importance and importance we attach to this topic and how important and important it is, that is, how much Serbia shows determination and determination when it comes to the path of European integration. In the role of the National Assembly in the constitutional change process, National Assembly President Ivica Dacic spoke several times, stating that the constitutional reform process is very complex, that it consists of several stages conducted by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, as the constitutional and highest body of the legislative authority, the president then announced a session of the National Assembly on the topic of constitutional changes, which will be scheduled about how much we discussed at the last session of the College, it seems to me, June 8th. Very often because of uninformedness, but even maliciously some quasi opposition leaders misrepresent public information on constitutional changes, saying it is a change that is affecting the preamble of the Constitution. Of course that's not true. The only changes to the Constitution that have been proposed so far concern the judiciary. This is a fulfillment of the EU's suggestion that the choice, precisely, is quoted as saying: "The choice of legal holders at all stages and for all levels is carried out within the justice system itself". So, without the participation of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I underline this with the intention to present to the citizens what the real content of the constitutional changes so far proposed, in order to avoid public manipulations from some opposition circles that insist on showing the announced constitutional changes as the foundation of power and as our intention to change the preamble defining the position of KIM, as an indivisible part of Serbia's territorial integrity. So, as far as this is concerned, the President of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia are fully clear, Serbia will never accept unilaterally undeclared independence of KIM, and is always ready for dialogue and is always ready to talk and insist on nothing. We will realise and are ready to realise both the Brussels Agreement and the Washington Agreement, because this is a confirmation of our international credibility and this is a confirmation that Serbia is a reliable, correct, secure and stable partner, but as far as the unilateral declaration of KIM independence is concerned, the position is quite clear. That stance has been repeated, and I will remind the public in Washington when the president of Serbia spoke to the then president of the United States and when it comes to the famous point of 10. In addition to depoliticalising the judiciary and strengthening its independence in accession negotiations, the rule of law is and must be one of the key objectives that we seek as a regulated rule of law, as Serbia today is. On the other hand, we are told, I say very often, again I will not say criticism but suggestions and proposals on the basis of the rule of law by Europe. Serbia, therefore, has fulfilled all that is required of it and all that is expected of it. On the other hand, in particular, when it comes to the Brussels Process, when it comes to the Brussels Agreement, the other party has not fulfilled what was defined by the Agreement. What Serbia insists on is only the realization of what was agreed during the Brussels Agreement, and it concerns the other side and only one, for us, very important and key points, which is the Community of Serb municipalities. I have spoken several times about the evaluations of European parliamentarians. I won't criticise it for days, because that's what we discussed, we had the opportunity to discuss at the session of the Committee on European Integration with Mr Bilchik, who wrote the report. A report on the European Parliament's Foreign Affairs Committee has over 400 amendments. I then took advantage of the opportunity and said, having met us, that 539 MPs supported this report, I said that instead of the flat, arbitrary and incorrect assessments, it was easier to talk to us or need each of us 250 to look for a European Parliamentarian who will submit the amendment. If this is the essence of political action, then it is absolutely wrong, and I am convinced that each of us is ready to talk about Serbia's interest with all 539 MPs and to talk to each other and to speak to each other in fact, and not to give a flat-rate statement, because many of us are flat-rate and arbitrary estimates presented in a concrete report or as already called the European Parliament's Resolution. So, I also want to say that Serbia is leading one, I will repeat by who knows which way, uncompromising and determined, inactive fight against organised crime and corruption, which is one of the six key principles, objectives, principles based on which the Government of the Republic of Serbia was formed and established, and that the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia have also shown courage and determination on that path. While we are asked to amend the Constitution to ensure, in the opinion of the European Parliament and the EU, the full independence of Serbia's judiciary, the Euro-parliamentaries are almost trying in some way, not to be critical, in some way to give orders to solve certain cases. In doing so, not taking into account that most of these cases have been resolved and that the second part, the smaller part of the cases, that the processes have started and will be resolved very quickly. So these are these arbitrary, incorrect, untrue interpretations, but we have suggested to them very openly and very well-meaningly and very frankly, don't do arbitrary interpretations, we're serious people. You represent a serious institution, if this is a key topic for the European Parliament, we are ready to talk to you. It is certainly better to talk, it is better to keep dialogue than to find someone who has the right to do so, because he has the prefix, you know, that he is a reporter and he says he is glad that Serbia did not open any negotiating chapters in the previous year. That's not the way to talk. That's not how dialogue is conducted. We are like parliamentarians, I am convinced that all colleagues are ready to always talk to representatives of the European Parliament. What I mean at the very end, of course we'll support both points, the second point we practically suggested, would be illogical to talk about it. It's really a technical matter, a procedural thing, but what I want to talk about in the end is something that JS colleagues talked about. I think Mr. Starcevic, as an authorised representative of the JS, spoke of it, I think my colleague Vujic mentioned it. I want first of all to ask one question concerning these, call some of the leaders or leaders of the opposition -- is this how they see modern democratic society, is it the rule of law, is it an independent judiciary for which this group stands by putting pressure on competent institutions and authorities? I will return to one situation only, there is no reason for me to defend Mr. Dragan Markovic Palm, because he has no reason to defend himself in our opinion, but I will return to only one situation, which is politics, a political performance of self-ranking leaders in Jagodina with all the party activists gathered where 30, 40 from all over Serbia are saying that they want to put pressure on the authorities and the competent institutions. Please leave you competent authorities and competent institutions to do their job. Mr Markovic, as far as we know, has never fled or hid from the competent authorities and competent institutions, but has always insisted that competent authorities and competent institutions take a final position as soon as possible. You know, when you look at it all, there's one question -- where does the need for political points to be collected in this way if they're really worried and if they're really supposed to take care of some kind of victims? Well, didn't it make sense for you to go to the DA first, offer evidence, not start a dirty campaign, and then you're supposed to go to the competent authorities and the competent institutions? The obvious anxiety, the upset above all that is caused by the elections ahead, the anxiety caused by the results both of which are achieved by the President of the Republic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and that is one of politics and politics. Let the competent authorities and the competent institutions do their job. Gentlemen, you forgot, this is not the time when you had responsibility, when you were the masters of everything in Serbia, or the media, about which Mr. Bakarec spoke for a moment. This is the time when Serbia is arranged, the rule of law in which the institutions of the system function. The fact that you're not comfortable with a regulated and legal state in which the institutions of the system function, that's your problem. But this is arranged, I repeat, a legal state in which the institutions of the system function. You know, that thesis that comes from when we talk about this family there, that thesis is very well known to us and it is -- the worse for Serbia, the better for us. I thank the chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-13-0.u6521	Thank you, colleague Milicevic. The People's Messenger Ivan Ribaq has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-13-0.u6522	Thank you, Chairman. Dear People's MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, at first I would like to congratulate Ramadanski Bajram on our dear citizens of Islamic religion with the desire to spend it in health, in peace and happiness with their families, friends and neighbours. I would take the opportunity today to talk about the proposal for a decision on amendments to the Decision on the selection of members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to say something about parliamentaryism in the Republic of Serbia in general. Unlike the 2000-2012 period, Serbia has now developed a parliamentary democracy where all these years, the ruling SNS has not allowed that, as warned by Alexis de Tokvil, democracy is being excavated into the tyranny of the majority, but has always been defined as a broad and stable ruling coalition that is made up of all those parties that want good and for Serbia's progress. The attitude towards the opposition has always been seen as the right measure of our democracy, seeing in it the corrective factor of power, not the enemy as they observe us. The opposition to which we all belonged during one period of our political engagement must always bear in mind that any age can and must be an opposition to power, but must never be an opposition to the state. Unfortunately, in Serbia today, there are political parties who call themselves oppositional, which are willing to come back to power and who openly and consciously undermine the sovereignty of their own state, and its citizens insult, demean, underestimating their intelligence, and not predicating that they use what is sacred for their interests, what is dishonestly used for their political struggle, which is family, and these are children. We are witnessing such disgusting attacks, such sick insinuations and lies that are related to children who have not come out of the cradle honestly yet, and for the elderly we see that they will soon be neither guilty nor obliged to be the ones who actually organized the Veljka Belivuk, Kavački or some others, and likely soon to accuse them and that they are the donations of the Sicilian Mafia. However, I am proud, respected MPs from the SNS, which none of us dared to return in the same way favor to our dearly respected political entities, to attack both families and children, as they do to us, because that is exactly what we are different, in knowing what is sacred, what we know is decent and what is not, what is acceptable to use as a weapon in a political struggle and what is not. All this is seen by our people and therefore there is no dilemma that when the election day comes round the right number. The decency, education, and modesty are very important and godly qualities, and they are not necessarily related to who completed a school, who studied where or who was a student. It is something that is carried from the house and finally that we all carry somewhere in our souls, and the lack of all of these qualities, mentioned earlier, we could see in the "The impression of the week" show when one of the opposition leaders, Mr Vuk Jeremic called the president of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandr Vukic the Sultan, and the leader of SPAS Alexander Sapic a future pass in Belgrade. Mr. Vuke Jeremic, Serbia and the Serbian people suffered a lot during the Ottoman Empire and disgusted every reminder and comparison of that period. It should remind you that the last Turkish Pasha was expelled from Belgrade in 1867, the famous Ali Riza Pasha, and that finally the Serb people received freedom from the sultan in 1878 and your statements are an insult to the honor and dignity of our country and all our citizens. What is not surprising to you, Mr. Jeremic, is that the foreign rulers and directors of Serbia do not surprise me at all because, by doing so, you were a part of a political set of former government that saw Serbia as its prey, which they had won and which they could treat however they wanted, just as the Turkish conquerors did. Unlike our party, the SNS, which has agreed to include European parliamentarians, even such as the highly impartial Tanja Fajon, you from so-called You consider the opposition to be a mortal sin every opinion that is different from yours. In your opinion, it is obvious that those who decide to join the alliance with the other political option, which is one quite legitimate political behaviour, all of them are the embezzlement of political evil, but are not those who talk to foreign MPs about election procedures in their own country, and who deliver their proposals for improving electoral conditions to foreign parliaments, and do not deliver to their parliament, calling their political rival, Mr. Sapic, a fraud, calling him a narcissist, you have directly offended 123,000 of our citizens who trust SPAS as opposed to you who have not had the strength or the courage to participate in the elections and who currently have absolutely no political weight. Instead of holding lessons from the opposition, you give advice on parliamentary and political culture to ruling parties, Jeremic and similar parties should first emancipate and then enlarge themselves with an elementary political culture if they really want to help improve Serbian parliamentaryism. I am personally pleased that in that show, the people saw what character traits adorn you, Mr. Jeremic. You, who predicate again with these qualities to conquer power. I am pleased that the people saw that you do not hesitate to use insults of the most personal nature in political competition with ugly nicknames and how you quote Shakespeare and one of his characters from the drama "Ottello", "Jaga" compared to one of our officials, in this cheap trick asking Mr. Šapić a question, wanting to make fun of him in the most brutal way. The same Mr. Sapic as the world's best water polo player we admired and applauded when he celebrated Serbia's name in the world's biggest competitions. I must say after all you've said that, after all these tricks and you yourself reminded one of Shakespeare's hero, the famous Shilok of the "Mlettletish Merchant" who, for the sake of his financial interest and wickedness, was willing to take his heart, take the life of a young and upright man, all for the sake of meeting his lowest human motives and passions. Mr. Jeremic, when you were president of the UN Assembly, I, as at that time, was proud that a Serb had reached so high in the international and political arena. However, these qualities of yours that you have presented to our people in this show do not serve you honor and there is neither humanity nor heroism as Marko Miljanov said. Instead of Tolkin's "Lord of the Rings" whom you have mentioned and quoted on the show "The impression of the Sunday" I recommend you, Mr. Jeremic, to read Aligier's "Divine of Comedy" where in the ninth circle of hell, neither ignorants nor cheaters nor narcissists nor narcissists, but traitors are placed. By removing the issue of Kosovo from the UN field to the EU and asking the International Court of Justice in 2008, which resulted in an opinion saying that Kosovo's unilaterally declared independence is not contrary to international law, you should put your finger on the head and ask yourself a little bit about these famous Dante circles. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-13-0.u6523	Thank you. The word is by MP Viktor Jevtovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-13-0.u6524	I thank the chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, Serbia has been, is and will be part of the European family of people, whose foothold of common values and civilization's achievements. Full membership in the EU represents an absolute foreign-political priority for Serbia, where the Republic of Serbia is also implementing it in its own legislation. The change of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia in the work of the judiciary is a necessary step, in further strengthening the rule of law and further harmonising with European fluids and European standards. The judiciary from 2012 to 2021 has been invested as never before. In just nine years, we've renovated, built, a misdemeanor business court in Uzic. This building now has 3,000 m2, a total of 19 courtrooms, 12 will be used for a mistrial and seven for business. The Department of Criminal Court of Appeals will also be housed in this building. The court in Arangelovac, a renovated Justice Palace in Belgrade, was also renovated. Today, I will also talk about the judiciary and the choice of judges, fair, honorable but also the law that can be called the systems of human behavior norms that are also prescribed in the case of violations, sanctioned by the state, law. However, there is a source of morality, customs, ethics, and especially justice. The Serbian Progressive Party has zero tolerance for crime and corruption. Now I ask all of you, as well as the citizens of Serbia, is justice the same for all? How to interpret the justice of the former window launderer and the failed ham trafficker, Điki 619m, who on the back of Serbia's citizens devastated the state register, kidnapped the newborn babies of a million-dollar sum, made the most expensive bridge in the world and skillfully juggled 57 bills and money he took from Serbian citizens. A man, whose favorite sport besides riding where he is as a centre of the city of Belgrade, destroyed the city's register and filled his bisage with 1.2 billion euros in debt to Belgrade, whose hobbies are the spending of stolen folk money on exotic destinations of Hong Kong, Mauritius and 57 other countries, the champion in the discipline of beating women, broken and destroying everything that is fair and moral, because immorality and thieving is his second name. It has worked and worked as a megaphone Veljak Belivuk, but most morbid of all, it is unable to do anything for Serbia except to steal through its tycoon media, satanicizing everything that Alexander Vukic has done for Serbia the construction of factories, party investments, the fight against the crown, the help of citizens in the era of the pandemic. For Gilas, it's all foreign and aware of his impotence, he did something that even the worst mob cartel beasts didn't do. I don't think history even remembers that kind of sadistic procedure with anyone. Then when we talked about crimes against Serbs, especially children, I felt that those times were over and that something like this could not happen again, but obviously Dragan Gilas was able to deny me. Unable to stand in the way of Serbia's progress and the constant struggle of Alexander Vukic for new hospitals, vaccines, prosperity and prosperity, Dragan Gilas attacked President Danil Vukic's son, a boy, a patriot, at the head of the target through his tycoon media and called for the murder of a child. How to explain that act to a sociopath, because at this point I can't find any acceptable term to describe his mental set. Whether in this way, unable to do anything for Serbia and destroy all that Alexander Vukic has achieved, as a hyena has fallen upon his family, but also the hyenas attack only when they are hungry, and he is hungry for money and power. And he wants a boy to get his hands on a country manger that he's been devastationing for years. Given these kinds of threats and deviant behaviors bordering on madness, I am asking from this parliamentary bench all the authorities to respond and condemn this criminal act, and I am telling Dragan Gilas that Alexander Vukic, despite all the monstrous things he's done to him and his family and the hospitals he's done, has made hospitals for cases like Dragan Gilas, that in an adequate way, can help him, because there may be a cure for his problem, although this process and after these things, I'm not sure. Long live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-13-0.u6525	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Djordje Todorovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-13-0.u6526	Ladies and gentlemen, today is a good opportunity, when already a few of my colleagues are talking about the judiciary, let me say something, and it's about the exhibit and the question I asked on February 23rd of this year. The issue concerned the activities of former municipality president Trstenik, Miki Aleksic. So, I asked the DRI to answer the question whether for a number of things where Miki Aleksic directly participated as president of the municipality, so he put his signature on things that were contrary to the Law on the Budgetary System and other laws, was there any misapplication filed? He arrived to me from the Infringement Court in Tristenik, under a regular number of 223/16, a case in which the accused Miroslav Aleksic, called Miki, at the time of the violation of the President of Tristenik municipality, blames himself for nine items, nine things that this master managed to do only in two, three years, for the president of the municipality, for nine things in which he damaged the budget of the Tristenik citizens and for that he was punished with only 90,000 dinars. I have decided here to take this verdict and read it to you and the citizens of Serbia, to know what it is, what it amounts to, how it is and how it is possible to get a final verdict to pay only 90,000 dinars in the Republic of Serbia's budget. So, the responsible Miki Alexic, in the first sentence, for which I asked the DRI, approved the billing and payment of salaries and additions of social contributions to the employer's burden for elected persons in the municipality of Trstenik, for the president of the municipality, the president of the Assembly and members of the council. In this respect, the total amount has damaged the budget by two million and 44 thousand dinars, thereby infringing Article 103(1) point 4. Budgetary system law. This item has been fined with only 10,000 dinars. I will now read to you from the Law on the Budgetary System that Member, which says - Novčano punitive from 10 000 to 2 million dinars, will be punished by a responsible person, such as Miki Alexic, the responsible person, the beneficiary of the funds of the organization, in the position of the 4th disrespect of that and that member. So, the range by which Miki Alexic could be punished was from 10,000 to 2 million dinars, and managed to damage the budget by over two million. Judge Snezana Saric, I don't know if she was set up during the period of that genius reform of the judiciary, punishes him, I understand that if you first have a violation that you can't immediately take a drastic penalty to go and say immediately two million, but since it is responsible for the person, where later on, the accused, as a responsible person, has approved the payment of obligations that occurred contrary to the above-mentioned provisions of the law, which he committed a violation that is burdened with him. So it is definitely concluded that, as a responsible person, he could have been punished in the range between tens of thousands of dinars and two million. For just one item where he managed to damage the Trieste budget by over two million dinars, only 10,000 dinars were fined. It's your rank today, like when you don't tie your belt, so you have to pay 10,000 dinars. Here, this man has succeeded something that has never been seen in Serbia. It is only one of the nine items where he succeeded through a dozen occasions, therefore, that the money of the Triestenik municipality's budget draws money, without public procurement, without tendering, in multimillion amounts and always, therefore all nine items mention that under Article 103 paragraph 1 point 4) of the Miki Aleksic Budgetary System Act is condemned with only 10 thousand dinars. Times nine, that's 90 grand. This is all that this man has returned to the Serbian citizens' budget, and how much he has taken is said in number two, suspected of over a million and a half dinars, and in the number three and three, respectively) of the violations, he has approved the transfer of funds to the Triestenik Municipality's Sports Federation for seven million dinars. Let's talk about the mosquito spraying and the crop and fruit insurance. So, in all, for tens of millions of dinars, the fine is 90,000 dinars. So you have one side of a man who's been convicted, a liar, a fraud, a thief after all, a man who lied. We received a final ruling that Andrej Vukic had been in contact with people who were in the case of "Jovanja", which was talked about in public, who had been connecting for months in the last year, finally put an end to the case, the epilogue - Miki Aleksic is a liar. And he is a credible source, after all this, to speak and to hear his word in public. In all of this he is assisted by the Gilas media, so in the last of these statements they take and quote with a Facebook group of announcements by some cheerleading group factions, I absolutely don't care what it is, a war of announcements by some suspicious fan groups. When I say that, I mean those groups that were under the direct control of Veljko Belivuk, who at one point say that Danilo Vukic sat with the members of certain factions of these southern tribune fans, as they are already called, but the bottom line is the next. So it is speculated that the son of the President of the Republic was sitting with some fans and that he plans to take over some southern tribune, not making sure that they themselves draw a target on the head of the president's son. We've all been getting to know what this cheerleading group is, one fraction of that cheerleading group has been doing to people who have directly opposed them. Instead of talking about more important things, things that even the American News conveys, more specifically the American Newsweek, I'm talking about Gilas' media passing on information from certain cheerleading clubs. Here, here in Newsweek, it says, "Thanks to skilled politics, great engagement and personal contacts, Vukic has managed to provide enough vaccines. So, on the one hand, you have this news, and on the other hand you have today's "Today", an identical picture, but in order to deceive the public, I'm talking about people who won't read this news in English, "a year of lies doesn't erase 3,000 dinars." On the other hand, a man who has succeeded in what is much more powerful, much stronger countries in Europe have failed, and that is to get more vaccines, to work fully on it, to seek that our people get out of this crisis as soon as possible and go back to the economy, to go back to further progress, to build Serbia, to show that we can be the best in all segments, in those segments where we haven't been until 2012, and these are absolutely all sectors, whichever you take in everything we are far better than we've ever been before. We are now competing with EU countries, now a far better and different situation, and certain media, these Gilasov, are free to say "directly" and others, will take information from credible sources and Miki Aleksic, convicted liars, convicted thief, and Marinika Tepic, that is the lady who was hanging out with drug dealers in Pancheva, which has evicted unspeakable journalists, and Czech alchemist Dragan Dilas, who has succeeded impossible and everyone else on that list, as if they were trying to move a scale of information sources ever deeper and deeper. As my colleague spoke of Dante's circle of hell, we go deeper and deeper. The sources of information are becoming completely irrelevant to us, it is only important to mention Danilo Vukic, Aleksandar Vukic, Andrej Vukic and this becomes the topic of the day. It becomes a theme of the day, that's what's most important to us, fairy tales become reality, and Robin Hood, on one side, took from the rich and gave to the poor. The only link between Mike Aleksic in the fairy tale is that he ends his political mandate by taking from Serbian citizens and being convicted of only 90,000 dinars. It's a shame. Shame on the verdict itself. I wouldn't comment on it any further. The only thing I would further comment on for him, which is the same thing about my parliamentary question that I asked in February of the month, is the Fund for the Promotion of Resources that he founded with his father-in-law, and then transferred him to the National Employment Service, and then pumped over 55 million dinars. I just don't know if there was a court epilogue, and by what I got, never. I hope that some items in this approach, in this kind of degradation of the judiciary, will be changed in the next period, by fully focusing on judicial reform in the right way, in a fundamental way, in a way that respects the law, the government's rights, in a way that dictates the Constitution. That's why we're going to change the Constitution, but at the beginning of next month, we're going to talk about it in this tide, just the part that concerns the judiciary sector. To talk more and more, if necessary, about people who have pumped millions, not dinars, millions of euros from our country, sown all over the world. Now that you mention it, whether in the congregation's pleum, whether on television or somewhere, everyone is coming down on you, and on Twitter, and from Gilas's media. They point their fingers and say, "It's your fault." You know, today it's a shame to tell a thief that he's a thief, you need to be a shame, care, a liar that he's a liar. The latter case with Dr Vladimir Orlic, where he is threatened, threatens to kill for what he says, to bring out the truth and the facts you get threats, and before that to Alexander Martinovic, and Sandra Bozic, that I am not talking about the daily passage of President Aleksandar Vukic's family. There's an ideology behind all of this. It stands for the sacred cow, the golden calf, an ideology that is related to the money of Dragan Gilas, who has pumped out of Serbia, today funds the former politicians. Whenever you feel an opportunity to talk about it, you will get struck by threats, you will get the opportunity to be on the cover of one of his media and you become fully aware that the moral course is turned 180 degrees. In such situations where the value is completely lost, in which lies, where threats are easily expressed today, and through which they are easily passed, has led you to talk about people today whatever you want, whenever you want, that Daniel Vukic is dragged through the mud of cheerleading groups, that they are credible sources, that Alexander and Andrej Vukic are associated with cases in Jovanica, just so we don't talk about millions, and I'm talking about 67, 68 million dollars that Dragan Gilas pulled out of Serbia, soaring through Mauritius, Switzerland, Hong Kong and other destinations. I hope this is the kind of approach we're going to change in the future and call our senses and say when someone's a liar that he's a liar and we're not ashamed of it, let's say when someone's a thief that he's a thief. Whenever I get that chance, and I'll know what I think and about Mickey Alexic, I'll also know based on this verdict that a man stole the money of the Triestean citizens. I would like the citizens of Serbia to access any information that this group of former regimes share. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-13-0.u6527	Thanks, buddy. The word has a national MP Rajka Matovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-13-0.u6528	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. Dear colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, the respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, are ahead of us with decisions on the termination of the office of President of the Criminal Court in Lazarevec and a proposal for a decision on parliamentary working bodies. The termination of the office of President of the Criminal Court is due to the fact that the President has obtained conditions for retirement and for this reason her term of office ends. The judiciary as the third branch of government must be a pillar of one rule of law. It is one of the priorities of the SNS, a strong, stable and independent judiciary. We, unlike the previous government, choose judges based on their biographies, not on the belongings of their party books. Personally, I believe that these institutions are very important in a modern and European society like Serbia today. I also believe that these institutions should react when in certain media, which are mostly controlled by one tycoon, the most disgusting lies about the president of Serbia, about his family, about all of us sitting here. A portal controlled by tycoon Dragan Gilas last night published a scandalous text linking Danil Vukic, the son of the president of the Republic of Aleksandr Vukic, with criminal groups, drawing a target at the head of the most disgusting lies in a very perfidious way. They represented the president's son as being in some kind of relationship with some criminals. I'd like to remind you that these same tycoon media, just a few months ago, said that Danilo was in contact with the convicted criminal clan Veljak Belivuk, and today they're giving information and the truth that he's in some other clan. Serbian citizens know that the entire gang gathered around Veljko Belivuk today is where they belong, which is -- in prison, and that the state will make absolutely every effort to ensure that such evil never goes back to sleep in our country. Also, every Serbian citizen must know that there is absolutely no connection between the president and any member of his family with any criminal mileage. President Aleksandar Vukic pointed out clear goals here when forming the government of the Republic of Serbia and presented them before the government. It is one of the goals of the government of the Republic of Serbia that the fight against organised crime is. As I said, it's not foreign to Gilas' media to bring in unscrupulous, contradictory and false information, taking out news in Serbia and making false affairs. That's where all the anxiety comes from. A representative of the false opposition in Serbia, Dragan Gilas, argues that the electoral conditions in Serbia today are not good and are not democratic, and are not democratic because his personal, private television has no national frequency. And today, all his accent on pre-election conditions and in general holding elections in Serbia is being looked at in the fight for his personal and private television to get a national frequency, probably in order to further increase his profits and to increase his capital in Mauritius, Hong Kong, Switzerland. That man has offshore companies and accounts in 17 countries of the world. We saw that investigative journalists came up with data that there are some 6.4m euros in Swiss and Mauritius accounts, and some 3.3m euros in the Hong Kong account. A logical question arises – what will one honest citizen, as he represents himself, such millions and accounts in tax havens hidden all over the world? As they opened accounts and opened offshore companies, Serbian citizens were quite familiar, and that behind the entire octopus and machinery of Dragan Gilas stands only one thing, which is his personal wealth and his personal interest. Given that tax evasion and the concealment of capital gains is an act that is very punishable under the laws of the Republic of Serbia, I hope that the authorities in the coming period, and above all, the Prosecutor's Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering, and the Tax Administration, will address this issue. With that money taken from all of us and all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, not paying taxes, trading in advertising seconds, carrying out crazy projects while being mayor of which they were paid a few dozen times more than their real price, Dragan Gilas today is funding his own personal, private media, which, no doubt, every day strives to destroy both the reputation and the president of the Republic of Serbia, as well as every member of the SNS. This text that we're all talking about today is just one text in a series of their lies. It is absolutely clear their intention, to bring down this power and make money, as they had earned before the Wolf. Through such tentacles, dozens of accounts, islands, you can't say that an honest man would get involved in all of this unless he has no intention of hiding anything, or if he didn't come up with it unfairly. This time I appeal to all citizens, to be vaccinated and to respond to vaccination, because, as you can see for yourself, Serbia has done very well in this crisis. We have secured vaccines, we have the option of choosing between four different vaccines, we have two new bird hospitals, only designed for patients who are suffering from coronary disease, and the third is currently under construction. In addition to all the problems that have hit us as a result of the pandemic, we do not stop, but we continue with major infrastructure projects, that foreign investments did not stop, but that on the contrary, we have announced new ones. I would only remind you that during 2020, during the crisis, we had more foreign direct investments than all the countries in the region combined. In addition to the difficult economic situation, we have the best package of aid measures and businesses and society. In addition, we introduce social dialogue, take care of both environmental and culture. In these difficult times, we try not to neglect any segment of our society. While we are working hard here today and we are diligently discussing every item on the agenda, with great attention, the false opposition gathered around Dragan Gilas, and today sits in the gardens of Belgrade's cafes, from where social networks are the most disgusting lies about all of us. I want this opportunity to congratulate all believers of Muslim religion on the holiday of Ramadan Bajram and I want them to spend it in peace and prosperity with their families. In the voting day together with his colleagues, support a set of proposed decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-13-0.u6529	Thank you. The word is Gjorge Dabic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-13-0.u6530	I thank you, the President-in-Office of the People's Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, and today we are talking about human rights solutions in the judiciary, that is, the National Assembly, is doing her a committed job under the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The fact that there won't be a chance for a long time that we're talking about certain human resources right here in the tide, because constitutional reforms are ahead of us, and we're about to have a special assembly, i.e. On June 8th, the president of the National Assembly announced, where we will discuss these constitutional amendments that will be directed towards changes in our current choice of judges. I must say that the current solution that is today in force, and by which we are talking today on all matters on the agenda, was established in 2006, with the current Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, then the citizens also voted in the referendum on the Constitution, and by this Constitution, the High Council of the judiciary proposes to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia a number of candidates. We are talking about them here, we choose them for the first time in the National Assembly, and later they are elected by re-election, the High Council of the Judiciary elects judges. In my opinion, this is an optimal solution which is indeed the right way to indicate that today's situation exists with us, simply, the relationship between Parliament and the choice of judges is direct. The people, of course, have the right to, through their elected representatives, choose, therefore, to influence that judicial branch of power. Again, this is where we come to the issue of respecting us, as we are witnesses of some today from the world, from Europe, so that we should not talk here in parliament about these solutions, and on the other hand, they have absolutely the same solutions in their countries as in Serbia today. It's kind of hypocritical, but what to do is we're going towards the process. The constitutional reforms will give even greater authority to the judges and they will have one much wider scope, so the High Council of the Courts will be able to elect judges directly, although we say that these constitutional reforms will be such as to make it possible for parliament to play its part. We have already discussed these issues in front of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives. Parliament must maintain this one control role over the judiciary itself. Why? Because it was simply established two hundred years ago, the division of powers into executive and legislative and judicial, in such a way that each other's power was controlled, so that no government would become independent of the people. When you have one power that separates itself from the will of the people, then it happens that you can absolutely expect all kinds of influences that are not by the people but by some centres of power, which are foreign embassies, which are huge capitals. I think we need to be very careful when we talk about these constitutional reforms, but of course we will discuss it in detail at that session on 8 June. As for these pressures that come from outside to our country today, and when they honor us that we here should be greater Catholics than the Pope and that we will adopt some sort of solution that is not applied anywhere else, I must say, I am sure that President Vukic will resist these pressures and that we will be able to find an optimal solution that will be compromiseable in the sense that we give greater authority to independent judges, but that nevertheless, the National Assembly, or the people of Serbia, who through the Assembly has a single direct connection with the authorities, retain that control role, given that the rulings are made on behalf of the people. The people on the other hand must be the ones who will control the judges themselves. You cannot be more independent than the people who decide today in Serbia, who speak who will be his representative in the National Assembly. As for the outside, these pressures, we will be able to find a solution and it seems to me that these constitutional reforms have already met a positive echo in the Venice Commission. We've heard that our amendments are in line with all their recommendations, but it's amazing on the other hand, and I have to point out in particular, that from the inside of a variety of experts to call them, who think they can honor us here, that today we're not working enough to have the judiciary independent, they're talking about it, and I can't remember it, so it's only ten years, or 2009, that these same people were sitting on various main committees when from political centres of power, or from political parties, they delegated who will be judges, who won't be judges, so they had that crime reform of justice when thousands of people left on the street, thousands of judges, they left thousands of prosecutors on the street. They are telling us today how to bring our legislation together with the EU here in Serbia, the same people all of Europe laughed at us when they criminally implemented that reform of the judiciary. We feel the consequences of their criminal reform today. We cannot say that the situation in Serbia is great when it comes to the judges themselves. We've got big problems. We know that the hearings are scheduled, waiting two years at a time. We have so many accumulated problems, which is all the consequence of this poorly implemented reform of the judiciary in 2009. When we talk about it, we can't help but look at the situation in the prosecution today, especially in smaller places. You have a big problem, it's practically a black hole in our judiciary. We've abolished the investigative judges of those years, we've introduced so-called. Public prosecutors who got much wider powers than before. Now you have the discretionary right of the prosecutor, say in a small place, whether he initiates the proceedings or not. Well, then, of course, every man will look after his own head anyway, he won't mind if he doesn't have to, or if he has a discretionary right, he doesn't have to go into some procedure, he might not even go into some procedure, and there are a number of problems that will be, I'm sure on the agenda. We'll have to talk about it all. If the prosecution had run the business properly, if they had been doing investigations as they prescribed, so you wouldn't have this criminal group in Belgrade that we broke a few months ago, you wouldn't have come to the point of being freed by the people who are being charged, who have been free for years before any act was brought against them, and there have been criminal charges, we know how many. We have some problems, it's all the consequence of this one bad reform of the judiciary, the judiciary in 2009 that we still feel today. We must say that citizens rightly respect us from the SNS precisely all these problems because they think if we get legitimacy in the elections to lead the state that we have to deal with all these phenomena. We cannot, as MPs or as parliamentary majority, influence the court decisions of any judge who judges at the bar, whether here in the Republic, we cannot tell prosecutors when to go, when not to proceed, we would be told that we interfere in the independence of the judiciary. So I'm saying, that's exactly one sensitive subject, which we have to talk much better about, and I think that in these constitutional reforms, we're going to have to put an emphasis on what's important, which is to implement one serious one, we're going to have to talk about this serious reform of the judiciary, which is really going to contribute to the fact that judicial decisions are being made effectively, quickly, that prosecutors are doing things the way that citizens expect us to do. Because I say, all of us in the SNS are going to give us this invoice for unsuccessful procedures for certain shortcomings, because they believe that if they voted in favour of the parliamentary majority, they will also have expectations that all these reforms we have promised will be implemented. We need to be careful, we can't let it be established in Serbia by sudocrats, that judges choose themselves without any control role of parliament, because it will lead to complete anarchy. I say once again, when we talk about all these issues, we have to be particularly careful, because these are things that will certainly reflect for future generations, as we feel criminal reform in the judiciary, that is, its consequences today, so some future generations will feel if we now make certain failures. In any case, we will vote in the voting day for these proposals that are on the agenda today. I thank you all.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-13-0.u6531	Thank you. The word has a national MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-13-0.u6532	I thank the Honorable President, fellow MPs and MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The rule of law is one of the fundamental values of every democratic society, and the Republic of Serbia is. The strategic definition of the Republic of Serbia is the EU's accession, and on that road all the time, since 2012, the Republic of Serbia, the competent institution, the government and today the President of the Republic of Serbia are working thoroughly and committed. What happened by 2012? By 2012, a yellow robbery company, decorated in character and the Sundays of Dragan Dilas, Vuk Jeremic, Tadic, took away the right of citizens to work, took away the right of citizens to exist, took away the right of citizens to justice. They were deprived of their right to work by putting locks and chains on many companies and many companies, where citizens worked and so on the street, in a very short time they found 400 thousand workers, and companies, which generations and generations, our parents created, were devastated. The yellow tycoon takeover, in character and the Sundays of Dragan Gilas, has lifted citizens' right to exist. I used to say, and now I'm going to say again, that during the time of Dragan Gilas there were legally invisible persons, 30,000 legally invisible persons, in the main Roma, in this way this tycoon government, decorated again in the image and in the Sunday of Dragan Gilas, has denied, above all, the Roma, the right to exist, the right to life, the right to work, the right to health care, the right to education and education. The yellow tycoon enterprise, it abolished the rights of citizens to justice, abolished their right to justice, through the disastrous reform of the judiciary, which they had executed leaving thousands of judges and prosecutors the right not to be re-elected, and made the citizens through a catastrophic network of courts, the availability of justice and justice so far away that some citizens, to protect their rights and to turn to the court for justice, could not even come, because it required a physically very large distance. The yellow tycoon company, at the time of their government passed laws, but these laws were neither per citizen nor per economy, these laws were tycoons. Immediately, the late Verica Barac, especially when it comes to controversial robbery privatisations, pointed to 24 robbery privatisations, but pointed out that corruption is in fact systematically embedded and that corruption is emanating from the authorities. Corruption has been particularly pointed out that it also applies in the media, because executive power, commands and holds a monopoly over the media. It is, of course, a monopoly that was conducted and organised by Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic, Tadic etc. The European Union, the Venice Commission, the IMF at the time, marked Serbia as the country that, in the legal sense of the word and the rule of law, is in one ambience, and the IMF has fled Serbia with its head regardless of why Serbia was the most corrupt country in Europe. Immediately after coming to power, in 2012 and taking over the SNS authorities with our coalition partners, as one of the priorities of the government of the Republic of Serbia, the fight against corruption and crime, i.e. zero tolerances towards corruption and crime, was put in place. Of course, the driver and engine of this fight against crime and corruption, Aleksandar Vukic, president of the republic, no one before Alexander Vukic, has started, nor has he tried to start a decisive fight against crime, mafia and corruption. In his proposed goals to the government, which the government has adopted, one of the goals is to fight the mafia and crime. Why? Because crime, as a cancer, eats every country, crime and corruption, as a cancer impoverishes citizens and, of course, impoverishes the economy, impoverishes the entire states. I must point out and praise a very effective, coordinated and almost impressive action, the Home Office, in arresting a crime-mafia group called Belivuk, when, at the same time, they arrested a criminal gang, their leaders, and put them where they deserve, behind bars. Crime and corruption should be removed, and in particular crime, since it involves drug trafficking, drug trafficking, profit from it, should be removed from the street and removed from our children. An energetic bargain with it has just begun Alexander Vukic. The Serbian Progressive Party, or the MP group "Alexandar Vukic – For Our Children", sends a clear message that there are no protected in the country of Serbia, that anyone who has broken the law must and should answer, in accordance with the Constitution and laws. The prosecution, or court, is the judge, but it is up to us to point to everything we have as knowledge, and also to crime and corruption, for the sake of the greater quality of life of every citizen of ours. What I must especially point out is that this National Assembly is exactly in line with the agent we have declared, and as regards the adoption of anti-corruption laws, two very important anti-corruption laws have been passed, i.e. A law on the jurisdiction and organisation of state authorities in the fight against crime, corruption and terrorism, that a special married group was formed in five senior courts, precisely in order to hit all those involved in crime. Also, I must stress the adoption of the Law on the Origin of Assets and the special tax that came into force on 12 March this year. We expect the competent state authorities to, above all, examine in accordance with the law how is it possible for yellow people's money robbers and tycoon Dragan Gilas at the time of their government's exercise, at the time of political government, to use their companies to earn 619m euros? How is it possible for dozens of actions around the world to make about 70 million dollars in so-called tax credits? How is it possible, during the time of the hair, to acquire properties that are not measured in square meters, as is the case with other citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and the properties that he acquired along with his brother Gojko, to measure suari, and to God, he seems to me in hectares? The answer to these questions is asked by the competent state authorities. Dragan Gilas, a bank robber, the only policy he's got is robbery, lie, manipulation and deception. This human creation is nothing sacred in this world, it is not sacred nor what is sacred to every citizen in the Republic of Serbia, and these are children. He's just hitting there with lies, deceptions, slanders, what every man is most sensitive to, and they're children. During his exercise, he hit Roma children, stealing from children the most popular place in Kostunica to gain millions through the introduction of the first reality programme in Serbia, "The Big Brother". He stole from children distracted by development, robbed maternity pregnant women, robbed the most endangered socially endangered persons, illegally robbed parents of children who had placed children in kindergarten by charging them with childcare services at a high cost. Today, almost every day he hits the children of President Alexander Vukic, his son Daniel, the great patriot, the militia, but also little Vukan. I call on all competent authorities to take all measures because all children in the Republic of Serbia need and have equal rights. I'm afraid in a campaign like this, Dragan Gilas, the children of the President of the Republic of Alexander Vukic seem to have no rights that others have. The Legislative Group Aleksandar Vukic – For our children, of course, advocates a stronger judiciary, for an effective, independent judiciary, independent in the sense of intervening others, but also how depending on the Constitution and the Law, because judges must never forget to make their decisions, make their judgments on behalf of the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-13-0.u6533	Thank you. Honorable Members of Parliament, in accordance with Article 87. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly set a break. We continue work at 3:10 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-13-0.u6534	We're going back to work. The word is made by MP Mladen Boskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-13-0.u6535	Thank you, Chairman. Dear fellow Members and fellow Members of the people, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, Serbia is a democratic country and a right and justice keeps it that way. Justice must exist both in the courtroom and in the government, both in the National Assembly and on the street, wherever the citizens of Serbia are. We even need to respect those who have violated both the Constitution and the law of the Republic of Serbia, because Serbia is a democratic country. I believe in the state institutions of the Republic of Serbia and that all those who took the money from the citizens of Serbia will respond. All attacks on President Vukic, Prime Minister Brnabic, President of the Supreme Cassation Court Jasmin Vasovic, who we recently chose as president in this high house, BIA Director Bratislava Gasic, Police Minister, Justice Minister, all these attacks are not random. They attack all those who do their job in accordance with the Constitution and fight for national and national interests, and do you know why? Because, led by President Alexander Vukic, they are leading the fight against the mafia in our country. Dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, Serbia is a legal state and in 2012 faith in institutions was restored. The institution's faith was restored thanks to the political changes we had back then, and we know very well what was going on in the Serbian judiciary until 2012. We came across a completely broken Serbian judiciary. Fortunately for us, the then president of the Supreme Cassation Court, Nata Mesarovic, was soon changed, which was celebrated after the disastrous reform of the judiciary, with then his colleagues Snezana Malovic, Slobodan Home, Dusan Petrovic, and not to list further. Dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, do you know what they were doing at the time, at the time of so-called The yellow judges? They, as they say, received judgments. So they weren't making judgments on behalf of the people, they were getting convictions. When I say yellow judges, I mean those judges who were exclusively working by order and interest at the time of the Democratic Party and by the order of Dragan Djilas and Boris Tadic, who now, imagine, wants to be president of Serbia again, but there is only one big problem -- no more people, no more citizens of the Republic of Serbia. They don't want citizens of the Republic of Serbia to be fooled by someone who knows what time. Judges are no longer elected at meetings of municipal committees of individual political parties, as we had cases in 2009 and 2010. That time has passed and that time is behind us. Such a catastrophic reform of the judiciary was punished by the people in the 2012 elections. The people saw real judicial reform after 2012, where professionalism, expertise and objectivity were put first. I am convinced that citizens will give full support to the President of the Republic of Aleksandr Vukic and to the elections we expect next year. As I said, so did those who made a catastrophic reform of the judiciary who responded to the citizens of Serbia, and the people punished them in the 2012 elections, in 2014 and all those from the yellow coalition, not that they lost the elections, but that they remained below the censorship. We will not allow any attacks by opposition, let's call the leaders who belonged to the former regime, not just politicians, but journalists, editors and all others. We will not allow anyone to threaten or insult any SNS official, whether it is a member of the presidency of Ms. Vladanka Malovic, my colleagues from the Assembly, Vladimir Orlic, Aleksandr Martinovic, Mark Atlagic and others, or that it is the President of the Republic of Aleksandr Vukic. A good part of the former regime is allowed to threaten us, the officials of the Serbian Progressive Party, and to threaten our families, our children and our parents. Well, I can't. The people know the truth and our people are the best protectors of all of us headed by President Alexander Vukic. The people are always with those who are fighting for a better Serbia, who are fighting for the future and who are fighting for our children to live in a better and more decent Serbia from the one until 2012. That is why we, the People's Messengers, are chosen here by the will and will of our citizens, to be true people's speakers and to convey the voice of our people who have chosen us, and we will surely justify this trust. Long live Serbia!
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-13-0.u6536	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Ivana Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-13-0.u6537	Thank you, Chairman. When a proposal for a decision on the composition of a particular committee is on the agenda, regardless of which parliamentary group to submit such a proposal, it is always good to stress that the committees within the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia play a significant role, because each committee is considering proposals of laws and other acts submitted to the National Assembly, then considering the state of policy of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and monitoring the enforcement of laws and other general acts by the Government and other state bodies. In view of all the above, it is important to say that the committees as working bodies of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia have indeed played a significant role when it comes to Serbia's progress, when it comes to implementing reforms, when it comes to the implementation of the policy it is running and implemented by President Aleksandar Vukic, which is a policy of progress, prosperity and development of Serbia. When we talk about Serbia's development, about better Serbia, the first thing I want to say is that Serbia today is a financially stable country, a country where unemployment at a historic minimum, or unemployment is below 10% in the last period, and despite the crisis caused by the pandemic of the virus's coronary, the average net profit in Serbia was 60,000 dinars in 2020, and in early 2021, profit growth was recorded. Serbia is a country where salaries and pensions are constantly increasing. Thanks to the responsible policy implemented by President Aleksandar Vucic, thanks to the difficult economic measures implemented, thanks to fiscal consolidation, we have increased foreign direct investment by more than three times, so we have reached the top of the world ranking list when it comes to the number of investments compared to the size of the economy. Our economic policy attracted investors and in seven years we hired more than 700 000 people in Serbia, unlike the former regime's irresponsible and looting authorities, whose time closed down factories, whose time unemployment was never higher in Serbia, is now below 26%, and now, as I said earlier, is below 10%. In their time, the average salary in Serbia was 330 euros, and today the average salary in Serbia is 540 euros. In Belgrade, the average salary is 700 euros, and the plan is that, according to the "Serbia 2025" Plan, the average salary in Serbia is 900 euros by the end of 2025. This morning, the president also said our plan is and our goal is to have an average salary in Serbia of 600 euros by January 1st, 2022. Serbia has shown in these difficult times of crisis that it is there for its economy and citizens. We have implemented two support packages for businesses and citizens, and the third is currently being realized. The closure of factories and production plants has been prevented, the liquidity of business entities has been preserved and mass layoffs have been prevented and citizens' standard of living has been preserved. We had GDP growth + 1.2% in the first quarter of this year, which is the opposite of what is planned - 1.3%. We had a public debt of 78% before the start of the crisis caused by the pandemic of the virus, we had 52% of the public debt, now it is 58%, and our goal is to keep below 60%, if we have growth this year, as predicted by up to 6%, even 7%, we will definitely have a public debt below 60% of GDP, we can achieve this thanks to economic growth and vaccination. Speaking of vaccinations, I'd like to say that we in Ubbe last Friday had a great visit from President Alexander Vukic. He visited a mobile vaccine checkpoint in the village of Vrelo near Ub, and pointed out that the issue of survival is a matter of vaccination and, of course, were called on citizens to vaccinate. It is important to be responsible for maintaining our health so that we can continue economic growth, and economic growth is important for us to have higher salaries and higher pensions, so that we can continue to build roads, railways, hospitals, schools, etc. You see, years have passed and a lot of effort, effort and work has been made to get the results that we have today when we talk about both public debt and growth and the average salary and pension. Unlike some previous period when citizens had no security at all, what kind of state register was during the former regime, not that there was no room to increase salaries and pensions, but there was no means at all to pay their salaries and pensions, so, let me say, great experts, the great brains of the previous regime took on expensive loans to pay the salaries and pensions to the citizens at all. Then imagine how hypocritical it is for Dragan Gilas to go out to hold all kinds of press conferences and that he represents himself as a victim, and he actually turns out to be mocking the people, because people remember very well how they lived during his rule. He actually needs to hold a press conference every day where he will dedicate at least one exotic destination where he stores the money of Serbian citizens, to explain how that money got there and can explain to us how he is smarter and wiser and more capable than others, and let him explain that new methodology for calculating the percentage, so that we can understand it too. It's obvious what mathematics was about his enormous wealth. Also, every time he holds press conferences, he can talk about Serbia's successes, the successes of this government, when we see how many roads we have done, how much it's done, how many railways are restored, how many factories are now opened in Serbia, how many people are employed, but no, obviously the parameters for success in power are those that are recognizable to him, which is 619m euros in account, robbery and reselling TV seconds through RTS. That's why the focus these days when the elections are mentioned is that his private television has a national frequency. Now that Serbia is economically strong and is full of the state register and since it bothers him, now that he doesn't know where he's going, he's going to brutally attack and target the son of the President of the Republic. And that person who's got a crumb of honor and even something decent inside of him, didn't behave like that. It is obvious that he is now the megaphone leader of the Belivuk crime group, as is his megaphone Marinika Tepic, but his senseless policy is the past for Serbian citizens. Of course, when he talks about these electoral conditions and when they condition and blackmail him into wanting his private tycoon television to have a national frequency, if they don't meet those wishes, then he's going to make a mess and he's going to go out on the streets, and he's already set it by autumn this year. Clearly, there is no honest will, clearly there is no programme, no plan, nothing about the future of Serbian citizens. They're just making up affairs to get to the authorities. Unlike them, we are looking for solutions and to preserve the lives of our citizens' health, to ensure economic growth. And while crime flourished in their time, corruption, factories were closed and hundreds of thousands of people were out of work. But the people have chosen the path of prosperity and progress and will not allow them to return to power, to decide on their lives, in fact only by caring for their own interests. I would also like to add that lately, we have often on the agenda at the National Assembly meetings, which are mainly decisions relating to the choice of judges or to the termination of judicial office. Our position is really clear when we talk about the judiciary, we want an even more effective judiciary, we want an independent judiciary, but when I say independent, I underline independent of both tycoon and crime. And judges have been elected since 2012 in a way that has been defined by law, chosen properly. Serbia must not repeat a scenario that was current in 2009 during DS authorities, when judges were elected by municipal committees, when judges were elected by foreign embassies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-13-0.u6538	Thank you. National MP Stefan Srbanovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-13-0.u6539	Thank you, Mr. President. To all fellow citizens and friends of Islamic religion, I would like to congratulate Ramadan Bajram, with a desire to spend it in peace and prosperity in the circle of my family. The law requires obedience and must be defended. This sentence comes from the famous Socrates speech in front of the Athenian jurors, more specifically from the defense and closing words at the trial where he was found guilty of insulting the gods and spoiling the youth with his philosophical teachings. The Socrates process and its death sentence are often taken as evidence of the limitations of Athens democracy. We talked here at the previous sessions and established a band between certain judges, politicians and the media and saw what it looks like in practice when individual judges give credibility to the statements of certain politicians in their performances in some opposition media. We agreed here and agreed that it was certainly a great but negative example of the abuse of a judge's office and something that no judge should do. I'm not a lawyer, but many of my colleagues are and they honor their affairs and defend their calling, sticking to what they call an ethical code. In a discussion with them, they taught me what it is that they mean by that ethical code. The code for them is once a great instrument for defending its profession. These are principles such as dignity, expertise or responsibility. The law is what they always follow, set an example for others and everything they do, for what they do, they must and should have credibility. We mentioned a 2010 judicial reform here. It is certainly something that must never happen again in the justice system of the Republic of Serbia. Thousands of judges were then out of work, thousands of judges who were not alike and were not at the will of the then DS regime. This is the time when judges were chosen exclusively by the DS municipal boards and the only reference for the judge's election was the party's booklet. At that time, judges were judged by both their grandmothers and uncles, depicted in the local and state powers of the DS ranks. We all know very well what it looked like back then in our local self-government. Fortunately, the Constitutional Court has made a decision and judges who have lost their jobs in the so-called "Constitutional Court". The reforms were returned to work, but the damage had already been done. The damage was then estimated at some 45 million and that is the total amount for all fees and earnings that the judges did not receive until they did their job. During the adoption of this decision on a network of basic courts, the Municipal Court was unjustly abolished in Priboj and it belonged to the General Court in Prepolje. This act has made it very difficult for the citizens of Priboj to access justice, although the headquarters of the Primary Court in Priboj has been since the 1950s. The municipality of Priboj still met all the conditions for the possession of the headquarters of the basic court and had a building for the court, with all the facilities, necessary devices, inventory, number of inhabitants, great resolution of the border territory, as well as a sufficient number of cases in criminal, litigation and extrapared executive matter. Fortunately, after the arrival of the SNS to power in 2012 and with an extremely high commitment by then Justice Minister Nikola Selakovic, the court was returned to Priboju in 2013. What was it that marked that year when the court in Priboj was based in Prepolje? Well, there were then numerous shortcomings that concern, above all, the territorial organisation of basic courts and primary public prosecutors. Given the fact that criminal proceedings and the majority of litigation proceedings were conducted at the court's headquarters, it created major problems and costs, both for parties in the dispute and for lawyers involved in coming to trial. In this regard, it should be borne in mind that besides Priboj, a number of local sites in the Republic of Serbia were left without its own court, which was certainly not justified, given the number of inhabitants in those places, as well as tradition, since those places always had their own basic courts. The basic court is a basic court and the majority of citizens are now addressing the basic court in order to protect their rights and interests, and in parallel, a change in the territorial organisation of the basic public prosecutors following the territorial organisation of the basic courts has been made. The relevant territorial organisation is therefore extremely important because it has made it easier for all citizens to access justice, on the one hand, and it is certainly more effective to carry out primary public prosecutors' affairs related to the prosecution of criminal offences. The municipality of Priboj is situated in a specific geographical location, specifically on the three-state tri-border and up to two-thirds of the municipality of Priboj, to coastal villages can be reached only by crossing the state border from BiH. I don't have to tell you how difficult it was to access justice to that population living in these villages and in those towns of the coastal community. That's why I say once again how important it was to bring the court back from Prepolje back to Priboj. What is more important and important is the opening of a regional border police centre in Priboj several years later, and the entire centre now covers the entire territory of Serbia's border line towards BiH and Montenegro and allows police to do their job more effectively and better and in view of the geostrategic position of Priboj will give it better contact with citizens. Indeed, it looks forward to the announced formation of a hill and infantry battalion by the end of the year in Priboj, and this is how we return the presence of Serbia's state to Priboj, i.e. the institution of Serbia's state in Priboj, which is something that has been wrongly taken from us in the past. We want a more effective judiciary so that criminals don't walk the streets, we want better security and security for our citizens, and that's something that happens this way. All of this is evidence and confirmation of one strategic definition of the government of the Republic of Serbia and President Aleksandr Vukic, which is the recovery of Priboj. It's not really easy, ladies and gentlemen, to correct other people's mistakes, but it's certainly easy to show how much better we are than those who, after so many years, have an ex post mind and represent so-called. plans for the day after. These plans are nothing more than a plan to return to those unfortunate years and days before 2012 when the country was ruled by just those whose personal interest was only important and where the interests of citizens, i.e. the public interest of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, did not absolutely exist. There is no plan, there is no programme, no solutions, nothing they offer, they offer only hatred of ideology, hatred of SNS, Alexander Vukic and all of us who think differently from them and who, from all our strength, are struggling never to return to the time they represent, which is the time until 2012. Certainly, this state leadership is doing all that is in the interests of the Serbian citizens, that all those laws and regulations are being passed in this parliament, which I am convinced, in the interest of the state of the Republic of Serbia and of all its citizens. That's why in the voting day, I'm going to support all these proposals. Thank you and live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-13-0.u6540	Thank you. The next is National MP Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-13-0.u6541	Thank you, Your Honor, Your Honor, Mr. Hardysic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when we talk about our judicial system, about the choice of judges, about that third branch of power that is very important to Parliament, where we are talking today and we are dealing with key things for the development and future of our country, of course, and the executive power, I must say that we are obliged here to encourage and encourage all those who are decision-makers in that system to make our judicial system stronger, better, to be fairer. Today I had the opportunity to once again in a series of attacks that take place and which are directed, especially at President Vukic and his family, in all these latents that have been going on for several years, what concerns me most is that certain factors on the political scene, but unfortunately and beyond it, on the domestic stage, use expressions that are absolutely inappropriate when we need to talk about state institutions and people representing the Republic of Serbia. Namely, the portal Dragana Gilas Directly.rs conveyed the authorial text of a certain Davor Kalajzic, who is called "Shamer the traitor". How easy it is in today's Serbia, which some call a non-democratic, autocratic, even some dictatorial country, how easy it is to use an epithet and adjective, is the fact that those media who take it for themselves are monopolies when it comes to democracy, how easy it is to say for someone that he is a traitor, which is, of course, one of the greatest insults to anyone who thinks he is a patriot, that he loves his country, and that we are all in SNS dealing with politics exclusively out of love for our country, for patriotism and for the reason that we do everything and to make our resources work towards helping the Republic of Serbia, so that this country lives in peace and to improve the lives and well-being of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. In fact, this text speaks of and defines a thesis that is often spoken so lightly by many so-called. opposition politicians who spoke about it and who bid on dates and years when President Aleksandar Vukic and the SNS will issue Kosovo, but citizens of the Republic of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the years pass, and Aleksandar Vukic and our party, our majority in parliament are growing stronger, stronger and increasingly defined to safeguard our national interests and to preserve the vitality of our people and the territorial integrity and sovereignty of our country. Surely one huge majority of citizens know that, given that the latest public opinion polls are talking about it. The agency "Facor Plus" has published the latest survey that President Aleksandar Vucic and SNS have over 60% of the support of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and this clearly speaks of the definition of the people and support for Aleksandar Vukic in the process of protecting national interests and in the process of good leadership when it comes to the country's leadership. I wonder what the state authorities are doing, what are the courts doing, what are the prosecutions responsible for doing when everyone, when every opponent in this country can write a text, can be publicly published and published, and in the worst possible way offends dignity, not only Alexander Vukic, but also the Republic of Serbia, and, of course, indirectly, us who come from his party, but also all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, since he is the president of all citizens of our country? Otherwise, a retired official of the political office of UNMIK Special Representative is an important man, as signed. We of the SNS, of course, respect these high and large functions of people who work for foreigners, but we can't make peace with the fact, and we can't keep quiet that anyone who comes to mind, that anyone who has any personal, professional or different frustration or, definitely, that's what I have to say, doesn't love this country and doesn't love this people can write and can publish in a certain mainstream, especially opposition, media and label the president of the state as a traitor. In order to explain and in one way, to condemn this kind of behavior by us here at SNS who are always ready for dialogue, who we are always ready to talk about, who we have never called anyone by that name, just knowing, just having statehood within ourselves, knowing how difficult it is, knowing how hard it is to charge and knowing what kind of situation the country is to us that we don't have the right to label anyone, but to try to find a common denominator with all those who love this country. Unfortunately, and unfortunately, this is not an example in most countries in the world. There is one percentage of people in our country who obviously don't care about prosperity in Serbia, who don't care about national interests, who care that there will be a situation in the "round of the two" whether there will be cafes, restaurants and, of course, to be criticised by this government, criticise President Aleksandr Vukic and lead Kosovo's policy and policy to protect Serbian national interests in Kosovo and Metohija. I have to go back a little closer to history and say that since his coming to power and coming to Alexander Vukic's political post in 2012 this offensive foreign policy and offensive diplomacy he has carried out to save what can be saved when it comes to the interest of the Serbian people, the interest of the Republic of Serbia in Kosovo and Metohija. In 2008, when Kosovo's independence was declared by Kosovo Albanians, the country's president was in Romania. So he didn't honor this people and these citizens to be in the country. In 2010, the International Court of Justice in The Hague adopted an opinion that the Declaration of Independence, so-called "Kosovo" is not in conflict with international law. Every day from 2000 to 2012 Kosovo was given part of a piece of cake precisely that independence, and we have to take responsibility for it here in Serbia and point out that we are responsible, serious people who blame us for it. It is not just the Kosovo Albanians, it is not just the great forces and mentors who gave birth to that child and are trying to raise him and as far as we can see and we have to be concerned about it, the president today said that one of the great forces of the cartridges so-called. Kosovo" and its independence intend to launch an initiative to withdraw KFOR and UNMIK from Kosovo and Metohija, which would be a complete disaster. In that sense, as he has done in the past eight or nine years, he will have a meeting with NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg to fight for Serbia, to fight for Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, to fight for peace, to fight for stability. It is because we know how difficult it is, that we know how long it is a process and how much it takes skill, wisdom, knowledge, commitment and value to make any result on the international stage, what Vukic definitely did through the Brussels Agreement that he generally intended to ensure that citizens, especially Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, that our churches, that our monks, that our priests, that our children have peace and have the opportunity to correct what the international community has done in Kosovo and Metohija from 1999 to today, and that is that we are the first to do so. It is their fault and it is one of their biggest defeats in modern history, which is Serbia, unfortunately, both Kosovo and Metohija, a poor example of which only 2% of the people who have escaped from Kosovo and Metohija, they have returned to Kosovo and Metohija. Our goal is to get our people back and to us is to develop economics, investment projects, infrastructures, bring our people back to Kosovo and Metohija, because we need these people to preserve that territory. That's exactly what Vukic assured us that we can fight, and that, of course, will depend on us in the next period, at a large percentage. If we have such a responsible authority and people who are willing to fight here in parliament and can see it every day, working hard and willing to work hard on it and protect our red lines like Vukic did in Washington in September 2020 when it was the famous point of the 10th cast out of the Washington Agreement. He could have done it. Why? Because it has economically strengthened the state, because it has made Serbia a reliable and serious partner, a serious and sovereign country with which no one can play as they please, play with its interests and play with its future. This is a real indicator, which is what Serbia has shown thanks to SNS when it comes to our future, when it comes to fighting for the protection of vital national interests. What matters most to citizens, we have shown how it works, though unfortunately, we are one of the few countries that has obstructions on domestic soil. So, people who participate in political life instead of helping, instead of hearing their voice somewhere by protecting national interest, by talking about what's going on in Kosovo and Metohija with the Decani monastery, with monks, with clergy, with people who just want to work and make it happen because it's the 21st century. No one will support our legitimate interests in Kosovo and Metohija unless we talk about it, unless we talk about it in Washington, New York, Moscow, Beijing, Seoul and Tokyo. We showed that through this result that 18 countries of the world suspended the recognition of so-called. "Kosovo", that you can do something if you are convinced that your goal is correct and that your goal is good. We will, like the majority in parliament, continue, but we will not allow and always encourage the state authorities, especially the judiciary to qualify like this and that what is happening on our public media scene, to be processed, because we cannot allow someone who has invested their own life, someone who has put their family's life on the altar of defence of Serbia's national interests, its economy, to be treated by anyone, so it is called an independent medium or an independent analyst, or an opposition politician or anyone else. We of the SNS, of course, will not allow it, and we will always fight this kind of behavior. Therefore, what remains for us in the next period is to bring these lines together, that this percentage of citizens who support this policy, the policy of prosperity, the policy of the future, the policy that has a vision that Serbia should look like in 20 or 25 years, continue with it and, of course, do what is possible in terms of protecting our national and vital interests. We've shown that we can have some results, we've shown that one good part of these interests we can defend, we've shown that politics sovereigns who don't recognize the definition of only one side can work. And this has been shown in this vaccination process, the immunisation process, the protection of the health system, the protection of the economic system, and we will continue with this and how. What is also very important is that this message that the period ahead of us and all that awaits us will be very challenging, because the great turbulence is happening on the global stage, because Serbia, including KIM, will not be the main problem of the great powers and world players, but it will give us time to better prepare our fight, it will give us time for even greater gathering of ranks and support for President Aleksandr Vukic on everything he does to achieve those two main objectives and aspects of our policy, what we live and do here, and that is Serbia's full membership in the EU and a compromise solution to KIM. Returning dignity to this country, as we have done in the past few years, the well-being of our citizens, a strong, strong economy, is Serbia's Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-13-0.u6542	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. Next People's Messenger Milos Bandur.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-13-0.u6543	The esteemed chairpersons, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, agenda points, the points we are discussing today are not controversial, or positive statements about them. When it comes to the first subject, we see that after 20 years at the post of President of the Criminal Court, one person retires. There's nothing controversial about it. What doesn't sound logical to me is that there are court presidents in our country who are 20 years old. I don't think it's a good thing for a state of justice, and it's 10 or 20 years to be in the seat of the president of the court, something that reflects the situation that we've found, which we still have and that we need to change. I'm not talking about the lady in question. I don't even know her, I don't know anything about her work or her biography except for short information about her retirement. I'm talking about the principle here, that it's a very unhealthy phenomenon to be in the position of the President of the Court for 20 years. There are known cases in Serbia that after 20 years in office of the court, someone retires, establishs a law firm, and then he and his family start to deal with law enforcement and whoever wants to avoid losing the trial goes to that particular law firm. It is a little more expensive or something more expensive than the others, but that office guarantees a pass-by in court. How, why? It was this person who had been humanised for twenty years, selected associates, co-workers produced in judges, and for several decades more layers were created in Serbia, in which we have different structures or networks of influences, as any party was replaced by authorities, and the longest ruled by the Socialists, i.e. the regime before the multilateral changes, so they left their established infrastructures in courts and prosecutors, but especially by courts. There were words here that one of us asked us to change the Constitution and adopt constitutional amendments. I wouldn't agree with that. I think that we ourselves have decided that the amendments to the Constitution in the domain of justice must follow, not because we want to join the EU and because this is a request from a chapter 23, but that the judicial system and the prosecutor's system in Serbia be more just, fairer and more efficient. I have to go back and mention a few things my colleagues talked about. The constitution was amended or adopted by the new Constitution in 2006, first in the Assembly, then confirmed in a referendum. Already in 2007 the Venice Commission, which is also sometimes heard in a negative connotation, made some remarks on the part of the judiciary-related constitution. However, it is true that they have said that there is an influence from the legislative executive authority which is not permitted, but they have also condemned something that we have forgotten, which was condemned by the Constitutional Law, which was later in 2009 by the practice of 836 judges left without a job and 75 deputy public prosecutors. So let us be realistic and fair to the Venice Commission, which is the advisory body of the Council of Europe in the domain of human rights and freedoms. She also condemned what happened in Serbia in 2009 under the leadership of Snezana Malovic, with the help of Slobodan Homen, Nate Mesarovic and the chairman of the Justice Committee, then Bosko Ristic. The Venice Commission has condemned that, too. In 2009, on December 18, 836 judges and 75 deputy prosecutors were given solutions to the termination of a post that was otherwise permanent under the Constitution under the new Constitutional Law. It was only after two years and nine months that they were returned to work by a Constitutional Court decision that first tried to justify their responsibility a little bit, so the matter returned to the Supreme Council of the judiciary to investigate each individual case, and then in July 2012, the Constitutional Court made a decision repealing the Constitutional Law, declaring it unconstitutional and people returned to work. The direct material damage to the number of people is 44.4m euros. In addition to direct material damage, most of them sued for suffered mental pain and damage claims amounted to several hundred to several million dinars, so that total material damage cannot be seen. Not to mention the damage caused by the wrong or bad organisation of the courts' networks, the poor allocation of personnel, the unequal burden of judges and courts, so that the real damage is much greater than the one that is material and which can be shown in dinars, or Euros. What is saddest in the whole story is that no judge who has ever done so has been brought back to work by all those decisions of the Constitutional Court, because the Constitutional Court has annulled something that is unconstitutional and has not entered into whether a judge has done his job well or not. I am absolutely certain that among those thousands, about a thousand, who were hit, there were certainly those who were likely to come under the pressure of disciplinary responsibility, as was probably among those who did not enter the list because they belonged to the ruling DOS regime, or the Democratic page. In 2013, we adopted a judicial reform strategy 13-18, which envisions constitutional changes in the area of justice. So I'm saying that no one today should claim to be imposed on us or that one of us is asking for it now. We adopted a Justice Development Strategy 20-25 last July, which also mentions constitutional amendments, i.e. changes to the Constitution in the area of justice, as suggested or on the advice of the Venice Commission. Therefore, it is our choice and I fully support that choice. I think we all support that our judiciary should be independent in terms of the judge's personal independence, in terms of their expertise, dignity, not bias, and that's the goal. Now, under different circumstances and different circumstances, they impose different paths to the goal. The same solutions cannot be applied in Sweden and Serbia or in some Western Balkan country, because it is not the same situation first, and the other are not the same socio-economic and other circumstances that condition certain modalities that will be applied in order to achieve the objective that has been declared. What concerns me only in the part where you will have half the high council of the judiciary elected by the judges themselves is the situation found in the judiciary, where you are now asking which clan or lobby will manage to impose its five candidates, is the fact that in the judiciary there are, as I said, clan structures and lobbies started on a party basis, and later probably that association and regrouping continued on some other interesting basis. There is a very strong nepotism in the judiciary, there is little known about it, but if you look closely at the structure of employees in some courts, you will see two born brothers in the same court, you will see husband and wife, father and son, etc. what it all says about possible productive highways, because all these connections that exist can be potential corrupt highways, highways of influence trade and influence on judicial decisions, which is not good. So, in addition to constitutional amendments that will certainly be a very good and very good starting basis for repairing the situation in the judicial and prosecutorial system, the task is now to implement all of this in the most practical way possible. In addition to the independence of the judge, there is also an increase in his disciplinary and any other responsibilities, and that has been a matter of little concern before. Models of disciplinary and other proceedings must be prescribed, even discharges from the judge's post. Ethics and other bodies must be formed both at the High Council of the Judiciary and the High Council of Prosecutors, it seems to me that will be called an organ. Therefore, apart from the emphasis on independence, it is now necessary to place an accent on both the responsibility and the clear criteria that it will be done by co-workers working in courts and prosecutors now by judges and prosecutors. We had a case at the previous session, and I support the decision that we made, that one good part of the proposal to elect co-workers for the first time, means those who first choose, reject, and I agree with that. I was personally aware of a few cases and personally advocated the rejection of these proposals, but what concerns us and what we are in is that all these proposals have passed their basic judicial councils in the home court, in some higher territorial court, have unanimously passed on the High Council of the Judiciary. We've got very beautiful and haired biographies from which you can only learn about the candidate's good things, not what burdens his biography. It is fortunate that MPs in their local self-governments have informed and informed about individual candidates and that we have rejected one part of these proposals under the influence of these arguments. This very fact that all this has passed unanimously, and that we, with full right, have refused, and in that sense, I have supported everything proposed by my colleague Jelena Žarić, says that the situation is not so great and that it is our great task to bring these constitutional amendments, which we will one day adopt, to implement practically. Just two more things to say. I am concerned that in the last ten years, more than 20 cases against either former or current officials, usually the director of public enterprises, have been launched in the city of Nis, and that none of these cases have been completed with a positive court outcome. The question is, what are the prosecutors doing? What are the prosecutors doing? Do they work? Do they do their job with badges or how they function? If you can't, if you're not sure you're going to get in the case, why are you even going into some cases? You know, you've gone into 20 cases, and you haven't gotten one case, where for certain people in Nis who belonged to some former government, some former time, I'm absolutely sure there were a bunch of crimes that could have been proven and started and that those pieces were obtained by a judicial epilogue, but the prosecutor or someone caught on to something that was teensy, the weakest, and then it fell in court, then this guy got the paper that wasn't guilty and now he's waving that paper -- well, the SNS tried to arrest me, the SNS tried to charge me, and here I am, I'm not guilty, you see, I'm a man completely correct and pure, and it's about the guy who actually tried to arrest him, the weakest link in the whole system of his government. Our situation in Nis in the judiciary isn't great. I especially have objections to the prosecution sector, and I'd like to ask that what we're saying is heard by someone in the government, heard by the Ministry, heard by someone in the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office, because I talked about this two months ago, but no one heard that. That's what MPs hear and they hear citizens watching TV. The republican public prosecutor obviously heard nothing, as she made a very positive statement about some objections to the work of the senior public prosecutor in Nis, whom I am fully convinced personally that he is not doing his job properly. A recent case occurred that a witness was called to make a statement at the More Public Prosecutor's Office. He was waited by a man at the entrance, took to a room and ordered by a statement that he did. The statement was later made to the police. The police refused to take a statement first, and then took it. I took a look at the police statement. The police were obliged to request the tape based on a statement, as everything is recorded and to see which of the employees or high-ranking in the prosecutor's office pressured the witness. The police didn't send a request and, of course, the footage was erased after a certain time. I want to tell you that both our prosecutions and our courts have to work better. I'm sure they're doing better than they used to, but there's a lot of room for repairs, and that's why I support these constitutional amendments that will come on the agenda, no matter how much someone criticises them, because they come as proposals from the Venice Commission. In the end, I'd like to commend something that was transferred by the Russian agency TASS yesterday. They quoted our president as saying it was the first time Serbia has made a major economic breakthrough, that GDP will rise by 6% by the end of 2021, that this has not happened so far, that last year Serbia had a 0.8% drop and Europe on average 5%, that the IMF forecasts that instead of growth of 3.8% next year growth in Serbia will be 4.54% and that in January 2022, the average salary in Serbia will be 600 euros. Of course, they added and conveyed a statement by the governor of the National Bank, which says that our gold reserves today are twice as high as eight years ago, the gold reserves, and that they amount to 14.4 billion euros in monetary value and that Serbia's external debt was 72.1% at the end of 2016, in the first quarter of 2021, 62.1%, that it will go to 60.3%, but that later it will surely follow the country's safe fall in external debt, which is certainly good and very important news. I want a lady on the agenda and a happy retirement. I hope it's not one of those guys who's gonna open up a law firm and work later after he retires. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-13-0.u6544	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Gjorge Milicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-13-0.u6545	Thank you. The basis of the call is a replica, given that the SPS was mentioned. It is true that the SPS is the party with the most experience, I can say, with due respect for other political parties, on the political scene of Serbia, 31 years of business and political action, the relevant political factor and probably the party that was the longest period of time, when it comes to responsibility in Serbia, we do not dispute, but we do not dispute the fact that we have been in different political positions, but only a party that has vitality and strength can do so. However, here is a finding, when it comes to the SPS, that the SPS was setting up judges, that it tied them to the law offices. I don't know what time period it is, whether it's a period until 2000, whether it's a period after 2000, but whatever period it is, and whoever has any information, the SPS is an institution and is not behind any individual. This may be individual responsibility, cannot possibly be the responsibility of the SPS. You know, when we talk about power, we say a lot of times -- it's not our greatest glory to never fall, it's that when we fall, we know that we get up, we stand up, we rise up. That's what our President Ivica Dacic did in 2000. In 2000, it was very difficult to be a socialist, and we remained a relevant political player in Serbia's political scene. So, yes, we accept. Thirty-one years, for those 31 years, we've been in different political positions. Any mistakes? I'm sure it is. The biggest mistake is that when you have absolute authority in a period of time, you are not aware that you are making these mistakes, but after that, but you know how, from the past, lessons are learned, affirmation is made of what is good. What the SPS is doing today – it looks at the present, along with its coalition partners and builds the foundations of a new future, specifically when we talk about the judicial system. Whoever has any document, whoever has any name and last name, Serbia is a regulated rule of law, please, let system institutions do their job, the SPS will never stand behind these people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-13-0.u6546	Thank you. Next on the list is Mr. Marijan Risticevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-13-0.u6547	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the respected citizens who watch this, if you watch, there's a people's saying from Herzegovina, he says -- whatever happens to the buttocks, doesn't bother the cheek. So, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we are discussing the addition of the Administrative Committee, i.e. the Committee on Administrative Affairs and Budgetary Affairs, the mandate, etc. and this saying refers to Vuk Jeremic and to the work of the Administrative Committee between 2012 and 2014 when he allowed, which was their jurisdiction, Vuku progeny, so-called He drew a descendant of the famous Murat-age Pozderc, when they allowed him to perform, in addition to his parliamentary duty, just after his duties as chairman in the UN Assembly to have the right to perform consulting services. The board of directors had that kind of jurisdiction, but the Anti-Corruption Agency, I'm afraid, didn't send the situation out. So he concluded consulting agreements with Tea Energy for two years and for each year he received $300,000. He arranged these jobs in New York, where the state paid him an apartment of 15,000 euros, a salary of 10,000 euros, a driver of 6,000 euros, a move of 218,000 euros. So, the state had only the first six months of 2.9m euros in spending on the chairmanship of Vuk Jeremic's 67th session of the United Nations General Assembly. It was not the United Nations that he chaired, but our country, which had an average salary of 300 euros at the time. Before that, in five years only on flights, Vuk Jeremic paid 3.6m euros for the plane tickets he obtained at a company that was tied to a member of his family. Every day, Vuk Jeremic's flights cost 2,000 euros or 10 average pensions. So, in the morning when you get up, Vuk Jeremic only costs 2,000 euros on flights. He took apartments that cost 1,200 euros per night, which means six pensions only while Vuk Jeremic sleeps, because he didn't want to sleep in rooms, apartments cheaper, but in apartments where he stays. That's how he met Patrick Ho and all that crew, and while the state paid him fat fees, for him, for the maid, for the driver, an apartment of 15,000 euros, a move of 218,000 euros, during that time he was making himself a consulting job worth 300,000 euros. The IRS has never checked whether or not, Mr Arsic, Vuk Jeremic, the wolf descendant of the famous Murat-age Pozderc, I don't mean anything by Murat-agi Pozderc. He, if he were alive, could give DNA, see if Jeremic was involved with him, because Murat-aga Pozderac led the fight against Austro-Hungarian, etc., he was sort of a patriot. But Vuk Jeremic didn't know, he didn't care about the idea, nothing, he only cared about his wallet. Five thousand euros paid for him and his family to watch a tennis match in Wimbledon and slept there, costing our country 5,000 euros or 250 pensions. And today they go after power, so loose, so boastful. They think by decree, they'll scare us first, they'll shoot us, they'll kill us, they'll rape us, I don't know what they won't do to us anymore. Every day, I get one disguised or undercovered or no covert threat at all. I no longer care about it, because there is no greater honor for one deceased, all to carry out their threat, but to die, say, on the threshold of the Assembly, where they cannot stop me, only a machine gun to put in place, to die fighting for their country, defending and defending the right of the Serbian state to exist precisely from those who expect to be brought to power by someone else's decree. It was best described by that journalist Stupar. He should, he says, visit the German embassy, visit the U.S. Embassy, and say, "Here, we will, I want to be president, and you make it possible for me, as soon as I come to be president, I will control the media." Obviously, and they accuse us of thinking of ourselves and the way they are, they're acting very strangely. They come out, they demonstrate, I've watched here, environmental protection. He says -- we want factories, we don't want electricity, we want jobs, we don't want factories, we want factories, we don't want electricity, we want electricity in apartments, but we don't want electricity being produced in power plants. We want clean energy, we want cars, we don't want cars, it's dirty air, it's polluted air, but we want to protest to get cars. Well, we don't want those cars, we want you to come buy us electric cars. We want electric cars, but we don't want lithium. We want to take a picture of ourselves on those cell phones protests, but we don't want lithium batteries. I don't know what those poor people really want anymore, but lately he's shown up, since he's here and Mrs. Judge, he's retired, and I hope that one day Majic will retire. There's a saying in Confucius - injustice doesn't mean anything if you don't remember it. We should remember Majic as the greatest injustice. The greatest injustice of the victim killed can't remember that. I'll say again, in a cruel way, 80 Serbs were killed, 34 were gone, and over 150 were tortured by the Gnjilan group, a system of light soul-taking, women cutting off breasts and burning on fire, people were developing skulls. I'm a witness of an associate of Albanian origin, a Shiptarian, however you like, testified that they were stripping when they entered to slaughter and kill, because there was so much blood. Judge Majic has done the greatest injustice. Judge Majic released the Gnjilan Group, which was previously in the Court of Appeals, which was previously punished by 116 years in prison. Judge Majic, on his soul carries the souls of the murdered Serbs, bears the suffering of those who have been tortured and survived, and today they have consequences. Judge Majic is a disgrace and a disgrace. He joined that Stupar, as if they were copying it from one another. He goes after embassies, he's offered to be president, if you choose me, I'll choke the media, etc. He deals with politics, and for the judge it's forbidden. He's in our business. He's recently, and she's his CEPRIS organization, a parapolitical organization, when you look at his website, it's a party, an unregistered party, which is funded, I don't know where. Who comes and says, boasting in the People's Assembly, the MP has proposed a law, which is in accordance with European rules, among other things, which is the authority of the Messengers of the people. We can't do other people's jobs, like him. He believes that if we do our jobs, that it's boastful, and when he does our jobs, when he does politicians' jobs, it's perfectly normal for him. While we have judges like Majic, justice will not be available, neither justice nor justice will be available to citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and there are many such judges. To warn you of a change in the Constitution, before that debate, that we must work carefully. I'll think about it, and if the position of the majority that the constitution is changing because of the chapters, etc., if it's one of our obligations, I'll probably vote for it, but I have to tell you that I don't agree with letting them get too much freedom. Imagine how many Majics there are. Look out, in his parapolitical party to CEPRIS, as the Center for Judicial Research, etc., you have together prosecutors, lawyers and judges. Often from the same case, Beljanski, and I don't know who was there together, the lawyer, the judge, and the prosecutor, now imagine what kind of judgment in some case, which together lead, defends and judges, what judgment they can make. They say, the commons of my peasants, they say how much money you put on a sauce of justice, it's so much too much. They say some rulings against them are ordered as burgers. There are powerful lawyers who lend money to judges on interest, and then all that comes back, in judgments. Such lawyers, there are such judges. Think carefully, after the reform, are we going to get another one, and that was a deformity, after constitutional changes, are we going to get a Str? Whether or not we're going to get a set of independent trades instead of courts. Let me ask you, will Judge Majic then have an entire shopping mall and will the shopping mall control foreigners via Majic, will this mall be controlled by Americans, or will it be controlled by citizens of Serbia? Anyway, we don't have to look at these unfortunate people, who, by the way, think that noble people like us, are interested in justice and in raising the state, and they're only interested in money. For money, they go to power, not just because of power, and we go to power to raise the state, to raise our economy. I strongly support the fact that we want equipment, hospitals, vaccines, to gain health sovereignty and to be sovereign in this territory of the Balkans, that they all depend on us a little bit. It's a bit of a political opportunity. Also, as a farmer, and as someone who founded the People's Peasant Party, my party in 1990, I changed coalitions, but no, I grew up in it because of the village, because of agriculture. I stand for food safety. There's a saying whose food you eat, his songs you sing. We have to be the leading food producers here in the region, to supply everyone else who doesn't have enough food, and we're going to have surpluses, and that's also a new political opportunity that we need to take advantage of. We should build our country, not to rule, but through government to build our country, to be the first in the region for the quality of our citizens' lives, and soon to reach at least ten EU countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-13-0.u6548	Thank you. The word has a People's Messenger, Dejan Kesar.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-13-0.u6549	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia, we are facing today's proposal for a decision on the termination of the office of President of the Criminal Court in Lazarevec on a personal request due to the completion of the working century. Article 74(1) The Law on Judges found that the functions of the Judge ceased, inter alia, on a personal request. I really do and in this proposal there is nothing controversial in this decision, and I will support this proposal, together with my colleagues from the parliamentary group in the voting day. I must also point out that this is not how all the judges ended their duties. We have an eclectic example of the termination of the judicial post against the law and the Constitution in 2010 when one of the most discreet judicial reforms was carried out, after which 900 judges remained on the street in one day. In order to understand the importance, that is, the disaster of this reform, we must start from the Constitution as the highest legal act. We must understand that the Constitution defines a three-part division of power, i.e. a horizontal division of power involving legislative, executive and judicial power. While the legislative authority has been authorised to pass legal and sub-legislative acts, the enforcement of these laws is the third branch of the government that has an extremely significant role in the whole society, which is that all rights and freedoms of citizens against violations of power, and more importantly, only the judiciary and the holders of judicial functions are fully independent. The independent judiciary is a clear picture of a democratically organized society. It is also very dangerous when someone tries to tear the third branch of government out of the domain of independence and lead under direct political influence. We just had a direct political impact on the judiciary in 2010. Back then, people who sat at the DS summit under the pretext of reform and improvements in the judiciary carried out the most shameful judicial reform in modern history in Serbia. In one day, you didn't just lustrate the judges, you spat on the prosecutors, and you spat on their families. The day the Justice Ministry's decision on the general election was announced, judges produced inconceivable consequences, both for the internal functioning of the judiciary and for the reputation of the Republic of Serbia in all European institutions that monitor Serbia's progress and the progress of Serbia's judiciary. In one day, we experienced a great shame for the whole public. In November 2009, then, the Ministry of Justice, of course by order of the then DS, announced a general choice for selecting judges for newly formed basics, more appeals and the Supreme Cassation Court. They discuss that choice which is not necessary at that time, nor is it in accordance with the law and the Constitution, the choice after which, again, I have to mention, and every session when we talk about the judiciary, I will mention it, that 850 judges are out of a job. The 850 judges questioned the material existence of their families. They were thinking that they would feed their families in the coming period because someone in the DS summit at the time at the Supreme Council of the judiciary decided that the judge was unworthy. When you read, or when you take the Serbian dictionary and when you perform synonyms for the word "unworthy", you can find certain explanations, and that can mean - inappropriate, inappropriate, unsuitable, etc. When I read these synonyms, I find reasons why these judges and prosecutors weren't elected -- they weren't eligible for DS, they didn't have DS membership card, they didn't have anyone at the top of DS to call on the phone and say -- you know, we don't agree with DS policy, but we do our job according to the Constitution and law. It was their only fault. So 850 judges remain on the street, they've been declared unworthy and there's no term that's going to hit everything these judges have done in the past 20 years. I will point out to you that there are courts and litigious and criminal and extraparate departments, and the same weight of the court's work if you decide in a litigation dispute and maybe it's more weight, I apologize to the judges in the litigation departments, if a judge brings a verdict and condemns someone to 20 years in prison. You know, that judge takes that verdict home. It's not easy to endure years or 20 years in prison. And then those people who said, over their careers, maybe a thousand and two thousand years in prison, you say they're unworthy. In 2009 and 2010, it was little for people who sat in the DS to have a majority in this home of the National Assembly. They had little to do with the majority in the government of the Republic of Serbia, and then they wanted the full passion of the verdict to be made on behalf of the DS, but that most judges would put them in those positions. And they did it because somewhere in 2010, they saw them losing political support in the people. You know, when you see that you are losing political support, when you see that you do not have to propose any political programme that will lead Serbia forward, you are going towards creating the judiciary at your own level. I would agree that someone reformed the judiciary, if he said – let's improve the judicial network, let's improve the program of solving old cases. But the only measure for this reform was the political and personal interests of the DS. We must say very openly – Boris Tadic, who headed the DS, wanted to use this judicial reform to strengthen the DS position ahead of the elections. They were afraid of much even then, and they are afraid today. And it took them a while to make justice on their own to drop criminal charges and stop investigations. You know, "implementing reform" in their dictionary was not a synonym for improving or creating a better place to live. He was synonymous to something that was good to destroy. Remember all those reforms in the area of economy, after which 500,000 of our fellow citizens are out of work. Remember the health reform when we were last in Europe in 2010, 2011 and 2012. In 2021, we are the first country in Europe to offer four types of vaccine to its citizens. At that moment, no one meant the judges, the prosecutors, their health, their existence. Reading certain obscenities, which of course belong to Dragan Gilas and to all others who sit in the so-called. To the opposition, I find an interview with the former President of the Supreme Cassation Court and the lady who questioned the judicial exam and this area of civil matter, and it will be important because in the next few minutes, I will explain to her that on one portal she says, and that is Mrs Vida Petrovic Škero, that there is no independent judiciary. In this first part of the interview, she quotes: “When you have a situation where the MP and the chairman of the Justice Committee are at the same time a member of the Supreme Council of the judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors who participates in the election of judges and prosecutors, along with that and a lawyer, and when representing one of the defendants in the biggest affair, the question arises whether the citizen will consider that the judge in the procedure mentioned has reached the verdict because he really thinks so? “ You know, when you read this statement See Petrovic Shkero, if you are not involved in the area of justice, you can accept it in part. But I can't accept it and I hope my colleagues from the SNS parliamentary group can't accept it. You know why? The first meeting of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, which directly decided on the choice of judges, in the same first meeting of the VSS, was sitting Mr. Bosko Ristic, a lawyer from Nis. Look at the miracles, in 2009 at the same time as the chairman of the Committee on Justice, State and Local Self-Government. And you call today Mr. Djukanovic, because he is also a National MP, the chairman of the Committee and a member of the VSS. So what's the difference in 2009 and 2021? She's nowhere to be found. He performs the same function given to him in accordance with the Constitution and the law, as well as Bosca Ristic. At the same time, the VSS member is Dejan Ciric, the same lawyer from Nis, and how in this interview you did not say that Bosko Ristic and Dejan Ciric were responsible for keeping 900 judges on the street. What does it mean when you say the biggest affair? How come Vida Petrovic Skero, not talking about the Bridge affair on Ada, is not talking about the Multigroup affair, does not talk about dozens of other affairs on the Verica Barac report? What does an affair mean? Is this an affair, which was decided by the First Basic Court that Miki Aleksic, is obliged to pay off 300 thousand dinars, because the procedure did not establish that Andrej Vukic had contacted anyone listed in the Jovanovic affair. What kind of affairs are these? An affair that doesn't have a court epilogue. You are trying to tie any member, the Vucic family, to a certain affair, and that doesn't work, it doesn't work either 2012, 2013, 2014 and 2015, and then you go to the depths, to start tying family members, to certain criminal matters. And for you, the people of the DS, of the opposition, there already exist for you. There have already been some proceedings and they have been brought to an end, and no proceedings have been completed here, and you are attacking the son of Alexander Vukic, Danil Vukic, so that I don't know what, meeting with some members of the fan groups, etc. You have no proof of that either. And no state body will act on those allegations and say, "People, what are you doing, why are you attacking Alexander Vukic's family, you're tying all of them to certain affairs?" You know, if I were to start talking about all their affairs right now, it wouldn't take me 20 minutes to get as much as I have on the Rules of Procedure, but it would take me 100, 200 minutes. Also, I want to say that Vida Petrovic Shkero, as President of the Supreme Court of Cassation, had to know that one man, in this case, Mr Djukanovic, did not just choose him as judges and prosecutors. The High Council of the judiciary has 10 members and is passed by most of the votes. So he can't directly influence, but... Back in 2009, Bosko Ristic directly influenced the selection of people from Nis who were close to the Democratic Party. You know what, even though we have experienced a disaster on the internal agenda, it's much worse what the Republic of Serbia has survived in international institutions. I would like to read that the then European Commission, as well as the Venice Commission, has referred to various irregularities throughout the preparation and after the re-election process. In 2009, too, in her report, she said that the reform that is under way and its, somewhat hasty application poses a major risk to independence and credibility. We don't have to talk about any more here, because we talk about irregularities all the time. Eleven years later, no one from the High Council and the Ministry of Justice went public and said that – people have decisions, 800 judges were returned, 700 prosecutors were returned. We were wrong, let us bear responsibility. We'll probably never, never welcome them, because they're used to not responding for their actions. At the same time, as my colleagues said, the reform of the judiciary cost us 11 billion dinars, but these 11 billion dinars were not invested in the reconstruction of the Court of Justice and the general building of courts in Kragujevac and Kruševec, as is the case today, but in paid earnings, compensation for material and immaterial damage and so on. To leave enough time for my colleagues to take part in the debate, I want to say that the laws and legal acts we bring to the Assembly can be discussed. We can, of course, debate the decisions of the executive authority, which we do every day, but when it comes to the judiciary, we are not here and we are not going to go down because it is important for us that the third branch of the government does not suffer the pressures of any kind and that it remains unsustainable on its own path and objectives. So in the end, I want to say that in the voting day, I will support all the proposed decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-13-0.u6550	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-13-0.u6551	Ladies and gentlemen, before I begin my presentation, I would just like to complete my colleague, Marijan Risticevic, when he talked about the former regime, when they love something and don't like it. Col. Risticevic, you forgot to say that the former regime and Dragan Gilas love money, but they do not like to work and like to spend money, of course and that it is possible that they have proved it by example. Now, the fact that we were a dozen times poorer when they existed exactly 10,000 times richer, that's already another problem and it's not worth discussing. This isn't 10,000 times richer, the metaphor, but true, because only those funds found in Gilas' secret accounts show that he's been riched exactly a thousand times in his power. About that much money is hidden, 10 times so much money is hidden on yet-undiscovered assets that are held on him or his close relatives or already in some different suspicious investment funds. Whenever the choice of a judicial office or some law in the field of justice is mentioned, a highly sensitive subject is always opened, which is that the holders of judicial functions should be independent and independent in their work and make judgments in accordance with the law and the Constitution of this country, to the best extent and knowledge. So now I'm not going to talk about a very bad politician who, from the Justice Department of Majic, an even worse poet or writer, is the worst judge in all these three disciplines, for this first and second, no harm to us. You know, you write something that no one will read when it comes to writing books and poems, you go to the choices you lose, and there's no harm, but it's a real shame when a bad judge is a bad judge because as a consequence, we have criminals on the loose, and the victims of their crimes get punished again and they've been repeated a kind of violence. However, in Serbia today, in public opinion that the former regime is trying to create judgments not only bring courts and judge not only courts, but the former regime through its portals, its means of information, very skillfully hiding ownership relations and sources from where they finance all these portals. Among other things, they have already ruled without a trial that the President of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandar Vukic, is a dictator, and this has already come out today in some weekly, and that the change of power in Serbia cannot be in peaceful democratic elections, but only by violence, by turning it over because the citizens of Serbia who go out to the elections, are they stupid, ignorant and do not know that they should vote for whom they should vote, for them, for this intellectual elite, and not for Alexander Vukic, so there is a need for violence to be changed power and read it when Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic is in one week and I ask the question – what is this dictatorship? The verdicts are also made for family members to deal with crime, primarily the president's brother, to deal with crime by his own father, to deal with crime by his eldest son, so the verdicts even make that even the youngest son, who hasn't gone to school yet, all in the age of dictatorship. You can read all that from their portals. We are ruled that we do not know that we are injecting citizens, although Serbia is one of the most successful countries in the world in this matter and the only country where citizens can choose as many as four vaccines from around the world. They accuse us and sentence us to punish citizens who can't get 3,000 dinars because of their medical condition they can't receive the vaccine. That part is true, but if we can vaccinate, they won't get the crown, and it's usually that people who can't take the vaccine have harder forms of a crown with a very risky outcome on it. We are ruled that we do not know that we are managing public finances and accounts, and Danica Popovic, Pavle Petrovic and Soskovic, former governor of how much money Serbian citizens will get from those 30 plus 30 euros, and how much they will have to pay back through taxes. Only once did Danica Popovic, or Pavle Petrovic, and Šoškovic not calculate how much Serbian citizens paid for Gilas to be exactly 10,000 times richer. How much did they pay for just one loan from 2011, which is 7.5% interest worth 700m euros, which we're going to pay back this year because it's too expensive? How much is there, Grandpa Paul, that money was spent to chase these 700m euros around world destinations of offshore areas of the paradise islands, the Virgin Islands and all the rest? How can a former governor claim to have stolen a billion euros, and he falsified the National Bank's findings on the audit of these banks' operations? What's the interest on that, Shocker? How much interest, Mrs Popovic, because according to your program, Topcider worked full steam from 2008 to 2012, in order to compensate for the lack of money in the budget, while making inflation, made up the dinars? How much did it cost to have your friendly investors run away from you, such as "US style", who ran off from Serbia no matter what in 2011? They do not speak and count either Pavle Petrovic, Šoškovic, or Danica Popovic. They count on how many citizens they're going to have to pay back for something they got. They're still saying, raise that money, give it to the people's kitchens. So let Gilas take the money he stole to bring back to the state and the soup kitchens. Let them give up the fabulous wages both Šoštic and Popović and Pavle, let them give to the folk kitchens, and that unfortunate Culibrk, who can't count. That's what you're talking about, but it's a verdict, and neither are the judges. We are ruled that we have betrayed Kosovo and recognised Kosovo's independence, those bastards who set the border on Jarinj and Brnjak in the same country between the same people in 2010 and 2011. They judge us that we have betrayed Kosovo. They betrayed him wherever they could, wherever they came, just to stay in power and only to rob Serbia even more. We are ordered to humiliate judges and prosecutors, those who have in an illegal, unconstitutional way chosen the first judge of Serbia, Natu Mesarevic, and have not chosen her in accordance with the Constitution, nor according to the law. She was the only candidate. There was no general session of the Supreme Cassation Court, and that was a constitutional obligation. And in that reform, the judges put at the coffee table, on the pacified tablecloth. There are lawyers sitting among themselves, close to the DS, and they write names that will pass and who won't. And then it's us who humiliate the dignity of the courts and the independence of the courts and the prosecutors. What I'm saying is all true. To be even more tragic, as the end of the economic crisis is looming, the health crisis and since there is a legitimate reason for optimism among the citizens of Serbia, they are also trying to equate us and our optimism with the optimism that the former regime had in the period 2009-2012 and that they say that our optimism is false because both Šoškovic and everyone else promised, Mirko Cvetkovic, that Serbia came out of the crisis statistically, but the citizens still can't feel it. Those are his words. Our optimism is not a lie, because the dinar did not lose half of its value as during their government, because we have growth in gross products, because no more serious investor has left Serbia, as the US-style has run away from them, because there are no tens and hundreds of thousands of lost jobs. Our optimism isn't fake. Their optimism that they can bring down Wolfie and in elections and violent ways is just their utopia. And it's not my fault that the election results in just the same result as their gross product growth during their power, 1%, 2%.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-13-0.u6552	Thank you. First of all, I would like to inform you that the remaining time of the parliamentary group is 32 minutes. Next on the list is MP Vuk Mircetic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-13-0.u6553	Thank you. Dear President, honourable colleagues and fellow Members of the People, honourable citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I will take advantage of my right to talk about court officials and the judiciary in the tide. I will remind you that the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia provides for three branches of government and these are legislative enforcement and judicial. The ratio of all three branches of government, as we know, is based on balance and control. And each of the three branches of government should be independent of each other. This is a very important topic, because as one of the three branches of government, the judiciary is extremely important for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and the citizens of Serbia are asking with one great right whether and when they will find justice in court. Why is there so much mistrust in the judiciary today? For all those who monitor this transmission and generally for reminders, I will remind myself of that year 2009, when the previous regime tried, or implemented, to implement, judicial reform. And the reform of the judiciary cost the citizens of the Republic of Serbia 44.7m euros, with 850 judges out of work. This mistrust in the judiciary, as we all know and feel very well, feels today. However, when we talk about judges, it is important to note that judicial holders must, on the one hand, be competent, on the other hand, to have a high level of knowledge and skills, as well as moral qualities that qualify them to perform these functions. We're talking here today, discussing the judge, or president of the Lazarevec Criminal Court. She retired. I wish her in my personal name and on behalf of all of us a lot of happiness and to enjoy her retirement. What's good is that we here today are talking about the selection of new judges and judges who will no longer perform that function. And what's not good is that in the previous period it was done at sessions of individual party organisations. I'll remind you of the fact that, for example, the municipal board of DS Vlasotince discussed at the meeting of the municipal committee whether individual proposals for judges, whether they are close DS, whether they are close and therefore whether they are competent to perform later, or whether they are elected judges. What I'm saying is no fiction. Namely, the Association of Judges of Serbia wrote to the daily "Politika" that they came to own the DS Vlasotince municipal board's decision, which states who they propose for judicial functions and give their opinion to each judge individually. To make everything even more illogical, this party decision was also confirmed by the seal of the DS of the municipal board of Vlasotince, but also by the seal of the Municipality of Vlasotince. So we see that the DS has been identifying both the party and the municipality during this period. Unlike that period, as we said, we are discussing here today, therefore, in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, we are discussing judges. Today, as we know, a strategic strategy is taken into account to ensure a quality judiciary such as the citizens of the Republic of Serbia understand. It is also important for the people of the Republic of Serbia to note that much has been done in the previous period to improve the housing and technical conditions of all judicial authorities. The prerequisite for a just and just Serbia is all that I have stated and as I have stated, much has been done in the previous period in order to achieve these preconditions for existence, but also for the promotion of both righteous and just Serbia. Because of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I will also remind myself that the government of the Republic of Serbia has adopted a revised Action Plan for Chapter 23 in the EU accession process, and that the Justice Development Strategy for the period from 2020 to 2025 has been adopted. The development of justice is defined by the strategy as one of the key strategic priorities of the Republic of Serbia in order to ensure the rule of law and increase legal certainty. I will only briefly read the five priorities set out in the Justice Development Strategy, so that citizens of the Republic of Serbia can see how strategically they are working to ensure priority, so to strengthen judicial independence and the independence of the prosecution. Two, further strengthening the integrity of judicial holders, further raising the quality of the judicial system, strengthening the expertise, training of function holders and other judicial employees, raising the level of efficiency of the judicial system and raising the level of public confidence in the work of the judiciary through the availability and transparency of the work of the institutions. And here we see that, on the one hand, we have one policy of peace, stability, progress represented by President Aleksandar Vukic and SNS, and we see that it is strategically working to secure a business environment in which the Republic of Serbia can progress more easily. On the other hand, there are again different events that disturb the people, and individuals say that we are somehow used to them. Once again, we have threats addressed to the members of the SNS and their families, the targets of Danil Vukic, Aleksandr Vukic, the Vucic family, as well as the SNS presidency member Dr Vladimir Orlic are being re-drawed with death. We can't say that we're used to this kind of thing, because it's enough that only once this kind of threat is realized and that it's not just a threat anymore. However, what encourages me is the fact that yesterday, in the tide, Minister Maja Popovic responded immediately as soon as MP Aleksandar Mirkovic presented his knowledge of the threats addressed to Dr Vladimir Orlic and said he had the elements of the crime. Such a safe and responsible stance by the minister of justice gives security that both the courts and the prosecution will work again on behalf of the people. Today, again here in front of all of you, I urge both the prosecution and the judiciary to do their job both by conscience and by force of the law and in the name of the people, to work in the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and to have every citizen of the Republic of Serbia equal to them. I will also remind myself that the application of the division of power I have already talked about involves and the existence of an independent, impartial, responsible, professional and effective judiciary. So in the voting day, I will support all the proposals that we have discussed these days and, what is very important, I am also showing full support to President Aleksandr Vukic and the family of Vukic and Dr Vladimir Orlic and all the members of the SNS who because of their political commitment and because of their political activity are targeted threats and targets of insults, but what is very, though, far, far worse than these threats and we hope that these threats will not come true. I thank you and in voting day I will support all proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-13-0.u6554	Thank you. Before I call the next guy on the list, just to remind him once again that there's still 24 minutes left. Next on the list is Professor Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-13-0.u6555	Dear Vice President of the National Assembly, there will be plenty of time. Dear People's MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, we are talking today about courts and prosecutors. These days, we often had the subject on the agenda, and we expressed our views. However, let me say a few sentences and compare the judiciary by 2012 and the judiciary from 2012 to today. In two, three sentences to say, by 2012, it was rocking like a building prone to fall, we were the last, last in Europe. Since 2012, we've moved forward from nothing and brought him to an envious level. Is he great? Well, of course not. There will be plenty of water running through the Danube as long as the judiciary is as we would like for the simple reason that the former authorities have driven this, in quotes, 837 judges and 200 deputy prosecutors and usually brought in people who are not competent to perform the functions of the courts. I'm asking the judges to pay attention to what I'm about to say. Are there any elements of the crime for what I'm about to say? These days, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, from day to day, from hour, part of the opposition, under the control of Dragan Gilas, continues to satanicize the president of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Alexander Vukic, and not only him and his family and the state of Serbia and most citizens of the Republic of Serbia and, behold, antifascism. With their inventions from the bottom of the snake, they've gone too far. Honorable prosecutors, did they have the elements of the crime when someone was calling for murder? Of course there is, but it's not if it's about President Vukic and his family, Dr Orlic and other SNS members. The biggest regret, respected citizens, is that the government of the Republic of Serbia marked the Day of Victory over Fascism. Imagine, and awarded the Order of Karajordje's first-degree star to the great Nobel laureate of Austria, the Austrian literaryist, and to our famous Peter Handke, just because the great Nobel laureate of Handke was against nothing caused by the bombing of our country and the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Can you imagine that, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, respected fighters involved in wars from Balkan to present? One of them who calls the president of the Republic, the government of the Republic of Serbia, all MPs and SNS is also the founder of the Natasa Kandic Foundation for Humanitarian Law. Dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, Kandic said, I quote: "The president of Serbia has started a war against the civilized world, neighbours and each of us in Serbia with the shame of committed genocide and mass crimes of Serb forces in the 1990s," the quote concluded. Can you, dear citizens, understand this? That she wins over fascism and an anti-fascism academy declares fascism? It's the end of history that the President of the Republic is talking about these days, not only him, but the honorable and the honorable, one part, our historians. With this shameful statement by Natasa Kandic, she insulted the president of the Republic of Aleksandr Vukic, the world drama of truth and justice of Austria, and our Peter Handke, winner of the Nobel Prize for Literature. She insulted the Nobel Institute. She insulted the Serbian free-loving people who resisted the country's bombing and insulted all anti-fascists. Dear People's MPs, distinguished citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I do not want to talk about Natasha Kandic, her lies, her plantings. What I had to say was I said in a scientific paper, fiction, etc. One part he probably read in the magazine. However, what I want to point out is that no one else joined her, but I can see that you are guessing, but Professor Dubravka Stojanovic. Stojanovic, on the occasion of the award ceremony, told Peter Handkeu, quoted as saying, "The award of the Order to Handke has hit every anti-fascism idea," imagine, replacing the thesis, "The radio TV of Serbia and Serbia has stopped with criminals," they declare him a criminal, as well as us, "that together they have declared that we stand firm with criminals without turning away from that path," the quote concluded. Respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, respected defenders of the country of the Republic of Serbia, this statement by Professor Dr Dubravka Stojanovic deeply offended all First and Second World War fighters, antifascist President Aleksandar Vukic, a great advocate of anti-fascism, all fighters in the 1991-1995 war, all citizens of the Republic of Serbia who were against the bombing of our country, especially our fighters from Kosar. It is not the first time that Djilasova, Jeremic, Dr Stojanovic insults all anti-fascists. Let me remind you, she's four. Seven. In 2015, in a list under the control of Dragan Gilas, I quote: "The sanctification of the monument to Gavril Principe is scandalous, given the terrorist act committed by Gavrilo Principe," the quote concluded. Can you believe he's declaring him a terrorist? Do you know, respected citizens, whose textbooks say that? Only in the textbooks of Germany and Austria. This is the replacement of the thesis and end of history that the president was talking about at the academy. Professor Dr Dubravka Stojanovic opposes the rise of the monuments to Gavril Princip and Major Milan Tepic, so he says, quotes: "They have celebrated suicidal behavior," a quote concluded, published one serious paper 29. 11. 2017. And that's not all! She's a great teacher. She's 17. 1. In 2014 said in a list under the control of Dragan Gilas, I quote, explain the attention of respected citizens: "Serbia lost in the First World War 700,000 people," finished the quote. All relevant historical sources say that at least 1.2 million were killed and that Dr. Dubravka Stojanović included Dr. Tudjman, Stjepan Razlo, Dr. Juričević, Stjepan Mesic in the order of forgers of the number of victims in the First and Second World Works. Speaking of the number of victims, I will not write about Jasenovac, because I wrote it in several magazines and chambers, but let me say one sentence: that Ustashas in Jasenovac, believe it or not, removed all gold from Serbs, anti-fascist Croats, Jews and Roma, and carried and converted to diamonds. Look at the wonders, mankind's history hasn't recorded this. Pay attention, Ferdinand Jukic is a Croatian arms procurement agent in 1990 at a time when he was an arms export embargo. President Tudjman invited him to the cabinet in 1990 and said, "I heard you're getting weapons, even though it was an embargo and give him something and sell it," finished quote. And he asks: “What? “ He says: “Look! ” he shows the hand of “three sacks of diamonds. ” Jukic testified, the Croat, that the diamonds were given to Tudjman by Kuharic from Kaptol. Do you know whose diamonds they are? Of the Serbian teeth, the jewelry from Jasenovac, which the Ustasha left on Kaptola, took away one piece. Tudjiman also bought, sold diamonds via Jukic, took 40m to 60m euros and re-slaughtered Serbs in 1990-1995. These are all Croatian sources, not Serbian. Dear ladies and gentlemen, I will not tell my colleague, Stojanović, because from today on, don't call me, no one, a professor, a colleague and a gentleman if she is called a professor and a gentleman. The respected professor advocated on 24 March 2017 that Serbia give up Republika Srpska and Kosovo, and said, "I don't see anyone giving up Republika Srpska," she criticises. That's not all. Professor Dr Dubravka Stojanovic was against giving the street to the killer Ante Pavelic so she said, quote: "By giving the street to a man, Blagoja Jovovic, means that Belgrade supports taking justice into its own hands and celebrating the blood revenge of murderers and violent men," the quote concluded. So she declared the assassination of Anta Pavelic with violence and blood revenge, and called Blago Jovovic a murderer and a violent man. That's the end of history that the president was talking about at the Academy. Can you imagine, dear citizens? That's not all. Professor Dr Dubravka Stojanovic is spreading this statement to rebuild the pro-prostitute idea in Croatia, BiH, Montenegro and Serbia. Because of her attitudes, a group of 26 academics and professors who made up a protest letter saying, quote: "We are protesting a statement by Dubravka Stojanović, offensive to the Serbian people, at the expense of the profession, at the expense of common sense and basic human morality," finished the quote. Among these academics is Dr Vasilija Krestic, Dr Matija Bećkovic, and I still do not list respected professors and respected doctors. Thank you, gentlemen professors and gentlemen academics. In contrast, thanks to the government of the Republic of Serbia and the President of the Republic, Mr. Vukic, for organizing the Day of Victory over Fascism. Fascism will never pass in Serbia. Thank you to President Alexander Vukic for handing over the first-grader of Karadjordje's first-degree Nobel laureate, Peter Handke, a proven friend of the Serbian people and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, for opposing the bombing of our country when justice and justice were trampled. That's not all. You will not believe who else joined her, none other than Philip David, behold the miracles proposed for the academics. Philip David said on March 7, 2018, quoting: “The politics of Alexander Vukic is schizophrenic, ” a quote concluded. The same Philip David said in the media on June 6, 2019, under the control of Dragan Gilas, quote: "Kosovo is not Serbia, nor will it be," a quote concluded. Will it become a Serbian academic? Furthermore, he insulted Nobel Prize winner, a proven friend of justice and justice, Peter Handke because he was on the side of Serbia during the NATO alliance's aggression, on the right side, on the side of justice and justice when justice was violated. That's not all. Philip David now said on June 6, 2019, quoting: “Hanke’s moral character is zero, ” the quote concluded. Because Handke opposed NATO's bombing. That's not all. He said he was the only Nobel laureate who stood up and, of course, he lied. They opposed even more academics. For the sake of time, I'll only list four, and that's Jose Saramago, Portuguese. Is that how the respected academics are? One Russian, Alexander Solzhenicin. Isn't that right, Mr. David? One Italian, Dario Fo. Isn't that right, Mr. David? An Englishman, not to mention my friend from The Hague, Harold Pinter. Isn't that right, Mr. David? Gentlemen, there's no hate in SNS. Your hatred and your insolence will not be answered by hate and violence, as you threatened Dr. Orlic only because of spoken words, because we know that with the help of violence you cannot establish the truth, nor will you destroy the hatred and violence they sow these days across the Republic of Serbia and across the region. It can only be love and discipline to which we repay you and all yours. In the end, I am saying this today at a time of great renewal of Ustasha ideas and the end of history in the region and Europe. Why did they attack President Wolfie? Which he organized the Day of Victory over Fascism. Thank you, on behalf of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, anti-fascists, because they advocate peace in the region and peace in the world, because they only fill their pockets in wartime and blurry times, and they don't care about the country. Because it modernises the Republic of Serbia, and they leave it at the edge of bankruptcy, because it runs a health policy, not only for all citizens of Serbia, but also for the region and beyond. Remember well, you gentlemen, some of the journalists who are muddying me every day, I will never forgive you for lying. Today I'm going to repeat what I've said in this high house in the last term. The last 20 years of the 21st century will be measured by Alexander Vukic, and you've invented time from a timer. Shame on you. You saw in "The Source" what I said and I repeat now – the time before his arrival to power and SNS and the time after arrival. The time as it was before I spoke often in this home, and the time of his arrival is the time for the modernisation and success of Serbia. And that's what one European magazine says now. What do you say now that you called me? With your lies we will answer the truth, for the care of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, for the care of you, unfortunate one. And while Alexander Vukic carries the glory of the Republic of Serbia around the world, you muddle him, fill your pockets. From Serbia, through Croatia, Hungary to Mauritius, the Netherlands and who knows where, in 53 accounts, Mr Gilas, and for Europe, Gilas, and 17 countries and God knows who else. You're advocating street protests. You did it once and never again. You know why? The citizens of the Republic of Serbia know everything. You'll never fool them again, no matter what millions you use. In that name, lived Serbia, lived Alexander Vucic!
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-13-0.u6556	Thank you, Professor Atlagic. I'd like to inform the next MP, Mr. Luke Kebar, that there are four minutes left. I give you my word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-13-0.u6557	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Hardisic, the Honorable Head of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, dear citizens and citizens of Serbia, as you know, at today's session, we are talking about the termination of the office of President of the Criminal Court in Lazarjevac, as well as the amendments to the Decision on the election of members and deputy members of the Committee in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. As far as the Committee itself is concerned, i.e. the change in the composition of that committee, it is a Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs, which, I am free to say, is a key committee for the functioning of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which is also most important for our citizens. These changes are made in order for him to work in his full capacity and to make the key decisions necessary for the work of this magnificent home in the most efficient way. As for the establishment of the term of office of the President of the Court in Lazarevec, things are clear. Serbia's judiciary is independent. Our country, that is, our entire political system rests on this crown of democracy, in the division of executive power, in the legislative power and in the judicial power. Our country is based on democratic principles and we, in accordance with the laws, are also doing this function in accordance with other regulations. This is about the end of the working century, so we'll definitely find that it's in accordance with the regulations. Speaking of the judiciary at this session, I cannot help but look back at one of the very important things that has happened, namely, we are aware that Gilas's megaphones, or his media, are constantly threatening President Alexander Vukic, are threatening members of his family, threatening our MPs, but some of their associates have also threatened the respected Dr Vladimir Orlic, vice president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. That's punishable. This is a legal state, and I urge all competent authorities to respond. The criminal code of the Republic of Serbia, namely, article 138 in its three positions, particularly in its 3rd position, says that endangering security is a criminal offence, or that if, among other things, you threaten a MP or another official, sanctions are prescribed, i.e. a prison sentence from six months to five years. This crime, if you read our Code of Criminal Code, in particular Article 153, you will see that this crime is being prosecuted on official duty. So again I appeal to all the authorities, to the D.A., to respond urgently. Because this is terrible what's going on. It is terrible how some members of the yellow tycoon camels and their followers behave in today’s political life. This Gilas megaphone, Gilas himself, the megaphone of Belivuk's group, makes up all kinds of lies. They write all kinds of lies on their portals to create some kind of war between some cheerleading groups and other clans to involve young Daniel Vukic, son of our president, Alexander Vukic. This is a disgrace to what is done. You're setting up the ugliest, most monstrous, most miserable lies to an innocent young man, an honest, honest young man. Shame! Use someone's child to earn some cheap political points. You who advocate democracy, apparently, those who advocate human rights, you who advocate children's rights. You're constantly attacking an innocent child. So where's that? (President: Time, colleague. I'm finishing up, Your Honor. Thank you. I call on all competent institutions, especially the prosecutions, but also those institutions that deal with the media to react, to prevent this terror, to prevent this hatred, because this is embarrassing. And all those hatreds that were sent to President Alexander Vukic and his son and our people's MPs, all those threats, all those ugly words, all those insults, all those fictions, all those lies have to stop. He's got to stop with it, and justice has to win. Long live Serbia!
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-13-0.u6558	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint single search, I ask – do the Presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used their right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? Since it is not available, pursuant to Article 98(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, I conclude a joint single search on the motions for decisions set out in points 11 and 12 of the agenda. According to Article 87(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby set Thursday, May 13, 2021, starting at 6:00 p.m. as the day for voting on the 11th session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2021. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-13-0.u6559	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before we move to a decision on the agenda points, we need to determine the quorum. According to Article 88(5), The Rules of Procedure of the Quorum for the work of the National Assembly in Election Day exist if most of the total number of MPs is present at the National Assembly session. I ask the Members of Parliament to insert the cards into the MPs' units. Thank you. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 176 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and therefore there are conditions to decide. Allow me just before we move on to a decision to say two, three sentences. I also want here from this place, since we are all here now, to strongly condemn the threats that came at the expense of the vice-president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Vladimir Orlic, after the guests we had together on the RTS show. It is unacceptable for anyone to threaten any citizen of Serbia, especially when it comes to those chosen by the people in the election by their majority will, just as it is morally unacceptable for anyone to attack anyone's family, children, mothers and everything else, as they do with the family of President Vukic. In that sense, I wanted to say this on behalf of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We're moving on to a decision, ladies and gentlemen. I remind you that no amendments have been submitted to the draft laws in paragraphs 1 to 5 of the agenda, so that the National Assembly will agree to Article 160(3). The Rules of Procedure only decide on bill proposals, in general. First item of the agenda. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Employment and Insurance Act for unemployment bankruptcy, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I'm stopping the vote. Total - 185, for - 185 MPs. I find that the National Assembly unanimously adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Employment and Insurance Act in case of unemployment. Second item of the agenda. I put to the vote the draft law on technical requirements for products and conformity assessment, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I'm stopping the vote. A total of - 185, for -184, did not vote one. I find that the National Assembly has adopted, by majority, the draft legislation on technical requirements for products and the assessment of compliance. Third item of the agenda. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the sealing of state and other bodies, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I'm stopping the vote. Total - 186, for - 186 MPs. I find that the National Assembly unanimously adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the sealing of state and other bodies. Fourth item of the agenda. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on transport contracts in railway transport, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I'm stopping the vote. Total - 187, for -187 MPs. I find that the National Assembly unanimously adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Transport Contracts in Railway Traffic. The fifth item of the agenda. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law establishing the Museum of Victims of Genocide, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I'm stopping the vote. Total - 187, for -187 MPs. I find that the National Assembly unanimously adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law establishing the Museum of Victims of Genocide. Since we are now moving to a decision on proposals for a law on the confirmation of international contracts, or agreements (points 6 to 10 of the agenda), I remind you that on the basis of Article 105 paragraph 3. The Constitution of Serbia, the National Assembly, decides on laws governing the conclusion and validation of international contracts by a majority of the votes of all MPs. Given that, we're moving on to a decision. The sixth item of the agenda. I am putting to the vote the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Commonwealth of Dominica on Co-operation in the field of agriculture, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I'm stopping the vote. A total of -187, for -186, did not vote one. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. The seventh item of the agenda. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Argentina on extradition, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I'm stopping the vote: total - 187, for - 187. I find that the National Assembly unanimously passed the bill. The eighth point of the agenda. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Argentina on mutual legal assistance in criminal matters, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: total - 187, for – 186, he did not vote - 1. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill for the majority of the MPs. The ninth item of the agenda. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Belarus on extradition, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I'm stopping the vote: a total of 187, for 185, they didn't vote -- two MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. The tenth item of the agenda. I am putting to the vote a bill confirming the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Argentina on transfer of convicted persons and co-operation in the execution of criminal sanctions, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I'm stopping the vote: total - 187, for - 187. I find that the National Assembly unanimously passed the bill. Since the National Assembly has conducted a joint single search, and before moving to a decision, I remind you that, according to Article 105(2), paragraphs 12 and 15. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, by a majority of the votes of all MPs, decides on the termination of the office of the President of the courts and the exercise of other electoral powers. Given that, we're moving on to a decision. Eleventh point of the agenda. I am putting the motion for a decision on the termination of the office of President of the Criminal Court in Lazarevec, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. Stopping vote: total - 187, for – 187. I find that the National Assembly unanimously adopted the motion for a decision. The 12th point of the agenda. I put to the vote the Proposal for a decision on amendments to the Decision on the election of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. Stopping vote: total - 187, for – 187. I find that the National Assembly unanimously adopted the motion for a decision. Ladies and gentlemen, since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and of their decision, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the 11th session of the First Regular Session in 2021. Just to remind you that I've scheduled for Tuesday, May 18, 1 the 12th session with 11 agendas with a series of very significant laws. I thank you for your work so far.
