ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-21-0.u9268	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening a session of the fourteenth extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 12th Assembly. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 114 MPs attend the session. I remind you, it's Article 49. The Law on the National Assembly and provides that the quorum for work during each decision-making exists if most of the total number of MPs are present at the session, so please insert your cards into the MPs' units. Thank you. I find that by applying the electronic voting system it is found that in the hall is present, at this point, 152 MPs, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Since today is Tuesday, is one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups willing to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? The word is Samir Tandir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-21-0.u9269	Dear President of the National Assembly and Honored Vice-Presidents, colleagues and fellow MPs, my question was addressed to Minister of Trade and Tourism Tatjana Matic. Is Asim Aki Hodzic from Sjenica in August of this year appointed counsellor at the ministry? If so, what are his duties and what professional competences do he possess? In the previous term, he was also an adviser to the same ministry, one of the leaders of Izet Latovic's criminal group and their criminal activities was not only notified to services and public and secret in our country, but also in many European countries for which there is evidence both in public and secret services and in prosecutors. Some time ago, more specifically, on 1 March 2021, the director of the Technical and Agricultural School in Sjenica, Alen Tahirovic was kidnapped. The case and the leader of our party, Academyman Muamer Zukorlic, and the MPs of the Justice and Reconciliation Party spoke several times. Our country's police have filed criminal charges against Asim Aki Hodzic. So, according to my knowledge, we'll wait for the minister's reply, appointed as a counsellor at the Ministry, and the criminal report that the police filed is alleging illegal deprivement of liberty or what we would people say is kidnapping and bootlegging. Besides Hodzic, mentioned in the kidnapping, they participated in the claim, of course, of the police and Tahirovic themselves, Izet Latovic and Enis Gonjanin, which clearly shows that it is an organised criminal group. Not long after that, and if we talked about the degree of crime and if we talked about the degree of threat of honest citizens and citizens in Sjenica, there is a monstrous crime taking place in August of this year, the murder of journalists and humanities of Edin Hamidovic, meaning, on the promenade, in front of women and children. This would certainly not have come if the authorities had listened to warnings, listened to everything our party's MPs had said here in parliament and that the case of the abduction of the school's director had been fully examined and that the kidnappers had been punished in accordance with the Criminal Code of the Republic of Serbia. According to eyewitnesses, Hodzic mentioned, he gave logistical support to the killer to flee the crime scene and leave our country. A few days after that, please honorary colleagues and colleagues, according to the knowledge I have, Hodzic was appointed as a consultant at the Ministry of Trade and Tourism. Now I ask the question - what is the reason why after killing an innocent and innocent man and after kidnapping and criminal charges and other criminal activities that are not only related to our country, it is the privilege and the honor to be called an official of the Government of the Republic of Serbia? This is not politics, this is not an inter-party showdown, please the competent authorities, please, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, to take this case seriously. If this is true, this is a great shame and shame and has to be reacted urgently and it must not be hidden behind the legitimacy of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, its place is before the court, that it is responsible for all these crimes it has committed, such as in Sjenica, Sandzak and Serbia, as well as across Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-21-0.u9270	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Stefan Krkobic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-21-0.u9271	Thank you, Honorable President Dacic. Dear Vice President, at a session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, on July 29th, I asked the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Boring and Social Affairs, the Ministry of Business and the Ministry of Finance, which is how the state will encourage the launch of social enterprises and the employment of the most vulnerable category of population and when can we expect the adoption of the social entrepreneurship law? I am pleased that the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs has recognised the importance and role of social entrepreneurship in its response, and that it has therefore formed a Working Group for the draft of such a law. But the second part of this response is in the context, as the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Fight and Social Affairs says it expects, but not that it will indeed be true, the establishment of the government's proposal for this law in the fourth quarter of 2021. This topic is so urgent that there is really no time to wait, as soon as we enter the election campaign after the New Year, and then the government will be in the technical mandate, followed by the formation of new institutions, legislative and executive authorities, and this can take place deep into the second half of next year. As you know, PUPS, respected colleagues have been insisting for a decade on passing such a law that will help the most vulnerable and vulnerable categories of the population to get a job faster and simpler, in order to resolve the issue of their existence permanently. The number of people is best illustrated by data only for the city of Belgrade where 100,000 people with disabilities live, and in all of Serbia, let's say, 150 thousand Roma live with a high unemployment rate and belong to the most vulnerable ethnic community among our citizens. I therefore remind myself once again that this category of persons of employment who would be subject to this law includes all those citizens who need our help and support for a independent and productive life in order to overcome social, material and life difficulties, which are workable. These are, long-term unemployed persons over 50 years of age, members of ethnic communities who have identified the unemployment rate in the territory of a local self-government unit more than the average unemployment rate in the Republic of Serbia, persons with disabilities, internally displaced persons, single parents or spouses from a family in which both spouses are unemployed, returnees under the Readmission Agreement, persons who were on the maintenance of prison sentences, victims of human trafficking, abuse, neglect, violence or exploitation, persons who face existential difficulties due to dependence on alcohol, drugs and other intoxicating agents and other difficult persons in accordance with employment regulations, or other users in accordance with social protection regulations. Social entrepreneurship as part of the social economy is exactly the kind of entrepreneurship where social problems are solved by the use of entrepreneurial principles. That's why the position of the PUPS 3P parliamentary group is that time leaks tirelessly. That is why we are most well-intentioned by expressing our willingness to include ourselves from the PUPS in the work of this law. I would like to raise a further question to the Ministry of Labour, Employment and Combat and Social Affairs. It reads – can two months after my question be answered more precisely when there will be law, drafts on the agenda of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, since the fourth quarter that has been announced as a term starts in ten days? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-21-0.u9272	Thank you. The People's Messenger, George Milicevic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-21-0.u9273	I would like to thank the Honorable President of the National Assembly, Mr Dacic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament. Unfortunately, these days, KIM's events are the most powerful political issue. The prognosis, the threats, the violent actions of Pristina seem to be definitely unending. Citing the non-existent agreements between Belgrade and Pristina and the existing interpretation in the way it suits them, special units "Rosa" were deployed yesterday at the administrative crossings of Jarinja and Brnjak, with the task of taking away plates from northern Kosovo, while vehicles from central Serbia will have to take test tables. Osmani left this morning and accused Serbia of leading a destabilising policy in KIM and a region for hegemonistic goals, as she said, for the development of so-called "KIM". Serbia's world has also called for an end to the provocation and abuse of citizens for political purposes. Gentlemen of Pristina, to respect what agreements do you call yourself and who is the factor of instability in the region? You're the ones who destabilise this region every day. So far, you have violated all possible agreements and agreements, in every way you have tried to disable the dialogue of the two sides, you have destroyed Orthodox saints, Serbian houses, graves, expelled hundreds of thousands of Serbs from the KIM area, raised taxes on imports of Serbian goods, your incendiary and wartime Hague rhetoric, almost daily disrupting the possibilities of any agreement of an acceptable and compromise solution for both sides. While you are already calling for compliance with the Brussels Agreement, why not prove in practice that, allow the Community of Serb municipalities to be formed, or finally form the north police as provided for in the Agreement in accordance with the ethnic structure where there are 96% of Serbs? Why does Pristina not respect the judgments of the Mitrovica Court of Appeal or when it comes to the cataster, or when it comes to the recognition of diplomas and not to quote further? You did not respect any of the items of the Agreement. The Serbian side has done everything provided for in the Brussels Agreement. We were ready for dialogue and negotiations and today we are ready for dialogue and negotiations on all issues, with the main goal of protecting a small Serb population in the KIM area and allowing the return of those you have expelled. I'll remind you, last dialogue. The theme that was accepted by the Pristina side at the time is to discuss the missing. Simply because Veljko Odalovic is the chairman of the Commission for Missing, he is reportedly morally inadequate. They weren't ready for that. Morally inadequate because he was responsible, serious, and dedicated to doing his job and because he was appointed by the families of the missing. Otherwise, for that reason, I'll say one thing. Of the 22 locations they asked us to investigate, Serbia has explored all 22 locations. Correct me, Mr. Odalovic, if I'm wrong. Of the ten locations Serbia sought, they did not investigate nine. So, what similarity does it make to even talk? We offered you vaccines that you did not want to accept because they came as help from Serbia and thus you endangered the lives of all citizens, regardless of which nationality they belong. Serbia will never recognise the independence of the fake state of Kosovo, will not allow itself to be repeated by the 2004 pogrom, will not allow it to be physically and as it tries brutally, harass Serbs living in the KIM area, and will not allow further persecution of Serbs from the KIM space. It is very important that the Serbian people do not buy the provocations of Pristina, the protests are fine, but there is no physical violence and physical conflict, because they expect and desire it. I would like to refer my question more in support to the President of the Republic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, so far you have done everything and we know that in the coming period you will continue to fight for the protection of interest, and the security of the Serbian position in KIM, in line with the ratified agreements, international law, the constitutional order of our country. In all this, you have the support of our MPs, the SPS parliamentary group. My particular question is whether the government can even count on the objectivity and impartiality of the international community in solving the current political crisis, in the KIM area, bearing in mind first of all yesterday's statement by, yesterday's statement and the EU's finding, that both sides should lower and calm tensions. Excuse me, which side are we talking about? This is only about one side, and that's the Pristina side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-21-0.u9274	Thank you. The word is made by MP Marko Parezenović.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-21-0.u9275	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Before I ask the question, I would like to take the opportunity to give full support to the Serb people on KIM, who knows by whom path faces the most terrible pressures, and definitely at this time, is the most endangered people in today's Europe. At the same time, I want to show respect for all the calm and wisdom shown by both the Serb people and the leadership of our country to keep peace at all costs, regardless of all the provocations we have been exposed to for years. I would ask the Ministry of the Interior of the Republic of Serbia, which refers to a recent statement by former citizens' protector and former presidential candidate Sasa Jankovic, who, after five years of silence, admitted what we have been talking about here for years, which is why we have often been ridiculed, which is why we have been told that we are paranoid that we are making up conspiracy theories, and now it has proved that we have been telling the truth all along. In fact, Sasa Jankovic admitted that certain foreign factors and representatives of foreign embassies advised him to bring down the president of Serbia more successfully, by finding moles in the ranks of the SNS, and that in the whole job, he could possibly count on the premature death of Serbia's president. Because of this, I think it is very important that we get answers to questions about who was working on the head of Serbia's president, with which goals, who are the people who gave up data from Serbia's health card and what were their goals in general? This is particularly important because I must stress that all that Sasa Jankovic admitted was about time more than five years ago. In the last five years, a lot could have happened and a lot had happened. When we put the film back, it is now clear that all these protests, the destruction of Belgrade and the National Assembly, are threats to street violence and street change of government, all of this media campaign and the Satanisation of the president of Serbia and his family, that none of it was accidental or spontaneous and that all part of one much wider and more serious action that Sasa Jankovic spoke of knowingly or unconsciously. What is particularly dangerous is that in all these actions there are major elements and foreign factors, especially when it comes to media campaigns, because we today cannot make a difference between what we hear on Gilasov and Šolak's tycoon media and what we hear, say, in the media in Zagreb, Podgorica, Sarajevo, Pristina, we cannot make a difference from what we hear in recent days from Zoran Milanovic, Milo Djukanovic, Izetbegovic, Kurti and what we hear from Dragan Gilas or Vuk Jeremic, it is completely identical and it all comes down to the same matrix that they are all wonderful and perfect, and that it is all because of Aleksandar Vukic. And whatever happens negatively in our region, they're all infallible, none of them are guilty, and it's always Alexander Vukic's fault. That's where the question is - and what are we to blame, what's Alexander Wolf's fault? Then you come to the conclusion that he is guilty because we are celebrating the day of our flag and the day of Serbian unity, that he is guilty because we are marking the anniversary of the Serbian people's death in the criminal action "Storm", which we no longer keep quiet about, that he is guilty because we recorded "The gift from Jasenovac", because from their perspective, he was silent about it for 70 years, and then Aleksandar Vukic found himself smart to talk about it, so immediately afterwards they went into aggressive action to re-attach the Serbian people of genocide. It bothers them when Angela Merkel visits Serbia, because we have better economic results than all of them together, it bothers them, and when almost 20 countries withdraw recognition of KIM, they want to tell us that we are a remethyling factor in the dialogue, the same ones who signed agreements in 2011 that Kurti is calling today when he takes the plates off Serbian vehicles, the same ones who went to the foreign embassies to say that the very question of Kosovo is the one where the parties will most easily break Alexander Vukic. That says enough how much they really care about the citizens of Serbia and KIM. That is why it is important that we learn the answers to all these questions and see what motives they are. There is no dilemma that the motives of the domestic tycoons are to return to power again and to do what they did by 2012, and that the motives of many in the region for Serbia to be again the way it was in the past decades, to again, as in the 1990s, attach the label to everything. If someone thinks I'm a conspiracy theory, it can best be seen in a recent statement by Zeljko Komsic, the chairman of the BiH presidency, who actually said one thing that best talks about what this is really about. He said, after criticism of Angela Merkel and her visit to Belgrade, that Belgrade cannot be made head of the Balkans. And you can actually see what the biggest fears of all of them are, because Serbia is no longer what it was in the past decades, which is the most successful country in this region and has enough power to take care of the interests of the Serbian people both in KIM and in Croatia and in Republika Srpska and Montenegro, without jeopardising anyone else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-21-0.u9276	Thank you. In accordance with Article 86(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that this session has been convened within a short period of time set out in Article 86(1). The Rules of Procedure, because of the need for the National Assembly to consider proposals for acts in the agenda as soon as possible. Ladies and gentlemen, you have been delivered the minutes of the 11th and 12th extraordinary session of the National Assembly in the 12th Assembly. As most of the total number of MPs attend today's session, I find that there is a quorum for the adoption of the minutes from those sessions. I would like to inform you that the review in the Office of the Affairs of the Committee on Administrative and Immunity Affairs has shown that none of the Members of the Parliaments has submitted any observations in writing to those minutes. We're moving on to a decision. I am voting on the minutes of the 11th Extraordinary National Assembly session in the 12th Assembly, held on 7 September and 9 September 2021. Please press the corresponding key. I am stopping the vote: total - 159 for - 147 did not vote - 12 MPs. I find that the National Assembly, by majority vote, adopted the minutes of the 11th extraordinary session of the National Assembly in the 12th Assembly. I am voting on the minutes of the 12th Extraordinary National Assembly session in the 12th Assembly, held on 10 September 2021. Please press the corresponding key. I am stopping the vote: total - 160, for - 147, did not vote - 13 MPs. I find that the National Assembly, by majority vote, adopted the minutes of the 12th extraordinary session of the National Assembly in the 12th Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with a meeting of the 14th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly in the 12th Assembly, which was convened at the request of 236 Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 106(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 48(3). Law on the National Assembly and Article 249. Rules of Procedure, you have been sent a request to hold an extraordinary session of the National Assembly, with a certain agenda contained in this request. For the session of the 14th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly in the 12th Assembly, the following Dn e n e n e d: 1. Proposal for a decision on amendments and additions to the Decision adopting the Code of Conduct of Members of the People, which was tabled by the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs; 2. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Anti-Corruption Act, which was submitted by the Government, and 3. A bill on the preservation of the cultural and historical heritage of the St. Hilandar monastery, which was submitted by the government. National MP, Dr Aleksandar Martinovic, on the basis of Article. Items 2 and 192 and 157, respectively. The Rules of Procedure proposed that a common principle and uniform search be carried out on the 1st and 2nd points of the agenda. Does Ambassador Martinovic want a word? (Alexander Martinovic: No. I put this proposal to the vote. Please press the corresponding key. I am stopping the vote: total – 160, for – 153, did not vote – seven MPs. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. We're going to work on the agenda. I just want to tell you, before we start, about the dynamics of our work. Today we will discuss the 1st and 2nd item of the agenda, tomorrow the 3rd item of the agenda, and Thursday the amendments and the day of the vote. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that they have been invited to attend the sittings, with the exception of the rapporteurs on the agenda, who are MPs, outside the National Assembly, Maja Popovic, Justice Minister Jovan Ćosic, Assistant Minister of Justice and Vladimir Vins, senior adviser at the Justice Ministry. I would like to begin by saying that the justice minister will arrive immediately after the end of the National Security Council session, which President Vukic called for the current situation, incidents and attacks on the Serbian people in Kosovo and Metohija. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. Pursuant to Article 157(2) and Article 192. Rules of Procedure, I am opening a joint principle and uniform review on the Proposal for a Decision on Amendments and Supplements to the Decision adopting the Code of Conduct of Members of the People's Parliaments and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Corruption. Since the rapporteur, or representative of the promoter Maja Popovic, will come later, I ask MP Dr Aleksandr Martinovic if he wants a word? (Alexander Martinovic: Yes. ) The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-21-0.u9277	I thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the National Assembly adopted the Code of Conduct of People's MPs in this assembly last December. This can serve all of us to praise, because we are in line with those European states which are not so many that besides the Law on the National Assembly or the Law on Parliament and Parliament's Rules of Procedure have yet another act aimed at raising to a higher level of political culture working in parliament. It's an act that's usually called the Codex. We adopted him at the end of last year. Meanwhile, we have on several occasions had the opportunity to apply it at the meeting of the competent committee, which is the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs and the mandate-immunity issues. In practice, it proved to be a good act, as one good document, which can largely suit the work of the National Assembly, that the political culture of all of us MPs, but also of all those who, in any other way, participate in the political and public life of the Republic of Serbia, raise to one higher level. When we adopted the Codex last year, then we said that our goal, one of the main goals, is that, regardless of all our political differences that exist, I don't only think in this current assembly of parliament, but in general on the political scene of Serbia, we experience that in the other one, who doesn't think the same thing as we look at a political inexperience, just a political rival, but no political enemy at all, because I think there were too many political enmity in Serbia. We spent a lot of energy on each other's conflicts, almost to extinction. I think it's really time for political life in Serbia to rise to that level so that we can differ, that we can be different on many issues, but to respect one another, to behave with dignity both in Parliament and outside parliament and to send a much better picture of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the domestic and international public. Unfortunately, for many reasons, and this is not the case from a month or a year ago, but a long time ago, there has been one trend in speaking about the National Assembly and writing in the worst possible way, that it is represented in public that bad people are sitting in the National Assembly, that untrained, rude people, people who are prone to corruption, and I say it is not true. I claim that the vast majority of the MPs, not only of this calling, but also of the formerly convened by the National Assembly, are normal, civilized and decent people, but that there are political differences, but that they are no reason to insult each other, to belittle, to attack on a personal basis, and especially not to touch what is most sacred to every man, which is family and family members of his family. I say again, unfortunately, we have witnessed facts that are not respected in Serbia today, especially when it comes to the family of the President of the Republic. Very often attacks against Alexander Vukic and his family come from people who used to be MPs, who used to sit here with us. One of the goals why we are bringing, or why we are changing the Code of Conduct of People's MPs is to make an additional effort to civilise Parliament's work and to make this ugly picture of Parliament being created for years, sometimes for a reason, and sometimes without reason, break down and send a message that the National Assembly is a representation, the most representative of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and that the MPs sitting here have the right to differ, have the right to differ, but we all have one common obligation, which is that in the best possible way, and that means, among other things, in one cultural, polite, civilised way, we represent all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. To go back to what I said after the Codex was adopted, we quickly came into a situation to apply it. In principle, the Code of Conduct of People's MPs has proved to be a good act that has shown that it can contribute to a better quality work of the National Assembly, which can contribute to raising the level of political culture in the Republic of Serbia, but it has also been found that there is a certain space for the Code of Conduct of People's MPs to be improved. In the past few months, we have received from two sides some very important suggestions, which are useful suggestions in which to go to change the Code of Conduct of People's MPs. First of all, we got very useful suggestions from experts from GRECO. It is an organisation of Europe's countries to fight corruption, which have shown us certain technical and regulatory shortcomings of the Code we adopted in December of last year. On the other hand, we have received very, very useful suggestions from the OSCE Mission in the Republic of Serbia. On this occasion, I would really like to thank Mr. Jan Bratu, head of the OSCE Mission in the Republic of Serbia, with which I have had the opportunity to talk on several occasions and who has proved to be an honest and well-intentioned friend of the Republic of Serbia and who, together with us, has entered from the best, most friendly motives to help us to make the Code such that no one, when we adopt it now, can make any more serious remarks. We've been acting, when I say we, I mean people from the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs. On this occasion, I would like to thank the Secretary of the Committee, Mrs Svetlana Dedic. I would like to thank Assistant Secretary-General Radet Vujovic and I would like to thank my colleagues from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption, who worked with us on these amendments and additions and who have made a great effort to reach these amendments and additions in a very short time, which will greatly improve the act we adopted last year. The essence of these changes is that we have paid greater attention to the Ethics Commission, by introducing new members from 23rd to 23st. Now this part of my exposure will be a little bureaucratic, but simply, I have to perform so that we can explain to people what these changes are all about. So, we have prescribed the composition of the commission, then, the authorised proposings for the selection of members of the commission, the procedure for selecting candidates and the procedure for proposing members of the Commission to the National Assembly. Article 23a provided that the commission was composed of three representatives, i.e. three regular professors from the University of the Republic of Serbia, and that two members of the Ethics Commission were representatives of the National Assembly. When it comes to members of the college staff committee, it is the Faculty of Philosophy in Belgrade, Novi Sad, Nis, the Faculty of Philosophy in Pristina with temporary headquarters in Kosovo Mitrovica and the state college in Novi Pazar – the department for philosophy. We have predicted that colleges propose one candidate, and that the choice of candidates is made by a body composed of three members of the National Assembly Committee in which the work is part of education and science. In Article 23v, we have laid down criteria for selecting members of the college teachers' committee and, as you will see, these criteria are very strict. Among other things, teachers must have enough points so-called. Impact of Factors, which is the H-indice of Google Academy of Ethics, Morals or Moral Development and Evidence of These Points Colleges, must deliver to the competent board with the biography of candidates. As for civil servants who are members of the Ethics Commission, they also have to meet high standards, which is to possess higher education, so that they are college-educated from the field of socio-humanist sciences and have the least calling an independent advisor. The body running the selection of candidates for members of the commission from the civil servants in the service suggests two candidates with the highest number of points achieved in the Ethics and integrity test and the proposal is submitted to the committee responsible. We have prescribed Article 23j, i.e. that the National Assembly should decide on the education of the Committee on Ethics on a proposal from the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs. The 23rd set out the reasons for the suspension of the commission member's term of office, as well as the obligation of the body to elect a member of the commission to start the election process for the new candidates three months before the commission's term of office expires. In the event that the term of office of a member of the commission ceases before the time on which the selection body has been elected is required to open the procedure for selecting a new member of the commission within 30 days of the date of the start-up. Article 23g provides for reasons and procedures for discharge of members of the Commission, and Article 23z stipulates that the Commission adopts a regulation on work, that it has a secretary appointed by the Secretary-General of the National Assembly and that members and secretaries are entitled to compensation for their work, whose height is determined by the Board of Administrative and Budgetary Affairs. We also predicted that, and this is an important paper, perhaps essential, in addition to the formation of this ethical commission, the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs and the mandate-immunity issues has an obligation to obtain, before making a decision on a possible, infringement of the Code of Ethics Committee's opinion, which is not binding on the Committee, but this opinion is published on the National Assembly's website, as well as the final decision of the Administrative Committee. What is also important to say, Article 6 imposed fines for breach of the code. As you know, dear colleagues, we have so far had two types of sanctions for violating the Codex. It was a warning and a public warning. Now, in addition to the reminders and public warnings, we have also anticipated a fine, as an additional means, conditionally put pressure on the MPs to comply with the provisions of this Code. Someone might say it's too strict, that there was no need for that, but consider one fact. This is an act that is not just being adopted because of this call by the National Assembly, which is a little bit specific because, apart from one parliamentary group and one individual MP, practically all others are part of the congregation's majority. We must prepare ourselves for the other situation that may come next year, which is that the structure of parliament will be much more complex than it is now and we must prepare ourselves for the situation where discussions in the National Assembly would be much worse, much more bile, much more temperamental, than the discussions that are being held in this assembly of the National Assembly. If you do not think that a fine is necessary, consider just what the previous assembly of the National Assembly was like and think about what the future assembly of the National Assembly might be like. Of course, it is not the aim of the Code of Conduct to be an act of punishing anyone or act of punishing the People's MPs who have reported themselves for the word, but the unfavorable events of the last term, open insults, threats, physical attacks on the president of the National Assembly, on fellow Marijan Risticevic, the introduction of objects that do not belong in the Hall of the National Assembly, such as stone, such as tambura, or guitar, etc., the pulling of microphones, tells us that there are also those people who are elected as MPs, who do not possess political, but do not possess an elemental personal culture. Because of such MPs, and they have always been in the absolute minority, I think they will be in the minority and in the future assembly of the National Assembly, it is envisaged, as a ultimate possibility of breaking the Codex, and a fine. I think that all MPs can be proud of the fact that in this way, by adopting the Code of Conduct of People's MPs, not only have we improved the work of the National Assembly, not only have we raised the level of political culture in the National Assembly, not only have we made the National Assembly more open to the public, but we have also helped the President of the Republic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia on that path which is not simple, and which is called Serbia's full membership in the EU. Regardless of all obstacles and whatever difficulties are in that path, which we and we are aware of, we do not want to give up on Serbia becoming a full member of the EU one day. We do not want to become any EU member. We want to become such an EU member who, among other things, has a parliament that can serve for pride to all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, regardless of their political orientation and to be one parliament that our colleagues from other European countries will be able to see. I would like to remind you that Serbia, after gaining independence in 1878, or after its independence was recognised at the Berlin Congress, was a country that served neighbouring countries as a reputation, as an example of a well-organised state. There is one statement by Romanian King Karol and from the 1980s that he said -- I would like to make Serbia out of Romania. So, once upon a time, at the end of the 19th century, we were a well-organized state to which other countries were and how they could be seen and when it comes to its political system and when it comes to its legal system, but also when it comes to the degree of economic development. The situation in which the Republic of Serbia is present is less similar to that situation than over 100 years ago. Today Serbia is a country many countries in the region can see, including the Code of Conduct of People's MPs, and some countries that do not have it in the EU. For example, the Croatian Parliament does not have the Code of Conduct, and Croatia is an EU member, and from this address very often very malicious criticism comes to us about the policy led by the President of the Republic of Serbia. We are an example of reputation and economic development, because from a country which, up to a few years ago, has been practically insolvent, as lawyers would say, that is, unable to pay for the commitments made, we have become a country that is increasing its GDP from year to year, which has increased investments, more and more jobs, a growing number of unemployed and we are becoming a country that is definitely a leader in this part of Europe, a country that has been through many things and our neighbours who, some since 2007, have been some since 2013, full-fledged EU members. What I want to say at the very end is that, in the meantime, at the proposal to amend and supplement the Code of Conduct of Members of Parliament, two amendments have arrived, submitted by my distinguished colleague, Dejan Kesar. The amendments are really good. I want to thank my colleague, Kesar, who, as a good lawyer, with a sharp legal logic, has noticed that the text of amendments and additions to the Codex can be even better. He proposed these two amendments. I will be pleased to accept these amendments and when we finally adopt the amendments and supplement the Code on Thursday, I think we can all say that we have done a good job and for the National Assembly, not only in this Assembly, but also for some of the next calls, but that we have also done a good job for the Republic of Serbia and that we have made our contribution in the efforts made by the President of the Republic and the Government of Serbia, to put ourselves in line for those countries that are full members of the EU. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-21-0.u9278	Thank you, colleague Martinovic. Before we proceed with further work, one notice of today's work. Honorable Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 18.00 hours, for the need for the National Assembly to pass laws on the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Do the representatives, the committee's reporters, want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Yeah. ) The People's Messenger, Muamer Zukorlic, answered the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-21-0.u9279	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Vice-President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is today before us the Code of Conduct of People's MPs, known as the "Ethic Code". I wish this wasn't just colloquial, but we officially called this so important document an "ethical code", because it is. True, it does not lose much of the importance of the very fact that the title of this act is the Code of Conduct of People's MPs, but I think it would be more fundamentally, stylishly appropriate to be called an official "ethical code" given the formal, symbolic status of the National Assembly, as the highest legislative, highest representative, highest supervisory, one of the highest political bodies of a country. No matter who sits in the bench of the MP, no matter what we are, in a formal symbolic sense, the MPs form the formal category of the political elite of a nation, one nation, or the citizens of a country. Whether the MPs are up to being the bearers of the epithet of the political elite, it is quite different, and never can that assessment be applied to all the MPs equally, but each one will answer for himself and each with his own behaviour and his views, or will justify the calling of the MPs and members of the political elite or will be an inconsistencies, an inconsistencies bearer of this status. So for this reason, I consider this topic to be very important today, even one of the most important, but my suggestion about the title remains important, because the essential behavior or code of conduct does not have any serious deficiency in it, but somehow more implies regulations that would apply to children, to students, to categories that do not belong in their form and formulation, the status role do not belong to elite ones. But if we go deeper into the meaning and formulation of behavior, we will realize that behavior is always an expression of the ethics and ethical principles of one person and the expression of culture or a reflection of the culture of that person, or the quality of behavior is directly related to the quality of the ethical principles of a particular individual and the cultural value of that individual. So, behavior is directly related to these principles and values, so that we can understand why the committee in charge, and then the National Assembly, why they decided that this important act, which is formulated as the Code, should be related to the behaviour of the MPs and be called the Code of Conduct of People's MPs, and not to the ethical code, although I repeat and argue that it would be more appropriate for it to be called the Ethics Code, as it is also called, and how we call it so mutually in communication, unofficially, we Members of the People, and we mark it. In any case, I am very pleased, even proud of the fact that the National Assembly in this Assembly and in this composition shows consciousness, commitment and awareness, determination to actually adopt such an act, not only to bring it and adopt it, which we did in December of last year, but here we are now doing it and building it up, respecting all the suggestions, remarks, advice that we have received from various sides mentioned here. So to decide in this time and in this space today where we have a very aggressive phenomenon of the collapse of ethical values. On the one hand, under the pretext of expanding the space of freedom, elimination or distance of the borders of freedom, which is in principle some kind of civilization progress, because the expansion of freedom has always been about cultural and civilizational progress. However, the spread of freedom or the preference of freedom without principle, freedom without responsibility, and that means freedom without borders, cannot be marked as a civilizational or cultural value, but rather such orientation leads to destruction, leads to anarchy, leads to the fall of true values proven over thousands of years of tradition of humanity. Therefore, at the highest level in one country, in this case in our country, we open the issue of ethical values in the form of regulation of the standards of behaviour of the MP, above all in terms of selecting words, in terms of a culture of speech, it actually shows that we have the strength, that there are enough critical masses of people, MPs who simply won't allow themselves to be given up to the verse, the inert, the collapse of ethical values and the very culture of behavior itself. So, a culture of behavior, or, above all, a culture of speech, a culture of expression, is one of the key elements of humanity, of human quality, and as you know from the first days of life, what every good and responsible parent does is raising a child. If you look at the energy consumption of your parents in raising children, you will see that the most, or most of that energy is spent on education in terms of culture of behavior, or culture of expression. If you are looking at yourself as a parent, especially mothers who are the most involved, where they are intervened about raising children, you will see that the largest and most significant number of these interventions concern a culture of speech, or corrections in terms of expression, in terms of selecting words in communication. So, the culture of communication, the culture of speech is what determines to the most significant extent the quality of individual culture, and since the nation, or community, is a set of individuals, culture, or degree of culture and the quality of culture of one people, one community and one nation, will be measured by the quality of expression, that is, the quality of culture, communication, or culture of speech. Since we have a body, or a state body, such as the National Assembly, which, as I said at the beginning, according to its role, in its own position, and on the other hand for its transparency, disclosure, availability, taking into account and the fact that our sessions here, or speaking in the National Assembly, are widely transmitted live via the Public Service, in fact, in addition to indicating the importance of this body, raises the level of responsibility and increases the risk of negative reflections, possible errors, failures, misrepresentations, ugly expressions, vulgarity, proscration, insults and anything that may happen in this honorable home. Therefore, the adoption, and now the promotion and improvement of the Code of Conduct of People's MPs, namely the Ethics Code, is a very significant step towards the quality of work of the National Assembly, especially for implications that go towards citizens, which are in fact directly and indirectly affecting credibility, integrity and, in one word, the overall reputation of the National Assembly, and that means the MPs in this Assembly. In this regard, full support for the adoption of the Codex, now and the proposals ahead, to make this document significantly more quality. What is noticeable, and we heard in the explanation, and that is also in the written explanation, is that the focus is placed on the operational part of the work, that is, the implementation of this Codex. It refers to a committee, or committee that will actually be in charge, an ethical committee that will be responsible for implementing decisions, that is to say, to act on this Code. Certainly, the choice, or appointment of that commission, is something that is necessary, which should certainly be supported. I am fully aware that the committee responsible also had a difficult task to come up with a commission to be responsible for implementing the provisions of the Codex, and that the commission was not from the assembly of MPs, and since this is the highest body in this country, it was now necessary to design a commission that would in some way be older than the National Assembly. You understand that it's very delicate and that it's not easy at all. So, you should have a commission, or an ethical committee that should be completely independent and in some way superior to the MPs, because whoever can impose certain measures, in this case we've got a form, in addition to warnings, financial sanctions, or sanctions with financial consequences, which is, again, kind of debatable, but also acceptable. So it was not easy at all to design the structure of the members of the commission so that they would be accepted logically, in principle symbolically and essentially. It is quite logical, the committee responsible, or the promoter, that he went towards, if I may say so, with some caution and a reserve, to the academic community, because only science or more concrete, only scholars, only scientists, only learning can in some way be equal to Parliament or above Parliament. It's so through the development of culture and civilization. In some countries even the Academy of Science has a formal role to play. Some people don't. In some countries, these are Senates as special bodies. In our case, given the gaps in various stages of development and politics and academia, we do not have this in society until the end, but it is logical that the promoter sought a solution in the direction of knowledge. What we need to discuss is whether this very form of proposing and selecting the members of the Ethics Committee is actually affected. What is affected and what should be supported is that most of the members of that committee are sought from the order of scholars who deal with ethics in one way or another. This is the good side of this proposal and it should certainly be supported because it is logical for the Ethics Committee to be the most resourceful people involved in scientific discipline called ethics. What I am not sure about or what I do not think has been affected, that it has not been properly done and proposed in this Decision proposal is the very form and procedure of the proposal. So here is the purpose, the intensity, the intention and the goal of getting the highest quality people for the ethical board in terms of knowledge above all else, but I would add, which is hard to prove, that besides knowledge of ethics will be a very important ethics of these people. It's very difficult to predict the conditions of choosing and measuring people's ethics, but we need to know each other that it's crucial, because if you get an Ethics expert who has his own affairs in his biography, so to speak, disputed with ethical values, then the question is, can he be a member of this ethics committee? Secondly, what is controversial about this proposal is to focus on the institutions of the university, i.e. institutions, higher education institutions as universities, or universities. Dispute comes for two reasons. So it's wrong for me to give formal status to colleges or departments, philosophy colleges to be proposing. So here the legitimacy is in the knowledge, not the legitimacy of the administration. That's what you should consider and what I should focus on. So I'd be looking for a different form. So my proposal for a formulation would be to choose three acquaintances, professors, proven ethics scientists who can come from any scientific or higher education institution, whether it's a Serbian academy, science and art, or any university. Restricting to philosophical colleges or departments is unensuingly unsustainable and giving status that only they can propose candidates, and especially knowing how many we have the phenomena of uncipice of their own oligarchical rule in certain universities, certain structures of higher education. So consider either the possibility that anyone can report themselves, a competitive application or the possibility that any higher education institution or a scientific institution can suggest someone if this higher education scientific institution has a department or an ethics field as a philosophical discipline. Secondly, it is unacceptable to discriminate against non-state universities. By what law? It's the opposite of the Constitution itself. Why would they just list state universities, or universities, even though it's known that, I don't know which of the non-state universities or private universities has the philosophy department, or the ethics department. But it is in principle unacceptable to single out only state universities, to list and see the paradox, the state University of Novi Pazar should propose a professor of ethics. A university that is a symbol of corruption, a symbol of unethicalness, a symbol of immorality in this country, now they should propose a candidate for a commission, for an ethical committee here to make decisions on the statements, the behaviour of the MPs. That's the lack of this proposal. I would ask that if we don't have amendments this way, the Committee should start a committee amendment as well. In the form of a committee amendment, this could be removed and we would indeed get a very quality act and a document behind which could stand in full capacity and which could be defended here in the National Assembly, but also on other occasions. I'm sorry there's no time to deal with the anti-corruption law, but there will be opportunities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-21-0.u9280	I thank my colleague. The word has the People's Messenger Dr. Muamer Bacevac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-21-0.u9281	Dear colleagues and colleagues, MPs and MPs, the Honorable Chairman, corruption is as old as the state and, of course, with the development of the state and corruption has taken various forms of occurrence. It existed in Antica, Greece, Rome, and many works of literature speak and look back, part of it outlines various models of corruption during this historic period. But today in this modern time, in a fast flow of information or money, corruption becomes a global phenomenon and there is no country that is not faced with this problem, even those countries and places where money production is bigger and where there is more money and where more money is created. It is a magnet for corruption, and today, corruption is not spared, nor is it the Western world, nor is it America, nor Western Europe, which will show some of the information that I will present. Corruption is certainly a major challenge for today. Once again, I say that she feeds on money, and wherever money is made, there are people who want to get to him in an easy way, abuse the torment and effort of other people. In fact, there is a part of it in both human nature and interference with corruption and intrusion and other people, by forcing other people to engage, is actually creating power and control over these people, i.e. spreading tentacles, and an increasing number of people are reaching into this immeasurable society that is breaking up today. Of course, it seems that on a global scale, however, each terrain and each latitude has its own specificity, so we also have in our cultural pattern a very specific phenomenon, and that is the phenomenon of unnecessary bribery. Very often, people in a large number of situations are aware or not, entering a certain corruption or a corrupt operation, that no one has asked them or even knows that they are participants in corruption. Of course most of us residents who live off their work don't want corruption. We are aware that it has a significant impact on our society, on the economy and on the quality of life. At the same time, the minority that's profiting wants to maintain this status quo. One survey conducted by CESID in 2020, with the help of USAID, showed that citizens see corruption as one of the three most significant problems in this country. Every third citizen of three major problems has cited corruption in our country. Corruption is indeed deeply corrosive to every society, and it is rightly said to be the cancer of today’s society or today’s societies. It not only impoverishes society, but creates imperceptibility, perhaps it is the worst thing corruption does. It destroys one country's human, generational capital, as it causes young people to look for a chance elsewhere. The consequences of corruption are enormous and not only with us, but also in Europe. You will see, in the EU, it is assumed that about 1% of the EU's total GDP is lost annually due to different types of corruption. The European Commission's 2019 progress report on Serbia said corruption prevails in many areas and remains a concern issue. Serbia, if we are talking about legislation, has done a lot, and this Assembly has adopted a really large number of acts, anti-corruption laws that have given mechanisms to curb this non-majority. Some of them are the Law on the Prevention of Corruption, which we adopted in 2019 and which we are now reviewing and which we want to complete today, perfect, modernise. Then the Alert Act, the Competition Protection Act, the Political Party Act. The parties are a place where people who are very prone to corruption have hidden themselves. I liked what the president is very critical of, and that is primarily for people who hide in all parties and who use the political position to profit and sew something up. We should be the first to sanction and severely punish such people. Then we have the Law on the Organisation of National Authorities' Jurisdiction in countering organised crime, terrorism, corruption, etc. This assembly also adopted the Law on the Origin of Assets and since March 2021, the origin of the property of all officials has been under public scrutiny. Whoever cannot prove under this law that he has acquired property legally, three quarters of his assets will be seized, and who is proved to have acquired his property in an unfair way, he will be deprived of the entire property. This is an extremely significant law that we have adopted here and given mechanisms for the state to unfair people, above all those who perform public functions, to take away property and thus demotize the people who are led by these initiatives to continue to deal with political life. Once again, I say, this law has won a lot of things, a quality mechanism, that it can be determined at any moment whether it has become rich in an unfair way, or illegally. In line with the current strategic documents, I say first of all, the National Strategy to fight corruption prevention and the Action Plan for its implementation, we also had a law on the prevention of corruption in 2019. They have already said that we have some guidelines that our Anti-Corruption Agency has given us, but also a group of the Council of Europe's countries to fight corruption, so-called. It's bitter. They pointed out the need to change, i.e. to improve, more precise determination of certain provisions. I think it should be accepted as one correct partner suggestion. By reading the proposals themselves, or what I do with this proposal on amendments to the law, it is logical and you will all agree that everything that is proposed is very correct and useful. First of all, from the very change of the definition of corruption to certain concrete things, e.g. Obligations for public officials to supply data on cash, valuables, digital assets, mobile values greater than 5,000 euros. It was then imposed on legal persons to inform the Anti-Corruption Agency about all privatisation procedures of public procurement, where legal persons in which the official has actions or ownership stakes must be informed. So far, this has been set by a 20% limit, which meant that below that percentage there was no such obligation. Another newspaper in relation to the current law is that new solutions are proposed that when a public function requires full-time work, then there is no possibility of doing other work or work without the consent of the Anti-Corruption Agency. Of course, the lowest limit of the threatened fine has been raised from 50 to 100,000 dinars, which is something that is correct. It is also proposed to extend the provision by which no reporting of property or providing false property data is considered a criminal offence, with a threatened serious penalty. Now, with this change, it expands and does not report income. Social democracy advocates that, of course, we are not equal in poverty. We want rich people in our country who have come to their wealth in a fair way, by fighting in the market, by knowledge, and by ability. Therefore, one of the main objectives of the SDP is an efficient and fair tax system of the state. Of course, the last but not least important thing is the question of mentality. It is necessary to view corruption as a disease and to strengthen the system for radical combating this social anomaly. It is necessary to improve preventive measures and mechanisms to prevent corruption and, above all, to cultivate ethical norms from the earliest age. What does that mean? First of all, the introduction of anti-corruption issues into the education system of our schools. It's something that started it. That children of the earliest age are familiar with the kind of unmistakable corruption and the damage they do, especially to people who live on honest work. Raising and constant insistence on good behaviour towards their country and fellow citizens, the obligation to pay a real tax to their country, the necessity of academic integrity, solidarity and concern for the poor and weaker, all these are imperatives that we Social Democrats Rasim Ljajic support and support both in this and in every government and in every political system. Of course, we want to be both a dam and some things that are not corruption, for example nepotism and similar things that destroy our society, especially higher education institutions, colleges, but unfortunately even some state or other institutions. Therefore, I would like to announce that we will support these amendments and additions to the Anti-Corruption Act. As a second point, I also want to say, since today we are also discussing the promotion of the Codex, also with the recommendations that we have received, I want to say that this is something that we will definitely support. As the two shortcomings of the Codex that we established on December 24, 2020, above all, are the absence of two-stageness in deciding on the violation of the Codex and decision-making exclusively by the MPs, whether or not the Codex hurt our fellow Members of Parliament or party. I think that's basically not logical and that it's much better that this solution that we have today, that people who, above all, are from science, or who are dealing with ethics, as a branch of philosophy, as a philosophy of morality, decide on it. Of course, those who have, which is what the law itself proposes, the most works or are the biggest names in this branch. Unfortunately, such people are few in our country, and this should be an incentive for as many people to deal with morals and ethics as possible, because it is a category without which this society cannot survive. Without moral people I'm progressing civilization is impossible. The introduction of an opinion mechanism on the infringement of the Codex by the Commission before the Assembly Committee decides and the publication of that opinion is undoubtedly useful and should be classified in any case. As far as the composition is concerned, I have already mentioned, the Commission's position, this ethics commission will make it easier for the Committee itself to reach a proper conclusion on the Codex's injury if there was one, and the publication of the Commission's opinion on the public's ability to accompany the quality of the decision-making process. The news is that they are members of the commission, they cannot be MPs, they cannot be other public officials, they cannot be politically active persons, they cannot be party members. I don't see anything controversial about it. It is not that there is nothing controversial, but it is very positive that we have a correction in our mutual treatment of people who deal with ethics, morals, or one proper debate. So, from the professor who's gonna point us to mistakes. Once again, let me say that they will not only give an expert opinion but will do other things. The commission is planned to number five members, five years are being elected and they can only have one mandate. Article 23 provides that three members of the commission are present or former members of the faculty's teaching staff. According to the Law on Higher Education, these are teachers, researchers and associates who were engaged in basic and master studies or engaged in ethics, morals or moral development. On the other hand, it is also planned that two members be officials, employed in the service of the National Assembly. Five universities have been mentioned: the Faculty of Philosophy in Belgrade, Novi Sad in Nis, Kosovo Mitrovica and one organisational unit of the university, the state college in Novi Pazar, the department for philosophy. I'm so glad this solution happened. I think it's extremely positive that we geographically represent all parts of our country, and isn't this it? So both Vojvodina and southern Serbia, the southwest of Serbia and central Serbia are thanks to the fact that in this case there are people dealing with philosophy, or this philosophical branch represented in the right way. I am particularly pleased that the state college in Novi Pazar is represented with its department who has people who deal with psychology ethics and I don't think it should be here or anything controversial. Of course, ethics or morality as a branch of philosophy is something that has been neglected in our colleges, and I repeat again, it should be an incentive for young people to grow up together with scientific knowledge to be honest and honest citizens and people who contribute to the whole community. In that sense, we from the Social Democratic Party will support both proposals in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-21-0.u9282	Thank you. The word has the deputy president of the Single Serbia parliamentary group, MP of Life Starcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-21-0.u9283	Thank you, Vice-President Jevdić, the Honored Vice-President of the National Assembly, Mrs Kovac, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we are discussing the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Corruption, as well as the Decision on Amendments and Supplements to the Code of Conduct of People's MPs. Both proposals by the Single Serbia parliamentary group in the voting day will support it. The Anti-Corruption Act was passed in 2019. It has been two years since the start of its implementation and implementation and in the previous two years, which the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption, but also other bodies such as GRECO, have seen certain shortcomings in the implementation and implementation of this law and have made certain objections, which we today, through this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law, are correcting and making this law more enforceable, more applicable in practice, because we, from the Unique Serbia, consider cancer to be early every society and, of course, we will support this law in the day of voting. There are numerous definitions of corruption and what is most commonly applied and used is that corruption implies illegal use of social and state positions and power to gain its own benefit. Corruption, of course, exists since there is a state, and I am sure that corruption has existed in some older and more primitive forms of society organisation. Corruption was also discussed by Aristotle and Cicero, which means she was present at the time of ancient Greece and ancient Rome. Corruption is causing huge and negative consequences in every society, in every economy. Among other things, corruption violates the fundamental universal principle of equality of all people before the law, which is guaranteed, among other things, our Constitution, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. It creates a system in which those who are privileged or those with good relationships are more in place. Corruption leads to a reduction in economic activity, an increase in the number of unemployed, to the expansion of the state, economy and society. Simply, corruption gnaws and bites the substrate of every economy and every economy. The ruling majority gathered in 2012 on a number of political goals and programming principles, and one of the main ones was the fight against crime and corruption and zero tolerance towards corruption. We in Unity Serbia believe that where corruption flourishes, everything else goes there. We are not a supporter of some recent economic theories, such as the one presented by Juan Ang, a professor of political science at the University of Michigan, who published the book "The Golden Age of China, the paradox of economic boom and corruption" in which she divides the corruption into four types, of which the first three guys are said to be poor and unwanted, and that the fourth type is desirable, because within a short time, it causes growth in economic activity and increases employment. Of course, we are neither for the theory brought out recently by an economist of Serbian origin, Branko Milanovic, who says corruption can also be good for Serbia's economic growth. We remain in our position that where corruption flourishes, all other veins, and that attitude we have simply derived from the Empirical, experienced, from our not so long ago past. Let us only remember that in 2012 and Serbia, which was eaten by corruption, crime, Serbia that was then a broken economy, with a high unemployment rate, from which investors often fled or bypassed. Let us remember that Serbia in which the unemployment rate was growing, the poverty of the great part of the people growing and a new political class of wealthy people was being created. Of course, the country, until that year 2012, was led primarily by the Democratic Party, and citizens were aware of the robbery privatisations that took place after the Petoctobar changes, the sale of cement stores in Popovac for one euro, the sale of state property in vain. They were aware of the birth of new political tycoons, such as, say, Dragan Gilas, people who made enormous profits by trade in political influence. Dragan Gilas himself reported a 619m-euro profit. He made that money trading seconds of advertising space that gave him or sold him RTS or other televisions with a national frequency. Dragan Gilas was then, of course, a senior official in the state, was mayor of Belgrade for a time, was director of the Capital Investment Office, and he was, above all, I would say, Dragan Gilas is the definition of corruption. If not, I'm simply asking a question, but I have to repeat the definition of corruption before that. Corruption implies illegal use of social and state positions and power for its own benefit. If I'm wrong, and if Dragan Gilas didn't use political power and influence to gain his great wealth, how come today when he's not in power and he doesn't have that political influence doesn't make such great financial profits, that marketing module, that genius, that machine brain seems to work much better, while he's in power, but when he's in opposition. The government at the time took more care of the creation of a high political class, rich people, than of the consequences of such decomposition of society, and the consequences of unscrupulous robbery and spending of state money beyond all means, and for the sake of obtaining personal benefit. Such behavior was nothing but corrupt behavior. But what's the biggest problem is that our country's behavior led to the edge of bankruptcy and citizens in 2012, punished such power and made it clear that they wanted a different power, power with zero tolerance to any form of corruption. Hence, in 2012, it was also fragile in economic terms for Serbia. We said that corruption destroys the economy, that corruption is a bad economic situation in the country, that it creates a large number of unemployment, or a high unemployment rate, and that it rejects investors. In 2012, the new government, the new ruling majority supported by the JS, set off with consolidation measures, fiscal consolidation of the state, with austerity measures in the state register and a fierce fight against corruption has been declared. All these measures have led to our finances being stabilised today, our economy starting to grow, and even at the time of the Koron virus pandemic, and among the leading countries, not only of the region, but of Europe as a whole. We've led to a very low unemployment rate. We have led Serbia in 2020 with 3.5 billion foreign investment as a leader in the region. We have led Serbia today in 2021, two-thirds of total foreign investment in the region has just been in Serbia. Is there better evidence of how much this country has done to prevent corruption than the fact that investors are investing intensively in Serbia? Of course, in the meantime, we have passed many of these anti-corruption laws that our colleague Bačevac has talked about, which I would first of all single out the Property Origin Act, the Law on the financing of political parties and the financing of political activities and many other anti-corruption laws, including this Law on the Prevention of Corruption. So domestic behaviour towards state money has resulted in us having all the way to this pandemic of the coronary virus and surpluses in the state budget, but this surplus and this household behavior led to the fact that at the time of the pandemic of the virus as a state we were able to help both the economy and the citizens of Serbia. Even in the Corona era, thanks to such economic policy leadership, we have also maintained economic growth, we have not experienced the economic downturn experienced by many other countries in Europe and the world. Transparency is very important. transparency, above all, in the management and use of public funds is a very important anti-corruption measure. Perhaps it is a good example of the city of Jagodina itself, which is probably one of the few local self-governments who regularly, year after year, regularly reports all donors and all donations the city receives. When we talk about corruption and this law, about amendments and additions to the Law on the Prevention of Corruption, which is on the agenda today, of course, as I said, the JS parliamentary group will support this law in the voting day. When we talk about the Code of Conduct of People's MPs, about the decision to amend and supplement the Code of Conduct, we recently adopted this Code of Conduct in December. At the time, I said that the purpose of this Code is to strengthen Parliament's reputation as the highest legislative body in the country, but I also said that even then, no Codex, no Parliament's Rules of Procedure will make us 250 MPs ideal, because it is not up to the rules, it is a lot to the people. It's all about people, to their moral values, to their education. We are the people's messengers, we are chosen by the people, so, in some ways, we are the mirror of that people, but also the mirror of the environment and of the family, the mirror of the adopted moral and other oversights. If the Codex is the one who will guarantee someone that we, the MPs, will behave according to some generally adopted norms, we from the JS will, of course, be the day to vote for the adoption of that code, but still, I say, it's not all about the Codex, it's about people. There is no Codex and there is no Rules of Procedure on the work of Members of Parliament to prevent any unwanted behaviour. In this sense, the most important change in these amendments and additions to the Decision adopting the Code of Conduct of People's MPs is the creation of this Ethics Committee where there will be no MPs, i.e. there will be no principle – the cadium of these judges, the cadium and the prosecution, but the committee will be composed of employees in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, two members, and from the ranks of the faculty staff whose ethics and morals are the subject of professional and scientific interest, means three members. By adopting this decision on amendments and additions to the Decision on the adoption of the Code of Conduct of People's MPs, we have, in the end, respected some of the recommendations they have made to us again on the subject of GRECO and the EU, despite the fact that we are witnesses of the double standards that the EU applies in politics towards Serbia. Where a better example than yesterday's example of the behaviour of the Pristina authorities at the Jarinja and Brnak border crossings, when along any agreement, any signed agreement, from Brussels to all others, brought long pipes to northern Kosovo. They brought special units to northern Kosovo, paving fear and unrest among the Serb population in northern Kosovo. Then, the EU and its representatives issue a statement calling, watching out for both sides to refrain from any extreme behaviour. There are no sides, there is only one party that does not respect the Brussels Agreement and all agreements. These are, of course, temporary institutions in Pristina. Serbia has respected everything it has promised, everything it has committed itself to and there are no sides. Regardless of all this, regardless of the fact that we are aware of these double standards that apply to EU policy towards Serbia, we are this law and, among other things, this Codex and everything we do in the regulation of our country are not doing because of the EU or because of those representatives. Everything we do for our own sakes to make our country's better and better and better and to have it secure in such a way as to ensure the better, safer and more quality life of our country's citizens. Of course, JS will also support the draft law amending and supplementing the Anti-Corruption Act, as well as the proposal for a decision to adopt the Code of Conduct of People's MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-21-0.u9284	Thank you. The word has the vice-president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, MP Stefan Krkobibic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-21-0.u9285	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President Yevdzic. First of all, I would say and thank my colleague, Starčević, what he was just saying about the Code of Conduct of MPs itself, we are ready to sign immediately, so we fully agree. What I would touch is the amendment and addition of the Anti-Corruption Act. As you know, corruption in Latin “corruption” means bribery, bribery, corruption, and therefore, in philosophical and theological discussions, corruption is also understood as spiritual or moral impurity or a deviation from ideals. Of course, corruption wasn't born at the time of this government. Corruption has been a decade and probably longer than the modern state of Serbia, one of the most dangerous cancers of our society's wounds. Plato, Aristotle, Monteskje understood corruption as a violation of power, a rule that was not in the general interest, i.e. the interest of the political community, i.e. States. Makiaveli and Russo felt that corruption was the moral corruption of people, i.e. the undoing of social values and the virtues of citizens. Corruption is, according to the World Bank's definition, abuse of public authority for private benefit. It includes bribery, embezzlement, money laundering, as well as giving to obtaining certain services or services, as well as providing services or concessions, and on the basis of connections and acquaintances. Our law defines corruption as a relationship resulting from the use of official or social positions or influences to obtain unauthorized benefits for itself or for others. Therefore, for us from the PUPS, corruption is not a matter of abandoning sad and unsuspecting fate, but a matter of decision, a matter primarily of political will and decision whether or not we will systematically tackle corruption with our own strength. As a result, we particularly support the fact that it is under Article 101 of the Law to a public official who, contrary to the legal provisions, does not report assets and incomes to the Agency or gives false information on assets and incomes in order to cover up the data for a period of six months to five years. Of course, we also support the intensification of this law to increase fines for the violation of public officials, i.e. the criminal act of not reporting property or income or providing false income and property data. We even believe that this part of monetary sanctions, which applies to officials as natural persons, could be sharpened because, unfortunately, it is a practice that where a legal person is punished for the violation of a specific functioner, the punishment is not paid by that official, but by his legal person in the budget, which is filled with all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. We also have the same attitude when it comes to violations of public officials, and they are treated by Article 103 of this Act, such as non-response to the Agency's call, non-intelligence of suspicion and the existence of conflicts of interest, performs another public function contrary to Article 56 of this Act and so on. Therefore, the PUPS as a party which particularly cares about the vulnerable, most sensitive categories of our population, especially the poorest, and advocates the absolute equivalence of all citizens, particularly welcomes the legislative provision that will prevent some public officials from using for their personal material gain in the future, since the new laws are in this sense explicit: "A person whose public office has ceased two years after the public function cannot, without the consent of the Agency, establish a working relationship, i.e. business co-operation with a legal person, entrepreneur or an international organisation who has a business relationship with the public authority in which the public official has performed a public function". It is a good thing that only public officials elected directly by citizens are exempt from the prohibition laid down in Article 1 of this Law. The reasons for these amendments and the additions to the law are formal, but also life-like. The current Anti-Corruption Act was adopted in May 2019, and the reasons for its changes and additions are contained in the recommendation from the Report of Harmony of the Republic of Serbia in the fourth round of the evaluation of the Group of States to fight corruption of the Council of Europe, GRECO, whose Serbia is a member. Also, our Anti-Corruption Agency has pointed out the need to specify certain provisions of the law for its better and more correct application. In this respect, it is also a positive paper that introduces a definition of the illicit influence on public officials at the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption, which implies any influence that affects the legal and proper conduct of the Public Functions of the Agency in the exercise of public office. It is important that this Law enables the Anti-Corruption Agency to give the public function officer a warning measure or a measure of public publication of a recommendation for resolution from a public function. It is also important that the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption, with the exception of the Register of Public Functions and the Register of Property of Public Functions, will, in particular, keep a record of legal persons in which a public official or family member has a share or shares of more than 20%, in particular those and such firms that participate in public procurement, privatisation or other proceedings, and whose outcome of the conclusion of a contract with public authorities, a beneficiary of a budget or another legal person with more than 20% of state capital. All in all, the solution to the monster of corruption exists. Corruption is not an elemental accident that has hit Serbia, but a systemic problem that is being addressed by the law's reform, but also by judicial trial and condemnation of all those caught in corruption. We already have a national strategy and a plan to fight corruption. Now our goal is to launch an effective and proactive fight against corruption. Also, the core of negotiating Chapter 23 in negotiations with the EU was the fight against corruption. So this is a matter of political will, that is, our decision to go into that fight. This law, which is before us today, is proof that there is a consensus between us to do so. When the amendments and additions of this law come into force, they will first be independent institutions and control bodies, and then prosecutors and courts. A favourable political climate, by adopting this act, we have provided from the highest representative home, the country's legislative body. Citizens will also, in that I have no doubt, actively support prosecutors and judges if they show the will and willingness to apply this law, and in that case, when they realize that it is definitely past time, that, even if they are engaged in corruption, nothing bad will happen to them, there will be no motivations and desire to continue to oppose this law, all those who have been involved in corruption so far. Dear Vice-President Jevdzic, Honorable Vice-President Kovac, honourable fellow MPs, I would like to conclude that I would like to point out that the PUPS parliamentary group – "Tri P" will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-21-0.u9286	Thank you. The word is made by the Vice-President of the National Assembly of the People's Parliament, Elvira Kovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-21-0.u9287	Thank you. Dear Vice-Presidents, the Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, in their presentation as an authorised representative of the SVM parliamentary group, I will address the proposal for a decision on amendments and additions to the Decision adopting the Code of Conduct of People's MPs, because for our parliamentary group SVM, the adoption of the Code of Conduct of People's MPs by the end of last year, in particular 24 December 2020, was an extremely important step towards strengthening the fundamental principles to which the National Assembly must be led in its work, which is transparency and integrity. The application of the Code of Conduct in the previous nine months has confirmed, on the one hand, that consistent respect for the rules and principles laid down by the Code of Conduct of the Members of the People is crucial for raising the level of political responsibility, which is extremely significant, trust in the work of the National Assembly, that the integrity and integrity of the MP is a cornerstone of the building of a political culture based on the decent, transparent and fair behaviour of the MPs and, on the third hand, that the integrity of the MP is a resilient point of legitimacy and political credibility of the National Assembly. After nine months, why is it important to adopt amendments and additions to the Code of Conduct of People’s MPs? On the one hand, what we have heard from several previous speakers and from the promoter himself, because these proposed amendments and additions to the Code meet the recommendations of so-called. The fourth round of evaluation of the GRECO report, meaning GRECO Member States of the Council of Europe to fight corruption. In particular, these recommendations concern the prevention of corruption in relation to MPs, judges and prosecutors, and the main objective of these so-called so-called ". GREKO's recommendation and this report is, in fact, an assessment of the concrete effectiveness of the measures taken to prevent corruption in relation to the MPs themselves. In the case of this currently in force Code, which we adopted last year, unfortunately, we cannot talk about effective application, because, contrary to GRECO recommendations, there were no precise criteria, composition and competence of the Ethics Committee, and without the establishment of an Ethics Commission, there is no effective application of the measure or what is currently foreseen by the current Code. Bringing the Codex has filled out a number of recommendations. We remember this debate at the end of December and these amendments, but as a matter of responsibility for the credibility of the National Assembly, it remains to be followed by other recommendations, especially those recommended on the one hand, that the Code be easily made available to the public, that it is effectively implemented in practice, that it is necessary to meet the very Members of Parliament with standards of conduct that are expected of them, that it is necessary to enable counselling of MPs, of course, with the preservation of confidentiality, as well as the implementation of dedicated training on practical application and confidential counselling. With the adoption of the proposed amendments and additions, as well as concrete action in terms of the election of members of the Commission for Ethics now proposed, which we will adopt and, hopefully, apply, the report that our country will submit by the end of October, so by 31 October of this year, will be a confirmation that the institutions are still effective and effective, which is, you will agree, the goal of all of us. When we talk about the processes of European integration, the fact is that the prescribed obligation to adopt the Code of Conduct of People's MPs does not even stand in the renewed, revised Action Plan for Chapter 23. However, the fact is that the adoption of the Code was explicitly stated as a recommendation of the group of the Council of Europe, the fight against corruption, GRECO, such as the fact that the European Commission uses the recommendations and assessments GRECO as an important instrument and criterion in its reports, which it assesses our country's achievements in the fight against corruption, which is all, as we know, part of the negotiating chapter 23. It is therefore important that we adopt the recommendations of GRECO and change the Code of Conduct. On the other hand, the proposed amendments and additions to the Code of Conduct of People's MPs are important, because experience proves that these codes, meaning, the various codes remain, unfortunately, a dead letter on paper, if, at the same time, the adoption of the Code does not form and the body that will be responsible for applying. As we have heard from the esteemed promoter, the proposed amendments and additions are prescribed that the task of the Ethics Committee is to bring, on the one hand, a guide to the application of the Code of Conduct, to carry out the confidentiality of the counselling of the MPs themselves regarding the application of the Code of Conduct, to organise and conduct the training of the MPs for application and very significantly, to give an opinion on the violation of the Codex. The proposed amendments and additions therefore enhances the role of the Ethics Committee through the extension of opinions on injury to the Codex, the composition of the Codex is specified, as we have heard, the criteria for selecting members, the procedure for selecting and tightening measures, which is also important, which is one of the recommendations, the measures in the case of infringement of the Codex by the MPs themselves, by implementing the recommendations given in the opinion on the Code of People's MPs, and that opinion was made only by the Council of Europe at the request of us, or the Republic of Serbia, with the aim of obtaining a professional position on the need to improve individual solutions in the applicable Code adopted at the end of last year, and in order to really ensure effective and effective application of this Code. As we have heard from one of the previous speakers, it is specified in these amendments and additions that members of the commission can neither be MPs nor elected, appointed and appointed persons, nor members of any political party, which once again respects the objections of the professional public to the current Code. As I mentioned, one of the GRECO's recommendations is to carry out dedicated trainings by the MPs themselves on practical application and confidential counselling, and the Ethics Committee, in collaboration with the Anti-Corruption Agency, brings and implements the program of training of MPs on the application of the Code. The next, next reason why it is important to adopt amendments and additions to the Code of Conduct of People's MPs is that the proposed amendments and additions aim to specify the conduct of three actors, therefore, the Committee on Ethics, the Board of Administrative, Official Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs and the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption itself. Practice knows several models of conduct. It's either internal mechanisms or external regulation or the combination of these two models. As can be seen from the proposed changes and additions, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has been defined as a mechanism of responsibility, which represents a combination of both internal mechanisms and external regulation. This is an approach that has been defined, beside us, among other things, by the United Kingdom, the United States, France and other countries. In this regard, the Code of Conduct states that, in order to take care of the application of the Code, an Ethics Committee is to be educated, while supervision of the application of the Code remains the obligation of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs, except in the part of the provisions relating to the notification of the private interests of the Members of the People's Parliaments, respect for the rules relating to the performance of two or more functions, the receipt of gifts, so it is very clear in those matters, by which the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption is responsible. In addition, now proposed changes and additions, it is prescribed that the commission has three representatives of university teaching staff, as we have heard, lecturers from ethics, morals or moral development and two civil servants from the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia itself. The special competence of the Ethics Committee shall consist of confidential advice in ethical dilemmas and situations of conflict of interest of the MPs, which should further improve the conditions for the proper and ethical behaviour of the MPs. A similar solution was applied by the Australian state of New South Wales, whose parliament also adopted the Code of Conduct of People's MPs. The Code of Conduct of MPs in their case is in the jurisdiction of the so-called Ethics Advisor, whose powers, on the one hand, are to prepare the Code, to carry out training on the application of the Code itself, and to give advice on ethical standards. The adviser is obliged to inform parliament once a year about the number of ethical issues raised, the number of MPs seeking advice, and how many times he has given advice and how much time he has used to consider these ethical issues. On the other hand, if we talk about examples from different countries, it is a useful example and a revised Ethical Code, which was adopted in France. To restore trust between citizens and their elected representatives, a comprehensive system for preventing conflicts of interest was established in France in April 2011, with the adoption of the Ethics Code, which sets out principles and provides for an Ethics Officer. The code was revised, restored in 2017, after several cases of conflict of interest occurred, affecting the government's proposal for an organic law on trust in political life. These acts have obliged MPs to respect principles, such as public interest, independence, objectivity, accountability, integrity and the like. It is clear that the ethical code contains standards of ideal behaviour that all MPs should strive and coordinate professional action, behaviour and their public appearance. These are the standards that the Council of Europe Committee of Ministers promoted in November 1999 by adopting Ministers' Resolution No. 97, 2424, which lists 20 guiding principles for the fight against corruption and, among other things, recommends that elected representatives encourage the adoption of codes of conduct and improve rules for the financing of political parties, election campaigns that deter corruption. In the framework of the Action Plan for the implementation of this Resolution of the Council of Europe's Committee of Ministers, the Council of Europe has also drawn up a criminal and legal convention on corruption. This Convention incriminates the active and passive bribery of public officials, and in fact the convention also formed a group of states to combat corruption, which is mentioned here several times today. Another example. Ireland, for example. the State in which acts relating to corruption of public officials are provided for an extremely high sentence of up to 10 years in prison or fines. Ireland has the Corruption Prevention Act, which was adopted in 2001 and completed in 2010. They have the Law on Ethical Performance of Public Functions, which was adopted earlier in 1995 and the Law on Standards in Performing Public Functions, which was also adopted in 2001. The implementation of these laws in Ireland is entrusted to the parliamentary committee and to the Commission for standards in the performance of public functions. The Commission is conducting investigations into the breach of standards and reporting to the parliamentary committee, very similar. As we have heard from the esteemed representative of the promoters of these amendments and the addition of the Codex, and we see from these examples that they are very rare countries, there are few countries that have adopted special codes of conduct in parliament, which are Great Britain, the Republic of Ireland, the United States, Canada, New South Wales, Australia. The explanation for this is that most of the countries have incorporated these codes of conduct into their rules of procedure on the work of parliaments. When we talk about the National Assembly and the history of parliamentaryism in Serbia, there have been attempts to contain improper behaviour with the Rules of Procedure. The 1905 National Assembly Rules of Procedure correctly state, for example, the forbidden words that were not to be spoken. In the event that the MPs did say them anyway, the MPs would, depending on the weight and manner of spoken words, be punished by reproof, by taking away words, by moving away from the session and so forth. The same solutions were applied in the 1921 Annex of the Rules of Procedure. We see, therefore, that the National Assembly has been working for a very long, more than a century to set high standards and consistent standards of the behaviour of MPs in order to perform properly, honorably, properly a public function, to establish rules on conflict of interest that promote the independence of MPs from private interests and political influences, pressures. To conclude slowly, the SVM parliamentary group will, of course, vote in favour of the amendment and addition of the Code because we simply assume that the Code of Conduct of People's MPs is necessary to restore dignity to this institution - the National Assembly, to bring the authorities closer to the citizens and to strengthen the dignity, the integrity of the MPs. No less important, we will vote in favour of amendments and additions to the Code, because we believe that this act encourages tolerance, tolerance that is an important and powerful means of accepting and respecting diversity and differences between us and that it facilitates reaching consensus and compromise in political life. Finally, I would like to confirm once again that despite the amendments and additions to the Code of Conduct of Members of the People's Parliaments, we will also support the draft laws on amendments and amendments to the Law on the Prevention of Corruption, which is also in front of us, as well as the preservation of the cultural historical heritage of the Holy monastery of Hilandar. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-21-0.u9288	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Maja Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-21-0.u9289	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to introduce you to this occasion the most important solutions to the Amendments and Supplements Act on the Prevention of Corruption. This bill aims to take the necessary steps towards meeting the commitments made by the Council of Europe's Group of States' recommendations to fight corruption – GRECO. The reasons for the amendments and additions to the Corruption Prevention Act were contained in Recommendation 12 in the Second Report on the Harmony of the Republic of Serbia of October 2020. This Recommendation sets out specific objections to that law, which should be observed in order to be considered as being fulfilled in the whole. In addition, at the request of the Anti-Corruption Agency, it is proposed to specify certain provisions of the law in order to better and more correctly apply it. The bill specifies the meaning of the term “corruption” by defining this term as a relationship between the use of official or social position or influence in order to obtain an illicit benefit for itself or for others, and specify the conditions for the selection of the director of the Anti-Corruption Agency, the regulation of additional conditions to be met by the candidate for director, which is the possession of specific knowledge and experience in the area of preventing corruption. In order to continue to carry out operations at the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption, for reasons of integrity, proposed amendments and additions, the mandate of the Deputy Director of the Agency shall be extended until the election of the new Director, instead of until the term of office of the Director is terminated, and the Deputy Director of the Agency shall be empowered to act as Director from the date of termination of the Director’s term of office until the entry into office of the new Director of the Agency. The Agency's powers to prevent corruption from giving consent to a public functioner for the performance of another job or activity, as well as the Agency's powers to set a deadline for public officials to stop performing a particular business or activity, should this endanger the impartial exercise or reputation of a public function, that is, if it constitutes a conflict of interest. The circle of legal entities which have the obligation to report to the Agency of Certain Data shall be extended to all legal persons in which a public official or member of his family has two years of public office since its termination has a share or action which participates in the procurement or privatisation process or in another procedure whose conclusion of the contract with the public authorities is the outcome. For the purpose of greater transparency, special records shall be kept by the Agency on the legal persons concerned, as well as the public availability of the data contained in that record. It is foreseen that the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption in the process of granting consent to a former public official for the establishment of a working relationship and business co-operation, in particular the price that the public official had in the exercise of his public office. In addition, the content of the property report submitted by a public official is complemented by the mandatory reporting of money, digital assets and valuables, as well as other mobile assets whose value exceeds 5,000 euros in dinar equivalent. The bill sets out rules for voicing measures against public officials who violate the law. It shall be introduced as a special fact that the Agency appreciates when giving the measure of breach of the law whether the public official has acted according to the abovementioned measure of notice until the expiry of the time limit set for it in its decision. The criminal act of not reporting assets or providing false property data has also been amended, by extending the action of this criminal offence to non-reporting income or giving false income data, and in accordance with GRECO’s remarks, the minimum fines for infringements prescribed by law are increased. Finally, I would like to thank you for your attention and express my hope that the National Assembly will adopt the proposed law in the voting day, in particular its importance for meeting the international obligations of the Republic of Serbia that arise from membership in the Council of Europe and its body to fight corruption – GRECO. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-21-0.u9290	I thank the Minister of Justice. The word has been issued by the SPS parliamentary group president, MP Djordje Milicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-21-0.u9291	I thank you, dear Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Mrs. Kovac. Dear Minister Popovic, Mr Martinovic, given that you too are a proposing, respected representative of the ministry, so let me allow you, before I move on specifically to the agenda of today's assembly session, and since we are also discussing a very important document and I think that Mr Martinovic has performed very modestly in the sense that thanks to him, the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and Mr Orlic, who worked intensively on making this document, we have an ethical code as one of the rare European parliaments, and that the ethical code is of utmost importance and importance, above all, for the sake of preserving the dignity of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I want to thank Mr. Martinovic as an excellent lawyer and a man who's dedicated to working on this job. As far as I was concerned, I said that at the very beginning, I would only take a few sentences, since I am talking about a document that is related to the work of the Assembly, and that very often we hear from representatives of some quasi of the opposition or of a representative of a part of the opposition that we have an illegal assembly, that we have a assembly that has been elected in unfair and undemocratic elections. Of course, it all fell into their water after the inter-party dialogue, because the inter-party dialogue would not continue if the European parliamentarians, whom they believed, believed we had unfair and undemocratic elections and that we had an illegal assembly and an illegally elected president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Let me say in a few sentences that just thanks to the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, thanks to all of us, all 250 MPs, we today have a National Assembly which is a symbol of both democracy and efficiency and transparency and the public in the work, that we have a National Assembly that has in the best way responded to the demands set before parliament, as the highest body of the legislative authority, the National Assembly that works in the best interests of Serbian citizens. In the past time period, and here we confirm today, we have managed to implement everything contained in the European Commission's report, and in particular the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, that some newspapers such as that of continuing, some newspapers and some important processes, such as the beginning of constitutional changes, have been introduced. An initiative for constitutional changes has been launched, which is of paramount importance and importance in order to reach an independent and effective judiciary, that for the first time in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, a report from the European Commission was discussed. It wasn't a practice until now. Interparty dialogue has been continued, but with the initiative of the National Assembly president in agreement and with the support of the president of the state, Aleksandr Vukic, the dialogue is being conducted on both tracks, on two lines as we say, because this is a process from which you cannot exclude any political party. You must listen to her, suggestions and suggestions from all political parties, and this way shows one objectivity and impartiality during the inter-party dialogue and during the dialogue on this, as we say, second round with representatives of political parties who do not want to talk to European parliamentarians. I think, in all of this, with the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Ivica Dacic, it is important to have Alexander Vukic as someone who is currently a factor in political stability in Serbia. I think it is important that on this track talks be led in a democratic spirit, that there is one threshold of political tolerance, political culture, but it is also important, that a high degree of political responsibility is shown in the sense that the president of the state, for the first time the president of the state, has not, so far, not been the situation and the case in parliament when it comes to some who have served as president of the state, that he has discussed national and state issues directly before the Assembly itself. So, on Kosovo and Metohija, the issue of Republika Srpska and if it is individual opposition, call it, the media, I don't want to share the media, but definitely the opposition media, tried to make fun of and that part of the opposition that wanted to talk and who showed a responsible and serious relationship, performances as someone who co-operates with power. It is a classic misunderstanding, a lack of policy, a lack of understanding of the importance of national and national interests, because when it comes to national and national interests, citizens expect us to have a responsible and serious relationship. Citizens expect us to reach a consensus on this matter. So, today's debate is addressed, as I said, to important issues, it is the Code of Conduct of People's MPs that we adopted, as Mr Martinovic said in the opening statement, in December 2020, which we are now changing to further specify and supplement some of the provisions in order to bring the contents of the Code, as acts of the prescribed standards of behaviour of MPs, into line with recommendations and suggestions of GRECO. It is about the suggestions contained in the report on Serbia for the fourth round of evaluation, or if we were to translate the word "evaluation" into Serbian, it would be a periodic report on the effectiveness of the application of this act establishing the ethical principles of the behaviour of the MPs as a representative of the people in the highest body of the legislative authority. What is the fundamental obligation of the MPs of the people, and we have discussed this exhaustively when adopting the Code, is to act in a way that will strengthen the integrity and reputation of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and strengthen confidence in this highest body of constitutional and legislative authority. We discussed this occasion and the state of respect for the Rules of Procedure, the influence of the media on the creation of a public picture of the National Assembly, and we looked at the parliamentary duty from different angles, first of all from the corners of constitutional powers of the National Assembly and the constitutional fact that MPs cannot be sanctioned for their opinions, but also from the aspect of unethical, not quite, and even the illegal behaviour of certain parliamentarians. For example, we have talked about this, the introduction of the flag of another state into parliament, which cannot be compared with the right to make personal and political views in parliament. Some would be happy to replace these too if at that time in the National Assembly and warnings of breach of order in the National Assembly were a violation of their right to declare their position, such situations were sufficient in the 30-year practice of multi-party in Serbia. We need the Code of Conduct of People's MPs in spite of our belief that for the past 30 years, the political awareness of participants in political processes and us as legislators had to contain, to mature, to realize that, regardless of the different, often the totally opposite attitudes, we do not have to act as enemies, but as political non-insistents who can lead dialogue and facts defend their political views and the facts of defending their political programmes. We don't have to use or inspire hate speech as a political narrative. We do not have to insult each other, because both of us, more precisely all of us MPs, belong to the position or belong to the opposition, we are representatives of the citizens, and we must be dignified and safeguard the reputation of the National Assembly, as well as our personal reputation as MPs, because citizens recognize us and judge us not only by the political attitudes and ideas that we express for the assembly speaker, but also by the way we do it – whether we are ethical, whether we are toleranced, whether there is a language of hatred in our address and how much we actually respect each other. That's why it's important that we bring the Code of Conduct to the Members of the People. So we started with the rules of our own behavior, because as legislators, we must be an example to everyone else, to all other public function holders at all levels. That fact gives us an even greater right than the legal right to require other public office holders, especially those chosen by the National Assembly and supervised by their work, that they too act exactly in accordance with the codes of the profession, perform their public functions in accordance with the positive regulations of our country. Ethics in public functions are as important as responsibility itself. The line between the ethical code and respect for the law is thin, if that's what you might say. Ethics, i.e. morals in public function, is also a public picture of the government, of the state, of the creators of public policy, of those who conduct this policy. In one word, anyone's public air, breaking the law, corruptiveness, often throws a shadow at all of us and affects a reduction of trust. Just to achieve the opposite effect in public, just to show that we are responsible representatives of the people, we want to strengthen our own responsibility with this Codex. It is precisely in the direction of further strengthening our responsibility as MPs, the already adopted Code of Procedure, which we are talking about today, that part of the changes are procedural and legal-technical nature, while the second section refers to the introduction of sanctions for non-compliance with the Code, which is rounding this legal act into an applicable legal continent. Amendments to the Code specify the composition, the number of members of the Ethics Commission, the mandate of the members of the Commission, and the proposals are also defined, Mr Martinovic spoke in the opening statement. These seem to have an essential character, because it should be professional, impartial and effective, since it has been suspected that there may be a conflict of interest, so it is also specified that MPs cannot be members of this Commission. Another important amendment to the Code refers to the introduction of sanctions for infringements committed by MPs in contempt of the code of ethics. These are fines that MPs will pay if the Commission finds that they have broken the code. The fines as an integral part of the disciplinary measures are already contained in the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly and relate to the disturbance of order at the National Assembly session, so that these fines from the Code are essentially accompanied by already existing measures from the Rules of Procedure. Finally, when it comes to the Code of Procedure, I would say that it is an essential proof of democracy, but also of the responsibility of the legislative authority that first imposes on itself the penalties for unethical behaviour in the National Assembly, the highest representative of citizens. So, as we spoke in the opening statement when we adopted the Ethics Code we clearly said – we have a Rules of Procedure on the work that is arranged within the prey, we have regulations that are also arranged to work within the prey, but the ethical Code regulates the rules of conduct and out of Parliament because we are MPs and representatives of citizens and outside of this building, and not only in this room. Of course, these changes and additions will have the support of the SPS Parliamentary Group. When it comes to the second draft law, which is the bill on amendments and additions to the Anti-Corruption Act, we can take an integral view of it with the First Point, or the Code. Why? Because significant parts of the change relate to preventing conflicts of interest in the exercise of public functions, and the parliamentary function is essentially one of the most significant public functions. If we return to the definition of corruption, which in the broadest sense represents any abuse of position by a civil servant or a person performing a certain public function, which aims to obtain personal or material benefits, then it is clear how important anti-corruption laws and state measures are to treat this serious disease of our society. Corruption that is not recognised, nor sanctioned can thoroughly destroy the legal system and order of a state and produce inconspicuous consequences for the state's interest, both in general and in national security. The diseases of modern societies, called corruption, and its suppression at national and global level, we have spoken many times so far in the National Assembly. We have passed several anti-corruption laws relating to many areas of social life, all with the aim of curbing this vicious phenomenon that is present in all the pores of society. At the global level, corruption is linked to even more dangerous phenomena, such as money laundering and terrorism, which is also fed from corrupt and illegal behaviours. The most dangerous dimension of corruption for a country is political corruption, whose prevention in Serbia is sanctioned by the law on the prevention of corruption. Political corruption is defined as the use or abuse of power by state and government officials, public officials, and officials of influence for the purpose of obtaining illegal personal gain by overruling authority or trade in influence. We know that the forms of corruption can be different, from evidently visible, but also those hard to prove. These are bribes, extortion, nepotism, patronage, political party financing to ensure personal impact on public policies, use of positions and political influence in someone's name in exchange for money, etc. Unfortunately, there are many more and more forms of corruption, because those who work through corruption are constantly innovating their corruption agenda. In 2019, Serbia passed a new Law on the Prevention of Corruption, which is in line with communal law and corruption in this area, as well as general crime and know the borders, and stop in familiar forms. In 2019, the law we were innovating is aimed at protecting public interest by preventing all forms of corruption and corruption by public authorities. Therefore, the goal and strengthening confidence in the state and strengthening public authorities' responsibilities is precisely through the recognition and sanctioning of corrupt behaviour and changes and additions to this law, which are ahead of us, to contribute to further improving the legal framework in the area of preventing corruption in Serbia. In addition, by adopting the proposed amendments and additions, we also fulfill our obligation to GRECO, i.e. According to the Group of the Council of Europe to fight corruption, and we know that the Republic of Serbia is a member of GRECO. These changes also specify the very concept of corruption by defining the relationship that arises by using the official or social position or influence to obtain unauthorized benefits for themselves or others. This definition puts an accent on obtaining unauthorised benefit. A significant change is the new legal obligation of public officials to provide mandatory information on cash, valuables, digital assets, mobile items worth more than 5,000 euros when registering property at the time of entry, i.e. at the end of public office. Also, the proposed changes and additions are proposed that when a public function requires full-time work, there is no possibility of performing another job or activity without the consent of the Anti-Corruption Agency. The amendments to the law also increase the minimum amount of fines threatened from 50 to 100,000 dinars in criminal provisions. Amendments to the law introduce a new criminal offence, which is a case of non-reporting income or giving false information. So far, this crime has been about property only, and now it includes income. This crime has been threatened by a prison sentence of six months to five years. When it comes to legal persons, it is an obligation to inform the Agency of the prevention of corruption on these matters for all privatisation procedures of public procurement where legal persons in which public officials have actions or ownership interests. So far, this has been set by a 20% limit, and that means that below that percentage there was no reporting obligation. A good solution to these amendments is also a new criterion for selecting the director of the Anti-Corruption Agency, which is to possess special knowledge and experience in the area of preventing corruption. This standard will certainly affect even more professional and more responsible non-biased work of the Agency whose job can be called the legal defence against corruption. In general, the law itself and the changes that we are talking about today aim to minimise corruption or how we usually say zero tolerance towards a pathological phenomenon called corruption. Of course, this legislative proposal will also have the support of the SPS parliamentary group in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-21-0.u9292	Thank you. The word has the power of representatives of the Electoral Group Aleksandar Vučić – For our children, National MP Jelena Žarić Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-21-0.u9293	Thank you very much, Your Honor, for giving me your word. Dear Mrs Popovic, Mr Vins, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, we have heard today many times what we are discussing and what is on the agenda today, so I will immediately begin with the draft law on amendments and additions to the Anti-Corruption Act. Therefore, the Anti-Corruption Act, as we know, was adopted in 2019 and entered into force on 1 September 2020 and in relation to the provisions which then applied and regulated this area, which were the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Agency Act, is now the Anti-Corruption Agency, indeed has newspapers that are actually serious movements in regulation above all the status and authority of the Anti-Corruption Agency, but also conflicts of interest, obligations affecting officials and restrictions that apply after the termination of public office. The deadlines for the emergency reporting of assets and revenues have been amended. The criteria for drawing up the annual asset verification plan have been introduced. When it comes to sanctions, we can also notice that we are talking about fines, but also punishment for six months to five years for those public officials who gave false information about their assets, which in that case will cease their function and will not be able to perform a function for the next 10 years. As you know, the Council of Europe has formed a group of countries to fight corruption, so-called GRECO, more specifically in 1999, and their goal is to oversee the implementation of the Council of Europe Conventions, or the harmonisation of the legislation of the Member States with the anti-corruption standards proposed by the Council of Europe. The basic idea is to improve Member States' capacity to fight corruption more effectively, identify shortcomings in national legislative solutions and speed up the necessary changes. Serbia, as we know, is a member of GRECA, and in line with that, we as a state must meet our obligations and introduce standards in the field of fighting corruption. Thus, the Anti-Corruption Act was the subject of the evaluation of their experts and, on the one hand, it was concluded that it was in line with the recommendations already made, but on the other hand, we also received new recommendations for the improvement of the legislative framework in this area, so that the law could be applied without a problem in full capacity. For this reason, today we have a draft law on amendments to the Law on the Prevention of Corruption, to introduce amendments that will actually be the implementation of Recommendation 12, which GRECO gave us. First of all, the concept of corruption in terms of the law is defined by the term being defined as a relationship resulting from the use of official or social position or influence in order to obtain unauthorized benefits for itself or for others. The proposal also regulates the performance of other work or activity by public officials during public function. It shall also specify the competences of the agencies relating to the granting of consent to the public functionor for the performance of other work or activity, as well as the Agency's powers to set a deadline for public officials to cease to carry out a particular business or activity if it is found to be a threat to the impartial exercise or reputation of public function, or if it is found to constitute a conflict of interest. What would be important is to identify a circle of legal persons who have the obligation to report to a particular data agency, by now extending it to legal persons in which a public official or a member of a public official's family is working, during a public function and two years from its termination, in which he has a share or action, who participates in the procurement or privatisation process or in any other procedure whose conclusion of a contract with the public authority is the outcome. For the purpose of greater transparency, it is also prescribed to keep specific records by the Agency on the legal persons concerned, as well as public availability of data from that record. There are some more details about public officials, the behaviour of public officials, and I absolutely agree with the proposal sent by the Ministry of Justice, because in this way not only will we meet the obligations we have and the recommendations given by GRECO, but we will also show that we are ready as public officials who, note, are normal, at this point we are mostly from the ruling coalition, so that we are prepared as public officials for a high degree of transparency and that we are ready to abide by the law. This will provide, I believe, and that greater transparency, I believe, and greater trust of citizens, because citizens will have insight into the records that are public and concerning property and the behaviour of officials at all. On the other hand, I do not know whether GRECO takes into account the conduct of the Anti-Corruption Agency and would it be acceptable for GRECO that certain employees of the Anti-Corruption Agency, for example, do not distinguish between earnings and travel expenses, i.e. the costs of transport for MPs, since I am aware that certain procedures have been conducted in the Agency itself, and some infringement procedures, and would there possibly be some recommendation of GREC which would refer to, for example, public officials not to the Agency as being related to someone who wants to hide their assets? I think that these relations between public officials and the Anti-Corruption Agency should be improved, I agree that we should work on that as public officials, but also employees of the Agency, above all, by taking over certain obligations, by willing to take over certain obligations, by following the law, by respecting the provisions that we have, among other things, supported here, and by actually helping us to meet these obligations. I think it's very easy to distinguish a functioner who wants to hide his property from a functioner who doesn't want to hide his property, because he won't have any intention of falsely reporting his property. I also believe that when we are aware of all these facts and we realize that together we are stronger on the road to fighting corruption, that it will be easier for all of us, and for the employees of the Corruption Prevention Agency, who will do their job easier and more effectively, and for us to report what the law requires of us. I am certainly of the view that between the word "functioner" and "corruption" does not necessarily stand a sign of equality, or I am quite sure that at least that it should not be, but, on the other hand, there are those and those where this sign of equality is obvious should be processed without any delay. Even if someone does not earn money in a suspicious way, when there are no such indications, does the Anti-Corruption Agency care about where someone gets a car, a jeep or any other, of 100,000 euros? Or is interest selective? In this context, I believe that Serbian citizens should also be informed of such cases, i.e. such actions by the Anti-Corruption Agency. Whether it's a public official or not, because I guess we're all trying to be on the same track together, to stop crime and corruption in all segments of society, and whether or not its public function has ceased, is it good in those cases that the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption is working with all other state bodies? With that in mind, I would like to remind you that there are also those who used to exercise power and perform their functions, which we know or can assume or know from the media that they were really in the service of suspicious acquisition of property benefits, and we didn't get official confirmation from the Agency whether or not their assets were being questioned. You assume that at this point I will mention Dragan Gilas to whom I think and this whole crew of his who exercised power during a certain period, first in Belgrade, for which many multimillion-dollar affairs from which citizens did not come out full pockets, but remained damaged for the money that was pumped out of the budget. The budget money could have been used for many other things, for various infrastructure projects, to create municipal travel, rail or any traffic infrastructure, kindergartens, cultural institutions or anything else that Belgrade citizens would benefit from. Unfortunately, most of that money ended up in the pockets of people who were then in public office, who were close to Dragan Gilas. Why am I now able to say this openly here in Parliament? Because we were reading, listening, and being informed through the media that many of his associates had been processed. The question for the Agency is, of course, again - whether and to what extent their assets were being checked during the period when they were in office, but also later. We would like to hear that as well as the MPs, as well as the citizens of Serbia who are damaged by the illegal behaviour of public officials in that period. What's good at this point is that there are no more protected or at least no more to the extent that they've been before. The party's book is no longer a way out of criminal or any other responsibility. The Serbian Progressive Party has shown this many times since 2012, until today, when it has taken over power even today when it exercises power at full capacity. I believe that justice will be brought to justice by all those who may have slipped through the money pump so far in the way I mentioned earlier. You could always hear from the MPs that we are calling on the state authorities, that we are supporting state authorities to do their job at full capacity, because crime and corruption depend on Serbia's progress, and we are absolutely aware of that. As I have already stated, we have shown this in 2012 by coming to the power of the SNS, that fighting corruption is a strategic goal. We immediately set out to adopt strategies, to adopt action plans, to correct our legislation, because what we are talking about today is not only the mere fulfillment of GRECO recommendations or to comply with the rules applicable in EU countries, but also the improvement of our legislation so that citizens and businesses can be sure that they live and work in a country where there is no danger of the consequences of corruption. I also want to commend, not because you are here, Mrs Popovic, but I really want to commend the work of the Ministry of Justice and the commitment that you and your team show, with the aim of making the reform as good as possible, and we all know that it is done primarily for Serbia's citizens. Today we are also talking about the Code of Conduct of Members of the People. When it comes to the Code of Conduct of People's MPs, the Code of passage of the National Assembly passed last December. Moreover, GRECO has evaluated the process of adopting the Code and content, and in this respect we have Recommendation 2, which concludes that the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs is working on the draft Code of Conduct of Members of the People's Parliaments, but that this is closely related to the recently adopted Law on Lobbying and the Law on the Prevention of Corruption. Today on the agenda we have a proposal to amend and supplement the Codex. After the adoption, he will, of course, be re-evaluated. It is also expected to be accompanied by certain acts, in the light of guidelines, guidelines for the organisation through which MPs should go, etc. So, just like the chairman of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs, Mr Aleksandar Martinovic said, the changes proposed should be adopted. They should be adopted in order to meet the recommendations of GRECO as the bodies of the Council of Europe dealing with the fight against corruption and so that we can expect a positive assessment in the Codex-related work in October. We received recommendations from experts from GRECO who the next day, I suppose, will also participate in giving an opinion, whether we met their criteria and implemented their recommendations as planned. The recommendation GRECO refers to the provision of guidelines for the resolution and exit of situations that involve, above all, conflict of interest, but also implies that the text of the Codex itself is made public and accessible to citizens who want to know about the Codex. Another important thing is to enable the effective application of the Code in practice, which first implies meeting the MPs with the standards they must adhere to by the rules and will appear through different educations, seminars and training. It also points out the great importance of the Ethics Commission to be responsible for adopting a guide for applying the Code of Conduct of People's MPs, to determine the way in which the principles and standards will be implemented, I say, which the MPs must adhere to, and the accent, as far as I could see from the very text of the Code, is being cast into the conflict of interest. This will improve the conditions for the ethical treatment of MPs in different situations. In the proposal ahead of us, we can see what the composition of the Ethics Committee will be, which is its competence, we can also see the proposal for measures to be envisaged in the event of an infringement of the Code of Ethics by the MPs. All of this, of course, has been proposed in line with the recommendations of the Council of Europe expert team, namely GRECO with the aim of obtaining a positive opinion and, of course, within the framework of the Eurointegration process in which Serbia is located and in the context of meeting international obligations and harmonising with EU rules. This is how we raise the level of political culture in parliament and we are one of the few countries that will have this code and apply it. I suggest we adopt this Code, because debates in the tide will be more polite, therefore more constructive, regardless of which political option they belong.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-21-0.u9294	Thank you. Dear People's MPs, before we continue to work, allow me to welcome in your personal name a delegation of the Parliament Assembly of Francophony, which is visiting the Republic of Serbia from 20 to 22 September this year, and which follows a part of today's session. Please welcome our esteemed guests. Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-21-0.u9295	Thank you, Mrs. Kovac. I will take the opportunity to welcome our distinguished guests and continue my presentation. While we are in the field of meeting the obligations that we have taken as a state, and this is the topic in question, I would like you as chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and President of the Working Group for the Making of so-called. constitutional amendments, let the public know about the course of the procedure, but also to clarify certain dilemmas that have occurred in individual media, individual politicians or perhaps citizens. What's most important, and that's why I want to say it at the very beginning is that the changes, constitutional changes, relate exclusively to the area of justice. So, the changes we propose in no way apply to the status of Kosovo and Metohija, neither to the territorial integrity or sovereignty of our country nor to human rights, especially to the abolition of human rights or to any other area governed by the Constitution. So it is exclusively about the introduction of amendments that our judicial system will fix, the judiciary will bring it closer to the citizens, further away from any political influence, but it will bring us closer to the EU on our accession path. The second thing I want to stress is that all the work and all the responsibility, of course, is on the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, regardless of what is meant for the MPs, so it is understood that this is our job that I want to take the opportunity to thank the members and deputies of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Affairs for showing above all great interest, but also commitment and an exceptional amount of seriousness throughout this process. The Committee has also formed a Working Group for amending the Constitution and draft constitutional law, which makes up a working group of prominent experts, and this Working Group has sat down 13 times so far. As much as it is about the changes that concern the profession, which is why we have formed the Working Group, we still need to be aware of a certain political moment if we are talking about the Committee on Constitutional and Issues and on this side, considering this political moment, we have shown that we are committed to the work that should bring us a better quality judiciary, but of course at a certain point and a positive opinion of the Venice Commission. In that sense, I can say that I am also quite certain that we have met all the criteria that have been put before us. I would like to say that I am pleased with the degree of transparency and inclusion, the degree and manner of communication of the highest public on the proposed changes, because, as we said at the very beginning of the procedure, we need the broadest social consensus on issues concerning all Serbian citizens and on which the last word will be given to the citizens of Serbia in the referendum. Given the role of the Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives Committee, I would like to point out for the public that the Committee is responsible for the establishment of a working group, for maintaining public hearing, both in the House of the National Assembly, here in Belgrade and in other cities. Therefore, no other Constitution or Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly are authorised to conduct public debates. We are public debates, or so on. Public hearings were conducted in two circles, in Belgrade, here at the House of the National Assembly in Nis, Kragujevac and Novi Sad. You will now allow me to refer to some and concrete changes, i.e., very briefly to say that the provisions of the Constitution should, if of course, be brought to an end successfully. I note, and that the text which has been discussed in public hearings is still subject to change, that is, the Committee has not adopted the final draft of the Treaty amending the Constitution, precisely because we wanted to make the most public involved, and to put in place all those good ideas, constructive proposals and to sum up all the objections we have received in public hearings. So, as you know, in addition to the moment at which the profession rules, there is a certain political moment, where we can say that we were ready for the National Assembly to no longer elect judges who were first elected to the judge's office, nor the presidents of the courts. We also talked about the composition of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, which will have 11 members, as there are 11 members now, but it should be made by six judges, elected by judges. So judges choose between themselves for the High Council of the judiciary and five prominent lawyers elected by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, that is the only thing to say, the intervention of the National Assembly in selecting these five prominent lawyers, but we have also provided for certain criteria for prominent lawyers, so that, practically, the National Assembly will not be able to choose anyone, so to speak, to be a member of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, and in particular it will not be representatives of political parties or political organisations. According to some of the changes that we have made, and as far as the judges are concerned, so have we had some changes concerning the prosecutors, and we have made some effort to bring everything into line with those provisions of the Constitution that are in force now, but that will apply after these changes, because it has been very difficult for us to fit everything that is in force now, but it will continue to apply after these constitutional amendments, if we bear in mind that we do not change the whole constitution, we are changing only one part of it, and in that sense we have to keep a lot of account. As far as the Constitutional Law is concerned, in the amendments to the Constitutional Law, perhaps the political moment has taken place because it was necessary to set deadlines in which constitutional amendments, deadlines for the adoption of other laws to be passed following the application of the constitutional amendments and of this Constitutional Law. Well, considering we're in the election year, we've left your deadlines a little longer. What I would like in terms of constitutional changes and draft constitutional law...
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-21-0.u9296	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-21-0.u9297	I will continue, two, three minutes from the time of the parliamentary group. Thank you. What I would particularly point out in terms of constitutional changes and draft constitutional law at this point is that there will be no re-election, but bodies such as the Supreme Council of the judiciary, or the State Major Prosecutors, or the High Council of Prosecutors and Judges elected will continue to perform their duties. I remind you, this does not look like anything at all, and let alone, that the reform that took place in the judiciary in 2009, and which, again, I will point out, the Democratic Party has put away, replaced, expelled, deployed, persecuted, whatever you want, its political insinuators, is already the real reform of the judiciary, which repairs the work of the judges themselves, but also the attitude towards the citizens. In many things, we have shown the difference between the previous government and the government, which is primarily led by the SNS, and we have reached the area of justice in which we have also shown a huge difference. Because of all the advances I have made, I call on my fellow Members and fellow Members of the People to support both the Code and the Bill on Complementary Law on the Prevention of Corruption, because I think this is the right way to go, if we take into account all the results we've been doing behind us for the past years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-21-0.u9298	Thank you. Since there are no more authorised representatives or presidents of parliamentary groups reported, we are moving on to the list of speakers. The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-21-0.u9299	I thank you, Your Honor, the President. Dear Minister, respected colleagues, Serbian citizens, I am Milija Miletic, coming from Svrljig, it is the most beautiful municipality in Serbia, located near the town of Nis, which is the most beautiful city in Serbia. By the way, here in the Assembly, I represent the United Peasant Party, and I have been selected from the list of Alexander Vukic-For our children. As so far, I will talk about all the things that matter to all the people who matter and who live in the village, and from the villages living in southeastern Serbia, but first of all, the most important thing for all of us is that we who are here and who represent the people, here in the Assembly as MPs, we are a real example of host behavior and respect for everything that is worth it, and that we do not allow them to behave in the way that we do not like it. Today, these bill proposals, specifically for the code of conduct, for the conflict of interest and for everything that we should behave in the way that every man here in the Assembly, as an MP, is an example to every citizen he represents, and that in every place we behave like that, and that I will normally be a USS MP, to support all these bill proposals, because I think this is necessary, and I think it is very important that here in the Assembly, all of us who are here acting in a way that is fitting to represent our country, our citizens, were these people from Svrlig, Nis, Prepolje, Novi Sad, Subotica, Belgrade. We are all here and the same task is that through speech, through objections, through amendments, we can make the laws right, that all those who live on Serbia's territory, feel better, and normally, we have to be an example. This is specifically what Professor Fleischman is. Martinovic suggested, regarding the code, it is very important, because of all of us here and in every place I try to be who I am, and to represent myself as a normal man, which I am, as a man who is a parent, who has children, as a man who respects both his parents and every neighbor and everyone he meets and respects. One of the important things is that this is the largest number of us doing the same, but there are some MPs who have been to the Assembly before, who have acted inappropriately, in a way that doesn't seem like anyone here to behave in the Assembly. It's because of people like that that we have to change the code of conduct, where certain sanctions for behavior must be imposed, because it's the only cure, that someone who doesn't do what's wrong, that it's sanctioned. As for all of us who are involved in politics, and I have had certain activities since 2004, and I have been vice president of the municipality, I have been president of the municipality, I am now an MP in the third term. I wish at all times that all my assets could be checked, everything I did, everything I had to do to be an example, and so does our president, Mr. Vukic, who, by his example, wanted to show how to do, on my case, to see how a man who works in public office, who has certain citizens' trust, and that trust must never play out. I'm ready at all times to answer all those things that matter. Normally, everything I've done can be checked at any moment, my opinion is that we have to be honest, we have to do our job honestly, anywhere we can. When it comes to the veterinary station, as a veterinary technician and there I was responsible, when I was also a deputy, when I was president of the municipality, and then I was responsible, and also as an MP, because I work in the interests of the citizens, in the interests of people who live in both Srlig, Nis and in southeast Serbia, in all Serbia, and in the first place, people living in the country and from the village, these are our agricultural producers, who we have to put more attention to, who we have to provide better conditions and I say that everywhere, in every place I speak, and I am trying to show by example that this is necessary. One of the important things, as far as this law and everything else is concerned, is that those who have violated the law, where they have been found to have violated the law, can, in addition to being sanctioned financially, be held accountable, and normally they are interrupted both by the function and for the next 10 years cannot deal with politics. All those who are here, MPs in every place, we must be pure cheeks, we must behave responsibly, domestically, and that is the only rule that we must obey here. Once again, distinguished citizens of Serbia, I will vote in favour of the bill, because it is necessary, once again, as an MP, I will always be an example of what needs to be done, because we who are there must be an example for everyone. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-21-0.u9300	Thank you. The time foreseen for your parliamentary group has been spent. The word has a folk MP, Vladan Glisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-21-0.u9301	The laws should be improved, but it is not enough to improve the laws if you have a corrupt elite that does not apply the laws or as the late Zeljko Cvianovic called it - the scum of the elite. Talk about what needs to be prevented in corruption in Serbia and how much corruption should be sanctioned makes sense and legal action should be done. But corruption has one moral dimension, which should also be held in mind. This implies that someone to whom a certain group of people has given trust to protect and represent her, to defend her interests and to sell her own personal and selfish petty interest above the interests of the community. Our people these days are suffering the consequences of two moral acts of corruption, which put us in a position to ask the question - are we going to survive as a community? One of these acts is the Brussels Agreement, signed in 2013. The Brussels Agreement allowed a group of people to remain in power, because it gave those in Kosovo an occupation so that they could conduct the occupation peacefully and that no one would interfere with them, that Belgrade would not, above all, interfere with them. Of course, honesty is the opposite of corruption. An honest man is a decent man. Also, a solid man is contrary to corruption, but those who force the colonial and occupation order into this space, in the KIM occupation, in the rest of Serbia, colonially do not like honest people and therefore this corruption that has spread to Serbia is encouraged by those who have been conducting both the colonial order and the occupation of Serbia for 20 years. So we come to a situation where this Brussels Agreement which implies the support of the occupier that he can take over the KIM territory in peace has his own pandan in the ruling of the Supreme Casation Court today, i.e. These days, which banks are allowed to continue robbing our people by making up expenses they haven't shown. Thus, 250,000 of our citizens will be damaged, so 90m euros will further rob banks, primarily foreign banks. I want him to be naive, and I want to assume that the regime didn't want these two corrupt acts, that I believe that the Brussels Agreement was signed because we wanted to show that we're cooperative, that we're not stubborn, that we're not a destabilisation factor, but a stabilisation in the Balkans, and I want to believe that it took you nine years to realize that what we're applying, and the other side isn't applying anything is something that isn't normal. But what you prove that you have been deceived is what you are about to do now and what the Security Council of our country has been bringing at these times is part of the measures to be taken. However, a lot of face-washing for the Brussels Agreement would be the annulment of the whole agreement, as the other party applied it not once, in any segment, to declare all the measures already in place and all those segments of our state and social life on KIM, which had already been handed over to Pristina and the occupier, which means neither we agreed or surrendered, but they took. The declaration of a person non gratuitous, Mr. Lajcak and the like that that stirs down and encourages Pristina to do, what it does, these are measures that would be in line with the National Flag and National Unity Day and the parade we had in Belgrade, because without it it will all be sad and ugly. Parading in Belgrade and Serbia, and this is how to react to shamares from Pristina, is something that puts us all in a position to feel humiliated. As far as the Supreme Cassation Court and the judges we can't really react to, so neither can you, there's another option that can be done, which is to return the tax to the banking services that's been abolished, so that we can pay dearly from the banks what they're going to rob from our people, because I guess before the elections, because it's 250,000 voters and your voters, that you'll find a way to damage those people's budgets, but then let's get the banks to fill that budget. With these two measures, you would have shown that you were deceived and that you were not associates of the occupiers, but associates of your people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-21-0.u9302	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-21-0.u9303	Thank you. I've come forward as a representative of the promoter. Ladies and gentlemen of the people, a fellow who spoke before me has actually done what he is accusing us of, and he is the one who is itching from Belgrade, he is the one who would from Belgrade defend Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, he is the one who would declares from Belgrade Miroslav Lajcak a persona non grat, but it is all from Belgrade. It is he who would say that KFOR is again an occupation in Kosovo and Metohija from Belgrade, and is calling for Resolution 1244, as the country of Serbia is otherwise urged to do so. Under resolution 1244, KFOR is not an occupation in Kosovo and Metohija, but a military mission under the auspices of the United Nations. Now the fundamental question here is whether we should go into conflict with the whole world or do what the President of the Republic is doing for almost the third day, which is that the wise, cold heads are rationally making decisions that, on the one hand, are in the best interest of the Republic of Serbia as a state, and on the other hand, in the interest of the Serbian people who are in Kosovo and Metohija, unfortunately, less and less. What we heard from a colleague who spoke before me is one policy of national adventure, one policy of easy making promises and one policy that has no responsibility towards the state and the people. We've experienced that policy many times through history. We also experienced this policy in 2008 and 2011. My colleague seems to have forgotten about it. In 2008, those who accuse us today of betraying Kosovo and Metohija, when Albanians brought the Declaration of Declaration of Declaration of Independence, the President of the Republic of Boris Tadic fled to Romania, to the official visit to Romania, on the day of the so-called February 17, 2008. The Republic of Kosovo, and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, was otherwise the second government, if I am not mistaken, Vojislav Kostunica, who also supported his counterpart, made two strategic important decisions for the state of Serbia and for the Serb people in Kosovo and Metohija, expelled two ambassadors, Montenegrin and Macedonian. Then why didn't you declare the people of the EU a persone non grata? Then why didn't you declare KFOR commander a non grat person? Then why didn't you declare Katherine Ashton a persona non grata? Why didn't you declare Ollie Ren? Now I forgot what the European officials were called at the time, but in 2021 you remembered that Aleksandar Vukic should declare Miroslav Lajcak a perrosive non grat. Okay, come on, we'll declare him a person non grata, but tell me what's your alternative to solving the current situation in Kosovo and Metohija? There's no alternative. The alternative is in the Serbian Parliament -- I'm a Serb, you're all the other traitors, and when I get out of the Assembly, I don't care about Kosovo and Metohija and the people who live downstairs and how they're going to cross the administrative line and so on, and Aleksandar Vucic stays with that problem and when this session is over, as he lived with that problem for two days before you even found out that there's a problem there, because he found out about the problem first and acted immediately, but he didn't react in this way that you want the state to react, to fail everything. No, we want the state of Serbia to remain stable, and at the same time we have an effective solution to the situation that currently exists in Kosovo and Metohija. Now, as far as the second part of your presentation is concerned, I'm not sure if you've acted as a MP or as a lawyer, and I'm not sure if you've returned to that original ideological commitment of yours, which is the definition of Dimitri Ljotic that the National Assembly should be standing, so that there are lawyers, teachers, teachers, doctors, farmers, and so on, and not the MPs who represent the entire people? I think you're back to your roots and now you're acting as a lawyer, but come on, you've been acting as a lawyer, and you have to live on something, and I have nothing against it, and I understand it's your primary profession, but you've misquoted the opinion of the Supreme Cassation Court about so-called. Bank fees, i.e. in other words, for the so-called the costs of the processing of the credit. So, the position of the Supreme Cassation Court is not as you put it, but here and there and on that subject you try to point by scaring the people, by scaring the citizens. That's what some of you have done before, but it's a bad strategy. That's what the Democratic Party people tried to do, so the Democratic Party failed, so Bosko Obradovic tried to do it, and it failed and many tried to do it. You are now scaring the people that Vucic is allegedly a servant of foreign bankers who will rob Serbian citizens. Who destroyed the domestic banks? Did she destroy the government of Alexander Wolfich? No, they destroyed some who ruled until 2012. Did Vukic bring foreign banks to the Serbian financial market? No, they were brought by some others, but it was us who passed the laws that clearly laid down the rules for what banks in Serbia should do and what they should not do. Until then, as far as financial capital is concerned, the state of wild capitalism has ruled in Serbia. The banks did what they wanted. Not to mention another problem that you kept quiet, which is that the state or the Autonomous province formed banks that should have been developed but only for the Democratic Party, not for the citizens. You remember a bank from Novi Sad that used to fund the Democratic Party whenever the election campaign came. And then the gentlemen of the Democratic Party appeared, of course now the Democratic Party has scattered in several aggregate states, but they all came from the Democratic Party. I'm listening to Dragan Gilas the other day, and I'm listening to Janko Veselinović, so I don't know who else. the leader of the opposition, he says – and you buy the votes of the people, so the SNS wins the elections, and they invented the purchase of votes, they invented the financing of elections through the Capital Investment Fund, through the Vojvodine Development Bank, through who knows what financial institutions... (Marian Risticevic: Tesla Bank.) ) So you went one step further, so Bojan Pajtic, here, reminds me of my colleague Risticevic, founded Tesla Bank in Zagreb, so that the authorities don't come to terms with it, so that Zagreb finances the Democratic Party campaign here in Serbia and you knew it all, you supported it all in your time, and then you showed up in 2021, we forgot everything, nothing happened here, Alexander Vukic works for the occupier, use... You're supposed to be an anti-communist, but you're using the word OZNA. We are traitors, co-workers of the occupiers. What else are we? What kind of occupier are we working with? Who occupied us? Are we doing absolutely everything possible to preserve peace in Serbia, to preserve peace for Serbs living in Kosovo and Metohija? You're saying it's in the spirit of the National Flag and National Unity Day to wage war with the whole world, to declare Miroslav Lajcak a persona non grata, and I don't know what to do. And do you know who thought so? People like you on March 27th 1941 – let us carry out a military coup, to bring down the government, now we will show Hitler how strong we are. So, what did they do? Moving people nice on several planes, went to Athens first, from Athens to Jerusalem, from Jerusalem to Cairo, from Cairo to London and spent the entire war in London. The powder didn't smell. So would you, so would Dragan Djilas, so would Vuk Jeremic, so would many others - war, let's go after Kosovo and Metohija, traitors, co-operate with the occupier. None of you will move from Belgrade, absolutely none, and the problems we face today have anything to do with the Brussels Agreement. Those problems made you know who? The one who changed his name, Borislav Borko Stefanovic, Vuk Jeremic. Vuk Jeremic was foreign minister. Borko Stefanovic was, at the time, called the director of the foreign ministry. He was paraphrasing and signing all the agreements that we're teething about today. So they did it. He didn't do it with Alexander Wolfie's Brussels deal. The Brussels Agreement is good for Serbs because it foresees a community of Serb municipalities, and it is not formed not by the fault of Alexander Vukic, but by the guilt of the unreasonable people in Pristina who are doing this bear service and their own people, Albanians living in Kosovo and Metohija, because if this tight situation continues, you will suffer severe economic consequences because of the opposition of the state of Serbia, but so it is when you have unreasonable people on the other side. That's why it's good for Serbia to have Alexander Vukic, not for people who think like my distinguished colleague. Now, imagine you have unreasonable people... You have unreasonable people in Pristina, but you have unreasonable people in Belgrade. Well, that's a mess on the pier. It is a general breakdown of the system in the Balkans, but it is good that we have the President of the Republic who is the opposite of these hotheads in Pristina and not reacting in the way you advise him, adventurous, but a man put his finger to the head, thought carefully and thought well about what needs to be done, to preserve the interests of the Serbian state and to preserve a peaceful life and a peaceful day and a peaceful night for Serbs living in Kosovo and Metohija. And as for your clients, since you're a lawyer, I don't mind you representing them in court, charging your expenses and defending them from these hate banks, but it would be good and it would be correct, it would be in line with the legal ethics that at least that position, or the opinion of the Supreme Court of Cassation, say in the Serbian Parliament as it really does, because it has nothing to do with what you said.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-21-0.u9304	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go. (Vladan Glisic: Replica. He didn't come directly to you, so you have no right to reply.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-21-0.u9305	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as far as our southern province is concerned, we have experienced in our history to be foolishly brave. It's time for us to be brave, but also to be wise. There's a saying that it's easier to avoid war than to get out of it. In our recent history, we have had several such cases, and this time it should be extremely hard, but resistant to pressure and try, as long as it can avoid any escalating of any potential conflicts, because I think Pristina has come out to provoke some armed or violent action by Serbs to cover themselves with, above all, British, American or other allies, who apparently support them. So when they say they're seeking restraint from both sides, it means to me that they're still supporting Albanians, even if they're doing crazy actions like those of the last days. So I believe in the wisdom of our leadership, I believe in the patience of our people. Trouble as long as it can be, but be extremely hard and prevent any possible pogrom, such as it was on March 14, 2004, or at some other date, if I was wrong, I apologize. Such a pogrom, such as "Blash" and "Storm", should certainly not be allowed, and only in this extreme urgency should some of the moves that some people now make, some political representatives recommend that we engage in such hot blood eventually in an adventure. The head must be cold, the heart must be hot, but the cold head must hold the hot heart so as not to make some crazy move and thus may help its political opponents to carry out some military action, which may look like the one that happened in Croatia when "Bleski" and "Storm" were driven away by thousands, hundreds of thousands of our citizens. There we must be very careful, therefore, to be wise, to be brave, but not insanely brave, because that would probably get us into an adventure that Pristina probably has calculated as a possible move by Serbia. I think there's some kind of struggle over here, etc., in this country already exists. In politics and in these circumstances, everything is not said. I believe that the forces of our security and how they are prepared to prevent every possible pogrom, every possible future "Blash" and "Storm" and pogrom that was in 2004. I firmly believe in our leadership, and I believe that our citizens, after the words of the President of the Republic and the State's leadership, certainly know that we will not allow anything, but that we have to endure a certain amount of time to ultimately realise our interests. As far as this Codex is concerned, the Codex is probably intended against the MPs, against those who won't like some. I believe I'll be the subject of this Codex very soon, regardless of which no one can give any of my offensive words since 2009, but I'm afraid the irony will be the one that can be sanctioned by this Codex. I think there should be a Codex for the other side. It's hard to stay calm if you're beaten up on the stairs. And after that, I tried not to curse, to be gathered in the Assembly, to try to avoid any reaction to the attack, and the force of action doesn't cause a reaction, and in such a way that whoever planned this attack is denied something else. I believe even that these courts can, in a court procedure, punish the attackers against me in proportion to the attack on Borko Stefanovic, who, behold, when the attack on me occurred, he came before the Assembly and supported the attackers. I expected him as a victim of an attack in front of a local community in Krusevec, to have some understanding, that when one MP arrives on the day of the session, when he has certain official status, when an attack on the official person at the entrance to his workplace, I expected Borko Stefanovic to condemn such an attack. However, he condemned the victim and moved to the attackers and supported Bosko Obradovic's heart, saying the attack on the media was not seen. I remember right away that evening in the journal showing all of this, even the apparition of help in the home of health. I don't mind if RTS put it out there, since it's a guy or a husband of one of the editors-in-chiefs at RTS. Look at the wonders, the women of the opposition champions are working at RTS, and opposition champions are constantly complaining about that media house. So I'd like there to be some code against those who'll rape. Jovo Bakić, what's the name of the one, Srdjan Nogo, Jovo Bakić. For example, Vukadinović, who says – don't hang them on the terraces, like us, should hang us somewhere else because they hung us at the Terrace. So we're such a group of people to hang in a secret place, if it didn't even give an opportunity to see us hanged, but it had to be done somewhere, probably like those communists who spilled Draju Mihajlovic's acid, etc., we probably wouldn't even know about the graves, if all those threats that came against us were realized. It's hard to stay together if someone wants to rape, if someone wants to shoot, if someone wants to hang, if someone wants to do it with long pipes, and I don't know all the threats we've got. What surprises me is that all these threats came from allegedly highly educated people who are from academics, professors, etc., with very sound academic titles. And now, let's say, instead of being in a court of law, the prosecution, of course, doesn't do its job, the court doesn't interfere in its business, given that it's being selected by the very ones they're supposed to do something about. And now, look at the wonders, they won't answer any of the victims, but if we respond to those attacks at the assembly pay phone, in which case we'll be the subject of this Codex. It is fortunate that they are not yet in power, their code would probably read – to shoot Martinovic, shoot Jovanovic, shoot Atlagic, shoot Bakarec, etc., all those who resented other Gilas. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, on the issue of the Anti-Corruption Agency, which is now called the Anti-Corruption Agency, it is probably the intention of this ruling majority to prevent the agency from working, and I welcome it, but the one who fought corruption before that absolutely does not deserve attention and should not have grown from the Anti-Corruption Agency to the Corruption Prevention Agency, because according to the result it has achieved, that it has fought corruption, these people did not deserve to have those official posts in that agency, since they were mainly targeted by poor MPs who were neither in tender commissions, nor in money, etc. Usually, their targets were, if they made a technical mistake, something he didn't report, a car, a car, on time, etc., usually their MPs were targets. It's been the council lately. They mostly deal with the ruling majority, while large corruption has been forgotten. Let's see what forms of corruption there are in our country that the Agency hasn't dealt with. First, she had to deal with corruption on her own. Imagine the Anti-Corruption Agency, which at the request of the state, went to visit the "Beobank", as it was called, at the Green Wreath, the Beobank building to settle in those rooms. Then they concluded that these rooms weren't attractive enough, but somewhere on the way back they saw the Green Wreath on the corner of a new fancy building and then they decided to buy this building from a man they consider a mobster, who bought these companies with several buildings. Then for that one building they gave twice as much money as the state got for three buildings, they gave twice as much money for one building. Look at the wonders, there were no tenders, but they did all this without public procurement, by the government's decision of Mirko Cvetkovic. Imagine the Anti-Corruption Agency, which the building bought without any public procurement, means it bought with public convenience, because here are the leaders of that Agency and the composition of that agency, which was still there, liked that. Imagine now the daughter of one of the officials at the Anti-Corruption Agency being on the list a lot of them. Now look at that organization there were a lot of corrupt things. Let's say that the money that was, and it was openly witnessed by the members of that organization, that the money that was intended for the political party's work, and the political party was an NGO... Now I ask how is it even allowed for NGOs to compete for power? What if they win? Will they be further NGOs? Now they look like anti-governments to me. But if they were to win, would they be NGOs or would they be government organizations? Are they saying that if they win the election they won't form a government or I don't know what the message is? Anyway, the gentleman who was sitting upstairs, whom I called the Kradulović Del Boy Company, this organization, imagine, he had all the money he had received, without any escort from the Anti-Corruption Agency, without scanners, to see where the money, etc., according to their members, was transferred into his own pockets. Let's see what Mr. Martinovic has done to the Anti-Corruption Agency for this Serbian Movement Dvera, which is the money for the campaign and the regular financing of that political party through the ad hoc established private crafts shop for making, watch out, the video clip, which I do upstairs in a few seconds, they paid for it somewhere over 300,000 euros and all the money that these shops received was pumped immediately into cash the next day without any purchases of the repromary, etc. I went one step further and checked who they belonged to. All these entrepreneurial actions were registered to candidates who were on the parliamentary and republican lists of the Serbian Dvora Movement. I've got the material. The Anti-Corruption Agency, earlier called for a fight, got the same material that I did, and didn't move a little finger. If the ruling majority had done so, I believe it would have been a large court trial, etc., so that there would have been a report, in order to increase it. Let's see what the Anti-Corruption Agency, later on to prevent corruption, has done for the purchase of party debts. You certainly know that there are limits where a legal person and a natural person can participate in a political party's campaign. If, for example, that political party spends far more money than it has income, makes a huge minus, and a man shows up with his firm and buys a huge amount of debt, he actually participated in the election campaign. So there's a deal, you'll make a debt, don't worry, I'll close your debt. Then, miraculously, it does not count on funding the election campaign, although it is obvious that these funds cover the cost of the election campaign and that it is illegal financing, because 10 times over the limits that legal persons can, and more than once, provide instructions in an election campaign to a political organisation. What happens next? So these funds are being cashed in, incomes and control of the work of that political party by the legal person and their boss who buys another political party at the same time, and so you come up with illegal political organisations that use money from advertising spaces and then you don't know if you have a problem with the political party Dragan Gilas or with his firm, since all the political activists I know represent that party he bought from there from one of the Shidas. All employees of the company "Multicom". I don't know if "Multicom" is a party or a company or if the SP has become a company from the party. The second party in that group is controlled by keeping it in debt by those financings, which I have described, and thus becomes far more influential, and the very purpose of fighting corruption is to prevent such activities. With such funding, one political party becomes the owner of the other organisation in a certain way, because it is said to have eliminated and they are the victim of one greener who buys one party, and by greening it has an absolute impact on the other. Two other NGOs of the Turnover Movement and the PSG, as they are called, are in the group and then as four organisations have come out and you think four political parties, and in fact it's one political party. The man bought one, the other through greening influenced, in his possession, too, and these other two are not political parties, and that sounds better in front of the European Parliamentarians and creates... It's movements. I don't know that there are movement registers. These same people told us that one party must have 10,000 certified signatures. Now that they've come into a position that they can't collect it, they're breeding political organizations through three members, so let's say the Turnover Movement. He, mother-in-law and neighbour set up the Turnover Movement, and now it is one of the organisations that wonders about elections in the Republic of Serbia, the way elections will be held, etc. I didn't know that was the meaning of NGOs. Then you've, like, supposedly, got Dragan Gilas out of interest giving Ljubi Davidovic that foundation. But this Anti-Corruption Agency, then called the Anti-Corruption Agency, was absolutely not interested, as they were not interested in huge financial resources, trade in influence, etc., and Gilas and Vuk Jeremic, huge financial resources, were absolutely not interested. They were not interested in how the foundation received it from Dragan Djilas 200,000 euros, but, behold, Dragan Lutovac and Dragana Rakic claim that they spent the money on party activities. But the law forbids the foundation to fund political parties. So I don't know what the Anti-Corruption Agency is doing when it lets an interest fund of Dragan Gilas, from greening, illegally fund a political organization that, when financed from the foundation, can't radar to see the Anti-Corruption Agency, since it's not competent, I'm talking about preventing corruption, controlling the foundations? This is so obvious, with their own statements, the Agency should have opened some procedure against the concerned and thus prevent illegal financing of political entities, which should be their basic activity. In the end, Vuk Jeremic, while he was a National MP, after and chair of the National Assembly, but was a consultant contract, which he did not report anywhere, Patrick Hou's advisor, consultant, resulting in 7.9 million euros or dollars, I apologize, which he received at the "pi ar", meaning he had an association that he called "Pi Ar Vuk Jeremic consulting" or "Cepris" or what he called himself, an organisation, which has as an NGO, etc., with huge funds of 7.9 million that were pumped into the Vuk Jeremic campaign when he was a presidential candidate and of course that the Corruption Prevention Agency did not absolutely deal with it. And finally, Vuk Jeremic receives 200,000 euros from the Qatar Embassy in Germany and 120,000 from the Qatar Embassy in Washington. I found something about ISIS very interesting and, behold, the Wolf Jeremic gets it all. I am now asking you and us – was it perhaps money that was paid because of the opinion of the International Court of Justice, which he asked for, just enough to strengthen the possibility for Kosovo's independence of Albanians, the wild state, did he get that money for it? Is that why he may have ordered that opinion or received 320,000 euros? Look wonders, let me ask you, do you know who the Ambassador to Qatar is, Serbia? Jasmine Pozderac. Which is kind of closely related to me, sounds like with this Omerovic, it's something with the Pozderac family, "Hakia", "Hamdia", "Cakia". No, "Chakia" wasn't. We would have been threatened by Vuk Jeremic "with a hammer", as far as I can see. I don't think he's gonna think of that, but, look, that's how it works. Now that I'm saying this, they're, like, here, now he's defending power. No, I'm not defending power. I don't even have a porter in the government. I defend the state of Serbia and its right to exist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-21-0.u9306	Thank you. Honorable Members of Parliament, in accordance with Article 87. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I set a break of one hour. We continue work at 3:10 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-21-0.u9307	We're going back to work. The word has the People's MP Jasmine Karanac.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-21-0.u9308	Thank you, Chairman. My fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, I will look back at the item of the agenda on amendments and additions, i.e. the promotion of the Code of Conduct of People's MPs. I think the essence of all is that all of us MPs, as far as we are, 250, as holders of constitutional and legislative authorities, are exhibiting their exhibitions, discussions, replicas, their conduct in the Assembly as the highest representative body, but also you, in your public and media performances, as representatives of citizens who have shown us trust to represent their interests and on their behalf we speak here in Parliament, we should strive never to apply this Code to any of us and to be above it. I think it is our duty and obligation, because citizens have given us the confidence to work exclusively in the public interest and regardless of the different attitudes and different opinions there is always a way to be polite and to show our position without insult and disdain for others, the attitude of our political option and thus preserve both the personal integrity and dignity of the National Assembly. We must be honest and admit that crossing the line of decency and acceptable behaviour and communication in parliament is not our invention. In the parliaments of other countries and many older democracies, we can hear and see behaviour that does not suit parliament. Even in such parliaments, in addition to verbal insults, we could see attempts to deal physically with political opponents. That's why the Code of Conduct is prescribed, and whoever breaks it needs to be sanctioned. The Code should contribute and improve dialogue between MPs of different political options and views, to defend jurisdiction and rule of law, as well as an instrument that would strengthen Parliament's reputation and integrity and borders of acceptable level of communication that no one should cross. If we adhere to the agenda, if we respect political and any other differences, because the Assembly is the place where different opinions should be heard, but that they are brought out in a responsible, fair and impartial manner, then we will come up with the best legal solutions and results in the interests of the public and citizens. The MP should not in any place and should not abuse his political function for personal and party benefit. He must not trade in influence, find himself in a conflict of interest, and he must do nothing to disrupt the reputation of the National Assembly. Only by such conduct can we raise Parliament’s reputation and dignity and strengthen citizens’ trust in the National Assembly. The additions and amendments of the Code to the document adopted at the end of last year provide for the establishment of an ethical commission that will be responsible and in charge of implementing the Code, i.e. it will give its opinion on whether the Code has been broken and to what extent. The decisions of the Ethics Commission will be published on the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and that is a good measure, as each of us will make sure that his name is not publicly highlighted on the National Assembly site in a bad context. The proposed amendments improve the role of the Ethics Commission through the extension of competence to give an opinion on damage to the Codex and to tighten the measure in the event of a violation of the Code of Procedure by the MPs. That is how recommendations on the Codex made by the Council of Europe are implemented. It is a newspaper, and it will now be an ethical commission to give an opinion on the breach of the Rules of Procedure before the infringement is decided by the Assembly Committee. This is certainly a good change, just like the publication of the commission's opinion on the National Assembly website. The opinion and position of the commission will thus facilitate the relevant assembly committee to bring the correct view of the Codex's injury. The commission is scheduled to number five members, and they will not be able to be among the ranks of MPs and other public officials, nor will they be able to be members of political parties, but experts in the field of ethics, thus ensuring impartiality and professionalism in the work of the commission. It is also significant that the Management Board will forward the copy to the Ethics Commission immediately upon receipt of the application. These are significant changes that are certainly going towards raising the quality of the level and debate and the general atmosphere in parliament. Therefore, we MPs must be aware of the Code that we adopt, or standards that are expected of us, and only by respecting those standards, that is, our willingness to implement them in practice can we achieve the expected effect and give the public an answer that we have been honest and in the best faith adopted this document. Today's changes achieve compliance with international standards and thus meet the country's recommendations to fight corruption, which should contribute to a positive opinion on Serbia's progress in the next meeting of GRECO. We Social Democrats Rasim Ljajic as well as so far and in the future will continue to be decent, responsible, aware of the functions we perform, as well as the importance of the dignity of the National Assembly as one of the foundations of democracy and the civil state. In voting day, we will support the proposed amendments and additions to the Codex. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-21-0.u9309	Thank you. The next is National Assembly Vice-President Marija Jevdzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-21-0.u9310	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear Minister, today we have on the agenda a proposal for a decision on amendments and additions to the Decision on the adoption of the Code of Members of the People's Parliaments, as well as a proposal for a law on amendments to the Law on the Prevention of Corruption. At the very beginning, I would like to say in front of the JS Parliamentary Group that in the voting day we will support the proposed legislative solutions. It is known that the Law on the Prevention of Corruption was adopted in May 2019 and that we adopted a conclusion on the review of the report on the work of the Anti-Corruption Agency for 2019. We elected members of the Agency in February of this year, brought an authentic interpretation of the provisions of Article 2. The Anti-Corruption Act. What we are discussing today is the amendment and addition of this law on recommendation 12, which is the second report on the coherence of the Republic of Serbia in the fourth round of evolution of the Group of States to combat corruption of the Council of Europe or the famous GRECO, whose Republic of Serbia is a member. The recommendations concern MPs, judges, prosecutors, among other things, those provisions relating to the definition of conflict management, while performing public functions and secondary activities, as well as the property report and specifically in their recommendation have been seen to be fully met. Part of these recommendations also calls for amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and will be possible only after the constitutional amendments have been adopted. It is known that, I think, on 26 or 27 September, the President of the Venice Commission will come and give his final opinion on constitutional amendments, and that our delegation will visit them in half of October and we will finally have constitutional amendments to the Constitution concerning the election of judges and prosecutors. The concept of corruption is clearly defined, clear conditions are prescribed for the selection of the Director of the Agency, the duration of the term of office of directors and deputies, as well as the issue of their powers in absentia. Also, Article 46 determines the performance of another job, or functions for public officials. Jurisdiction to give consent to perform other functions and powers to determine the time limit of termination of certain functions which are in conflict of interest. From my personal experience, since I've spent most of my life playing sports, I'm still engaged in sports, and I've achieved excellent results, I've been a sports rep, and last year as such a prominent athlete, Kik Boxing Union of Serbia, I chose me as vice president of the alliance. Of course, I asked for consent from both the Assembly and the Anti-Corruption Agency, regardless of which the function was not paid, I did not get consent, and of course, I had to resign. I wanted to take advantage of this opportunity and ask you, is there any possibility that maybe through the Sport Act, since the Sports Act restricts it, that one who performs a public function cannot be in the function of an alliance, is it perhaps in sports that are not, say, planetary, popular, football, basketball, but that some, less popular sports, in which unfortunately, there is no money, nor are these functions paid, is there any possibility that people who have stood out in that sport, and who are, to say, the good ambassadors of that sport, can perform such a function out of pure love? Is there room in there, and can we make an exception? I agree that then they will ask for both the Sports Federation and football and basketball, but here I am talking about some sports that unfortunately are not popular, which for years bring the brightest medals from all both world and European championships. We have exceptional athletes who later, perhaps like me, would continue their career in these waters, and on the other hand, their other love is sport, and I do everything I do about sports I do out of pure love, and as one good promoter of sport and sports. I may be out of the picture, but certainly, it's about preventing corruption. All these changes we are discussing today are necessary to continue the fight against corruption and to strengthen the Agency as a key institution for a more effective fight. Corruption remains one of Serbia's biggest challenges. If you remember, in 2013, the Agency launched an anti-corruption campaign to raise public awareness. I think we have made a lot of progress in this field, and in the period from 2017 to 2020, through a project of prevention and combating corruption funded by the EU, a number of activities such as seminars, training, conferences, public events have been organised to raise citizens' awareness. Representatives of leading institutions who are in their daily work engaged in the repression of corruption took part in these events. I must commend that four anti-corruption classes were held in Kralje, Nis, Obrenovac and Novi Sad, with the campaign – break the chain, say no to corruption, for high school students, in order to raise awareness of corruption. At that time, more than 850 high school students participated in classes and gained some knowledge of corruption. I think that's good, and we need to start from the youngest to raise that awareness that corruption is one evil that is unfortunately a global problem, so as a state, we have a problem. What should be pointed out is that the government of the Republic of Serbia has set itself a task, a zero tolerance for corruption. I know that strong political will is needed to address the problem of corruption in an effective way, as well as a strong response from the prosecution and the judiciary to cases of high corruption. I have to finish, to leave time for my colleague. As I said, in voting day, we will support the proposed legal provisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-21-0.u9311	Thank you. The word has Mrs. Minister Maja Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-21-0.u9312	You've asked a very interesting question, and that's the point of thinking, given that it's allowed to say, by the Corruption Prevention Agency that we're dealing with some scientific work. However, if it is a member of the board of directors, these are some issues. However, given your pedigree in sport and if you could give it to the development of our sport, it certainly needs to be discussed, find some modus in which way, especially as it is some function that is not paid, that our prominent athletes can remain within the context of sport, and yet it is not contrary to the provisions of this law. Sure, we'll suggest it as some topic in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-21-0.u9313	Thank you. The next MP, Zoltan Peck. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-21-0.u9314	Thank you. We have before us a proposal for a decision on amendments and additions to the Decision on the adoption of codes of conduct of Members of Parliament and I will talk about it. The code of conduct is a document that specifies universal values. He is one guide to the work and conduct of the MPs. The code of conduct is a document that promotes a political culture based on decent, true, transparent and fair behaviour of MPs. The Code of Conduct of People's MPs has been drawn up by respecting methodological rules such as clarity, simplicity, concreteity, consistency of the relationship of relevance. The question arises whether the National Assembly could have adopted a code of conduct before. We may have been able to bring it in, but the consensus was passed last year and this code was passed last year at the end of December of the month. We must stress that not all EU members in their parliaments have brought ethical codes and that indeed the matter of the behaviour of MPs, the representatives of citizens are regulated in very diverse and different ways and that there is no general way of resolving this issue either internationally or on the European agenda. The SVM MPs believe that the code of conduct of the MPs is an extremely important step towards restoring the dignity of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, bringing the government closer to the citizens, and this should be the primary goal of all of us, strengthening the dignity and integrity of the MPs. Namely, ethics, education and behavior are all ultimately an individual thing. That's what we bring from the house, from the middle in which we were raised, are simply part of our general behavior that we brought from our families, learned from our parents. The very code of conduct is in line with the Rules of Procedure, which is most important and very important. He will improve parliament's work, but he contains a certain newspaper compared to the Rules of Procedure, above all when we talk about sanctioning inappropriate and inappropriate behaviour. We need to know that we are not only the folk MPs in this plural, only in this building, we are the MPs and outside of this building, outside of Parliament, on the streets, on the markets, on trips to or outside our country, and looking at it, we are also the MPs in the stands, on some game, if we are rooting for our team or for our team. We must conduct ourselves consistently everywhere because the function of the MP requires it. We have before us changes in the code of conduct, which refers to the formation of an ethics commission tasked with bringing a guide to the application of the Code, giving confidential advice to Members of Parliament on the application of the Code, organising and conducting training of MPs on the application of the Code and giving an opinion on the violation of the Code. The National Assembly elects board members for ethics and five members for five years. Of these five members, three members are representatives of the faculty staff, who were or are now engaged in basic or master studies in ethics, morals and moral development. Two representatives are from the National Assembly. Representatives of the faculty staff can propose the following institutions: Faculty of Philosophy, University of Belgrade, Novi Sad, Nis and Pristina, which has temporary headquarters in Kosovo Mitrovica and from the state college in Novi Pazar, department for philosophy. The choice of candidates shall be made by a body composed of three members of the Committee of the National Assembly. In the seats of members of the commission elected from the National Assembly, the selection is made through an internal call, the criteria for a member is higher education, from socially humanistic sciences, and that he has the least calling an independent associate. The choice of candidates is made by a body composed of three members, from the order of civil servants in office. They are designated by the Secretary General of the Assembly. On the basis of a proposal from the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs, the National Assembly shall decide on the education of the Ethics Commission. The Commission shall elect its president from the ranks of representatives of the faculty staff. They are prescribed by this decision to suspend the mandate of the members of this committee, as well as the reasons and procedure for the resolution of the members of this committee. If there is an infringement and a breach of the Code, the Committee shall have the obligation to report the infringements and infringements immediately to the Commission, to request the opinion of the Commission on the infringement of the Code before making any decision. There have also been fines for violations of the Codex, if this is a reminder, then a fine of 10% of the basic salary of the MP. If a public notice is made, the fine is 50% of the basic salary of the MP. These fines shall be executed in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Finally, SVM MPs will support and vote for these changes in decisions and the law on the agenda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-21-0.u9315	Thank you, Mr. Peck. The next is MP Hadji Milorad Stosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-21-0.u9316	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, on the agenda, today's session, is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Corruption, as well as a Proposal for a Decision on Amendments and Supplements to the Code of Conduct of the People's MPs. At the very beginning, I would point out that the PUPS parliamentary group – "Tri-P", will support this law and decision in the voting day, as well as other proposals from this session and vote for it. The two acts we're discussing today are in a strong relationship and show one thing, I'd say, truly, the true intention of this government and us, in the National Assembly, that we all deal with such monsters together, such as corruption. Constantly correcting, precision and perfecting laws and lower legal acts, in this area, should not be seen as some lack of existing solutions, but rather, as a constant intention to monitor reality and react in time to new negative practical phenomena in the form of corruption. In this respect, the proposed amendments and additions to the Law on the Prevention of Corruption, in several members of the current text, introduce a more precise definition of certain concepts and procedures. In the beginning, it is good that this law lays down additional conditions required for the selection of the Director of the Agency, in the form of the possession of specific knowledge, in the area of preventing corruption, which should contribute to the perspective of an even better quality choice, potential staff and to this position, but also to jobs within the Agency itself and its general work, and to minimise the possibility that a potentially inadequate director or candidate for director may come to such a place. On the other hand, amendments and additions to Articles 17 and 18 of the current text, some existing concerns about the length of the term of office and the precision of the replacement of directors, so as not to put an end to the old director's term of office, and to hold a longer period of time for the selection of the new one, thus paralysing the work of the Agency itself. Such cases, not at the Agency, but we've had them everywhere, so this legislation prevents it. The biggest change was suffered by Article 53, which places even more stringent restrictions on making public procurement notices, which are carried out by legal persons, in which the official is involved, as far as other public entities are concerned. Instead of a solution so far, under which these notifications were made only in cases where these contracts were concluded with those legal entities that the Republic of Serbia, the province, local self-government units or the city municipality had over 20% of their capital. The threshold is now deleted and will be required in the future to report absolutely all such cases in which a potential conflict of interest may arise. More importantly, this law will empower the Agency to make publicly available records of both these officials and such legal entities and of all the businesses they would carry out. I think that we ourselves understand the importance of these solutions so that these potential cases that have remained below the radar so far are also subject to the existing law, or legal solutions. Public disclosure of these data will encourage the general public and the media to engage them in monitoring all procedures in a much larger number than they have so far, and this will be an additional control mechanism. In a section relating to the reporting of property to the newspaper, it is explained that under the notion of other relevant data that are reported are primarily finished money, digital assets in the form of digital currencies, as well as any other mobile assets or value exceeding 5,000 euros. I remind you that some time ago in this assembly, we adopted legislative solutions that precisely regulate the acquisition and trade of digital currencies, and given that it is a matter of activity that is gaining increasing momentum, it is good that this area is also being introduced into a review of public officials' assets. Finally, the final provisions of the law provide for tightening the lower threshold of the amount of fines for the violation of this law, which should certainly be welcomed only by putting a small note here. Namely, each of us knows that there have been cases of colleagues who have failed to file property reports and incomes within the legally prescribed deadline, and I will not hide that it has happened once or twice before in our parliamentary group, but I want to say here to the public that in a large number of cases it has been and is only about mere oversight and forgetfulness, i.e. infringing the law of prescribed deadlines. Of course, this cannot be an adequate justification for such cases, and in particular a kind of sanctions must be observed, that some kind of sanctions must be applied, I just think that it must be taken into account in such proceedings and that the most fines should be immediately imposed as to how it happened to someone for the first time and only once, and that such officials, the Agency should certainly check very closely to remove any kind of suspicion. Dear People's MPs, in the end, it can be concluded that this is about quality improvements in existing anti-corruption solutions, hence our PUPS parliamentary group - "Tri - P" will give its full support for their adoption in the day of voting. Finally, I would just like to add that the Agency itself could refer us and the Government to regular annual reports one of its views on whether or not some other amendments to the text of the law should be made, so that public debates are opened and discussed, because I am sure there is no one who would oppose further improvement and precision of these legal provisions. The second act in today's debate is amendments and additions to the Code of Conduct of Members of the People's Parliaments. They relate above all to detailed clarifications relating to the Ethics Commission, as the current text of this regulation provided that a special act would be adopted on its work. Therefore, this issue is regulated by these amendments and additions by adding a dozen new members detailing the composition of the Commission and the way it is elected. It is predicted that this Commission shall number five members, three from the ranks of university and teaching staff from the state colleges engaged in ethics and morals and two employees of the National Assembly and will be elected by the National Assembly on a proposal from the Administrative Board. The selection of candidates from the faculty staff, as provided for in Article 23v. It is a very good model, and it is one that should generally be pursued in other cases of election to functions and employment where possible, because criteria must finally be established for all positions. Namely, it provides that the only criterion for proposing and ranking candidates will be the number of points related to published scientific papers from these scientific areas. Therefore, there will be no possibility for someone's subjectivism and discretion or discretionary assessment, but the three first-placed on that list will also be proposed for the members of the Commission, which creates a fundamental assumption of objectivity in their future work. Other changes concern the setting up of opportunities for fines of MPs who would potentially be wrong about the Codex provision, and this is also a positive newspaper, as it envisions public publication of the warning measures, which really means that they have an impact on the offenders. Dear People's MPs, since we consider it to be a good legislative proposal from the PUPS Group "Tri P" will give its support in the day of voting for the adoption of this law and these decisions. Also, the PUPS parliamentary group "Tri P" will support other proposals and legal solutions discussed at this session in the voting day, and vote in favour. Dear friends, distinguished citizens of Serbia thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-21-0.u9317	Thank you. Next is counterpart Snezana Paunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-21-0.u9318	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Serbia, the topics on the agenda today are important for the National Assembly of Serbia, but they are simply not new, we have recently discussed them, it is nice to talk today about both the topics as recommended by GREC and the people of the European Commission. It's just that I wouldn't be me if I didn't look back at these changes from both sides of the angle. I don't argue that an ethical code should be completed, which seems to me more like when we were preparing a document like this and I did, I might have an idea that there are fines, which I gave up because they're predicted by the Rules of Procedure. I'm not particularly happy that this idea of mine now overlapped with the opinion of GRECA and the European Commission, but what is particularly inspiring to me when we talked about the Codex, I also said then that what is a raise or a rudeness, each of us carries out of the house. We'll hardly be able to change people's manners with any Codex, change some of the situations that we've had the opportunity to look at in this assembly. You remember some performances. I would not go back to not giving them the importance, but what is fascinating to me today, I am sorry that Minister Popovic came out, I suppose, because she was at an important meeting, before she came to the Assembly meeting, is that the paradox is that today we are talking about recommendations from GREC and the European Commission on the subject of our behaviour, on the subject of the Code of Conduct, on the subject of corruption with us, and that we do not, or at least, have no information about how people behave in them after yesterday's day in which you decide to break any agreements, to carry out some powerful specials on border crossings, or administrative crossings, intimidate all the non-Albanian people living in northern Kosovo and Metohija, under the pretext that when you take down the legal plates of the Republic of Serbia should also pay some fees for some temporary, or temporary institutions. The reaction we've heard from these wonderful people in Europe is that both Pristina and Belgrade, I won't be able to read, it doesn't matter, it's mostly a parallel that doesn't have, because Belgrade didn't do anything, which would provoke such a reaction from these temporary institutions. I've been trying to figure out what actually happened yesterday, and what's really going on, except for the original thing they've always had, which is that they just place these non-Albanians to make them, like all of us who in 1999, under their weapons, have to run away and banish what's left, so I came up with the idea that it might be for them to have that budget of that quasi state, whatever the organization that they have there is, pretty empty, when they start to kidnap in one way that's so pirate that I risk, that maybe those pirates, which we remember, I insult, because this is a little bit bit easier and that. All of this is acceptable. Serbia has unequivocally decided that it will step out and do more and will do everything expected of it in order to simply remove that burden, constant pressure, constant failure, constant calling, but every time we are ever more resolved, and to really give our hand to everyone who is ready to talk, it is always a kind of rude reminder that they do not deserve that trust, nor that correctness, or this silence of everything that happens, at the crossings of Brnjak and Jerinje, again, beyond all borders, and at the moment when Serbia expects to advance its code of conduct for the MPs. I am sure that the MPs of the Republic of Serbia, have a much higher level of civilization within them than those who would teach us what it should look like. I'm saying this in my personal name, so that we don't book me for anyone, except for me, very angry, because of the moment that you don't recognize, that we don't have to be somebody you're going to call all the time, that we're not even close to what Albin Kurti makes up every time she wakes up in a nice or bad mood, that we don't have any strategy like the state that in that sense, that we're squiring anyone, and that you're always putting us in the same basket just because you don't have an excuse and you don't have an excuse, and you don't have a definition, for this amount of insolence shown by some Pristina officials or whatever you call them, let your loved ones, let your children, whatever. It's not without a foundation, it's not even a code of conduct for the MPs, and I've talked about it, and when we've brought it and not just me, but all of us together, fully aware of what we've all witnessed, fully aware of our responsibilities, and in front of people who voted for us and for people who didn't vote for us, but deserve to hear from this room only what is a political debate, and not any cheap moves that are at the level of some reality program, and I don't mean, again, necessary for every man, that there has to be a code, but there's something that you agree with yourself whether or not you want to. But if I could possibly react rudely or naively to everything that's been going on since yesterday, then I'd probably say, now I'm not interested in any of these recommendations on any other subject. It would simply have to change everything that is directed at us on a daily basis, they would simply have to understand that in the state of Serbia, they work and live some people who really have a good will for co-operation. They would simply have to recognize that we are not all alike and that we will never be, that we are for the survival of our system, so if you will and economically we do not fight in the way that we take anything from anyone and invent any taxes and any subjects, but if I were to compare myself with them, then I would be angry with myself, because I think of Serbia as a country, and unfortunately, something that really looks like some pirates, the robbers of the forest, even though the forest robbers had some of their codes and some of their principles, so they say, they took from the rich to give to the poor. Here, all of the people who are non-Albanian members of the southern Serbian province are abducted in every way possible, their right to be people in that territory is taken away. In parallel with all of these, those who warn us that we need to improve the anti-corruption system, to improve the ethical Code of Conduct of People's MPs, they are all responding in a way that Belgrade and Pristina should calm down passion, drop the ball, whatever it is called at a time when Belgrade has only one problem, and that is what if this insolence jumps to a higher level. Then it's a danger to the lives of our people that we have to and we want to worry about. So, distinguished colleagues, respected GREKO gentlemen, from the European Commission and all European countries, I appreciate your concern and the need to help us, but don't help us in the way you see and hear us, and don't choke us anymore, and don't turn us into something that stands against what kind of quasi formations are, and don't pull the parallel between what power is in Serbia, which is the president of Serbia, which is the president of the Serbian Parliament, which is the prime minister of Serbia and what you did in a way that you may be just thanks to corruption or how it is called legal lobbying brought to power in the so-called Kosovo, in our southern province, in Pristina and now on the basis of who is there to create a parallel between us who have legitimately trusted the people in Serbia, and not in a small percentage. I didn't go far from the subject. They spoke to my colleagues about what they were actually treating these changes and the Anti-Corruption Act and the Ethics Code. I have nothing to add, except that I really needed to point out that it's paradoxical that in today we're talking about recommendations without saying that we really expect you to at least be as human as we are towards you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-21-0.u9319	Thank you. A colleague of Dubravka Filipovski has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-21-0.u9320	Thank you. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, respected citizens and citizens of Serbia, respected ministers, amended and complemented both draft laws and on the Ethics Code of People's MPs and amendments to the Law on the Prevention of Corruption show and show that Serbia respects the recommendations of European institutions, in this case the recommendations of the Council of Europe and GRECO, as its bodies which make up states to fight corruption. When it comes to the Code of Conduct for People's MPs adopted on 20 December last year, the amendments and additions refer to clear criteria for selecting members of the Ethics Commission, for their work and functioning, as well as for their resolution. The recommendations of GRECO also concern greater transparency of the Code of Conduct for Members of the People, its more efficient application in practice, as well as its guidelines for avoiding and resolving conflicts of interest. The second bill refers to amendments and additions to the Anti-Corruption Act, which was proposed by the Corruption Prevention Agency itself because it noticed that some members of the law should be specified and clarified, and, of course, this is also about meeting GRECO recommendations. The public debate on amendments and additions to the laws on the prevention of corruption has been concluded and the draft law strengthens the control of the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption when it comes to persons performing public office and their relatives. Serbia shows a decisive fight in the fight against corruption, we also show it to constitutional reforms. The aim of these constitutional reforms is to strengthen the independence and efficiency of the judiciary, but also to strengthen the capacity of police, prosecutors, the judiciary and the Anti-Corruption Agency. Serbia shows a decisive fight against corruption and the latest arrest of the Belivuk Group that has been indicted and prosecuted for the most difficult abductions and the most monstrous killings the public in Serbia and could see- Also, Serbia has modernised the Criminal Code to the applicable international standards, Serbia has shown and achieved close mutual co-operation between the competent state authorities, the liaison officers of all bodies for more effective co-operation with the prosecution, there is the Law on the Origin of Property. In addition to the laws we are discussing today, I find inadmissible provocations with tables by Pristina and illegal paramilitary formations of ROSU in Kosovo and Metohija, confident in our leadership, Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic that we will also deal with this situation that has been imposed on us. Also, I am appalled as the vast majority of Serbian citizens by what the former Ombudsman and presidential candidate Sasa Jankovic said that he suffered pressure from ambassadors to get close to Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic in order to tear him down from the inside. The goal of some foreigners was to challenge... President of Serbia's health and his family in order to bring down power in Serbia. Jankovic, unfortunately, confirmed what the vast majority of us have been talking about for months, and the opponents have criticised us to raise tension, spin and to sort of exaggerate. By who knows what time we were right, all of us, as well as the president of Serbia who knew all of this was a target with his family because he was tapped and followed. Now that everything is clear and true, when European parliamentarians have left the meeting on improving the electoral conditions in Serbia because of the unrealistic demands of Gilas and his few clicks, we are left to fight in this high House and to make laws in the interests of Serbian citizens, to give full support to Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic and the Government, to make Serbia as strong and economically efficient as possible so that the voice of Serbia and its representatives can be heard, above all because of the challenges and pressures ahead. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-21-0.u9321	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Daniela Veljovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-21-0.u9322	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs, surely today's biggest problem is corruption. One of the most accurate definitions of corruption has been given by Eminent Economist Vito Tanci. According to him, corruption exists if there is a deliberate violation of the principle of impartiality in making decisions and in order to take some advantage. It is freely said that corruption is as old as the state and that the development of the country has developed and corruption has taken on new forms. Corruption must be one of the biggest enemies of society's development because it produces far-reaching consequences. In order to protect public interest, strengthen the integrity and responsibilities of public authorities and public officials to the National Anti-Corruption Strategy and the Action Plan for the implementation of the strategy, the National Assembly adopted a new Anti-Corruption Act in May 2019. A year since its application began, it began to apply on 1 September 2020, the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption and the Group of the Council of Europe's Anti-Corruption Countries, pointed out the need to further improve the law through improving and precision of certain provisions. In particular, the new Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Anti-Corruption Act will better define the very concept. In fact, corruption is now defined as a relationship resulting from the use of a social position or influence to obtain illicit use for itself or others. It is an obligation for public officials to supply data on cash, valuables, digital assets, mobile things worth more than 5,000 euros. In public procurement procedures where a private person has an action or ownership stake he must inform the Anti-Corruption Agency about these transactions. So far, this has been set by a limit of up to 20%, which means that below that percentage there was no obligation. The new proposed legislative solution determines that when a public function requires full-time work, there is no possibility of doing another job without the consent of the Anti-Corruption Agency. It is significantly proposed to extend the provision by which no reporting of assets or providing false property data is considered a criminal offence that is being extended now and for non-income. As can be seen from these significant changes, public function performers must prove to be the most responsible. Corruption, I must say, is almost impossible to completely eradicate, because in our mentality there is still a system of "you to me", which Professor Vladeta Jeretic said was a reflection of the tribal consciousness above which should be raised, and above all through spirituality. The law is the one that has to edit this area and show that the most responsible will be the most responsible and the most appropriate. The fight against corruption is not by itself a purpose, but a tendency to create a society of equal opportunities, a society that rests on the principles of social justice and security. The Social Democratic Party of Serbia, which inherits such principles, fully supports any kind of fight against corruption. The confidence of citizens in institutions must be even stronger and stronger, and one way to build trust is to build on solid foundations are examples of good practice. The Social Democratic Party of Serbia will always advocate transparency, accountability, professionalism, and therefore it is important that convicted corruption officials are no longer able to perform public functions and manage budget money after serving sentences. Due to all that has been said in the day to vote, MPs of the Social Democratic Party of Serbia will support a proposal to amend the Law on the Prevention of Corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-21-0.u9323	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Slavenko Unkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-21-0.u9324	Thank you. President-in-Office, dear minister, distinguished fellow MPs, we have talked about corruption several times in this term, and this issue can never be too high. We even need to keep in mind and point to this big problem. Corruption is a phenomenon that undermines the rule of law, endangers human rights and negatively affects every country's development. Therefore, the fight against corruption is the most important task for the development of democratic society. By adopting amendments to the Anti-Corruption Act, we are improving the normative framework that should be in line with international standards in this area, particularly with the recommendations of the Group of States at the Council of Europe to fight corruption. The objective is to further strengthen national mechanisms to prevent and combat corruption in line with the National Anti-Corruption Strategy and the Action Plan for Chapter 23. In recent years, we have passed several system laws that represent a good tool in the hands of judges and prosecutors in the fight against corruption with their solutions and institutes. We often hear that the state has declared war on corruption, that zero tolerance on corruption, etc., but little is happening in real situations. We still do not have a significant application of high corruption and it still comes down to the case of bribery and some cases of economic crime. No amendments to the law will yield results unless the public prosecutors show greater readiness and determination to examine publicly argued views or suspicions of corruption, especially if it concerns state officials. If we report corruption, that damage and injustice may be removed. If we don't report it, the damage will certainly occur, it won't be prevented. The most dangerous form of corruption is situations where private interests, which are also contrary to the public, turn into decisions, regulations and some acts, and the most influence public and political officials can have. These amendments mainly relate to public officials, not reporting assets and the obligation to register money, digital assets, etc. It's all right, that's how it's supposed to be. Just these days, we saw information from the Anti-Corruption Agency, where they reviewed 190 reports on the property of officials and found that in 52 cases, officials sent incorrect and incomplete data and that's all right, and that's gonna be easy to correct. We all know that big corruption, or high-level corruption, is happening where big jobs, big money, big combinations, and I think there's a lot of work here, and there's room for institutions to react more effectively and resolutely. Big money and jobs happen on a local level. Therefore, local self-government was tasked with bringing local anti-corruption plans to prevent mechanisms along with everyone else in the fight against corruption. Although this was to be completed in 2017, out of 145 cities and municipalities, only 87 did it successfully, mainly by justifying themselves by the lack of personnel, and often for reasons and for not being a priority at all. There's a situation where people are conscious or not getting into a relationship like that. corruption from habits or conventional corruption. These are various types of bribery, bribery, employment, school and health problems, and where no one asked them for anything, nor persuaded them to do so. It's probably our phenomenon of unnecessary bribery due to a cultural pattern of a society like us. We can somehow deal with it without some particularly great social consequences. Perhaps these amendments have missed an opportunity to more precisely regulate the performance of public and political functions. This form of corruption is probably the most represented in the performance of regular activities and political officials. A systematic fight against corruption implies that it cannot be just some or several institutions dealing with this topic. These problems should be dealt with by all the institutions of our country. When we have a partnership between all the competent state institutions, all we need is the political will that is most needed and important in order for this fight to be successful and at a high level. The Single Serbia parliamentary group is very interested in making these laws as effective as possible and we will therefore support these proposals in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-21-0.u9325	Thank you. Next is counterpart Diana Radovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-21-0.u9326	The Honorable Chairman, distinguished Minister Popovic, fellow MPs and fellow MPs, ethical dilemmas, as well as the controversy over the violation of ethical principles are actually something that all people face in their business environment. The deviation from ethical norms, unfortunately, is becoming more and more pronounced today, and moral dilemmas are increasingly common. It is today that these amendments and additions that are on the agenda that we are promoting the normative framework relating to the Code of Conduct of Members of the People's Parliaments, but also to ethical principles when performing public functions, i.e. when performing the functions of public officials. What I would particularly point out is that these principles concern preventing conflicts of interest, then prohibiting and restricting certain activities, as well as all other activities related to the reporting obligations of assets, revenues or other interests that public officials may have. One of the essential elements of democratically-oriented parliaments is the possibility of a parliamentary discussion or parliamentary dialogue, where every citizen of our country can count on finding someone who speaks on his behalf. Therefore, the actions of the MPs and the parliamentary vocabulary must be the guardian of the dignity not only of the MPs who speak, and not only of the institutions of the parliament in which we speak, but must be guardians of the dignity of all the citizens of the Republic of Serbia that we represent in this high house. In this way, we safeguard the dignity of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and do not allow what is very important, which is that the position and role of parliament in any way belittled or underestimated. In the previous year, we were part of an effective, rational and productive parliamentary work, where the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, who also functioned as a personification of parliament, in a special way, gave a personal seal to the leadership of the highest legislative and representative body. As it turns out, it can also be the guardian of parliamentary freedoms, authority, but also the guardian of the national Assembly's integrity. In this way, all together in the previous year we have managed to preserve the dignity of the Assembly, but also what I think is very important, and this is to increase the reputation of the People's Parliament not only within our country, but also in the interparliamentary activities in which we participated. By adopting the Code of Conduct of People's MPs at the end of the previous year, we agreed here all together, that it is necessary to preserve the dignity and political renomination of the People's Parliament, necessary to adopt an act that will be the guardian of decent conduct and dictionaries, and that nothing can be said or done without sanctions, and what will be below the border, by a political jargon, said parliamentary fair play. The code of conduct is a guarantee of decent behaviour, it is a guarantee of a decent parliamentary vocabulary, but we are also establishing a higher level of political culture and thus affecting citizens not only regaining confidence in parliament, but also increasing the trust they have towards such a large and important institution of national importance. Thus, such actions as abuse of the right to speak, not only when it comes to rude words or some rude acts, but, of course, it is desirable to debate and express reasoned views in the National Assembly, regardless of the party differences and differences we can have in terms of ideology, but what cannot happen is that this right is and that this possibility is being misused in any way. The code of conduct prevents and sanctions such actions and thus becomes a protective agent and an effective remedy for all those procedures that we can also call parliamentary inculture or otherwise, thus overcoming the standard of some acceptable communications. When it comes to the second item of the agenda, i.e. the amendments and additions to the Law on the Prevention of Corruption, Corruption in the simplest or folk terms, we can also call it "the practice of bribery" which, although characteristic of modern societies and considered a problem of modern society, is actually a memory that not only Serbia faces, but also all countries in the world to a greater or lesser extent. The simplest way to define it is to use a public position, or when a civil servant or public official, in addition to the work cycle, enters certain illicit actions that can provide him with a certain personal benefit. It is known that even the ancient Athenians faced this phenomenon, but what is particularly interesting is that even they had a set of rules that had just been directed to make it a negative social phenomenon, contain or prevent it. From this we can conclude that the fight against corruption is as old as corruption itself. That is why I believe that corruption is a process that needs to be constantly insisted, which cannot be stopped and cannot be ended. Because if we don't even act preventively, we can't expect that corruption doesn't appear anywhere, at any level, to a greater or smaller extent. This struggle must not be declarative, this struggle must not be even a political flossule, it must be a sincere and determined struggle for what is called public interest, and especially we, the MPs, in an institution that is a national parliament, of great importance, we must fight through more roles than we have. One of them is a legislative role and we must insist that we adopt good, healthy and quality laws, which will also have anti-corruption measures. We also need to be careful with some provisions that may be a little too heavy or too sharp for certain public officials. I would point out here an example concerning the councilors in the local parliaments, as they may be overly bound by, say, or too harsh a classification that they cannot be members of the local community councils. This is a problem especially in rural areas, in places that have fewer inhabitants and very rarely we find that we have many people who actually want to deal honestly with these local problems that are of existential importance to our representatives, and they care about that level of local government, or the level of government that is closest to our citizens. The control role that the National Assembly plays in preventing corruption is also important. I mean, above all, preventing money laundering, controlling the government's work, but also controlling the spending of public finances. There is little to explain how important the fight against corruption is for our economy, how much our money is kept, but how important it is for our path to EU membership. Although, in my opinion, perhaps the most important of all items is how important it is for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, each of us individually, because that is how we protect the well-being of our citizens and influence the preservation of the well-being of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. We have agreed here several times today that corruption is a global phenomenon, a phenomenon that is not immune to any state, but we have also agreed that it is the obligation of every country to its citizens to fight against such a phenomenon constantly, at all levels and only in that way where we will bring exactly good legal solutions, good legislation, and only so we can help corruption if not eradicated, then bring down some minimum measure. In the end, I will only remind myself of what Charles Montesque said in the 18th century -- every man who has power has a tendency to abuse it, and he will continue to abuse it until the moment he comes across the borders. The SPS parliamentary group will support these changes and additions that are on the agenda today and respected Minister Popovic, you have our support, the support of the Socialists, to establish borders for those who want or intend to abuse any function they perform. Also, it's our sincere commitment. We want to take advantage of such a major anomaly as corruption and thus contribute to parliament as an important institution as a key partner to the government of the Republic of Serbia in the fight against corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-21-0.u9327	Thank you. Next up is colleague Ana Pesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-21-0.u9328	The respected chairman, respected fellow MPs, respected minister, dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, is the main goal of the new Corruption Prevention Act is to protect public interest, reduce the risk of corruption, as well as strengthen the responsibility of public authorities and public officials. A year later, opportunities were created to improve and speed up this law and the notion of corruption would be better defined, and public officials would be obliged to give information about the money. The problem of corruption is global and there is no country that has not faced its negative effects, but also the obligation of every country to its citizens is to fight it. Since the arrival of SNS to power, the fight against corruption has been one of the priorities, but also a strategic plan of the government of the Republic of Serbia. However, I cannot look back on the period between 2000 and 2012, which marked numerous robbery privatisations, abuse of official position, robbery in the public sector, collapsed economy, unemployment and crime. Corruption politicians of the DS have destroyed and destroyed Serbia with the dismissal of a large number of workers and the collapse of institutions. This political elite has always put its interest above the interests of Serbian citizens, who still feel the consequences of their greedy and immoral government today. Unfortunately, even today, we have the opportunity to see how the same people who have acquired millions, apartments, and many benefits by misusing their positions continue to turn to the citizens, whose backs have gained wealth without any shame. That's how we listen to Miroslav Aleksic, Jeremiah's errand boy, who is one big farmer these days, giving himself the right to even talk about corruption. A man who, while serving as president of the municipality of Trstenik, illegally raised his own salary and thus became one of the most paid presidents of the municipality. In addition, this one, as he calls himself today more honest, the opposition has been setting up tenders for himself and his friends to make millions. In addition, add a number of malfeasances, embezzlements in local communities, accidental spending of credit and misuse of public procurement. On the other hand, in Belgrade, Dragan Gilas left us with his life's work – a 1.2 billion-euro debt. Citizens expect individuals like this, who have kidnapped and destroyed, to finally respond, because empty municipal and city registers throughout Serbia are not forgotten, no devastated economy and collapsed infrastructure is forgotten, no packed suitcase, no stolen youth is forgotten, no struggle for state functions for the sake of personal interest. So we all need to ask ourselves why we are in politics and why we are doing this job, whether it is because of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia or because of our personal interests. President Aleksandar Vucic, daily shows us that the priority of citizens, new hospitals, new factories, new highways, numerous investments, is that they chose us to work for the benefit and improvement of all citizens. We do not want officials, as once did, to use public functions to gain personal wealth and to create monopolies for their own business, but to work for the benefit of the citizens and respond to them. With this law we want to make it known to both officials and citizens – if there is any possibility of abuse of position, but also conflict of interest, that they will be punished, regardless of who is in which party. That's the most important thing. In this battle, there will be neither protected nor privileged, as we have so many times shown. In voting day, I will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-21-0.u9329	Thank you, colleague. Next up is MP Dejan Kesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-21-0.u9330	The Honored Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the esteemed minister, the respected citizens of Serbia, are present today two acts and one act is also the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Corruption and another act is the Proposal for a Decision on Amendments and Supplements to the Code of Conduct of People's MPs. Both acts that are now in front of us, MPs, aim to propose solutions to behavioral offices in their fields of action. When we talk about the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Corruption, the reasons why the Government, as an authorised proposing, referred this bill to the House of the National Assembly, are double. On the one hand, the need to bring the existing legal act into line with the recommendations that have come from the Group of States to fight corruption, or GRECO, and on the other hand the need for existing legal solutions to be clearly defined so that they can be applied in a better way in the coming period. On this particular case, in the case of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Corruption, we see the clear desire of both the Government and the Authorised Proposer, and the Ministry of Justice and the Anti-Corruption Agency to make this legal text better in order to fight corruption and corrupt activities more effectively. As my colleagues spoke of corruption – corruption is a disease of the modern world and, if we wanted to define corruption through an example of professional literature, we could say that corruption is one of the types of crime that can be defined as a "white collar" crime. This defines all those crimes where there is difficulty in proving the execution, i.e. the existence of a concrete crime, as well as those crimes where the perpetrators of these crimes are served in a way that uses certain gaps in existing legal acts. That is why it is very important to adapt existing legal acts to current times, to adapt to existing situations in order to fight more effectively against all those things regulated by criminal law, and so that state and state resources are not at risk of losing. What is important to say is that in the professional literature, corruption can be called, or can be defined by a collection of actions that a person wishes to achieve personal well-being at the expense of the state and state resources. It is therefore very important that we take all necessary actions as serious and responsible factors to protect both the state and to protect state resources. Corruption of its negative effects can also show on individuals and the state, because if you have widespread corruption in one democratic state, and negative implications can be seen in different examples. On the one hand, you have a problem with the law of guaranteed rights arising from the Constitution and the law, and on the other hand, because foreign investors will not come into your country to invest their money because they say – well, yes, that country has a problem with corruption, the question is how we will do business and the question is that we will be able to solve certain legal problems arising from this business at a further time interval. That's why it's very important that we work constantly to bring corruption down to the lowest possible level. When we talk about corruption itself, I am very sorry, Minister, that we did not have such provisions in the draft anti-corruption law in 2010, 2011 and 2012, when we had an eclectic example of corruption done by public officials who were sitting at the top of the country at the time. What I would also like to say, and I will return to this topic, is that the proposed solutions are very clear, that they are very concise and that they remove any form of doubt that certain solutions will be applied in a specific situation. Apart from those solutions which clearly regulate certain staff issues within the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption, which is that the term of office of the Deputy Director of the Agency will last, i.e. if the term of office of the Director of the Agency comes to an end, the election of a new director, i.e. he must possess certain expertise in the field of corruption. Also, I am very glad that today we have proposed changes and additions that clearly define that persons who are employed in the body, who have established a permanent working relationship in the public authority cannot establish companies and cannot deal with self-employedness. What is also very important is that these same public function holders cannot participate in the management of companies in the future, nor can they have certain management rights. Like I said, I'm very sorry we didn't have such provisions in 2010. We were not the only ones who spoke as representatives of the strongest opposition party in the moment. It wasn't just us who talked about what was happening at the republican level, what was happening at the city level, what was happening in municipalities across Serbia. That was also discussed by the competent state institutions, and this is best discussed by the report of the then anti-corruption council headed by Verica Barac. What I am holding in my hands today is the report on press pressures and control in Serbia, which was formed by the Union for the fight against corruption on 19 September 2011. Why did I bring this document to the National Assembly today? So to stop the media close to the representatives of the former tycoon regime saying that we here are MPs who do this job very safely and responsibly, we are constantly making a statement that these statements are unfounded, that these statements are without evidence and that we want to harm these statements to their parties and also to their personal reputation and integrity. This document that I have brought is publicly available and can be found on the Council's anti-corruption site. If I were not to present all the details now and not to take up time for my dear colleagues, I would quote some things concerning people who were senior public officials until that year 2012 and who were deciding on our rights and interests at that moment. If you come to page 28 of this report, it says very nicely that the Union for the fight against corruption has devoted its attention to the "Multigroup" and "Darrekt Media" and the "Emouschn Group". All three companies were owned or owned by certain management rights, which is related to today's changes and additions, former Belgrade Mayor Dragan Gilas. We're not talking here, MPs, about Dragan Gilas because he's the president of a certain opposition party. We MPs here are talking about Dragan Gilas because we are talking about all those facts and all those things that can be proved that he directly participated in the budget of the Republic of Serbia and the budget of the city of Belgrade being damaged in certain financial amounts. The Anti-Corruption Council says -- the company "Multicom Group" was founded in 2004. So long before Dragan Gilas came to the mayor's office. The "Multicom Group" and "Darrekt Media" year-on-year record net profit growth. Thus, the "Darekt Media", according to the APR data in 2008, achieved a net profit of 558m dinars, while in the previous 2007 it was lower by nearly 200m, and in 2009 it earned a profit of 619m euros. It is similar with the "Multigroup", which, together with related companies from year to year, has been making bigger and bigger net gains from 2008 to 2012. What is important, the 5th point of page 29 states -- the Anti-Corruption Council found that the "Big Print", which is part of the "Multigroup", realizes, now ask the citizens to pay attention, achieve direct business co-operation with state institutions, including those financed directly from the budget of the city of Belgrade, whose mayor is Dragan Gilas. The company co-operates with "Atelje 212", "Stara Theatre", "GDP", "JDP", as well as the Belgrade Tourist Organisation. When we speak here that there are doubts is the least used word when we see these data given by the relevant state institution. What is more to be explained here, MPs, when the Union for the fight against corruption is talking about that there is a direct link between the company and the city's companies, whose head was Dragan Gilas then? Let's not talk about the Ada bridge, which is very important because the former authorities have repeatedly called for it. That bridge cost us everything here, 500 million euros. Three hundred million euros cost only access to traffic. The price of a 500 million bridge is half the total value of today's Moravia Corridor. Why does it matter? The bridge in France, whose picture I'm holding here today, is the highest bridge in the world that has, you can count here, six sawmills. The Ada Bridge, which Dragan Gilas called on and called for, is the largest infrastructure project built during his term, has two sawmills, costing 500m euros. Then we find that certain faces close to him took some money on behalf of the commission. It wasn't just the bridge on Ada at that point that was the problem. It was a problem to get underground containers, it was a problem to get software worth 10m euros that was never used, it was a problem to co-operate directly with public institutions and public enterprises, and the result was that the city remained in charge of nearly a billion and 200m euros. What is also very important, the second thing that I brought to the National Assembly, so it doesn't turn out that the SNS representatives are saying, is that when you go on the basis of the property of politicians that can be found on the KRIK site, and we all know here and all of Serbia knows that KRIK is not close to SNS policy and that the worst texts that are directed against both SNS and against President Alexander Vukic and his family, you find the basis of the property of politicians, or the property of Dragan Gilas. The text reads: “As he was in power, he developed his jobs and increased his wealth, and his companies had incomes up to 80m euros a year. ” Not to mention that Dragan Gilas and his brother have thirty-seven apartments in the most elite locations, according to the KRIK report from the political property base. Now, what's most important is that we come to an inter-party dialogue. Why is inter-party dialogue very important? Those same representatives who are used to putting millions in their pockets won't come peacefully to power. They are constantly threatening violence, constantly threatening rebellion, and they want to come to power by being brought by someone. And the fact that they are brought by someone is clearly shown after an inter-party dialogue, when they have been calling on foreigners all the time, calling on a foreign factor, not to talk to Alexander Vukic, not to talk to representatives of their people, but rather to talk to Tanja Fajon, Bilček, Kukan and Falkenstein. After the second round of dialogue, when they saw that their request was a wish that no one would accept because only those desires can fulfill themselves because these things are not real, they say – they are neither good nor foreigner, we are not foreigners, we are going to fight for our freedom ourselves. You know why they do it? They keep delaying solving the problem because they know they do not have support in their people and because they have made a decision on the boycott before the first inter-party dialogue. I must remind the citizens that President Aleksandar Vukic also launched an internal dialogue on the KiM issue, where these same representatives fled from it and mocked the dialogue. It is therefore very important that today when we talk about the Codex, the behaviour of the MPs, this Codex, which has already been brought into the House of the People's Assembly, we need to regulate our relations so that we no longer witness the constant attacks by representatives of opposition parties and other factors on us, that we go to it because we do not have a political programme, to insult Alexander Vukic, to insult SNS MPs and to insult all those who do not support them, and this is theirs to come to power without elections and without the will of citizens. As Parliament Group President Aleksandar Martinovic said, I have submitted two amendments and this amendment to Article 23, where after the words in the following text, the guide, they add words -- within 15 days of the education day of the commission. Because I think it is very important that the process of conducting the training of the MPs for the application of this Codex be implemented, and it is very important to begin with it within 15 days of the education of the commission. What's more important is that in the amendment I submitted, in Article 5. The motion for a decision, Article 30, is amended and read. It clearly contains a full procedure if there is a report of the procedure being carried out from the beginning to the end. Therefore, just to explain to the public, that they do not think again that we are submitting any amendments and that we do not think in the interests of both the National Assembly and all the other actors, who can participate in this process, is that if the application is filed against a member of the board that will be treated instead by a deputy member of the board, and if the application against the deputy board members is filed, the second deputy board member who took part in the work of that committee will change it. In order not to take too much time away from my colleagues, who will take part in the debate during today's day, I would like to say that it is very important that these and similar acts are proposed by the Government, by your ministry, Minister, because I think they are very important to preserve the resources of the Republic of Serbia and to continue through prosperity and better life. What I would like to tell the representatives of opposition parties and people who think they are doing good things is that while the SNS is and while President Aleksandar Vukic is at the head of the state, we will never allow decisions in our country to be made by foreigners and other foreign factors, because we one respect the will of Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-21-0.u9331	I thank Mr. Kesar. The next is distinguished colleague Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-21-0.u9332	Thank you. The Honored Chairman, the Honorable Minister, fellow MPs and MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, today we have two very important legislative solutions, these are amendments and additions to the Law on the Prevention of Corruption, as well as a proposal for a decision amending the Code of Conduct of People's MPs. First of all, I must point out that the Republic of Serbia is a democratic country, that big steps are taking place in democratic processes and that the Republic of Serbia is seeking to become a full member of the EU in line with the strategic definition of the government and President Aleksandar Vukic. On the way to joining the EU, one of our obligations is to bring our legislation into line with EU legislation, not only for the sake of the EU, but for the most part for the sake of our citizens to live better, for our citizens to be more satisfied, for the state to become 100% citizen service and work exclusively in their interest and for the improvement of the standard of living of every citizen. First of all, I must point out that in 2012 coming to the power of the SNS as one of its priorities, almost priority number one, it has put forward a decisive fight against crime and corruption, or zero tolerance to corruption. Why did we do that? Because the country, by the time it was 12 years old, was limited to crime and corruption by the representatives of the most executive government. Why is corruption dangerous? It is dangerous because it is directly related to the increase in poverty of citizens of the Republic of Serbia and to the personal wealth of a small number of individuals, mostly those who have exercised executive power, which is Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic, Boris Tadic and the rest of the company of the tycoon yellow company. In addition, Verica Baraq, who will refer to my distinguished counterpart Kesar's speech, pointed out that the plot of corruption in the Republic of Serbia lies in fact in the executive government, or government. Verica Barac suggested that the executive power in the Republic of Serbia controls the full media, that the judiciary is fully controlled, that both the media and the judiciary are completely captured by the executive authority. Verica Baraic also pointed to controversial privatisations, i.e. all those acts and those of the yellow corrupt authorities in the image and work of Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic, Boris Tadic in the closure and placing of locks on thousands and thousands of factories, firing more than 400,000 workers on the streets, that unemployment was almost the largest in Europe, was about 26% and inflation was two-digit. Almost couldn't meet the basic existential needs. Besides, at the time of the rule of Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic, Boris Tadic, I must point out that because people were out of work, because the katans were placed on factories and their children were paid in such a way that they did not pay their salaries and for not paying their contributions and taxes, their children did not have health care. So the yellow tycoon company led by Dragan Gilas did not harm even the threat of basic human rights above all children, and here is basic human rights, and this is the right to health and proper and continuous psychophysical development of children. I must also point out that the IMF has left Serbia no matter who it is to see who it is dealing with by 2012. No investment was made because simply no one could trust a government that was essentially corrupt. Since 2012 we have so far passed many laws that are anti-corruption, which in their core and essence have this element of anti-corruption. One of the laws we passed besides the Law on the Prevention of Corruption is also the Law on the Origin of Assets, the Law on Lobbying, the Law on Political Parties and other laws. The former government led by Dragan Dilas, Vuk Jeremic, destroyed the judicial system to this extent – the judiciary is one of the pillars and supporters of every state and judiciary is the basis for the justice of every citizen to bring from 137 basic courts and basic courts to only 37, so that the availability of justice to an ordinary man, an ordinary citizen, has been taught by far and almost inaccessible. One more thing, they hit directly on the dignity, honor and pride of the judges the day they were a thousand, and the judge and the prosecutor, only in one day without any explanation left without a job. I must point out that the law relating to amendments and additions to the Anti-Corruption Act is very important because it accurately defines individuals, or complements the only legal provisions. These are legal provisions relating to the very concept of corruption. Then, a legislative provision relating to an additional condition for the director of the Anti-Corruption Agency, which is that it must have special knowledge, experience and additional training in the field of prevention and fight against corruption. The provisions concerning assistant directors are then complemented, so that he can carry out his duties until the election of the new director, i.e. the role of directors is defined. What is significant is that criminal penalties are tightened for all those officials who do not submit within the legal time limit, do not respond to the Agency's call. These criminal penalties are twice as high, and there is also a criminal responsibility for not reporting assets of income, and that criminal responsibility refers to the threat of imprisonment from six months to five years. What I must point out is that unlike in 2012, Serbia today is a major construction site, today it is working and building in Serbia. Today almost every municipality, in every local self-government, new factories are opened, people are employed, unemployment is reduced. Public debt is also reduced, which means we don't owe our children, we don't owe the future generation, and there's almost no day when President Aleksandar Vukic doesn't open a new factory in a municipality or in a town. This means that investors have confidence in our country, trust in our country's stability, trust in the efficient work of institutions, because German companies would certainly not open their factories and employ our people, and today 72,000 work in German companies. The number of workers in 2014 who worked in German companies was only 17,000. Also, Swiss companies come to Serbia, open up, hire our workers. Japanese companies, and almost the most famous in the world of "Tayers", have set up a cornerstone and should be opened in India. All this would not be done if foreigners had no confidence in institutions either, but also in the policy of peace and stability led by Aleksandar Vukic. For all those who would get their hands on the authorities today, and those who would get their hands on power by 2012, it was Đilas, Jeremic, Tadic, who must know, the Supreme Judge of all political parties is the only people in free elections. The people believe the labour policy, the results, the politics of Alexander Vukic, and this was shown in the two-million-dollar presidential elections. Therefore, those who have been corrupt by 2012, those who have robbed their people and riched their personal pockets, must go to the dump site of history because they have no place in this and this Serbia. Serbia is a country of decent people, Serbia knows and remembers, Serbia sees who is working in its interest every day, who is fighting for every job, who is fighting for peace and stability, who brings prosperity and future to our children, and that is Alexander Vukic's policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-21-0.u9333	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Bratimir Vasiljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-21-0.u9334	Dear Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, today we have two proposals to amend the law, the Law on Corruption, the Law on the Ethics Code. As conditions were created on the proposal of the Group of States of the European Council, so-called GRECOS, even at the request of the Republic of Serbia, since the state of Serbia is in line with countries that respect the rules of democratic principles, that this matter is regulated in a more comprehensive and comprehensive way and the advice on these issues of Europe has given suggestions and made suggestions on how better and better quality can be arranged, such as the Law on the Ethics Code, even though we adopted it in December 2020. Some things should have been defined in a better quality and one better way, and here's a chance for us to do it today, to make sure that law is completely comprehensive, because we know how important it is and how much it takes. First of all, it's meant for us, the MPs, because we know what happened in the previous period and what kind of excesses and exhibitions have been going on here. That's how we destroyed this tall home. In order not to continue this and in a comprehensive way to regulate, that this future home of the Republic of Serbia resembles what it is intended for, so that I will support all the changes made in this proposal to amend the Code Act. A commission will be set up to take care of it, and even the penalties that will be defined by the mandate-immunity committee, will primarily ask for a commission to be composed of experts. What's important is that these people can, in a five-year term, carry out that duty, so that some kind of influence is not created there either. The Commission cannot be elected in the second term, so it will make up new people, so it is foreseen for the violation of the code, at the first notice ten percent of the fines of the personal receipts of MPs, and for public notice up to 50% of the personal receipts of MPs. We hope that this will introduce order in this high house and help the MPs to do their job for what they have been chosen for. When it comes to corruption, we know that it is one cancer of every society's wounds and that it is absolutely necessary and that it is important that this matter is done to the end, and still applies primarily to MPs, judges and prosecutors who are obliged to report and what has not been so far, ready money and real estate that is larger than 5,000 euros. Far more rigorous penalties for non-compliance and even a criminal offence where the sentence of six months to five years of imprisonment is threatened if it is deliberately silenced or deliberately not reporting property for which MPs, judges and prosecutors are obliged to report to the conflict of interest agency. What I wanted to look back on is the situation in Serbia, because I can't possibly skip it, following and watching Serbia change daily in every respect, I have to look back a little on the subject, when it comes to the economy, when it comes to Serbia's Army, when it comes to Serbia's policy as it is today. It is perfectly understandable that those who do not like why Serbia is changing like this and why Serbia is progressing so quickly, especially in the environment. You have seen that many countries around us are completely dissatisfied with why Serbia is taking great steps forward, and if we look at it all today, and the rich and those who are interested in coming to power, if it is possible without the will of the people, which I think will never happen, because simply the citizens of Serbia see excellently who is leading Serbia and in what direction and how it was led until 2012 and what has happened since 2012. In that context, I'd like to list some things that are visible and that are visible to everyone, if they want to see them. Serbia is building 10 highways today and I am asking citizens, and I am asking us MPs who are still in the world doing so many highways and fast traffic? They are gone and cannot be listed except for Serbia. Five clinical centres have been working since the arrival of SNS, our president and our government, five clinical centres in the country are being done, and the question is, what were they doing before 2012, crying over Serbia's fate and every day shed tears, to make them do it better, and we know how they did and how they brought Serbia. When it comes to clinical centres, the Nis Clinical Centre, you know it's over, in Novi Sad it's intensively being built, Belgrade, Kragujevac, Novi Pazar and all but this size of buildings and investment in capital investments, Serbia instead of the public debt being 78% of GDP by 2012. Today, Serbia has a smaller public debt below 58% and despite such investments, which are evident, which is a sign that Serbia has dramatically increased national income. When it comes to this, in 2012, we had a national product worth 31 billion euros, today and we expect 2021 to be 52 billion, and thus we have reached the Republic of Croatia, which is rightly angry with why Serbia is so going in large steps and you can see that it is possible without talking about the countries surrounding us, how far Serbia has gone when it comes to that. We know that unemployment in 2012 was over 27%. Today fortunately, it is less than 9% and it is one of the indicators that Serbia is developing and in which direction it is going. The pension fund, for the first time in 20 years, has been paid out of its own income from contributions and taxes collected on that basis, and we know that in the previous period even up to 50% of the pension fund, is financed from the Republic of Serbia's budget and is one of the indicators where Serbia is today and where it is heading. The programme declared by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and our President and there is no reason to doubt it at all, 2020 – 2025, is that every populated place will get water and sewerage and road infrastructure, and there is no reason to suspect whether it will be or not. Everything that President Aleksandar Vukic and our government promised, they did, that's what Serbia has done and it continues in that direction. The salary average is scheduled for 2025 to reach over 900 euros in the Republic of Serbia. Today, a small number of people believe it is possible, and every day it is confirmed, and every month it is confirmed that it is possible and I believe that I share your opinion that it is possible for Serbia to reach and I am sure and convinced that it will be. Pensioners, pensioners are expected to reach between 430 and 440 euros, the average pension in Serbia in 2025. Certainly, Serbia is going in the right direction and certainly Serbia will reach that part and therefore should regularly highlight it to the citizens. I did not say that the citizens of Serbia live in prosperity, we are far from it, but surely every day is getting better and more comfortable alive, and that this will continue to be done and progress in such a way and in the future, because it is not logical and it is not possible that something can be done in a year, two or five years, to change the entire circulation of a country and to increase the standard at such speed. It would simply not last, but as Serbia goes step by step, it is quite possible and it will certainly take time and you will never be able to bring Serbia back to the branches where it once was. When it comes to investment, over 60% of all investments coming to the Balkans belong to Serbia, and that is one indicator, how much investor confidence in Serbia is, and how eager and willing they are to invest in Serbia, because there is complete security and it has proved so. When I mentioned the army of the Republic of Serbia, today it is incomparably stronger, stronger and more trained than it was in 2012, and we know what it looked like back then. Today it is quite different and today the Army of the Republic of Serbia is getting more and more armed, and the best and most perfect has weapons in its ranks. Why am I saying this? The Republic of Serbia is not defined to conquer other people's territories and territories, but it will certainly defend its own, and it is one force that is respectable to deter those who intend to hijack Serbian territories. In the end, the political situation in Serbia is very short. Let's just remember how many of our statesmen there are, i.e. The president of the Serbian state in the previous period had the opportunity to make contact with the world's largest statesmen, such as our President Aleksandar Vukic, with Putin, with Sia, with Merkel, with Erdogan, with Macron, with the world's greatest statesmen, each with great respect and respect for Serbia, and with our president. I ask you what the other presidents did, went only to apologize, and to complain and it was all within the Balkans, nowhere further. In the end, lived Serbia and lived SNS. Just this way to keep going. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-21-0.u9335	The word is Ljiljana Malusic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-21-0.u9336	Thank you, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today we have two very important laws, namely one proposal for a decision on amendments and amendments to the Code of Conduct of Members of the People's Parliaments. The second is the law on amendments and additions to the Anti-Corruption Act, and I'm talking about both, simply my personality cannot without reacting to corruption. As for the proposal for a decision on amendments and additions to the Decision adopting codes of conduct of MPs, we made that code at the end of December 2020, and it became a fruit of what we voted for, and it was for the first time that the SNS with its coalition partners made such a decision, or law, now the decision, for the simple reason, became a fruit, because we were attacked, abused, beaten, spitted, and I don't know what was happening to us. First of all, in the previous meeting of Mrs. Maja Gojkovic, who was the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, was attacked, ended up in a hospital with seditions from famous Mr. Bosko Obradovic, who is constantly asking to return to this Assembly, but the people will not, they do not like the people of the bully. Also, Mr. Martinovic, president of the parliamentary group, also shot with a mouse, except his eyes didn't push him out. Shame on them! Also, Bosko Obradovic, who else, a bully, would not tell you about powerful journalists who were injured, abused, abused. Mr. Marijan Risticevic, his jacket was torn, his pack attacked him. If we hadn't jumped, they would have killed him. Shame on them. Why? Just because he thinks otherwise, only because he tells the citizens of the Republic of Serbia what is happening in this assembly around him. How many people are malice? What were they doing, I can't remember everything? I just remember how they were chasing RTS, breaking glass, going in there with motor saws. Is that the Codex? We've been through everything and everything here, from spitting, pinching, bullying, bringing stones, probably breaking our heads, and who knows what else. Since we passed the Code of People's Law, it's much better in this National Assembly. As far as I'm concerned, I'd like to introduce a verbal delinquent law, so we can stop insulting our children, especially our president, Mr. Vukic, with nothing at all. I don't even know what the children of the other MPs are called, or our opposition, or what I'm interested in, children are our sanctity, they don't need to be dealt with only in the sense of procreation, birth and stimuli for that birth. Let me get back to this Codex. Since we are a country that wants to join the EU, everything that comes from the EU we want to fix these laws, so we implement in our own legislation, and one of these recommendations was also from GRECO, it is a group of the countries of the Council of Europe to fight corruption, whose members and recommendations we have now implemented in our own legislation. It's mostly three capital things, and it's to make the public an easy approach, to know what's going on and how it's done, then to set up an Ethics Commission and never to have a conflict of interest. What does that mean? Well, that means a full-time MP can't do another job, he's got a perfectly satisfactory salary here, if he doesn't like that kind of work, he can open up a private company, so let him work. It happened 10, 15 years ago, not only did people have seats or jobs, but the directors of public enterprises also had boards and everything else, so it costs 5,000 euros by 2012. It's a shame and it needs to be radically eradicated. I won't owe much to this Codex in the sense that I'm talking about what and how, because I like talking about corruption a lot better. By 2012, we all know what kind of land we found. It was one general mess, one devastated country with over 600 mutilated, devastated companies with people who got fired in 2008, 400,000, with a debt of 1,200,000 euros in Belgrade, of course, who but Mr. Djilas, famous, I'll deal with it that way, I'll refer to Mr. Kesar's exposure, because there's a lot to say about him, but not like Ljiljana Malusic, so now I'm talking about him, so he's a martyr, poor, no, but what the famous 2011 Council Report on Combating Corruption said. I must add that not only was the state devastated, but they fired their own in terms of the prosecution, the judges, so over 1,000 judges were fired, so we had to, when we came to power to pay those people who lost their jobs just because they didn't agree with that corrupt policy, 40 million euros. And so the state of Serbia does, pays these innocent people who lost their jobs, returns to work people who lost their jobs, opens factories, we open over 350 factories, we hire over 300,000 people. That's why unemployment used to be 26%, and today with all the crown, unfortunately it's 9.5%, if it wasn't for the crown, the average would probably be around 7% now, we're still 2% short, so we're on the European average. That's how the SNS works. Now about corruption. Corruption is unimaginable to me, and anyone who deals with corruption should be behind bars and not just behind bars, but to return to the state what he has taken and to do socially useful work for 20, 25 years, until he figures out what he has taken from his country. He kidnaps directly from the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, from our children, from our pensioners, and that is unimaginable. Corruption is cancer, bribery, it can be done by some man who's very bad. Imagine, I went into politics to make use of it. Well, that's terrible, scary, nasty. People like that, they just shouldn't be on the face of this country. My colleague started this topic, which is a click around Mr. Dragan Gilas, because he says we're constantly attacking him. I don't want to attack him, I want to see what happened. Well, he says - concealing property and money flows, Gilas, the main star, the Council's report on the fight against corruption. So this is the Council's report on the fight against corruption. The famous 2011 Council Report on Combating Corruption, signed by then-President Verica Barac, was dedicated to investigating corruption in the media, and it can be said that then Mayor Dragan Djilas was the star of the report, Kurir writes. The closest co-workers of the Freedom and Justice Party, Dragan Gilas, are demanding that the Anti-Corruption Council examine the business of Telekom Serbia. Look, they are looking for, and they forget what the same Council used to be when the late Verica Barac found illegal in the business of Gilas companies at the time of Belgrade's mayor. At the same time, today's Council composition has never questioned the business of United Group, in which one of Gilas' companies ended in a very controversial way. The report, among other things, analysed money flows in the media and mechanisms, trade in media influence on the basis of which it is concluded that there is corruption and clientelism in the media, as well as that the real media owners are hiding. The report states that all of the businesses within Gilasova Multicom Group are then the most expensive TV programs, such as Big Brother, he is the creator of the programme "48 hours wedding", "All for Love", "I Change Woman", "Operation triumph", "Take or Leave", realized the production house "Emoushn", also in Gilas' property. Was it the one who reported at the beginning of his career that he had 40,000 euros, the old "Saba" and what else was it, the apartment? Well, now, my dear friends, the citizens of the Republic of Serbia are saying this not me but the Council's report on the fight against corruption. Gilas owns a quarter of the multi-group that deals with advertising in the media, renting media space, financing production, buying and selling television rights, owns stakes in other agencies, and 93% in the Direkt media, which also deals with selling advertising space. Multicom and Direkt media have for years recorded net profit growth, so the 2008 Direkt Media achieved a net profit of 558,628,000, while in the previous year in 2007, it was smaller by almost 200,000, imagine, grief alive, a little less. In 2009, the net profit was 619,679,000 dinars. In 2010, 758.994,000, etc. Similar to the Multigroup, which, together with related companies in 2008, achieved a net profit of 498,000,000 dinars in 2009, 563,000,000 and so, millions, millions. So this is the report, it's not my flat-rate story. Let's move on, KRIK, as my esteemed colleague said, has announced that Mr. Gilas has 35 apartments. Well, we all get together here, this whole line doesn't have 35 apartments. Well, then, on 35 accounts across the globe who knows how many hundreds of millions, and those 619,000,000 he reported, that's probably a small thing. The Adi Bridge, which cost 400,000 euros and the real value of 200,000 euros, twice as high, twice the cost in France is 200,000 euros, our 400,000 euros. Where's that 200,000 euros? Then the debt of the city of Belgrade, 1,200,000, and the underground containers, and it cut off this, and there was no such thing as disappeared, and it did not pay the families the debt, so that he did not give the welfare of the money. I'm talking about him because I got the report, but what about the others? Do you remember the ornaments of the fertile ones of Vojvodina and Petrovic? He bought ten times as cheap as the market value. That's hundreds of millions of euros, and not just him, all those clicks are getting rich. Corruption is cancer. To finalize. The cancer should be radically eradicated. All the people who have sinned against the state should go to prison, return money, and do not repeat such a thing in the Republic of Serbia, whether SNS or anyone else on this planet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-21-0.u9337	Thank you, Mrs. Malusic. The word is Zoran Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-21-0.u9338	Thank you, dear Vice President Orlic. Dear Minister, fellow Members and fellow Members of the People, I would like to extend myself to the speech of my distinguished colleague. Well, this particular corruption is the cancer of the society that we are fighting and we have shown that from the moment the SNS came to power, in 2012, that we are determined in this fight, so today's agenda point, which we are discussing, and these are amendments and additions to the Corruption Prevention Act, is exactly the part of it. These are not just simple words written on paper, a law that will be passed, but a law that will and will be successfully applied and will give its results. We had opportunities to hear from my distinguished colleagues, unfortunately, examples of bad practice, where members of the former tycoon regime abused their positions that they had to put money in their own pockets. Fortunately, in 2012 the people prevented them from doing so, so that they ended up playing 619m euros, but apparently it was too little for them, so now they're working hard to keep this game going on with the people they expected someone on the side to bring them back to those positions to continue. The nerves in their ranks are growing. You will see, at the end of this session, when these amendments and additions of the law are passed, and that this anxiety will grow because he will be aware that he will not be able to do such things as Dragan Gilas did, who is otherwise known as the father, reality of the show in Serbia, which is the area intended for the playground he used and used to place amongst people the idea of "Great Brother", and in fact his then president and he, together with them, were one great brother to all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, because they were the ones who were making the fate of citizens, but not for the benefit of the citizens, but for their own benefit. That's exactly what we have to see a chance these days. In particular, the topic that is being discussed today, which is the issue of our AP Kosovo and Metohija and those things that Albin Kurti and others are doing about taking down plates with Serbian tags, where they are trying to play some force, to intimidate the Serbian people in KIM long pipes, because what they really want is ethnically pure KIM and that this plan, which they started to implement with the help of their mentors in 2008, has been implemented until the end, but they have been wronged because Serbia today is strong. Today's Serbia is such a country that is headed by President Aleksandar Vukic, who leads politics to take care of Serbia's Serbian people wherever he lives and will also take care of the citizens of KIM. You have had the opportunity to hear today, after the National Security Council session, that it is not the ones who have bought the provocations, that we will actually continue to lead a wise policy and that we will protect the people, because we will not allow what happened in the past, and that is the "Storm" and "Stream" and the Pogrom that happened at KIM 2004, to ever happen again. Of course, there are always the fosterers in the ranks of the opposition, i.e. the former tycoon regime, who find themselves smart to comment on what is happening today in Serbia, including former Prime Minister Zoran Zivkovic, known as the coat, who said that this session of the National Security Council is nothing but another show for the people and that he would not raise this problem to such a high level. Well, of course, he would not raise because he and his associates, Gilas, Jeremic, Alekic, Borka, or formerly Borislav Stefanovic, were never interested in the interests of the citizens of Serbia and the people of KIM, and then, more quickly and better, when that scenario happened, they started to spin and say, "This is the result of those contracts and agreements that Aleksandar Vukic signed in Brussels, which is the result of his policy, and they forgot in 2011 and the agreement they signed and which obliged the Republic of Serbia to respect the agreement. What Alexander Vukic is and what his policy has done is to ensure conditions for the Serb people to survive in Kosovo and Metohija. You never had more resources to stand out to help that people down, to raise the quality of life, as it did in the rest of Serbia. Of course, they find themselves smart to criticize it and say it's some new farce, it's a big mistake. Actually, they're the ones who made the mistake, because they just... Borko, that is, once Borislav Stefanovic, who thought that by changing his name he would succeed in eradicating all the bad things he did for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and people in Kosovo and Metohija, he was the one who initialled the agreement, and he forgot to read in the agreement that this provision is actually subject to the talks of the two delegations, that it should actually be discussed further, but well, their job is to spin. They make every effort and engage their media, their bots on social networks, who try to turn everything for the benefit of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and show that it's not good for them, so I'm sure when we declare this law that both the trees and the stones on us, that we were allowed to pass this law and not allow their bosses and bosses to continue to deal with corruption, to do what they used to do. I would like to remind you, since my colleagues were already talking about Dragan Djilas, what Vuk Jeremic was doing, the former foreign minister who asked the famous stupid question in front of the International Court of Justice, which even today, Albanians in Pristina are using as one of the arguments for what they are doing and only, as a result, did not raise the monument and declare it one of the days of the year when they will celebrate him as their national hero, because he is the one who gave the wind in the back of their separatism and what they did. While he was in his interest, while Serbia supported his position to be president of the UN General Assembly and while he could draw money from the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, it was fine, but the moment it ended faster-better he launched his NGO and set out to attack the same state and to attack the state summit that supported his candidacy, and the NGO used as a front for money laundering and financing its political campaign. We've had opportunities in numerous exhibitions earlier to see this scheme of criminals and his friends, by Patrick Ho, and beyond, who have been convicted of the kind of corruption they've done. What is the only characteristic of both the politics and Jeremic and Aleksic, the famous Obor Prince of Tristenik, whom my colleague Ana Pesic has already said had paid himself in addition to the legal will, damaged the budget of the citizens of Tristenik municipality, became one of the most paid presidents of municipalities in Serbia, and there is also a judicial verdict for that, but the punishment that was attributed to him is not an adequate act that he has committed because before that they have provided for themselves to destroy both the judiciary and to actually frame both the appointments and judges and prosecutors who have responded to them. We all know that they were doing it on the boards of the Democratic Party, so then we had a situation as Alexic found himself smart to criticise leadership in Tristenik, why they were doing it some way, and he forgot that the way he did it was in such a bad and catastrophic state that the municipality simply had to finance the reconstruction of that road, but the traffic made it more efficient. We had the opportunity to see how the Obore Prince of Triestenik boasted his results in agriculture, the enormous quantities of apples that he managed to collect in plantations, and I wonder only whose money he managed to finance it all, since agriculture had never dealt with in his life? Well, surely from the means that he's earned. One of these funds is precisely that of raising your salary and robbing Triestean citizens. Not to mention the JKP that he formed for himself so that he could place himself as director, so that through those famous funds that he allocated for fuel for the needs of the local community service that had no car available, etc. I don't need to talk, the citizens of Triestenik municipality know exactly what he's done. While they were in power, while their mouths were full of the EU and that Serbia would enter the EU and, as they do, do all the work, we are actually doing it on the works, so this law that is before us and the debate on the ethical code are actually two things that clearly say that we are on our way to the EU and that we want to become a full member of this community. As Mr Martinovic said, we will be one of the few countries that has adopted this code and on the basis of which we will actually further raise the reputation of this parliament, which, unfortunately, are the ones who, while sitting in these benches, have succeeded in destroying both power and opposition. Among their comrades, Bosko Obradovic was already so humiliated by this parliament that it was for Ginis' book of record, starting with the introduction of stone into prey, until he tried to break through the flag of the Republic of Serbia and enter into the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, making it clear that he defiled both the symbols of this country and clearly speaks of the patriotism that he is raising towards Serbia and its citizens. In any case, this decision that is before you today will, as I said, raise the quality of the work of this Parliament, I am certainly absolutely and the citizens of the Republic of Serbia can see what it looks like when you have a parliamentary discussion and a debate of people who are decent, which is perfectly normal, but this will ensure in the future that if cases such as Bosko Obradovic and him appear again, that it cannot come to this, that it is adequately sanctioned and that we do not allow ever again an institution like the National Assembly to be defiled. My esteemed colleagues, here I am going to finish, have also touched the attacks that are being organized both against President Alexander Vukic and his family. Unfortunately, not only are they on him, but the attacks are also on his associates, colleagues, and their families. Look at the miracles, behold, the opposition media, I won't name them, they took a faster and better chance to attack Mr. Gasic, and just in the period when he had one of the happiest days of his life, when he married his middle son, and you know how important and important it is for every parent, and then faster and better to move the texts on his biography, trying to show him in one way in which absolutely no citizen of Serbia, especially the Kruševljanin, can believe it, because we all in Krusevec know who is Mr. Bratislav Gašic and how big the local patriot is and how much he loves his Serbia and how much energy and effort he is making to help Serbia become a safe and safe place for all its citizens. He raised the BIA from the moment he became her director, there are a lot of activities that have been realized and that we are absolutely all proud of. We are proud and proud of everything he has done as defence minister and we are especially proud of what the Kruševljani have done and as Mayor of Kruševac, starting with his vision of Kruševac as a town of knowledge, a town of young people, which is being successfully realized today and who today supports as Bratislav Gasic, primarily as a Kruševljanin, as a citizen of the Republic of Serbia. I just want to say that everything that opposition media and their bots are trying to do with their spins is actually more about themselves, about a policy they don't have, not about Mr. Gasic or his sons, who are really young people for example in Kruševec and who we all appreciate and respect. I would take the opportunity to congratulate the newlyweds on their wedding and wish them a successful life, to congratulate Mr. Gasic on everything he has done on Kruševac, what he does and what he will do and to just say that decent and normal Serbia will never fall for the provocations of the opposition and their media, because in fact we all know perfectly what is true here, who are these people who truly and partly show that they are patriots and that they love their country, and who are those who are eager to wait for the game to call "619 million" teaching and to fill their pockets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-21-0.u9339	Thank you, Mr. Tomic. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-21-0.u9340	Thank you, Vice President Orlic. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my colleagues have said quite enough about the code of ethics and amendments to the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest. Of course, Serbia has been on the road since 2014 and one of the country's key and strategic objectives is to eradicate corruption and what President Aleksandar Vukic has defined as the main doctrine in the fight against corruption, which is zero tolerance in the fight against corruption. In this area over the past seven years, many have been done in the area of the rule of law, in the area of control of budget spending or state resources, so many newspapers and many of the tools needed to make every state dinar, every taxpayer's dinar, or citizens of the Republic of Serbia, go into the right hands and take advantage of it in the right way. This is something new, and it is quite a new political doctrine introduced by Aleksandar Vukic, who has resulted in our capital investment being multiple, that we have the opportunity and the money to build infrastructure, to strengthen the defence and defence capacities of our country, but, of course, our economy in the economic and business environment and to lead, even though we are as the SNS party of the right center, perhaps the most responsible social policy in this part of Europe, given that we are a party that is equally concerned about the interests of those who employ people, who pay taxes to this country and we have no problem in saying that these are heroes of our country, especially in today's time, which is a lot of challenges, starting with the coron of viruses, global crisis, fighting and threats from terrorism and many other things that are dominant to the world in the 21st century. But still, we have remained faithful to the ideas of respect for the rights of those who cannot earn on the market, those groups of people who are the most vulnerable, who have a problem dealing with their existence, so it is a top-notch social responsible state and the fight against corruption and organised crime that is one of the key tools to continue with this kind of policy, to continue with a policy that aims to make our citizens richer, to make their standards greater and to ensure that the quality of life of our citizens is in any case stronger, stronger and better. As far as the ethical code is concerned, I believe that fellow Members and MPs today have shown, and in previous discussions, many times in this House's assembly, that we have full capacity and that we have MPs and people who have fully responded to the trust that the people of Serbia, who gave Serbian citizens to MPs, especially SNS on 21 June 2020, have in mind that we have brought in a whole series of very important laws that have affected the state's great results in the fight to strengthen our health system, protect the security and health of our citizens, but in addition, parallel, economic development. And this assembly of parliament can serve as one true example of how MPs behave, how they should behave, as a kind of ethlon for all those calling in the future. It is normal for the parliament to have political, ideological and any other struggle that takes place, of course, verbally. We are not a theater here, we are not a cinema, we are not on the stage, so that we may speak to one another and act on the system; I, Serdar, you to me, Duke. We are people here who represent the interests of citizens and sometimes it is normal to have a little more difficult words, to have a fierce political struggle in parliament, but to fight ideas, to fight ideology and to fight attitudes and positions aimed at improving the quality of life of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. That's not controversial. I will remind my colleagues and colleagues and citizens of the Republic of Serbia that in the cradles of democracy and parliamentaryism, the mother of democracy and parliamentaryism, so in the United Kingdom, in Britain, and today, from the 13th century, those tables, those positions where the majority of parliament and opposition in parliament are located at a clear and precise distance, and that distance is measured in two swords. Why two swords? Because, of course, at the beginning of parliamentaryism, there were potential and, of course, physical conflicts where sometimes MPs pulled out and swords fighting for their political and ideological values. Of course, the states, the peoples and the very parliamentary system have evolved that we do not have the need for this today, but to lead a fierce and serious controversy in parliament is normal and, of course, that is the way it should be. This ethical code I experience in such a way that it just needs to remind us of what we must never do and that, when it is exaggerated in some things that are not for this Parliament, it is, of course, sanctioned. This ethical code is something where the Serbian parliament stands out in relation to many parliaments in Europe, as it stands out in many other things, although we don't talk much about it. Look, when it comes to respect for human, minority rights, equality rights, as many of our distinguished colleagues, women in parliament, the work of the Women's Parliamentary Network. It is something where we can hold a lesson and a much more modern and more developed countries that boast that there are standards of respect for human rights, minority rights, women's rights and all other communities, that this is something Serbia needs to pursue, and in fact, Serbia is in many, many aspects much, much ahead of those who may have better marketing for now and better promote what they are, so-called. their results. What separates Serbia from many other countries is that it is done seriously in Serbia, which is done specifically on these issues. So today we also have on the subject of respect for human and minority rights a great, excellent situation that is being looked at in that we have never had a better relationship with our Hungarian minority community, the Bosniak minority community and other communities living in the Republic of Serbia. That's the difference we're proud of here. What is happening and what happened two days ago in KIM territory says there is a coordinated attack on the Republic of Serbia. I think of sides, so external influences and the influences of countries in the region that are praised by how they co-operate together and how they support each other in creating an incident aimed at jeopardising the vital state and national interests of the Republic of Serbia. This shameful incursion of ROSU power in the north of KIM with long pipes speaks plainly. Support, for example, the Republic of Croatia, thanks Donika Gervala to her Croatian colleagues for their full support, so-called It tells authorities in Kosovo about the incursion to the north of Kosovo and the co-operation seen and not seen in many countries in the region, about what Serbia did in previous years, not only about these very important things that I spoke about earlier, about fighting corruption, organised crime, respect for human and minority rights, Serbia is the first in the economy, Serbia is the first in host management of its own country. I can freely say that thanks to President Alexander Vukic, Serbia is obviously the only sovereign country in this region and that Serbia is the only one implementing and leading a sovereign policy in its territory and having the capacity and having the strength, regardless of any and any interest, to say – these are red lines, as President Aleksandar Vukic today told the representatives of Quinte – Serbia can go here and Serbia will explicitly defend its own national interests and interests wherever it lives. Of course, our people are the most endangered in KIM territory. Alexander Vukic should not be expected to take any reckless action, but our messages and his messages today after a national security session, where the security situation in the territory of the Republic of Serbia has been discussed, speaks clearly about how we have an answer and we have a solution to every challenge and every attempt of what unfortunately followed some countries in the region, with keen support from foreign forces and foreign factors during the 1990s and at the end of the last century. I also think about BiH, I also think about developments around Republika Srpska and, in the end, the bombing and NATO aggression on KIM. Alexander Vukic and the Republic of Serbia will never allow such scenarios again. The Republic of Serbia is leading a peaceful policy, a policy of peace, stability. What we can order from this parliament, as representatives of the SNS, is that we will continue to advocate dialogue. We will continue to advocate, although he, of course, with Kosovo Albanians, it is clear to all of us, makes no sense anymore. How can you conduct a dialogue with one Bislimi who says Serbia caused this attack and this abuse of Serbs in KIM two days ago that happened and this arrival of ROSU forces at the Jarinje administrative crossing? So, it's about two worlds, it's about one, how can I say, quacking the entity and quacking the KIM institutions that are obviously run by an unwitting, out-of-work people and politicians who aim to threaten Serbia, to endanger the Serbian people. The only goal, apparently, of negotiations on Kosovo and on KIM is, and what hurts them, the takeover of the north of KIM. That's the only goal, and that's what happened two days ago. Of course, Serbia will not give up all of that, primarily its people who live in both the north of KiM and the south of KIM, regardless of their attacks concerning the threat of our religious, historical and cultural heritage, because we are all witnessing that they absolutely do not exceed anything and the main thorn in their eye is Aleksandar Vukic and the main thorn in their eye is the Serb list and the main thorn in their eye, because Aleksandar Vukic has managed to homogenize the Serbian people wherever they live and to help and support them, that he represents a single interest in the whole region, which is the Serbian interest and protection of the vital interests of Serbs and the Republic of Serbia wherever they live. I will end with leaving time for my other colleagues, and I think that Serbia should not go to that integration at all costs in the Western Balkans. We see that's what Northern Macedonia wants, we see that Albania wants it. The idea of an open Balkans is great, and Serbia will realise it. It is the original Vucic's idea, which was subsequently supported by both Grenel and Trump's administration, and today this US administration supports it. I can be open and honest, if we have to hope that someone will warn about this Kosovo Albanians and say – come on, people, stop, this is not normal what you're doing. Unfortunately, we cannot expect this from the EU, which is calling for desecration, because Miroslav Lajcak is talking about desecration. We just don't know what kind of desecration you're talking about when you have on one side people with long pipes and other naked people. But apparently, only Washington can help these people remember to return to Pristina and leave this people alone. President Aleksandar Vukic is on 24 September, and that is very important, it is the main message for citizens of Serbia and for the whole world, in Budapest to participate in one, strategically important conference, on demographicism, on family values, along with the Prime Minister of Hungary, Orban, with Czech Republic Prime Minister Babis, with former US Vice President Mike Pensa. It's the main message, it's something that bothers everyone here in the region, it's what Vucica's key world players respect, respect what Serbia has created and done in terms of modernisation, in terms of strengthening the country's capacity in the past few years. I think it would be much more pragmatic, much better to turn around and focus on co-operation with the Visegrad Group countries, with the countries "The Orthodox Quadrilaterals". Milan Stojadinovic, formerly involved in the work of Male Antante, was committed to this goal because it was in the interest of the then Kingdom of Yugoslavia. I believe that Serbia has many opportunities and that President Aleksandar Vukic and, of course, the Government of the Republic of Serbia will make the most of them. We here as a majority in parliament can only be one strong support for the president to endure these challenges. It's been going on for nine years. It's especially difficult, not because of the pressure on the side. The biggest problem is the pressures within, the people who would give Kosovo and Metohija tomorrow, who would sign tomorrow, because they don't care about Serbs living both in the north and in the southern part of Kosovo and Metohija. Alexander Vukic showed that with one consistent policy, a reliable policy, one great struggle and twenty-four-hour work for his country, we can have results, we can develop. That is why it does not correspond to many that Serbia today is strong, which is militaryly strengthened, which makes us an economic number one. Of course, we continue with such a policy, considering only the Serbian interests and interests of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-21-0.u9341	Thank you, Professor. Marinkovic. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint, principled and uniform search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. I thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, in accordance with Article 98(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, I conclude a joint principled, uniform search on the proposals for acts referred to in points 1 and 2 of the agenda. We'll continue work tomorrow at 10.00 hours. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the session of the fourteenth extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 12th Assembly. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 64 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask all MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 93 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. We move on to a principled search on the Third Point of the Agenda – Proposal for a Law on the Conservation of the Cultural and Historical Heritage of the Holy monastery Hilandar. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the sittings have been invited to attend: Maja Gojkovic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Culture and Information, Dr Nenad Popovic, Minister without portfolio, Daniela Vanušić, Assistant Minister of Culture and Information, and Vladimir Jovičić, adviser to the minister without portfolio. I ask the parliamentary groups, as long as they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word, with a number of MPs. In accordance with Article 157(1) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a principle search on the bill on the preservation of the cultural and historical heritage of the St. Hilandar monastery. I also welcome the representatives of the promoter. I'm asking if they want a word to explain the bill at the outset. The word is made by Deputy Prime Minister Maja Gojkovic. Here you go.
