ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-30-0.u4633	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the fifth session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2021. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 114 MPs attend the session. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the adoption of the minutes and the establishment of the agenda exists if a majority of the total number of MPs are present at the sitting. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., I ask Members to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, it is found that, at this point in the hall, 171 MPs are present, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly within the meaning of Article 88(5). Rules of Procedure. Ladies and gentlemen, if any of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wish to request a notice or an explanation, in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? The word is Samir Tandir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-30-0.u4634	Dear President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the Honored Vice President, fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, my question is addressed to the Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Serbia, as well as to the Prosecutor's Office for Organized Crime. The question is - what have they done in connection with the disclosure of the criminal activities of the previous government in the municipality of Sjenica, and in particular cases, since there are several cases, 832 hectares of state and cases of fake invoices. So the Municipality of Sjenica belongs to a group of devastated, undeveloped municipalities. Now, at the head of that community, there are honest, honest, successful people who have asked me to ask this question. We also need from this level of government, but also from other institutions to support them in their struggle for the interest of all citizens, to make everyone better. The past government, president and chamber around it gave 832 hectares of state-owned land to a foreign company in Switzerland "New Take Group" for 99 years, without any parliamentary decision. So the village took advantage of the situation in which the state was then and decided to give the country under some circumstances, without any legal basis. Of course, to the harm of this state and to the damage of the town of Sjenica, to the construction, allegedly, of some solar park. The country is located in the area of the village of Raslo, Draževići and Vranatici. These are very frequent villages and citizens and citizens living in the area, as well as other citizens of the Sjenica, absolutely knew nothing about what was coming to them. Also, there is a very interesting clause, which says that in the case of a possible court dispute, no court in our country is in charge, but, you might think, is a competent court in Lucerne, where this phantom firm comes from. So I'm curious about what the Department of Justice and what the D.A.'s organized crime has done about this case. Also, apart from the Ministry of Justice and the Prosecutor's Office, this may be for "Politika's Funer" and for the section "Believe it or not". Although the previous president of the Municipality of Sjenica was resolved in August of last year, some invoices are arriving today. Here, you can see here. The date is January 25th of the current year, we have the seal, the signature, the memo, everything. He signs some invoices and they arrive neatly in the Department of Budget and Finance of the Municipality of Sjenica. I absolutely don't believe that in the history of this country and the regions and the entire continent any such case has happened. So I'm really wondering if the object is formed and what is done specifically in this case? My second question is addressed to the Ministry of Justice and the Prosecutor's Office for Organized Crime, but also to the Ministry of Education – who has allowed the school yard of the elementary school in Suva Dol, the Tutin Municipality, to sell, on what basis and what will the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Justice do to protect state property? So, Suvi Dol is one of the frequent villages in the cave highlands, and now that we're talking about demographic politics, when we talk about politics towards the village, they throw up young people in the country, someone decides that, here, I have copies of the catastrophe, we have who it's all going to be, they sell a part of the school yard where children whose parents are left in the country could play, spend their time after school. What's next? That someone at some choir is partying to make a decision to sell the school and what do we do next? I ask the Ministry of Justice, I ask the Ministry of Education to deal seriously with this problem, because these are things that citizens and citizens in the field will absolutely no longer tolerate. I am in this case their voice. They want people to fight through institutions. The institutions must send a clear and adequate answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-30-0.u4635	Thank you. MP Mirsad Hodzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-30-0.u4636	Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I am asking my current question to the Minister for State Administration and local self-government. We've heard from some colleagues that there's some kind of fair authority in the Senate, that some of the honest, right people are in power. However, to hear the public about what it is allegedly honest and honest people. After the constitution of the Municipality of Sjenica, at the end of August 2020, the municipal council was elected by the ruling majority's board of directors. Meanwhile, meetings of the Assembly were held in October, December of last year, as well as in March of this year, and at all these sessions, this head of the municipal administration took part in the work as a committee. He participated in voting and decision-making, including budget rebalances for 2020, and in the 2021 budget, decisions related to the municipality's mandate and everything else, where he provided the majority with his vote. At the same time, as head of the municipal administration, he made solutions, deployed workers, quits on a political basis, and brings all acts related to the job of the mayor of the municipal administration. My first question is - how is it possible that, in the municipality of Sjenica, a committee member, together with the parliamentary mandate, is acting as mayor of the municipal administration, if it is known that under the Law on Local Self-Government, in Article 30, the board member cannot be employed by the municipal administration, and the head of the municipal administration is a person employed in the municipal administration? The opposition's committees repeatedly pointed to this illegality, and the councils of the majority, the chief and the municipal leadership were deafening themselves. The question is, who allowed them to do it? According to this, any decision by the Assembly of the Municipality in which this committee has illegally participated should be declared illegal, which is the basis for disbanding this illegal assembly and holding new elections. Or, on the other hand, any decision and act taken and signed by that chief is illegal. I ask the Minister of State Administration and the local self-government to urgently carry out administrative oversight, and the administrative court to annul all decisions that have been unlawfully made, that all decisions taken by the assembly be put out of force, as well as decisions mentioned as the Chief of Staff. It was one of the last decisions in which the contested committee was involved that was illegal on a number of grounds, in which he even made interpretations of the decision as a lawyer. This disputed decision by SO Sjenica reportedly relieved the directors of the company DOO “Regional Centre for the Development of Agriculture and Villages”, in which the municipality is a participant with 33.3%, together with the municipality of Tutin and the town of Novi Pazar, which share the same percentage of the participation in the municipality of this center, therefore, this inter-municipal society whose equal founders are the city of Novi Pazar, and the municipality of Sjenica and Tutin, with an equal share and have its own assembly of society that has all management rights. The assembly consists of nine members, three from every municipality and city, and SO Sjenica was not at all competent to discuss this issue. This is just one example of legal violence conducted by the ruling majority in Sjenica, with the obvious permission and favor of one from the government and courts. We ask urgently for these and all other illegal decisions to be questioned, to be put out of force, and to be punished responsible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-30-0.u4637	Thank you. The word is Natasa Mihajlović Vacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-30-0.u4638	Thank you, Mr. President. My question is to the Ministry of Health. I am interested in what is the plan and strategy of organising mobile vaccination teams that would enter every village, every house and household and thus massage immunisation and give adequate answers to citizens who are still indecisive whether to vaccinate or not. Mobile teams are already on the ground and that's good, visiting households in Serbia's villages, those who have immobilised or who for any reason are unable to leave and vaccinated into one of the health institutions. My question is – what is the dynamics and whether there are enough mobile teams to visit all villages and households in the coming period, because many are unable to go to the nearest city, many have no Internet access, many are busy with the spring work that is under way, etc., etc. Namely, the Social Democratic Party of Serbia discussed vaccination with citizens at several locations during the weekend in Belgrade and urged citizens to respond to an appeal and call for vaccination. Some have been encouraged to make a decision, some to remove doubts, many of us have referred to “E Administration” and how they can re-apply if they have missed some of the appointments. What we saw in the field is that people have doubts and many questions and are looking for answers. We think it would be good to organise a wide-ranging promotion campaign that would focus on those people and on giving answers to those issues that can't get so often in public and in the media. The vaccine is a topic that must have a clear message sent to the public at the moment, because it is a struggle for the lives of citizens. The vaccine is a civilizational fluid, the only scientifically proven way to fight the pandemic. The vaccine has saved and preserved millions of people's lives through history and we believe that the issue of vaccines and vaccinations is not and must not be political and should not be a topic of political disagreement between the government and the opposition. Corona is both a common salvation and the health of people should also be a common effort and effort. At this point, we in the Social Democratic Party of Serbia think it is extremely important that we all show solidarity and responsibility and be united, given the situation we are in. Citizens are concerned about those who speak unfoundedly in the media about vaccines, widespread conspiracy theories, rumors and misinformation. Their performances are aggressive and they thus lead a large part of the public into error, which, of course, can affect the very course of the pandemic. Spreading false news, I'd remind you, it's a crime. It is up to the D.A. to react to false news and everything that happens in that sense on social networks and in the media. The Social Democratic Party of Serbia also urged the media to open their space only to those who talk about the vaccine on scientifically-founded evidence, not to those who lead their unfounded attitudes and aggression astray many citizens. Everyone has the right to decide whether or not to vaccinate. Everyone has the right to speak their mind about the vaccine, but no one has the right to endanger other people's rights with their performances. The right of each individual is limited by the rights and freedoms of other people. The position of the SDPS is clear, the more we follow the measure and the more people get vaccinated, the sooner we can get back to normal life. The Social Democratic Party will continue to promote the vaccination of Serbian citizens through field activities in the coming period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-30-0.u4639	Thank you. The word is a Messenger of the people, Akhesh Ujhelji. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-30-0.u4640	Thank you very much. Dear President, the presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, the SVM parliamentary group believes Serbia made a good choice when it set EU membership as its most important foreign-political priority. Last week, the Prime Minister said in this high house on Thursday that we were staying on this road. Our parliamentary group believes that joining the EU is a process in which not only the state but a whole society participates and that it is important that, apart from the state administration, the process is understood and included in it by the citizens of Serbia themselves. Understanding the process increases support and active participation of citizens. As is known, it is necessary to harmonise legislation with EU law as well as standards and value system. EU legal assets in the area of consumer protection regulate the safety of goods and the protection of consumers' economic interests in many sectors. They include a general framework for financing and rules governing consumer protection at EU and Member State level, including measures of banning and access to justice, with measures to improve co-operation between Member States' authorities. Harmonisation of rights, to protect consumers, aims to remove barriers to the market and enable integrated economic space, so that services and goods can circulate with the same standards of security and quality, while consumers enjoy a high level of protection of their rights. The framework also refers to aspects related to consumer general security, such as dangerous imitations of liability for products with shortages and the EU's fast-exciting system, the so-called RAPEX. In addition, issues have been regulated, such as sales of goods and guarantees in connection with this, unfavourable terms of the contract, selling prices from door to door, distance sales, distance marketing of financial services, consumer credit, false and parallel advertising, unfair trade, travel and rights of passengers flying. The SVM Group believes that through a common policy, consumer protection, and through regulation and supervision in the area, in the Republic of Serbia, a greater degree of product safety will be possible, and thus better consumer protection, as well as a general improvement in quality of life. This reduces health expenditure, i.e. the cost of treating injuries and diseases caused by the use of non-safety products. The development of a system outside the judicial settlement of disputes in this area relieves courts, and the work of the Consumer Protection Association contributes to strengthening their impact. The inclusion in the RAPEX system, for the rapid exchange of warnings and information, on dangerous and non-secure products, raises a general level of product safety, including by preventing sales and withdrawing from the product market that poses a risk to consumer health and safety. The question is, at what stage is the harmonisation of domestic law, with EU law, in the area of consumer protection? What measures have been taken so far and plans to bring forward the Government of the Republic of Serbia, to make protection of interests as effective as possible, but also consumer health? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-30-0.u4641	Thank you. National MP Snezana Paunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-30-0.u4642	I thank you, President, respected colleagues, respected citizens of Serbia. I have two questions for today, both addressed to the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights and Social Dialogue, on two, seems to me the most important subject. First of all, for the population, for the purpose of the existence of the state, but also for the development of Serbia. My first question is, when and why has no social dialogue on the subject already been organised, which says "Mental health of the population and the consequences of Kovid, on the psychological and mental health of each of us," and especially on the mental health of all of us after Kovid, when we once put the virus under control? Do we understand, in fact, the situation of pressure and anxiety that people have, whether they are infected or not? Because the evil of infection changed our behavior, our habits, and everything we're used to, as a way of life before the epidemic. Do we understand that our rituals of association, handling, weddings and funerals, travel, sport, culture have been abolished, and we have been cut off from habits that make us social beings? Do we understand how much we haven't been celebrated by the birth of a child, how much she couldn't mourn her parents or friends, to have a good time at a wedding? Do we understand the pressures and concerns of small and medium-sized enterprises, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, because they have no income, people with loans, fired, victims of violence? Do we understand children of primary and secondary schools, who have been kidnapped by all school rituals, their isolation, the age in which socialization, the absolutely necessary factor in growing up and growing up? It is indisputable that the Serbian government is doing an excellent immuneisation process, and my question is, can the Ministry of Social Dialogue be able to start a conversation that would create immunisation against the mental problems of the population? This is a topic that would have to bring us all together, to look for a solution absolutely for all of us, and perhaps a theme that would show us exactly how many excuses, when it comes to complaining about Europe, just advertising, without the existence of goodwill, are that it would potentially affect the quality of life of the population, of which you expect trust tomorrow. My second question is, when and also why hasn't the Ministry already organised a dialogue on the social economic position of women, which is, in fact, what kind of epidemic has fallen? Why am I saying this? Because women, the superior majority, over 65% of women are in health care, education, social care, economy, care and care, trade and services, taking care of family members, everything that we care about as a life, when the epidemic began. Everything stopped and stopped being normal, and women kept working, fighting for others, for what such normality of life, which must run. Why is there no dialogue and talk about it? Can we, primarily women, but also men, certainly all of us in a changed and worse socio-economic position, in any way repay ourselves for all the effort and sacrifice during the pandemic? Can we once decide that women who get a retirement condition this year are waiting for it shorter, at least six months? Of course, if that's what they want. And can we give the women they gave birth to during Kovid one-time maternity leave for six months? Can we have a dialogue on why women are more relaxed and more often than men? All this stuff that I'm asking the Ministry of Social Dialogue about, it's not impossible to improve in this home. But I'm asking a question and I'm looking for a dialogue, for a simple reason, because if we talk about it in a wider circle, we're going to come up with a better solution, and we owe a solution to the endangered categories, and I want to point out that this is not a question, which should be any of the measures that have been taken, the decreases, they were very important, but now we have to turn to an ordinary man, whose life and quality of life depends to a good degree on our decisions. If there are laws that need to be completed or promoted once, I want to talk about it, I want to see who they are and I want to bring them to the Serbian Parliament for the benefit of citizens and citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-30-0.u4643	Thank you. MP Dragoljub Ackovic. Please reapply.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-30-0.u4644	Excuse me and thank you. Mr. President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, honourable MPs and MPs, citizens of Serbia, I will return your attention to a very important issue for the country of Serbia and the people of Roma, which is Roma education. I'm going to ask my questions in that sense to the Ministry of State. Namely, the 2009 Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System, the Institute of Pedagogical Assistant, has been recognised by the Ministry of Education of the Republic of Serbia, since then around 220 teaching assistants have been engaged in schools in Serbia. These days, Mr Ruzic and the National Assembly of Sandra Jokovic and the president of the National Council of the Roma National Minority, Mr Nakic, discussed this with the Minister of Education. Mr. Nakic and MP Jokovic told me that the ministry's talks were satisfied and that their special interest was the issue of enrolment of Roma children in high school and colleges, affirmative action. Namely, at a time when the minister of education was Zarko Obradovic, a quota was introduced for enrolment of 1 per cent Roma students. According to Petar Nikolic, editor of the Roma programme on TV Vojvodina, who asked Mr. Obradovic why the quota for the entry of Roma children was 1 per cent, the minister replied that it was proposed by then by Roma National Council President Vitomir Mihajlovic, and that it was thus accepted by the government. I believe the Minister in words at the time, but I cannot accept it, that President Mihajlovic, then suggested, because I believe that the quota for Roma children is small and that it should be increased or best if the quota for enrolment of Roma children for enrolment in schools and universities, to be abolished. I think it's best if it's lifted. I believe that the Law on Human and Minority Rights, which was adopted in 2002, in a work that speaks about the introduction into affirmative measures for Roma children, when enroling in high and high school, clearly and loudly says that they were then enrolled by quota, but according to their wishes. I support these Roma children's wishes and I wonder if the decision to introduce quotas can be abolished or if not possible, can the quota be increased to at least 3%? Why would I ask that? I ask this on the basis of the number of Roma in the total population of the country of Serbia, because I don't believe in the statistics of the Statistical Institute, that Roma is 149 thousand and several hundred of us, but that there are at least two or three times more of us. Therefore, enrolment of Roma children in high school and colleges, affirmative measures, as well as their accommodation in secondary and student homes should be made out of the currently scheduled quotas or increased to 3%. Why? Why do I stand for this kind of approach to Roma children? Because at 14 schools in Novi Sad this school year, six students were enrolled, and once the quota was 35 and 40 students. So now in Novi Sad, my dear friends, there are four doctors of science, three of which are women and only one in Belgrade. That's the first question I want to ask. The second question concerns the status of pedagogical assistants in schools, which, as I initially said 220, whose number in my opinion, and how I learned from the president of the National Council and the opinion of the resolute minister, Mr Branko Ruzic, is insufficient and that it should be increased. I agree with that, of course. That's where we agree, but I have to ask how long will the teaching assistants in the contract of engagement be extended for a year? That seemed since 2009, which means more than a decade. When Roma assistants began to work, they claim in their address to me, that the Ministry of Education received assurances that the area of their working-law status would be arranged by creating an opportunity to be employed indefinitely. The president of the Association of Pedagogical Assistants, Bozidar Nikolic, says that in the last four years, the approach to resolving the issue has been changed and that a decision has been made not to amend and supplement the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System, but to draw up a sublegal act, which is called – the Pedagogical and Andragogical Assistant Regulation, which was already adopted in December 2019. The problem of permanent employment is not only Roma pedagogical assistants, but also health mediators, as well as most Roma co-ordinators in local self-government. Representatives of pedagogical assistants, such as Bozidar Nikolic or Severdjan Alijevic, in their letters, reminds the Assembly that the Labour Act tells employers that if someone is employed for more than five years, one employer is entitled to establish a working relationship indefinitely. That is why I remind myself that the ban on public sector employment has been lifted and I ask – when will pedagogical assistants, Roma coordinators, health mediators, some of whom work for ten years? They and their families are waiting for that day, and I thank you on their behalf for having the opportunity to ask these few, for us Roma, extremely important questions. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-30-0.u4645	Thank you. Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, answer for word, we continue to work. You have been presented the minutes of the session of the Third Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly in the 12th Assembly, the First and Second Sessions of the First Regular Session in 2021. None of the Members of Parliament delivered in writing any objection to those minutes. We're moving on to a decision. I am voting on the minutes of the Third Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia held on 23, 24 and 25 February 2021. Please press the corresponding key. I am stopping the vote: a total of 185, for – 167, did not vote 18. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the minutes of the Third Extraordinary Session in the 12th Assembly. I am voting on the minutes of the First Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2021, held on 2 March and 4 March 2021. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: a total of 186, for -171, did not vote -15. I find that the National Assembly adopted the first session of the First Regular Session by majority vote. I am voting on the minutes of the Second Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, held on 9 March 10 and 11 March 2021. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: a total of 186, for -171, did not vote -15. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the Second Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2021. Ladies and gentlemen, in the assembly of this session, which has been delivered to you, there is a draft agenda for the session. Before the sitting agenda is established, pursuant to Article 92(2) and Article 93. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it is necessary for the National Assembly to decide on proposals for the completion of the proposed agenda and a proposal for a merger of discussions. People's MP Bojan Torbica, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point - a proposal for a decision on the education of the Commission to investigate and determine the number of victims of the 1999 NATO Pact aggression, submitted to the National Assembly by MPs Djordja Komlenski, Marijan Risticevic, Ana Karadzic and Bojan Torbica, on 16 November 2020. Does MP Bojan Bagica want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Bojan Bagica. You have three minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-30-0.u4646	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrades and comrades, ladies and gentlemen, fellow MPs, turned 22 last week since, without the UN Security Council's consent and against international law, NATO's criminal aggression against the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia began. For twelve years, during the rule of the democratic party and its political stacracies, Serbia was shamefully silent about the terrible crime committed over its population. She kept Serbia silent by hiding her victims, hiding the horror and injustice that 19 of the strongest and richest countries had experienced. It will always remain recorded on the eternal shame that during those twelve years, the worst terrorists and criminals were released from prison, and that as wild beasts hunted and the UN tribunal were delivered to those who courageously defended their country and never the greater forces and never the greater evil that struck the Serbian state and people. It will forever remain written that those whose mouth was full of democracy of human freedoms, European values and American sleep, without mercy killed innocent citizens of Serbia, old people, women, children, calling them collateral damage. It will forever be written down that 78 days of unpunished killing an entire nation. All of this will remain in writing because by arriving at Serbia-led Aleksandar Vukic, Serbia decided to stop silent and talk about everything it had experienced and survived, it decided not to hide its wounds and not to let anyone in this world change the truth about the terrible crime committed against Serbia and its citizens in 1999. All this stuff that I've listed so far will forever be written down, but there's one thing that won't be written down, at least not completely and completely. There will never be a full list of all innocent victims during the NATO pact's criminal aggression, as never completes a list of innocent victims of Jasenovac, Jadovna, Jadovna, Jastrebarski and many other sites will not remain forever a list of all those who have paid our freedom to those most expensive and valuable who have, by their youth, their dreams, their lives. Many generations before us have committed historical mistakes and repeatedly failed to determine the exact number of victims from some previous wars. I think that now, first of all, because of Serbia, because of its future, and hopefully, because of the future of our descendants, we cannot afford ourselves. Because of this, we propose that a Commission be formed to investigate and determine the exact number of all dead, and wounded members of the Yugoslav Army, members of the Serbian and civilian MUP in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Dear colleagues, this is the least we can do for innocent victims and their families, for the sake of Serbia's future, and for the sake of historical truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-30-0.u4647	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I am stopping the vote: total - 185, for – 26, did not vote - 159. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marijan Risticevic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Media, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 9 March. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-30-0.u4648	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the abuse of the Law on Electronic Media has earned the money that has come from the School to Gilas. These are the biggest exporters of our money, the biggest investors, but in their own accounts and their own pockets. The bill did not go in the direction of denying freedom of the media, but rather to allow freedom of the media. It is not the aim of affecting editorial policy, but of preventing the abuses committed by pirate media, which are fictitiously registered somewhere in Luxembourg and which allegedly re-emission the programme from Luxembourg, although it is not being broadcast there. The very term "cross-border channels" suggests that these television channels should broadcast a programme abroad. "Recasting", too, shows that the programme must be broadcast in order to be taken over at the same time, without changes, termination and without domestic advertising. So the way it goes in Luxembourg should look here. Ladies and gentlemen, you couldn't watch games with the Republic of Ireland, you couldn't watch games with Portugal, the European champion, and you won't be able to watch a game tonight if you live inland and you're not an SBB subscriber. Tonight's match with Azerbaijan can only be seen by one-third of the population, and two-thirds of our people have been denied to watch their own team. Recently, Croatia banned the "Sport Club" of this kind of performance and ordered their regulator that national team matches can, as the laws say, only carry the media covering the entire territory of Serbia, in their case it was Croatia's territory. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the law, Article 64, that is precisely what it says, that the most important political sports and other events, out of interest to the public, can only be transferred by media broadcasters, not re-emissions, whose approach is free and whose coverage zone covers the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia. This is also said by the Regulation in Article 6, which states that the same right of transmission of the most important event can only be obtained by the service provider, etc. which covers the entire territory. The most important event list says it is the semifinals and finals of the World and European football championships, the seniors of the championships in which the Serbian team and the qualifying match take part for the Serbian team. By the lawlessness of Schools and Gilas, they are currently devoting the right to watch their team of two-thirds of our people, and that is why I have proposed the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Electronic Media. I realize that this may not be the time to adopt it, I have understanding, but I urge the MPs to understand that our people have rights and that the poorest layers of our population can watch their national team. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-30-0.u4649	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I am stopping the vote: total – 184, for – 17, against – four, no vote – 163. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Dr Aleksandar Martinovic proposed a joint principle and uniform search on: Proposal for a law on museum action and a decision on the declaration of an old and rare library building for cultural well-being and a common principle and uniform search on: Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Judges and Proposal for a decision on the termination of the office of President of the Criminal Court in Negotin, the General Court in Kruševec and the Basic Court in Novi Pazar. I take it Mr. Martinovic doesn't want a word? (Alexander Martinovic: No. I put this proposal to the vote. I am stopping the vote: total – 184, for – 168, no vote – 16. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. Since we have agreed on proposals to supplement the proposed agenda of the session and on a proposal to merge the debate, I would like to put the draft agenda in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. Stopping vote: total – 184, for – 169, did not vote – 15. I find that the National Assembly has by majority established the agenda of the Fifth Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly, in general. Dn n e d d: Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the List of Populations, Households and dwellings in 2021, submitted by the Government, Proposal for a Law on Museum Activity, submitted by the Government, Proposal for a Law on Amendments of the Law on Judges, submitted by the MPs Đorđe Komlenski, Marijan Risticevic, Ana Karadzic and Bojan Torbica, Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the Maintenance and Reconstruction of Travel Bridges between the Republic of Serbia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, which was submitted by the Government, a proposal for a decision to declare an old and rare library building for cultural well-being, which was submitted by the Government and a proposal for the termination of the President of the Criminal Court in Negotin, the Basic Court in Krusevec and the Basic Court in Novi Pazar, which is the Board of Justice and the Court of Justice of the Court, which is the Court of Justice in the Court of Justice, which is the Court of Justice, which is the Court of Justice of Justice in the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of Justice of the Court of Justice of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of Justice of the Court of Justice of the Court of the Court of Justice of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of the Court of We are going to work on the established agenda of the session. Before that, let me just introduce you to our work plan, given that we have more separate discussions and amendments to the proposed laws. We'll do the same holiday that awaits us from Friday to Sunday, the Catholic Easter. Today we will work on the 1st item of the agenda - Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the List of Populations, Households and Apartments in 2021. Tomorrow we are working on a bill on museum work and a proposal for a decision to declare an old and rare library building for cultural well-being of exceptional importance. On Thursday, we are working on a draft law amending the Law on Judges and a motion for a decision to suspend the office of President of the Precinct Court in Negotin, the Court of Fundamental Court in Krusevec and the Court of Fundamental Court in Novi Pazar. The session will continue next Tuesday, a draft law confirming the agreement between the government of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the maintenance and reconstruction of interstate bridges between the Republic of Serbia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. On Wednesday, discussions in particular, i.e. amendments to the Bill on Amendments to the Law on the List and Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Judges. After that, it will be a day for the vote, and for next Thursday I have scheduled a session with one item of the agenda – a proposal for a decision on the election of the President of the Supreme Cassation Court. In agreement with Article 90, I would like to inform you that the sittings are invited to attend: Branislav Nedimović, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, Siniša Mali, Finance Minister, Snezana Lakcevic, Assistant Director of the Republic Bureau of Statistics, Petar Korović, Assistant Director of the Republic Statistics Institute and Ljiljana Djordjevic, Head of the Department of Statistics. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 157(1) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure, I am opening a principle search on the draft law amending the Census Act, Households and dwellings in 2021. I give my word to Deputy Prime Minister and Minister Branislav Nedimovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-30-0.u4650	Dear President, honourable Members of the People, we have before us today the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the List of Populations, Households and Apartments for 2021. Reminders for the sake of the National Assembly of February 4th 2020, therefore, just before the outbreak of the covids occurred, the list would be defined to be conducted at the time interval from April 1st to 30th 2021. However, the global crisis caused by the Kovida-19 epidemic was an unexpected challenge for such a major activity that is important for every country and that is being implemented every 10 years. In order to realise one census, it is not just a month in which the survey will end with the method of interviewing all those living in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, but also includes some additional previous activities. First of all, the provision of the necessary legal framework, the necessary financial framework, the material resources, but also the engagement of a large number of persons, around 20,000 people, which are instructors, which are censusors, who have to go through all of Serbia and collect information that will later be processed and thus get the result of the census, based on which extremely important strategic decisions are made for one country. You will all agree that in the past year, the Republic of Serbia has a great fight with the pandemic of Kovida. We see all the results and immunization, and we all see that in the vicinity there are almost no competitions in immunization. About a million and 400,000 people have already received the first vaccine, about 945 thousand people received both vaccines. You can see that a bunch of environmental businessmen are coming to Belgrade, Nis, Sremska Mitrovica, Sabac, other places to be vaccinated. You see how far this has gone and that no one could at the moment, when the law was passed, predict such consequences at all. Europe is almost locked down these days. Most of the countries so-called. Western Europe is what they call a lockdown. Other European countries needed to implement the census, too, had to postpone it either at the end of 2021 or in 2021 depending on the moment the regulation was passed. We have the freshest example since yesterday and Northern Macedonia has made a decision to postpone the census. That's what the Federal Republic of Germany and some other state did before. Definitely that's one trend for one simple reason, because in these conditions it's not possible, especially who conducts the method of classical interview, where, to explain it plastically, the censuser goes to the house, talks to members of the household, completes the survey with methods of interview. This is not possible in these conditions when we look at, as many times as they allow, that contacts between multiple persons are reduced to the least possible extent and that is why we are going with a proposal to amend this law. As far as the population, household and housing are concerned, there will be very soon before you to amend the laws concerning the list in agriculture, because it always goes according to methodology after this law. I think that the proposals put forward in this act, even if we could go one step further, at the time this law was written, was that it might be possible to do so within six months, but also the crisis staff, the Republic Bureau of Statistics with its appeals, perhaps also according to the Government, according to MPs in the coming days with a different proposal where perhaps even for some time interval, the list would be delayed, but no doubt that the census would be as such. What's very important to say, at this point, all the material resources, at least as far as the Republic Statistics Office is concerned, exist. The corresponding software that has to follow this whole story is ready. Adequate materials have been prepared to train instructors to train them, but there is also a need for education that needs to be implemented. It means more faces in one place, automatic problem, plus these interviews that go from house to house. For this reason, I ask you to respect this proposal by the Government to move the census of the population, households and dwellings provided for from 1st to 31st April 2021 and to do so as to raise this immunization to an even higher level, and thank God Serbia has enough vaccines, enough vaccines, enough of everything necessary to deal with this monster that hit the world in the 21st century. Don't forget that no country, except for Israel, the UK, a few other small countries, is dealing with this crisis in terms of vaccination better than the Republic of Serbia, and if anyone first enters this process of censusing population, households and housing, it will be the Republic of Serbia. I would ask all MPs to have an understanding of this. It wasn't the will that forced us to do this, it was the pain and the need to do the job right. If it had gone into something else, if it had gone on the list now, who knows what reactions would have been and what people would have thought about everything and everything that came to us, there would have been even more pressure that no one at this point is necessary, but the job will be done, the state is ready for this job, and unlike a number of spaces, the state or I don't even know what else, who even avoid doing the lists for different reasons. For this reason, I ask all parliamentary groups to accept proposals from the Government of the Republic of Serbia in the voting day. I thank you for listening to me and, in the follow-up debate, I will be available to your questions and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-30-0.u4651	Thank you, Minister. Do the officials of the committees want a word? The word has a folk MP, Aleksandra Tomic, chairman of the Finance Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-30-0.u4652	The Honorable Chairman, Honored Ministers, fellow MPs, we had opportunities on the Committee from the representatives of the Republic Bureau of Statistics to hear about the proposal concerning the postponement of the start, i.e. the implementation of the list procedure for 2021 from April of the month of October 2021. If we hadn't adopted that, obviously there isn't this proposal here, we would have had to start all the shops since April 1st. In order for Serbian citizens to know why we're delaying this whole thing, we're talking about 20,000 people who are conducting a list procedure for 2021, of which 15,000 people are supposed to enter every house. This is, of course, consistent with the epidemiological measures related to the Kovid-19 pandemic, which is dealing with the life that is in Serbia and the world today and that is why we think it is realistic that this process should begin at all, not only in October 2021, but perhaps delay for a year. In the original proposal of the Government that we received on October 2021, we will have amendments to the Committee on the basis of a proposal from our MP who requested, with an amendment, and please, Ministers, to come to the Committee and accept these amendments, that this list be in October 2022 precisely because we think that Serbia should do this job in a highly efficient, good way, quality way and, secondly, I will tell you that both Germany and Romania have, too, postponed for 2022, as members of the EU, and precisely because they use this method of direct contact. Many Scandinavian countries work online, but we are not in this situation and we think that this is the way we work is by the highest European standards. This is what requires the support of other institutions, not just the Department of Statistics, but there are, for example, institutions that are related to social services centres, you have a lot of institutions that are related to the Ministry of Education, dormitories, dormitories, where certain survey procedures are also conducted to comply with the standards that are related to the census. We believe that this entire procedure should be prepared adequately, and in accordance with epidemiological measures. What is important is that the Bureau of Statistics sent a decision, or opinion, to the crisis staff and sent it to the Serbian Government but thus, after the introduction into the procedure of this law, it received a certain opinion, so that it agreed to this and this proposal that our MP would allow us to postpone by 2022 for the month of October. In voting day, I think all MPs will agree to this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-30-0.u4653	Thank you, colleague Tomic. Anyone else from the board of directors want a word? No, I don't. ( ) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word has been given to the People's Messenger Muamer Zukorlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-30-0.u4654	The President-in-Office and other members of the Presidency, respected ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the issue of the citizens' census and their property is a very important issue and an important topic for us, and it is, in fact, a continuation of the discussion that we have recently had on the Statistics Act, so in addition to the specific reason why this law lies before us today, which is a matter of time, it is certainly an opportunity to discuss and say something about the very importance of the census. Understandable are the arguments we have heard about the idea of a delay. True, these new ideas we hear about new deadlines certainly need a chance to get here before the MPs and talk about them. The question is how good it is to postpone for so long, so it will be important to hear new arguments and find the best solution especially what is happening, the overall crisis with the pandemic is not a matter that we can foresee, so both arguments should be considered. So the census is certainly one of the basic components on which the development of a single society is based and which has implications primarily of development, but it is also, in fact, the basic base which, in addition to economic and economic development, we have insight into other information and data that has very important reflections on the identity of citizens, especially minority communities and peoples. That is why for us Bosniaks, and I am sure for members of other national communities, this issue is of development importance, but it is also an extremely important identity issue. Almost doesn't believe that the past decade when the matter of the Bosniak census in this country, especially in Sandzak, has taken on one other direction of movement and treatment. I will publicly tell you here and remind you that 10 years ago I was personally one of those who called for a boycott of the list. Then we explained why and now we are going to do it again with the intention of seeing a clear difference from the circumstances in which the population and the current atmosphere were to take place. So 10 years ago, we had a permanent unofficial emergency in Sandzak. So we had an atmosphere in which the then regime, Tadic's government, intended to deal with them insubordination to Bosniaks, who then represented various Bosniak, religious and national institutions. We therefore had a situation in which we almost daily or regularly had the use and special abuse of police force in dealing with insubordination citizens, i.e. with citizens who were not ready to support their policy, or their political option until the moment on 4 September 2010, when that abuse of force escalated at the place of Hadjit, otherwise known site of Bosniaks, the place where thousands of citizens were shot in 1945 and 1946, first of all, at the place where the believers were led by the Islamic community were to study the dowry, in fact to those victims and actually show their determination not to allow this parcel to be misused for various banal purposes and interests from the position of the city administration. On that day, we had an idea that could not be believed that in a single country society, which is not officially at war and has not officially declared a state of emergency, it cannot happen, therefore, that more than 1,500 members of Gendarmeria, therefore, members of the country's special forces, were brought in that day to oppose the believers and the Islamic community to actually promote the religious ceremony they were planning. There have been minor problems, or physical conflicts between believers and police, but, thank God, thanks to the representatives of the Islamic community who were in that group, or together with the believers, there has been no escalation of the conflict and yet all relatively well ended. In fact, it's just this situation, and it's been a lot of these, actually, it's been talking about what we've been through. It was only the third year of reckoning with the Islamic community in an attempt to profile the Islamic community, program, regulate according to political desire, whether then the authorities led previously with Kostunica, and then with Tadic, certainly with the soul support of their exhibits in Sandzak. Of course, under such circumstances it couldn't have been acceptable to carry out any activity with citizens in that area and it was normal for us to call for a boycott of the population list then and certainly that boycott failed then, even though our opponents spoke loudly and loudly and informed that the list had completely succeeded, how the boycott failed, how they, behold, had absolute authority in the people, how we who called for a boycott of the people had not voted and so it ended. But the topic was almost on the verge of forgetting that a few months ago we had not heard from these same political actors and representatives in fact quite different news and information. A few months ago, they said in multiple statements that we who were then calling on the boycott of the list were to blame that Sandzak, Novi Pazar and other cities in the Sandzak area did not get enough development funds because then calling for a boycott actually turned down a significant number of residents so we got fewer numbers than the one that has Novi Pazar and Sandzak in general, and now it's our fault that we have poverty there. I believe that we are also guilty of corruption in these city and municipal administrations and that we are guilty that no investment has come to Sandzak, that we are guilty, that we are guilty, that we are guilty. So, the same actors are diametrically different statements, but 10 years is a range, so let's just think it's a forgotten one. Whatever it is, they explain it, but it's the fact that it's not true. The truth is that the boycott then succeeded, that a significant number of residents were not listed. It doesn't even matter what number it is, because actually every list is successful if it's true. If a small number is not included, it is no longer a list because statistics only make sense when it has exact data. Statistics don't make any sense when it has relative data, when it has approximately accurate data. Of course it's a great lesson for us, but we're not the ones who say what they said ten years ago to try to forget and say, no, it wasn't like that, that, yes, that we called for a boycott for very clear reasons, because the atmosphere, the attitude of the state authorities to the Bosniaks, to Muslims and to Sandzak was aggressive-enemy. In such circumstances, it was not possible to carry out anything, hence any activity and to give information, or to participate in something that this system is carrying out. What is looking forward to now is that after ten years, the truth after participation, entering the political life of the previous Bosniak Democratic Union, and now the Justice and Reconciliation Party and after this party was presented to me, i.e. it was able to represent its people with two MPs, and after the Justice and Reconciliation Party doubled the result on the number of representatives and now has four MPs. For a reminder, no Bosniak party since the introduction of a multi-patria system has had four MPs, or four representatives, for all three decades, and let the citizens speak of quality. It is actually something that ultimately culminates and results and this kind of participation here in the National Assembly, but also the signing of the Agreement on Co-operation with the ruling party, which clearly showed that there was no focus on ministerial chaires, was not a focus in the personal positions of the Government, but rather a focus and accent on capital investments, on large projects, such as the Corridor highway and the intensification of its northern-South realisation through the Pestor, Corridor 11, such as the highway connection of Novi Pazar and Sandzak to Sarajevo, such as the gas pipeline from Kopalnik, towards the western part of Sandzak all the way to the Accessories, such as the establishment of the Clinical and Hospital Centre, such as the construction of the railways also from Raška via Novi Pazar, so as to Bistrice, as it is a physical study for the construction of the Sandz area. So this is a newspaper, actually, this is what illustrates today's situation relative to the state ten years ago, during that government. What is symptomatic or present as a side change, that some Sandzak political actors are the same and then the same and now, but this is no longer important, it is important that primary political factors, which are primarily Bosniaks, are of course not monopolistic and thank God that it is not monopolistic. The monopoly isn't good anywhere, and neither are we, but here's the chance now that we have one completely different atmosphere, the atmosphere of agreement. We Bosniaks in this country and the Muslim in general are aware of all the historical burdens we carry, from so-called. Turkish guilt, through various other fundamentaleelistic-terrorist guilts, etc. We are fully aware of this, aware of all the burdens of the 90s, the conflicts, the wars, the crimes and everything that has been going on, but we are also aware of our responsibilities and our determination that all the burdens that burden our relationships, we are actually solving with dialogue, we are dealing with a deal, that we are using all our past as a lesson, as a lesson, because only such a view in the past in history makes sense. It's not easy at all, especially when you're a minority, it's not easy when you come from the position of such a number, but it's possible what we show, not only is it possible but it's the only way. It's a path between one primitive, populist policy dealing in which you would only ask for flammable topics to become important, to break a glass, a bottle or something else, and to draw attention to yourself. We have seen such policies and Sandzaks, as is not acceptable to the other extremes of one half-tronic, condescending relationship with the authorities, where ultimately only capitalises on the personal interest and on its positions. The course of the Justice and Reconciliation Party is that middle road, that road center, the path of balance, the path of dialogue, the path of reconciliation, and all the time and at the end of the stay consistent with Bosniaks, along with their national, with their ethnic, with their cultural, with their common interest, but also with their individual and collective rights. In this regard, we note that the future census will be extremely important for Bosniaks, but it will also be extremely important for all national minorities in this country. So, we had according to the previous list that was, somewhat incomplete because of the boycott that he left somewhat on the consequences in Sandzak and because of the boycott that permanently existed or existed in Presevo Valley, but with these shortcomings, we had about 30% of the citizens who declared themselves not to be Serbs, i.e. to belong to some other ethnic communities, or peoples. So this is a very serious number that suggests that almost a third of this people, citizens of Serbia, who are guaranteed by the Constitution and laws by all individual and collective rights, do not belong to the ethnicity of the majority people. Now, we'll see what happens on this list there are certain indications that there may be a fall in the number of members of the national minorities. If that fall were drastic, it would certainly not be a good message. True, there is a leak of the population, we have talked about it several times, due to migration movements, for negative other indicators and reasons of demographicism and birth, but if this fall were to be drastic it would already be an alarm for opening certain topics, through political partnerships and co-operation that we had before the elections, above all with the Macedonian National Community, with Vlaška National Community, with the Roma National Community. I was able to get closer to getting acquainted with their situation, but we had some indicators and information that in certain environments they felt at risk of assimilation. Whether it's always from a majority or a state or it has its reasons within the community itself, we can talk about it, but what our experience as a Bosniak in this country is that in the Sandzak area, where Bosniaks are indigenous, where Bosniaks are in certain parts of the majority, there is one stability in the awareness of ethnicity. But when it comes to space outside Sandzak, therefore, in other parts of Serbia, Belgrade, Vojvodina, where we have very significant figures of Bosniaks, the situation is not quite so. There are still certain fears. Whether they are justified or not, it should be the topics of our presentations and our discussions and policy-making, but it is definitely something that we need to discuss first and foremost as representatives of Bosniaks, but it would be very good to hear more voices, louder calls from the Serbian majority about encouraging everyone to make known about what they are. So that he has no consequences and not only the consequences, but not to see the privilege of assimilation if he gives up his ethnicity, his ethnic name and his ethnic identity. We would normally have to do a little bit more, but especially just before the list, and we'll know the term after the adoption of this law, or the changes that we have here today. So I will repeat that definitely from Serbia's position it cannot be in Serbia's interest that those who are not Serbs that it is good that they are as few as possible. These are therefore, anachrons of politics, wrong policies, policies that cannot bring good to Serbia or the Serbian people or the citizens of this country. Ethnic wealth, ethnic diversity, cultural wealth is God's gift, it's ultimately God's perception of creation. God could have wanted us to be members of a nation, one language, and one faith. If he wanted to, it would have happened. Any attempt to violently or in any way artificially influence this is a crime and a crime to God, to man, to humanity, and ultimately to himself. That is why this list should also be used as another presentation of the freedom of determination of this country which will prove that it can be different than it was in the past in certain moments and periods, which means that it is a house, a home in which all citizens of this country will live regardless of the religious, nationality, and that it will feel as secure and feel safe and bound to this country. Because only if you establish a balance between the rights of one nation, or citizens on the one hand, and on the other hand balance your obligations and loyalty can you have happiness, prosperity, and stability. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-30-0.u4655	Thank you. The speaker of the Single Serbia Group, Dragan Markovic Palma, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-30-0.u4656	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, the JS will support the postponement of the census for known reasons, but I think after the census we will find out how many and how many citizens in certain cities and villages were on the last list, and how many today. I'm sure we won't have fewer populations, it might be in disarrays, than it was on the last list because Serbian citizens working in the diaspora because of this epidemic are returning to Serbia, because they are left out of work in those European countries and not only to stay out of work, there is only air free, everything is paid. We have from day to day to day to see how foreigners come to be vaccinated in Serbia, it was a very pleasant surprise for me, and even those from countries whose politicians and officials of these countries hate Serbia. Why do they hate Serbia? Because Serbia has been making the most economic progress in recent years, bigger than all those countries that were once much more developed economically than Serbia. If Serbia has four vaccines, and some European countries, which are European powers, do not say which countries they are, have not had a single vaccine until recently. For example, Austria did not have a single vaccine until a month ago. Why do they still hate Serbia? For reasons Serbia wants to co-operate with everyone. You've been told by powerful men that they're not going to buy Russian and Chinese vaccines, and now we hear how they're going to buy those vaccines, which means they had a weak vision when it comes to protecting citizens. We've been resented because we're working with China, with Russia, because the president was in America, because we're at the very top of the VDP, etc. Yesterday I had two meetings with the Minister of Tourism from Greece and they say we wait to see what Europe will tell us. Well, you have to have autonomy. If this country were, if Vucic and Dacic were foreign minister, listening to everything Europe is saying, we would be in the last place in economic terms today. We wouldn't have a strong army, or a strong police force, or a budget charge like this, as far as the economy is concerned, to the citizens, to those who don't work, etc. So, Serbia, when we look at these are some criteria, facts and that man would know how alive he should compare himself to his neighbor. We have been the best destination for citizens for the past five years, not only Serbian citizens but also others from the EU, especially those who are our neighbours and often come to Serbia. Why the list? The census is very necessary, and that's what citizens need to know, that if someone had four family members before, and now they've got five, that they're going to know that they're going to get more funding from the states. If he lives in the country... When I'm at the village, Minister, I really want to congratulate you, you've been the only minister known about agriculture for the last 20 years. Not to say what the previous ministers said. The previous ministers, a minister from your neighborhood, enter the field only when he was on the highway, so he went to the bathroom, and it wasn't near the hotel. That's how much he understood and knew agriculture at the time. I ask that minister in parliament, in an old building, I say – tomorrow I will bring four jars. In one jar will be corn, barley, oatmeal and grain. You want to tell me where the corn is? You know what he said to me on the break? Come on, Palma, you're gonna be carrying Jagodina jars now. That's the kind of agriculture minister he was. What else is important? The Minister of Agriculture is a place on the ground to preserve the village. All this matters when it comes to the list. Young people leave the village, have houses, bathrooms, and live well, etc., because it was a tradition seven, eight years ago to leave the village, to go to town or some small municipality to come to Belgrade. It's getting smaller now. Why? It is now being helped and this village and subsidies are large and the state is taking care of and buying agricultural products, what is produced in the country. But a lot of farmers blame the state, because they don't know that the state doesn't determine the price of grain, that the stock market determines the price of cereals, raspberries, blackberries etc. This may often have to be explained to farmers, perhaps we should build a base where they can inform themselves, regional bases, and know where to ask and from whom to get information. The census is very important. For example, in Jagodina, we have 66,000 voters, nearly 67, and they say 70,000 inhabitants. There's no logic, 25% is the minimum of those who are underage and plus on the last list we had 440 families more than on the last list. So these are families that have come from some other cities, end-to-ends, and thus an increase in population. It's not just about Jagodina, it's about other cities, in other municipalities, etc. What else is important? It's very important we talk about why they bombed us. They bombed us for Rack. Now let's leave Racak aside, how much today, and this is very important for the EU, that we have fact, material proof, how many Serbs live in Pristina today, how many in Prizren, how many in Zagreb, and how many lived before the war? Where are those Serbs? How many Albanians live in Belgrade today, how many Croats and how many before the war? Much more today than before the war, when it comes to the KIM territory, the Serb part of the territory and when it comes to Croatia where Serbs once lived. We should be proud of that. We should be proud, and also picturesque to show who did the ethnic cleansing. They're not Serbs. With that list, I ask you, Minister, since you represent this law, to push that problem out with that list and say, "Here you are, gentlemen, to see what Serbia is, Serbia is a mother for all." I don't agree that we're dividing by nationality, religion, etc. All of us here need to be the same and respect each other and respect the Constitution of this country, and not respect the Constitution of this country when they give me office, and when you need something to profit politically, then it's not true for you and you don't admit it. So, Serbia is very correct for all citizens living in this country and to find out how many people live in Serbia. Where will these people who live in the diaspora come and work in Europe and somewhere in other countries, but here in their own country. They've got almost everything here for free. He'll even have a job. If German factories are dislocated to Serbia, you, ministers, often speak, Serbia is the best destination, economic security, the course of the euro, political stability. Now our fellow citizens, or what should I call them, are coming to Serbia, they've been working there with a German, and they'll be working here. There may be little pay here, but the cost of life and running costs is lower than in the EU. This is all important for the list. We in certain cities now have no workers to hire and this is now becoming a major problem with investors. He wants to open up the factory and send you the professional training of future employees, and you now need to guarantee that investor whether or not you will provide those workers. Especially should I congratulate the leadership of this country. You know I'm not someone who's got a stroke, that I'm saying what I think is the situation on the ground, because I don't need anything, that I don't need a job, that I don't need a car from the state, my cell phone, my office, or I don't know what. I've been a businessman for 40 years, but from day to day, all those businessmen I know say they're never better in Serbia than they are today. And when I called you the other week, you answered, and Minister Mali didn't, he justifiably didn't answer, and you always answer, even when you were with the president, I think it was Qatar or somewhere else, Minister Nedimovic came to me during the meeting, says, "I'm in a meeting with the president, I'm picking up, because he knows I'm calling him on behalf of some farmers, on behalf of some producers, to ask him to let people know firsthand." That's rare. The lyin', V starts his last name, what's his name, Minister, the one from your neighborhood? Oh, yes, the Veselins. Of course. Thank you. Here, the minister knows his name. If I forgot his name, then know he didn't do anything. I apologize for comparing you to him. You know what, I'm not against it, they say all the agriculture ministers are from Vojvodina. There are the largest number of pairs, as we call them, processing a huge area of agricultural land. But you also do not neglect those who have 50 acres in central Serbia, in southern Serbia, east and west. Everyone's taken care of. We just need to often have some presentations, not presentations like the former ones did, to teach the farmer how many centimeters of corn from waist to waist is sown, or I don't know what. I say, do you have any money to give to farmers? He says we don't. Then he's smarter than you, even though you've graduated from college ten times. What are you talking about to a farmer? So, you don't do that. You're giving information that these are subsidies. What is it that has a future, and it's agricultural products? How else can we save the village? We talked, you responded to me with a finding that is real and true, how to stop that meat from being imported into Serbia, frozen meat, year-old and a few days old. There's a CEFTA, it's that we have a commitment, we can't tell you now, you can import Holland, Germany can't import, etc., but we can work with markets, to reduce import meat, apples, potatoes, onions, etc., to buy it from Serbia from agricultural producers. That way, we'll keep the village safe, and we'll keep no one in the country has a smaller place where they live than 30-40 acres with a house. So if there's an economic interest in his son and grandson, he builds a house in the backyard for another family, for two other families, and everyone lives in one yard. For example, I would like to personally, I have 12 family members and we all live in one house, and I would like it to be so in all rural areas, to agree and that in some way this unity gives an economic result for the better tomorrow of every family. The fight against the white plague is very necessary. But, you see, the vaccine scares young people. They say if you receive a vaccine, you can't make children, etc. Well, that's the biggest nonsense. We need those who spread panic and invite people not to be vaccinated and die every day are severely punished. They spread the panic where a large number of Serbian citizens are life-threatening. Here, I know a minimum of 15-20 couples, I ask why you don't vaccinate, you have a father, a mother, a grandmother and a grandfather, and they say we want to have more children. Well, all these vaccines, even this vaccine they said was bad, "AstraZeneka", no vaccine can come out unless it has had a strong, large examination. And now they're going to sell in their country and in some other countries and the people are going to die of it and that they can't have a birth? Well, it's genocide. So it's not true! That kind of propaganda we have to stop and sanction, there's a member in the law. Because it's not the spread of panic that stores don't work, that cafes don't work, it's the spread of panic when it comes to health care. We can boast of prevention. The prevention was the construction of clinical centres, new hospitals. If we hadn't done that, where would we now have these patients stationed and treated? Where, according to the homes of culture, where there are no conditions etc? When I'm at the home of culture, we have to appeal here to keep the culture in the country, to create conditions. For example, I created conditions in Jagodina, every village – a new home of culture. The cultural art society must be financed. Those who have a result travel abroad are all paid out of the budget. Children from first to eighth grade, if they have a monthly five rehearsals, they have 4,000 dinars of their allowance. It's the first money that's earned that kid who lives in the country, which gives the motivation to come, etc. If UNESCO has protected the Serbian circuit as a culturally immaterial heritage, then we must cultivate and preserve it. Every village must have a sports field for small sports with lighting. It's not expensive. I'm not going to say now that in some other cities, these aren't priorities and that we're always complaining that they're the other ones. It must be abolished, Minister, paying in the city council 150,000 gross salaries to a city council member who doesn't come to work in 99% of municipalities. He's just finding the proposed agenda because someone has delegated it. Well, when these guys ask me if we can get some city council members out of town, he immediately disqualified himself in some cities. Well, you can't be an unemployed person, my friend, you have to be an expert, from a profession in the area you represent in that city council. Is health care, sport, culture etc. To apologize for the expression, both Kurt and Murth, who have done nothing in life, are members of the councils of the city. Check it out. Diaries, wages. So, what kind of pay for the council? Once every two months, he receives a living, pay, because he has expenses. You have to have a job. We have to put all the political parties on the list, he's got to work somewhere, his wife, not the first one we have to hire them. A few years ago, I'm not gonna tell which party it was, of the ten councilmen, I had to hire them and their wives. Wait, is that the future? Strongly when it comes to underdeveloped municipalities, etc. That's how the budget is drawn, it's spent. Municipal cars, let me tell you, here in the parking lot, you now have at least ten municipal cars that bring in municipal officials, and they take the diaries like they came in their own car. It's not dangerous one day, but when you calculate five days a week, so times a month, etc. If we're saving, we have to save. I inherited 26-year-old furniture in my office. It's not very respectable for me to have an ambassador and a minister sit in my 2,000-euro chair. I'm sitting on a hockey chair. You know what a hoof is, what farmers use for a husband of a cow. It's all true. I couldn't wait for someone to replicate and say I was wrong. This isn't criticism. Municipal cars must be used by citizens. Mr. Farmer's got directions, he's going to Belgrade to the hospital, the municipal car is driving him, like I do. Why Vucic sold 300 and some cars, because of the big luxury, when he became prime minister. We had state secretaries, three or four cars, so fuel, so I don't know what. Check it out and see who bought the county car. Why do you need a municipal car? That's what inspectors use. I have “Punto” 10-12 years old, even a few “South”, etc. You need to sit down as an inspector, as some musicians would say, in angry cars and come and punish my farmer for pouring a trailer of sand in front of the yard because he was sued by a neighbor. The communal police are that they need Belgrade, Nis, Novi Sad and several other cities, but the municipal police, ministers, cost each municipality between two and three and a half million each month. What's that municipal police doing? He's punishing people, that's their job description. And you already have a communal inspection. So, on average, 25 of them have uniforms, they've got spray, if you don't come with them, they can tie you up, so wait, all the things Wolf and Government do, when community cops in some town are pulling some woman over because I don't know what or some grandfather who didn't put the mask on falls into the water. So we have to deal with the budget, what our people would say – as much as our blanket. When all this is collected, it's huge money for local self-government, to help local self-government, and not only wait for Belgrade to give it to us. I did everything I did, you know, from the Aqua Park, the wax museum, the zoo, I didn't get a single euro from the state, not from Kostunica, we made it ourselves, by saving it. Then they made fun of me, three thousand for the ladies, two thousand for the gentleman. I'm saving on something I had every right to and I'm not using that right and I'm sharing that money with those who don't have it. And that's what everyone can do. Donations. You visit cities and municipalities. Where are the donations? Every third performer wants to help the city, but there's something called a contract, whether it's a college trip somewhere, agricultural producers, etc. When he was a state auditor to me, he says – what are these donations? Is that forbidden, Mr. Auditor? He says he didn't, but we haven't seen him in any other cities.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-30-0.u4657	Please bring the end. And for all the concerned colleagues who threw away while you were talking, time will be taken away from the MPs' group everything you've gone over.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-30-0.u4658	Thank you. Once again, the Unique Serbia will vote for your proposal, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-30-0.u4659	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. I think they heard the colleagues throwing away while you were talking, why you've been talking for more than 20 minutes, one announcement that it's going to be taken away from the MP's group. The word has been authorised by a representative of the Social Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary group, Dr. Muamer Bačevac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-30-0.u4660	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, MPs, honourable ministers, we have a very important topic ahead of us, and I think a good solution that the Government is taking, or that we will adopt by amendment, which is the delay of the planned 2022 census. The census can be defined as a censusing process, and this is the most significant source of population data. It is clear that it is a very complicated and difficult job and that it needs to be organised at the highest possible level. Since this space, or this state, has a truly rich tradition in the census of its population, since we know how many lists there were and that the first census was still in 1834, until today, indeed, a huge number of lists were implemented in a relatively good way, all of which shows that the authorities of these areas always knew the importance of one census and how important it is to have all the information about their population. In medicine, it seems to me, the most difficult procedure and the most important thing that a doctor needs to master is good information, i.e. a history, and the greatest skill is to make a diagnosis. As soon as you have a diagnosis, safe and right, it's easy to give therapy. However, the quality of the diagnosis depends on information. The important thing is that they're checked, they're real, and when a doctor has good information, it quickly comes to a real diagnosis. The same can be observed by society, and there is a list of practically society history, because, you will see that this list that will be very modernized, including modern technical means, means that they will carry monitors or laptops of censusors, they will be particularly educated, they will pass a serious school and be well prepared, we will not and will not only answer the question of who we are – but will also give an answer to the question of how we live, on a number of issues that will really come up with one quality information about how our residents live, where they live, how many people live, and how many governments, or future governments can help them in the best way. I'm saying all of this and I'm making this analogy to point out the real importance of the list and that in these areas the lists are truly respected as a significant tool and implemented in a very good way, I said the first one was carried out in 1834, so for two centuries it's a criterion and we're certainly putting ourselves in the most developed part of the EU when it comes to statistics. I have to say that the legal predecessor of this 2011 Census and Households Act is related to the rules that will apply to this Personal Data Protection Act, which is very important. So the data will be heavily protected. Then, the Law on Official Statistics and the Information Security Act. The basic newspaper, as I said, will use computers in the census, which will contribute to a much better and more efficient enforcement of the rules. Also, thanks to this, the authorities will be able to cross geospace and other census data, which is very significant. This law also provides for a much wider range of personal data to be collected than in previous lists, above all, of course the name and last name, date of birth, JMBG, address, citizenship, place of birth, place of residence, date and reason of residence, period of stay abroad, marital status. It is very important that we have this data at a time when migration is a very intense and practically daily part of our lives. Also, marital status, whether a person lives in an extramarital community, the number of children, their age, nationality, native language, religion, education, place of education, way of travel to school, literacy, economic activity, occupation, employment, place of work, way of travel to work, etc. What is more, besides personal data, the law has specified and which data are collected in households, apartments and other residential households such as address of the apartment, total number of household members, related family composition, basic use of the apartment, type of living space, type of energy used by the household and other data. I wanted to read this Decidantly to make sure that these are data that should be provided and that these are data that will be very useful. Also, due to the complexity of the data, the way the law is collected has foreseen longer training for the prescriber. One of the important newspapers of this law is that it foresees a question of male fertility, so gender law is correct. So far, only women have been asked how many children they have. Men should now respond to this, and this will practically be the case with the exception of marriage mates and out - of - wedlock offspring. A test list of the population, households and apartments has also been completed. It was successfully implemented from 1 to 30 April 2019 and a sample of 260 signed circles and 51 municipalities. I can say that the city of Novi Pazar, or the city's core with its two settlements, Izbice and Trnavo, was also covered by this and that it's very good that we have these preparatory activities that will make the list that will probably go well in 2022. You're witnessing the time we live in. The pandemic not only gallopes, but starts to wave, that we have a very large number of deaths and that we should be particularly careful and especially insisting on the implementation of epidemiological measures and vaccinations and that a good message is to postpone this list. I would like to remind you that the countries that carry out the traditional census, of course through interviews around us in Europe, are faced with the same problem and given Eurostat's view and attitude, that the pandemic has greatly affected the production of European statistics, and that many countries are in trouble with the implementation of the census, we see that many countries have approached similar solutions that we approach today. Accordingly, the Government has submitted a proposal for a Law amending the Census Act, which requires a postponement, and we have this amendment, and of course I would like to say that we in the SDPS are going to support this by heart. Also, we are aware that the delay brings certain costs, but given health and human life and that it has no price, means to be used, for additional instructors and censusors, protective equipment and disinfectants, we find it truly justified. As a representative of the Committee on Human and Minority Rights and Gender Equality, I would like first of all to encourage and invite members of all minority nations to declare freely and transparently about their national and religious definition, their language and their letter and other specialities. That's something, and on the last list there was really freedom to do this, this law that's in front of us today is a very good law, a framework that is in line with European practice. I know that the state will do everything to really disrupt its minority peoples, as well as the majority people, and we are all on the same task, to absolutely write and to freely express all their specialities and to record and indicate once again that Serbia is a country of democratic principles and that indeed minorities are respected and have basic human and minority rights at an envious level. The Republic Bureau of Statistics will include representatives of co-ordination and national councils, national minorities, in a special working group, which will monitor activities and be part of the management list. This is even more direct proof of what I said, that the state is showing desire and giving tools, so it will include two representatives of national minorities, the co-ordination body of national minorities has chosen two representatives. One is Elvir Begovic, a member of the Bosniak National Council, and the other is Darko Vukovic, a member of the Croatian national minority, who will monitor and coordinate the minority census. Another good mechanism, and they will try and make sure that these census teams reflect the percentage of the population, in places where minorities are represented in these list committees, i.e. the census teams are representatives of those minorities. Of course, implement and coordinate and monitor a complete census process. A 2011 census marked a boycott called by some political, religious leaders of some minority communities, so the figures we have today on the number of Bosniaks, Albanians, are not relevant. For example, I will let you know that according to the number of people registered for residence in the town of Novi Pazar, there are about 127 thousand inhabitants, while on the list there were 100,400 unmistakably, one quarter of the population is not listed, or should I say in an absolute number of about 20 – such thousands, of course, that had far-reaching consequences, above all, donations by the state and the number of doctors and hospital beds and numbers of police officers and judges. I am glad that such a thing will not happen, and it was a bad political decision, which was suffered by citizens, not only of Bosniak or Albanian nationality but also of representatives of all peoples living in the territories where the boycott was conducted. I won't judge whether he made it or not. Anyway, I want to say one more thing, I am a Bosniak and I represent the interests of Bosniaks, but I want to tell you that I am a representative and a Serb-interested person who voted for me. It is a special obligation for me, but indeed, to say the honor, that I have received the trust of the citizens living in Sandzak, to really represent, above all, their interests and to solve their daily problems, particularly the economic and those they have in everyday life. In that sense, I want us to use the next list in a valid way, to really sign up and give, once again, to come up with current quality data, which will help us plan a more successful and better future in many ways. In that sense, my party and representatives of the SDPS will support this proposal and, of course, I mean the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-30-0.u4661	Thank you. Before we move on to the next speaker, I have two notices, which are related to the work of today's session. The first announcement came from RTS, that the direct transfer of today's session will be on the 2nd programme by 1750 hours, and after that, due to previously agreed commitments, there will be no direct transfer. The second notification, in accordance with Article 27 and Article 87 paragraph 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that today the National Assembly will work after 18.00 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly, as soon as possible, to bring acts from the agenda, this session. A fellow Jah, a replica? There's no need. All right. The word is from the Vice-President of the National Assembly, Parliament of Elvira Kovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-30-0.u4662	Thank you. Dear Vice-Presidents, the presidency, Mr. Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, as we heard in previous exhibitions in 1834, so 187 years ago, the first census was organised in the then Principality of Serbia. As at that time, and today, we find it extremely important to provide comparable data in order to have an idea, we know in which direction the state should go, in order to improve, say, living standards, educational levels, protection of human and minority rights, protection of the environment, etc. It is interesting that when this was actually called the ‘people's list’ in 1834, it was the first time in principle that the list included the whole population, not just men's tax heads, which was calculated by then, so that the list made the first steps towards accepting anti-discrimination policies, because for the first time, the women's population was also listed, and the list category two was introduced. It is assumed that this was just the case for members of national minorities who, of course, were obliged to pay taxes, but the second category did not mean a particular emphasis on ethnicity. Both two centuries ago and today, the introduction of ethnic census categories is of unquestionable political and social importance. I'm here two weeks ago when we talked about statistics in general, and I would like to point out today that on behalf of the SVM parliamentary group, I would like to emphasise, that it is written, classified and numerically represented, as a member of the national minority on the official list of one state, meaning on one side, to be recognized, but it also means showing identity and actually belonging to the political community. For SVM, of course, is of strategic interest to carry out and implement the census of the population, households and housing, we will now see depending on the situation whether in 2021 or perhaps even 2022, because this, in fact, represents a legal situation where minority rights can be exercised, can be achieved free expression of nationality and confirm linguistic identity. For us, it is the result of the census, as I have talked about before, and I would like to underline this once again today, and to emphasise, one of the basic conditions for the enjoyment of individual rights and freedoms in the community, because the data just received by the census are important for the implementation of laws and other legal acts, above all, in the area of the exercise of the rights of members of national minorities. For example, so-called Under national minorities, the Law on the Protection of Rights and Freedom of National Minorities prescribes measures to ensure full and effective equality between members of national minorities and citizens belonging to the majority, in particular, and the Law on State Administration recognises affirmative measures. In fact, the State Administration Act stipulates that limited state administrations tend to implement specific measures to achieve full equality between a person or a group of persons who are essentially in an unequal position with other citizens. Provisions of the so-called so-called The roof law or the Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedom of National Minorities recognises the legal relevance of three parameters, is one national composition of the population, the other is so called. appropriate representation of national minorities in public services and third, extremely significant, knowledge of the language spoken in the area of operation of national authorities, means authorities or services. Logically, it simply follows from all of this that a prerequisite is necessary for the application of the standard of the existence of data on the national population structure in the area, competent authority or service, on the national structure of employees in that body or service, as well as on data on the very significant language competences of employees in the competent authority or service. The second area is the official use of language and determines a geographical area in which certain languages are a means of expressing a certain number of people, we know that there exists, there is a famous condition of 15%. Therefore, again, census results can be a legal basis for prescribing conditions that are again related to census results so that these citizens can enjoy certain rights related to the official use of language and letters. Of course processing data on nationality is not a simple job at all. First of all, because it must be taken into account that the declaration of nationality is freely available, i.e. that the specific processing of these data makes it difficult for these data to actually recognise the status of particularly sensitive data. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia declares that the expression of nationality is free. Another member of the Constitution says that no one is actually obliged to declare his nationality. By respecting the very constitutional principles of freedom of expression of nationality, MPs, I would like to reiterate and remind all of us that at that time the SVM MPs, because we did not have our own parliamentary group as today, means in 2009, when the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia discussed then the draft law on the 2011 census of households and dwellings, submitted an amendment which was both accepted and then included in the Law and by those rules was made a list ten years ago, 2011. This amendment has just referred to a question on a list form about the nationality of the mother tongue that the answer would be an open type, not that they would all be inserted into one basket under the other. Why we insisted and why today we feel that this system is extremely important, so-called. an open-source response when we're talking about nationality? Just to respect the Constitution. So that the expression of nationality would be free, because the holder of this right is an individual, and by its nature, the right to do so belongs to one of the fundamental freedoms of personation. We must stress, which is also extremely significant, that the highest legal act, the Constitution, does not guarantee this freedom exclusively as an individual. On the contrary, in its nature this constitutional freedom can be enjoyed in the community, and membership implies a certain collective dimension of rights. For us, collective rights are extremely important. We are in the parliamentary club's position that information on ethnicity should always be based on the free self-declaration of the person, which is included in the list that about ethnicity, or its nationality, there should be an opportunity to answer the open type and that indeed those who perform the list should refrain from any suggestion of the answer to that question. In the context of the processing of data for which I have mentioned that it is not simple, two principles, two requirements, a requirement for respect for privacy and protection of personality data, on the one hand, are actually conflicted, while on the other hand, the requirement for the existence of objective parameters on the basis of which it is estimated, precisely the exercise of the rights of members of national minorities and their inclusion in society. The inclusion of issues about national membership in the census, in fact, enables the monitoring of the national population structure, which is an extremely important condition for the creation of minority policy, but also a starting criterion for assessing the so-called appropriate representation of members of national minorities in public authorities. I'll try to give a few examples of what it looks like in practice, though, from the province level. The province's protection of citizens, for example in 2015, to compare two surveys, has conducted research on the knowledge of language and letters of national minorities that are in equal official use in the authorities of the province's administration. Crossing data on the knowledge of the language and letters of national minorities and on the national structure of employees in the authorities of the province's administration and other provinceal organisations, the Regional Ombudsman concluded in 2015 that members of the Hungarian, Romanian, Slovak and Croatian national minorities were sub-represented in the regional authorities of the administration compared to the percentage of their drowning in the total population of the AP Vojvodina. It is important to stress that for many years in the Republic of Serbia, there is already awareness of the need for greater involvement of members of national minorities, so in 2006, the then government of the Republic of Serbia reached a conclusion on measures to increase the participation of members of national minorities in state administrations, but much more significant than that conclusion are certain laws. For example, the regulation of a legal obligation to enter into the register of employees information on the nationality resulting, among other things, in favour of the Alliance of Duchy Hungarians, as well as a signal on the strengthening of awareness in politics and between political parties on the need for intensive management of the problem of insufficient representation of members of national minorities in public administration bodies. Furthermore, under the provisions of the Law on civil servants, on the keeping of accounts on the national composition of the population of the corresponding representation of members of national minorities, there is a obligation to ensure that the national composition in the employment of state authorities is, to the greatest extent possible, a picture of the structure of the population. For something to change on the ground can be seen when we compare two reports, a recent mention of the Regional Protector of Citizens of 2015 and the next report from 2018, again on the subject of knowledge of the language and letters of national minorities that are in equal official use in the authorities of the province's administration. Data on the national structure of employees were obtained in 2018. The District Ombudsman obtained them from the Department of Human Staff Management of the Regional Government and then referred to them at the end of September 2018. At that time, the Regional Protector of Citizens concluded that employees of Serbian nationalities had been issued their representation in the general population. Similar percentages related to the Russians and Montenegrins mean several percent above their representation, while the highest sub-representation is still among the employees of Hungary's nationality, followed by Roma, Slovakia, Croats and Romanians. As is known, I have spoken here myself several times about this, one of the conditions of approaching the Republic of Serbia, for joining our country the EU is exactly respect for minority rights and this area is indeed one of the most important ones, which is elaborated in Chapter 23 concerning fundamental rights, but in particular so-called. The minority action plan. The question of proportionate representation of members of national minorities, which I am now talking about and which we consider to be extremely significant is particularly important in Chapter 8. minority action plan, adequate representation of members of national minorities in the public sector, public enterprises. It is precisely in this area of fundamental rights that the European Commission is particularly following, as this is being prepared and so on. "non-paper", but also the European Commission's report in particular, means, when we look at what they say about the situation, the latest official report, if we are not talking about the European Parliament, but about the European Commission, has been published since 6 October of last year, and it simply repeats the multiannual assessment that a legal and institutional framework for respect for the rights of members of national minorities has been put in place in Serbia, but they assess, concludes that it is necessary to ensure its consistent and effective implementation. Regarding this issue, the European Commission's report specifically says that despite the legal obligation that the ethnic composition of the population must be taken into account. National minorities remain, unfortunately, under-represented in the public administration. The advisory committee, along with the Framework Convention for the Protection of National Minorities of the Council of Europe, has therefore recommended in several of its latest reports, but let's say that we quote that the authorities in Serbia should take steps to collect data, which is why I mentioned the representation of national minorities at all levels of public administration with respect to international standards on the protection of personal data, as well as to take energy measures in relation to the sub-representation of national minorities in public administration. As I mentioned the latest opinion of the Council on the Third Report of Serbia is from 2019, but let's say, opinions from 2014 also say that one of the issues of emergency action is the taking of decisive measures in relation to the representation of national minorities in the public administration especially at the state level and the continuation of efforts to create so-called. multiethnic police. If we look at regional experiences, as the Honorable Minister mentioned in his opening presentation the situation relating to the implementation of the census in the region, and since I was the most concerned with collecting data on nationality, it means, if we look at regional experiences related to the ethnic and cultural characteristics of the population, everyone in the region collects these data, except Slovenia, which actually did so by 2002, and now no longer. Of course, all leave the possibility of free expression in this regard. For example, in Albania, the last census was also in 2011. At that time, these issues were still open, and the next list will be semi-open, which means they will have some kind of offered answers, where in the case of ethno-cultural groups only lists those defined by their minority law, leaving, too, the possibility of introducing a case that, for example, the subject does not find himself in this guideline. In Bosnia and Herzegovina, according to the provisions of the law, the list of persons is not obliged to declare their national, ethnic and religious belonging, although I am a list form, of course, contains data on this. Since ethicality certainly has a subjective dimension and therefore we believe that information about it should be the result of free self-declaration of subjects, individuals. Questionnaires should contain the possibility of an open type response, and the censusors, once again, should refrain from pointing to the roof. Since several previous speakers talked about a census of ten years ago and it was openly said that certain national minorities had really boycotted that list, some more successful, some less successful, but the fact that we had no complete data, that even there were some open problems during, say, the formation of an Albanian national council, which wondered why they had no more members, because the National Minority Councils Law is about precisely the numbering situation. I am pleased to have stayed, so I, too, will, on behalf of the Alliance of the Dukes of Hungarians, invite all members of the national minorities to, unfortunately, no one at this time can predict whether this will really be October of this year or perhaps next, freely declare their nationality and indeed help to enjoy human and minority rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-30-0.u4663	Thank you. The word is Mr. Gjorge Milicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-30-0.u4664	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Vice-President of the Government, the Minister, the Honorable Representatives of the Ministry, is my pleasure, of course, always to see you in the Assembly. It is a pleasure to talk to you not only about agricultural topics, but, here, today, about the census. Your presence in this hall shows how responsible and serious you attach to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia as the highest body of the legislative authority and it certainly is for every praise. Encouraged by previous discussions, I'll start with that. A little while ago, a colleague mentioned the European Commission's report. You know, how, we don't have something excessively tangled by the European Commission's report, as we are not interested in the European Parliament's report and these recommendations it makes, and the recommendations and suggestions it makes, the European Parliament. We know one thing, and that is true, that national minorities are highly respected when it comes to the Republic of Serbia, that they have all the rights, and that, let's say, Serbs when we talk about the region are not a national minority in Slovenia. I say it deliberately in Slovenia, because a European Parliamentarian who, one of the European parliamentarians who has drawn up the report, is from Slovenia, and she is angry when I say it, and that is one part of that European Parliament report where they say that we, the heads of parliament groups, are criticising European parliamentarians. Here, I say again, as head of the parliamentary group, if anyone is offended by the facts it is not my problem, it is not our problem, and the fact is that this European Parliamentarian was elected to the elections where turnout was 28%. It's a fact, and it criticises Serbia where the turnout in the Corona period was over 50 and something, above 50%, and these are facts. If that's what she finds offensive and disqualified, as already said, then that's really not our problem. To be clear, this report, call the European Parliament, is all but not a report and it's one pressure on Serbia and instead of everything they put on, but I'm surprised at one thing, as they remember all the alleged factory affairs and they don't even remember Mauritius, they don't even remember Hong Kong, they kind of left it out of the report. Very interesting. So, speaking of the European Commission's report and the European Parliament's report, these European parliamentarians should have said specifically, when we talk about some alleged affairs that have a judicial epilogue, some of them have a judicial epilogue, some of the trials are under way, then they just had to say very clearly when we talk about Kosovo and Metohija and the Republic of Serbia, and we have a problem with Serbian President Aleksandar Vucic, who is a factor of stability in the region. Let's at least make it so open. We know very well. This Parliament and the Government and the President of the Republic have shown determination and determination when it comes to the European path of Serbia, and there is no task that this government has not realised on the path of European integration, and whether and when we become a member, a full member of the European Union, which is our strategic goal, which is definitely not dependent on Serbia, depends on what Serbia does and does, does not depend on the institutions in Serbia, it depends on Brussels, depends on the members of the European Union and depends on their relationship with what they are vital interests, according to what they are national and state interests of Serbia. For me, too, the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary club is far more important than those reports, as counterparts Bačevac and counterpart Markovic spoke about life issues through amendments and additions to the Census Act. A colleague Markovic spoke of the need to save the sea, in a period when we face the biggest health challenge that unfortunately is not yet being seen, that saving must and should be a priority, because every dinar should and must be invested in the citizens' standard of living, as the president and the government do, in the economy. He talked about the rural area how important a list is for the rural area and it's not funny when two or three thousand aids and donations are allocated to the citizens, it's very and very positive for me, and to my great happiness I've been in Jagodina several times and seen the way local self-government in Jagodina works. My colleague Bacevac, he won't be offended, but from his professional point of view, he's done a real digression, as a doctor, as a doctor, why is it important to have information that we can achieve some kind of goal? In this context he also talked about the census – why is it important that we have complete information so that we can realise the goals we set? Have there been any negative or positive impacts on the list of individual representatives of national minorities? That is what representatives of national minorities have been talking about. I wouldn't add anything, I wouldn't take it away. I'd just say I think they're right, but back to the law. On February 3rd, 2020, the Serbian Assembly adopted a Law on the List of Population, Households and Apartments in 2021, which regulates the preparation, organisation and implementation of the census. The amendments to the laws we are talking about today are amendments to which the list, planned in April of the month due to the epidemiological situation, will take place from October 1st to 31st this year. The pandemics are estimated to be the most risky parts of the list due to the pandemic – selection and training of instructors and censusors, as well as field data collection, which is also justified. The United Nations Statistics Department's recommendations, as well as the United Nations Population Fund, were respected when deciding to postpone the list. The delay in the census by six months will not have negative consequences for the census results, except that the publication of the final results will start six months later, but rather as planned. There was little talk about it. The first census in Serbia, therefore, was carried out long ago in 1834. Starting in 1961, as recommended by the United Nations, the lists are conducted every 10 years, then 1961, 1971, 1981, 1991 and 2002. The Census, Households and dwellings Act also regulates the obligations and duties of persons who will be covered by the list and persons who directly perform the affairs of the list, the use and protection of data collected by the list and the publication of the results of the list. It is important to highlight the fact that it is changing, as has already been said, the very methodology of the list, which is quite logical, given technological improvements i.e. progress when we talk about IT technology. In the list of 2021, for the first time, the data collection is used by laptop computers unlike previous lists, when the papers are filled in, questionnaires. Also, there will be much less censusors, than before, and instead of the usual 15 days, the census will take a month. So, for the first time, a mechanism will be set up to connect list and geospace data at home level. The high advantage of electronic questionnaires in relation to paper is the rules of logical control that are incorporated into the application itself. Thanks to the introduction of IT technology, we will have a fast and efficient census. Data processing will be shortened, so preliminary census results will be presented within a month, while publication of the final results will begin after six months of the census. Therefore, the Republic Bureau of Statistics is required to publish preliminary results within 30 days of the date of completion of the census, while the final results will be published after six months of the completion of the census. In addition, the obligation of the Republic Bureau of Statistics is to respect the principle of statistical confidentiality which implies the protection of data relating to the individual statistical unit. The essence of this principle is that individual data can be used exclusively for statistical purposes. The most important thing is that citizens know that their data is completely secure and that no one has the right to use it to impose any obligation. Also, the censusors themselves are obliged to keep every piece of information they receive from the respondents as an official secret. What I find extremely good about this law is the fact that properly systematised criminal provisions are in view and the amount of penalties that range between 20,000 and 100,000 dinars for all those who participate in the implementation of this law. This list is also specific because it should be the last list of Serbia to conduct censuses on the ground, as the 2031 census should be implemented on the basis of the register. The basic advantage of the list based on registers, is, unlike traditional lists, which are carried out at intervals of 10 years because of the high costs of a complex organisation, can be realised at far shorter intervals if necessary. In order for the 2031 census to be implemented by downloading data from administrative registers, all required registers are required to live. The census of the population, households and apartments is the most important statistical source of individual data on the population of a country. The data received is of paramount importance because they make much progress both in the field of health and in the field of economy and in the field of social and other extremely important and important areas. A list of 2021 will set out the total number of inhabitants, the total number of households and apartments, as well as their schedule for lower spatial units. Finally, we will have information about the vital, ethnic, economic, educational, migration and other characteristics of the population that are necessary to obtain a precise picture of the current situation, but also about projections if we talk about future developments. According to the latest census in Serbia, about 7.2 million people were registered. However, according to data from the Republic Statistics Institute, the estimated population in the Republic of Serbia in 2019 was 6 million 945 thousand 235. It is the first time since 1953 that the number of people in Serbia has fallen below seven million. In addition, the latest data shows that every fifth person in our country is over 65 years old, and only every seven years is still 15 years old. These are for all of us worrying data. The results of the census, conducted by the Republic Statistics Institute in 2019, showed that every third woman in Serbia between 30 and 34 years of age does not have a child, and no offspring is every other male of the same age. So the poor demographic picture of Serbia is pathetic by the challenge Serbia faces. The problem was recognised by Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic, the government of the Republic of Serbia, and the Ministry of Family and Children and Demography was formed after the last elections. In the previous term of the government of the Republic of Serbia, a decision is provided for each mother to receive one-off aid of 100,000 dinars, a second child of 10,000 dinars, and a month-long one for the third child of 12,000 dinars, and for the fourth child of 18,000 dinars over the next ten years. It must reduce negative natural growth. There is no more important task than to ensure demographic progress. The cost of implementing the 2021 census was estimated at 29.3m euros, of which the European Commission will provide almost half of it, 14.2m euros. Thanks for that. However, in addition to the funding provided for the census, an additional amount of 375.9m dinars should be provided this year. The largest additional cost, around 161.8m dinars, will be for the engagement of additional staff in units of local self-government for the application of epidemiological measures. The list is financially supported through the IPA 2018 National Programme for the Development of Statistics in Serbia. This programme, in addition to the list of population, households and dwellings in 2021, plans include the co-financing of three more, I would say, significant statistical research – a list of agriculture, I said for a little while and pointed out how important it is, a list of agriculture in 2021, research on multiple indicators of the position of women and children and research on the health of the population. I think it's a good message when it comes to the amendment, but we'll talk about it when there's a debate in particular. I think it's a good message to be sent with the amendment and the content of the amendment proposed, to postpone the list for reasons that are very clear and precisely defined, but we'll talk about it when we come to the debate in particular. What I'm trying to say at this point is that the SPS Group supports the proposed amendments and additions to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-30-0.u4665	Thank you. He now has the word of MP Djordje Todorovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-30-0.u4666	I thank the chairman. Dear Minister Nedimovic, Mr Korovic, ladies and gentlemen of the peoples and respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, we are today discussing a proposal to amend the Law on the List of Populations, Households and Apartments for 2021, and in this context I would like to say that the list is one of the most significant statistical indicators of a population carried out every 10 years. Every 10 years, the state determines the changes that take place in the structure of one population, and I would like, since I have a whole process here how and in what way will the list take place for 2021, which I have analysed and therefore submitted the amendment, and I ask you, Mr. Minister, to consider this amendment, since these amendments to the law speak of postponing the October 2021 census. We have this series of activities that include the formation of list committees, distribution of inventory material, five-day instruction trainings. We expect more than 100,000 people and candidates to appear on this list. It's gonna be a selection of 15 to 17 grand, and these people are gonna go out in the field. Before that, there will be, of course, knowledge of computer work, interviews with these people. It is understood that we will also have to invest a lot of time in training these censusors, instructors and talk about the period May, June, July, August, about the period for the next few months. The idea is that in October 1st to 31st, these 15,000 censusors write down the entire population, and then 5% of the samples for the quality of the study. This is where we come to one situation, which is that despite the application of the protection measures that these censusors will respect and which are foreseen in this process, there is a great fear of contagion, of contagion in the period of training, of contagion in the selection period, of someone being infected when accessing the list of households and of delaying the whole process indefinitely. That is why the amendment predicted that we should postpone this whole activity, so that we should postpone the census by 2022 for the period October, also from 1st to 15th, and from 1st to 31st, for the simple reason that we will be able to preserve human health, to bring the whole process completely and completely to an end, but also from one important item – because in the spring period we expect the announced presidential elections, the city elections, that is, the Belgrade and the announced extraordinary parliamentary elections. In this sense, we will settle down if we postpone 2022 in the ranks of countries such as Germany, Ireland, Scotland, Romania, which have postponed their census for the spring – the summer of 2022. I repeat, therefore, because of the announced elections, the idea is to postpone the census for October 2022. I would take this opportunity to take a brief look at the historical aspect of the census in Serbia, which certainly represents a historical document which, by rule, is a very bitter rule, testifys to something that we have been through history, which is that after every battle we fought, the battles for independence, the battles we fought for independence, the battles we fought for the establishment of a modern Serbian state, after each of these battles and the victories we fought were less and sometimes for a million people less. I'm talking about the 12th century here, and I'm talking about the Kosovo color, I'm talking about almost five centuries under the Turkish occupation, I'm talking about the First and Second Serbian uprising, two Balkan wars, two World Wars, wars of the 1990s, NATO aggression, the March pogrom. It's a bitter fact, therefore, that every time we counted our victims. Somehow in history, we have fought almost often, together with small Balkan peoples, in the period when we fought for our country's independence and the period when we fought for the creation of a modern Serbian state, in 1878, and in the period of an annexion of the crisis, in 1908, when the great forces decided to set a limit on the Drina between Serbs and Serbs, and almost a century later, the identical situation in 2008 when the great forces also took a role in setting borders between Serbs and Serbs on Ibra. During the two Balkan wars and the First World War, we lost a million of our inhabitants, almost one-third of our total population, and it will turn out that Croatian Ustashas will be much better to run a story about these fractions when in Nazi, or fascist NDH, the entire state policy was directed to a third of the rule against Serbs, which is, therefore, that one-third should be cataclysed, one-third killed and one-third killed. They were able to legalise this through the legislation of the provisions for the defence of the people and the state, through the Order for the ban on Cyrillic, the Order for the Marking of Orthodox people where everyone had to carry a path with the inscription "P", as well as a provision for language issues where the Serbian language was aimed at being eradicated from Croatia. Not only that, the idea was, therefore, that the SPC was converted to HPC. It was an idea during the period, during which more than 700 Serbs were killed, tens of thousands of Roma and Jews, during the period when concentration camps were established in Jasenovac, Stari Gradiška, Jadovna, Jastrebarski. As if it were a little bit, in the 1990s, this idea of fascist NDH continued. In 1990. The constitution of the Croatian Serb people loses the status of a constituent people in this country, and then a few years later, the largest exodus of the Serbian people from these areas is followed and no one is ever responsible for it. No one has ever been responsible for since 10, not for Storm, not for Maestral, not for South Move, not for Flash, not for Summer 95. No one, as no one has ever been responsible for the crimes committed in World War II, has been given the opportunity to return to their homeland and end their lives there as the Dinko Sakic and Andrija Artukovic prize. In the '90s, no one answered. Neither Ante Gotovina nor Mladen Markac were responsible for the crimes they committed, but today they are free to walk in Croatia, and for 350,000 expelled Serbs, thousands of killed and killed, missing in the area, there is still no telling who will answer. I have one piece of information here about the population census, or the Serb people in Croatia in 1991, 2001, 2011 and again you will notice the rule of most, in 1991 the Serbs were in Croatia over 580,000, so almost 600,000 to 10 years later, in the 2001 census a little over 200,000, 201,000. So almost a third less. In 2011 186,000, etc. I don't know what the situation is going to be now, they've postponed the list for 2021. I don't know what the situation is with the attitude towards minorities, and this is certainly seen in the last activity compared to the rebel people in the town of Subotica, where the decision was made to rebelly declare itself in the official language. That's what they were complaining about. Because they've always placed the rebels in the Croats. It was an order for the rebels to be declared Croats. Thus, they, this EU member, led a policy towards minorities, and as Serbia does, you have in the case of the AP Vojvodina, Serbia is a symbol of multiethnicity in the Balkans. In the AP Vojvodina you have in use six official languages. Serbian, Latin and Cyrillic letters, then Hungarian, Slovak, Russian, Romanian and Croatian for letters. In addition, human and minority rights are with us a constitutional category. In addition, in 2018, we passed laws such as the Law on Official Use of Language and Letters, the Law on the Protection of Rights and Freedom of National Minorities and provided rights to minorities in Serbia so that Serbs in Croatia, Slovenia, can only dream in Montenegro. This is our attitude towards minorities in Serbia, and this is how individual EU members treat the minority population of Serbian nationality. I'd like to point out one member of the 11th. The law on the official use of language and letter in which two positions say - on the territory of a unit of local self-government where traditionally members of national minorities, their language and letter may be in equal official use. The unit of local self-government will necessarily introduce the language and letter of the national minority by its statute if the percentage of members of the national minority in the total population on its territory reaches 15%. Therefore, according to the results of the last census, no later than 90 days, etc. The situation on the ground is far better and goes in favour of national minorities, so that the attitudes of this law are applied although sometimes the situation on the ground is not such as to reach these 15%, or defined limits. I would just like to compare the 2011 census to the 2011 minority population ratio in Serbia and Croatia. In 2011, according to the latest list of Croats in Serbia, there were just over 57,900 and Serbs in Croatia were 186,000 and more. I expect it was far more than politics was likely such that they were afraid to plead as Serbs. As Croatia respects language, culture, members of national minorities speak these tables, broken tables in Vukovar with a Cyrillic letter. It is a picture and an opportunity of the Croatian state, but it is also one of the main reasons why we as a country strengthen both economically and military, to ensure that our people no longer go through what has been going through history and that they know and to be sure that the state takes care of them wherever they are, whether in Croatia, whether in other countries in the region. I'd like to point out another fact. Here, for example in Sarajevo, I have information that the Serbs in the 1990s were around 30%, and that today there are no more than 3%, 150 thousand Serbs were expelled to Republika Srpska. Today, especially in a difficult situation are four municipalities in BiH, and I ask what happened to Naser Oric, who committed a terrible crime in 1992 to 1995, where in Podrinj he killed over 3,500 people of Serbian nationality, the masquerade of women, children and old people, that we have witnesses who say that he was pulling people out alive, that he was cutting people's heads off? What about Ali Izetbegovic, who was responsible for those murders in Kazana, near Sarajevo? Who's responsible for bringing in members of the El Mujahid Mujahid Mujahid squad? No one, as no one was responsible during World War II when the hangars of the division killed Serbs under the orders of Chief Pavelic. Since the 1990s, here, the Serbs are 300 thousand less in these areas. To avoid debt, I also have a situation at KIM, NATO aggression, haunting about 200,000 Serbs in that period, the March pogrom, over four thousand. The situation in Slovenia, which today has about 40,000, i.e., according to the latest list of 40,000 Serbs, and they have no rights. When compared to 20,000 Serbs in Romania where elections have not passed in the past 30 years, or the formation of a republican parliament does not go through that you do not have a member of the Serbian nationality parliament, compare it with Slovenia where the percentage of Serbs is almost 2%, the rights are fully analyzed. Not only to Serbs, but also to Jews, and in this sense, I mean the Moskovic family house, where Tanja Fajon was placed, so she could come to Serbia to see the status of the Slovenian national minority, and not only the Slovenian national minority, but a total of 23 councils for national minorities formed in Serbia. To use a little more of this time to remind ourselves of the 2011 census in the period when the yellow company was staring at this country. The Bosniaks and Albanians have one piece boycotted this list, and as they have conducted the census, you will remember, I have here some changes to the 2011 census law, and they have delayed the census, now watch out, for six months just for one simple reason, because they did not have eightm euros in the budget. They had to remove three ministries to secure money for the census. Where was that money back then, we were wondering who took it for decades? We knew who took and who was in charge and who was behind all this, and the secret treasure of Alibaba Gilas and his yellow robbers slowly began to be revealed. Except that this modern Alibaba wasn't hiding money in caves, but in 53 accounts around the world, in 17 countries, from Hong Kong, across European countries, from Mauritius to the United States, 67 million dollars managed to pump out of this country, 67m euros, or dollars, and they didn't have eight million for the census. For eight decades, we could have listed that the biggest thief in the Balkans had not stolen this country. Meanwhile, these affairs are also revealed, people from its environment are arrested, the former president of the Palilu municipality for the malfeasances they have committed. That's good. It's good that anyone who dares to work like this knows where they'll end up. It is important to point out that the government of the Republic of Serbia will provide 15 and a half thousand laptops and that compared to the previous census, where there were 40,000 people, this time there will be 15,000 censusors. And that next to that list we're going to be working on three significant lists of statistics. The first is a list of agriculture, the second is a study on multiple indicators of the position of women and children, as well as a survey of the health of the population. When we talk about health, you know that health is a pillar of one country's security in this period when the whole world faces a pandemic. We've done a lot in that field, the most we've done in the region. We've opened up a database of hospitals, built clinical centres, built general hospitals in Serbia, obtained vaccines, and four different manufacturers, allowed our people to be vaccinated, allowed people in the region to be vaccinated. This was made possible by responsible policy, the policy of President Aleksandar Vukic, who in 2014 implemented heavy economic reforms so that we could have the biggest growth in Europe today. From that surplus, some infrastructure projects financed from that growth, built these hospitals. In addition, we also help the private sector, help each citizen individually, help the pensioners, the unemployed. In addition, we are the best in Europe and as far as the economy is concerned, as far as the health situation is concerned. Serbia is a symbol of progress, the leader of the region, the best in Europe according to these indicators, and it is important for us to focus especially on population policy, and that is what President Vukic was talking about in the framework of the 20-25 plan, which is to invest hundreds of millions of euros in population policy, to make us as much as possible, to give birth to children, to support pregnant women, to support young people, to provide shelters over their heads, to get ahead of them, to start their families early, to help pregnant women, to help children with autism, and to move forward in this way. You know, if each of us made a small contribution to this progress, the story of light at the end of the tunnel would be far behind us. At the speed of light, we would rush to new successes and new victories. Ladies and gentlemen, the future of Serbia is our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-30-0.u4667	Thank you. The word is by MP Enis Imamovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-30-0.u4668	Thank you. Dear Presidents, when we talk about the upcoming census of national minorities, it is very important to stress that the list and its results form the basis, i.e. a firm mechanism by which minorities determine the extent and extent of their individual and collective rights, such as the right to education in mother tongue and letter, effective participation in public life, representation in public authorities with public authority, official use of language and letter, funding of national councils, but also the exercise of those civil rights, general rights such as the number of schools, capacity of schools, the number of schools, hospitals, doctors, such as water supply capacity, electricity capacity, etc. I am pleased that the coordination of national councils of national minorities has taken a firm and united view of the importance of this list and that they have shown a clear intention that in this list process they want to be active participants rather than observers. It is clear to us that these proposed amendments and additions of the Law want to move the deadlines and to comply with the current situation, we can also understand the need to do such a thing. As representatives of national minorities, however, we are not satisfied that this opportunity has not been used and that this law, during these amendments and amendments to the law, is even better and more precisely defined in those areas concerning national minorities. For example, from the entire Census Act, national minorities are not mentioned in any place, in any member of the law, or in their institutions, such as national councils of national minorities elected in direct elections. Also, this law does not specify details in which the state will act more affirmatively when it comes to declaring members of national minorities. At the same time, this law has not left members of national minorities with any possibility to control their census data in the census process. This law opens up additional space for numerous abuses. This law does not provide for the equal and even participation of national minorities in the overall process, in line with the 2011 census results, such as European practice, such as representation in census commissions. In this segment, therefore, the law excludes minorities and their official organisations of minority self-government, as the law does not provide for the possibility of consulting and including any involvement of national councils in the census process, as well as the delegation of members of the list committees by them. From the point of view of minorities, funding this list is confusing, as no campaign funds are provided for which national councils should lead to motivate their members to plead on the list. If they want to do so, they will have to do so by their own means, which is not the case with other authorities and participants defined in this law. This law also completely excludes advice on international relations at local level. If these are the bodies that play the most important role in the exercise of minority rights at local level and if these are bodies that represent a direct link between minority communities with their local self-governments, why does this law not recognise it and why the advice for international relations is not included in this process? When it comes to concrete members of the law, Article 5 in point 2 says the instructor is a person who is authorised to train censuses and monitor and control their work during field data collection. If the law does not define, the question arises in which way will the instructor exercise control of the census data, especially those specific data in respect of segments, cultural segments, ethnic segments of this list declaration, if the instructor has not received any guidance from authorised institutions, minority authorities of minority self-government? The same Article 5, in point 17, says – the calendar of publication and review of all statistical statements and publications, with the precise title, reference period, date and time of publication, is published on the website of the Republic Bureau of Statistics before the beginning of the calendar year for the whole following year. This article is confusing because it does not specify when the census results will be published correctly. The final figures of the 2011 census have not yet been published and due to the lack of this data, there is still a manipulation of data on the total number, as there is no idea of the total number and the final share of national minorities in the population of the Republic of Serbia. Article 6(1) is well-conceived, but it is important to pay attention to the data relating to the ethnological and religious specifics, as there is a misuse of the list of data, such as religious declaration, i.e. mixing of religious and national belongings, as is the case with the Bosniak people, with Bosniaks, who are rarely nationalized as Muslims. In the second position of this member, a list of absent household members is now available, which is commendable. However, it remains unclear whether ethnicity data is being collected for them too. Article 9 of sub-assembly 1 shall specify ministries and special organisations. No mention is made of ministries that deal in their work with the issue of national minorities. So when this law was passed, it was the Ministry of State and Local Self-Government, now it's the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights. Why is this ministry not specifically mentioned as a participant in this process? The 3rd floor says – other bodies and organisations and institutions. It remains completely confusing, which are organisations and institutions. Even later members who are thematicalising this area, which thematicise the rights of national minorities are not mentioned by the authorities of minority self-government, national councils as authorities of minority self-government who are legitimately elected in direct elections and whose question is a list of vital importance. In Article 10(2), ‘A special governing body shall be formed in the Republic Bureau of Statistics with the task of organising and coordinating the work of all participants in the list. At the head of this body is the Director of the Republic Bureau of Statistics, and members of the persons are responsible for the organisation and implementation of specific list activities. “ It remains unclear what specific list activities are? No mention is made of representatives of national major national minorities and this was an opportunity, these amendments and additions to the laws were an opportunity to define those categories in these specific list activities, to define those issues that were delegated by representatives of the coordination of national councils of national minorities. We all aim to get concrete, as high-quality data as possible, which will help us get out of this list what policies we need to implement in the next period. In Article 11(2) - Listing Commission members are appointed by the Director of the Republic Statistics Institute, on the proposal of a unit of local self-government, i.e. the city municipality of Belgrade. The obligation to consult national minority councils is not mentioned here either. Article 11(3) defines that the list committee may consist of between three and seven members, depending on the number of inhabitants, the number of settlements, the area of territory, with one member representing the Republic Bureau of Statistics and exceptionally, on a particularly reasoned request by the unit of local self-government, the Director of the Republic Statistics Office may appoint additional members of the List Commission. Article 12 again lists the ministries, among which there are no ministries closely related to the work of the national minority. There is no mention of the participation of national councils of national minorities in the census committee. So they remain completely excluded from this list process. This is extremely important, especially in those populated places where minorities make up a significant percentage of the population. In Article 20 of the local self-government unit, I said there was no mention of advice on international relations. So these are some of the members of the law that we think it was necessary to take this opportunity to improve them, to get a better quality law, which is acceptable for legitimate representatives of national minorities. These are proposals for the coordination of national councils of national minorities that have been given to the working group, which, unfortunately, the working group has refused. Politically speaking, from the point of view of Bosniaks, this upcoming census is particularly important for correcting historical injustices towards this people, especially in the Sandzak region. The results of this list should first be an answer to the policy of ethnic cleansing carried out in Sandzak and which is still being implemented in its own way today. In the past, it was drastic, by committing crime, kidnapping, mass murder in the North, Strpci, Kukurovici, mass arrests and tortures, to date through sophisticated methods of socio-economic blackmail, to irresponsible and selfish calls for a boycott of the previous census. All of this was meant to reduce the number of Bosniaks in Sandzak. Is that number down? I think so, we'll see what the results of this list say. Our goal is to restore trust in the state authorities, restore trust in the list of our citizens, and we will do so by improving this law by listening to what minorities are proposing to get as much quality information as possible, as possible from this important process. To do this, the idea is, which we have proposed that legitimate representatives of minorities be represented in official bodies, which deal with the implementation of this list. In this respect, it is agreed that representatives of the coordination of national councils should be represented in the Republic Statistical Office, where they will be representatives of the whole coordination in the working body, the special managing body. Names have been sent, as far as I know, to confirm and resolve that they are appointed. Another important part is the list enforcement body, which is the list committees in local communities, appointed by the Director of the Republic Statistics Institute on the proposal of local self-government and here is an extremely important few things. At the meeting with the Republic Statistics Institute, representatives of national councils were agreed to participate in the work of these local census committees, in a way to provide them with a coordinated list of all municipalities where minorities have an interest in naming their observers, and then coordination will provide one name for each municipality to be represented by this minority self-government body. Therefore, it is not disputed for us to support the law on amending and supplementing the List Act when it comes to terms and terms. However, it is not clear why the government group remains exclusive to these concrete ones and I would say correct proposals by national minorities on how to improve the law and I do not understand why this opportunity to improve and bring one third of the population in Serbia, which is national minorities, has not been taken up again. We have no problem coming together and agreeing on the deadlines that are relevant for implementing the next census, because it needs to help us and to provide us with the best and more quality information, I told us about our population, how to create and fight in the future to create policies that will eliminate the daily problems our citizens face. It's the only way we'll be able to get a better and better law on the list based on this data. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-30-0.u4669	Thank you. A fellow George, a foundation?
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-30-0.u4670	Thank you, Your Honor. First of all, the question to you, the Honorable Chairman-in-Office, in accordance with Article 98, and regarding Article 107 of the Assembly's dignity, and Article 98(2) very clearly defines which order the presidents of the parliamentary groups may appear, if they have some specific jobs at the time of the meeting, is their problem, but the Rules of Procedure are very clear and precise on this matter. The point here was to get all the presidents of the parliamentary groups through and to get to those cheap political points. It is a question for you why you allowed it, because if you allow it and it is a practice, it seems to me that we will constantly violate the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, and so could we from the SPS. Excuse me, if we respect the Rules of Procedure, then the one who was president of the least parliamentary group could only speak at the end when the list of speakers was exhausted. On the other hand, Mr. Chairman, I don't know if you're aware of what you've allowed here in Parliament today, not you, for the first time, but for who knows which time. I repeat, no one in Serbia disputes the right of national minorities and much more stories about someone wanting to challenge any right to a national minority. Will representatives of national minorities be commissions? We're in favour, here's what I'm telling you right now, but you've made and very rudely violated the Rules of Procedure in one other part. Are you aware of what's been said here for a little while, that ethnic cleansing was done, to correct historical injustice, that genocide was made? Well, my colleague was a short time of data about how many Serbs lived in certain environments. So, who did the ethnic cleansing? So, who executed the genocide? Is that what the Serbs were doing? I don't have a problem with any MP's identity, but I have a very problem with what they're saying, and that's not true, and that's not facts, and we'll always fight it. And, don't allow it, chairing more, not you, of course, but no one has a monopoly over national minorities. I guarantee that representatives of the parliamentary group of some national minorities, that they voted for them, fewer national minorities than they voted for the SNS or the SPS and that we have more representatives of national minorities in our ranks than they have. So no one in Serbia has a monopoly on national minorities. Please, the chairman, don't do it again because you are violating the reputation and dignity and the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, you are insulting the state of Serbia as well as the citizens of Serbia. I'm not asking the National Assembly in voting day to make a statement about the alleged violation of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-30-0.u4671	Enis Imamovic, Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-30-0.u4672	I'm advertising a breach of Rules of Procedure 104. Here, a colleague of mine, the previous speaker, spoke offensively, expressed himself in connection with my address. He called my address as your permission. You're not here to allow me to say anything, I'm using my business and parliamentary right to speak the way I think I should and the way I feel I should represent the citizens who voted me. I was voted by the citizens of Sandzak, the Bosniaks who and how they were victims of ethnic cleansing. If the courts have ruled, if the courts are, please let me finish... (Jordje Milicevic: You are allowing the same thing again. )
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-30-0.u4673	Please, just finish it.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-30-0.u4674	I'm trying to finish, and my colleague's throwing it away. If the courts have confirmed that a crime has been committed in the North and in the Strpts, if the courts have confirmed that the Užičko Corps is responsible for the shelling of the village of Kukurovici, these are all the crimes I mentioned in my speech, confirmed by the judgments...
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-30-0.u4675	Please, let's stick to the Rules of Procedure, now we've gone completely to one extreme.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-30-0.u4676	I'm talking about wrongly interpreted views that you gave the previous speaker the right to freely express...
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-30-0.u4677	It's okay through the replica but not through the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-30-0.u4678	It's not a replica, I say this is my basic right... .
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-30-0.u4679	While I'm here in the position I am, please, here I will determine what is right in the interest of preserving the dignity of the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-30-0.u4680	Please, Chairman, allow me, this is about confirmed verdicts, confirmed court rulings. And if the court rulings are confirmed... .
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-30-0.u4681	We're done, please, it's over.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-30-0.u4682	Well, we can't take part in a debate like this chair. This is not a debate, you give words, you give every one of them the right to attack all my views, and you don't give me the right to defend my views, not in the Rules of Procedure, not in the replica. In a meeting like this, I have no intention of participating in a congregation like this, I have no intention of giving legitimacy. We tried, we failed. Every time our right to speak on the basis of court rulings, you interrupt the Rules of Procedure and interrupt the challenge of our right, citizens to represent the policy for which we have received support in the elections, the citizens of Sandzak.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-30-0.u4683	Now I'm really going to have to interrupt you, because you've violated both the elementary dignity of the Assembly and every logic of your presentation, you've shown one huge inaccuracies, because you've had absolute freedom and the opportunity to defend everything you wanted to say. The People's Messenger, George Milicevic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-30-0.u4684	Mr. Chairman, I am advocating, i.e., forgive me for not advocating, pointing to the violation of the Rules of Procedure, article 27, which says that the President of the National Assembly or in a specific case, chairing the National Assembly, convenes, presides him and does affairs in accordance with the law and this Rules of Procedure on Labour. So you are obliged to respect this Rules of Procedure and to give the People's MPs what I have just pointed out, according to this Rules of Procedure. I will not deal with politics, all I wanted to say for a moment, this is another in a series of attempts to challenge provocations, as the ruling coalition, as it stands, among other things, in a report by the European Parliament, which I have just pointed out, that the ruling coalition is oppressing and does not allow, for God's sake, the parliamentary opposition to speak in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. No, we have only a democratic spirit and a democratic tolerance if you are ready to debate, here we are, and not like this to go out, try to provoke, raise the flag, go to Kosovo when it comes to Kosovo's strength and security, so you send messages about how she lost weight in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, or the Government of Ana Brnabic, all because we have not responded to your provocation, as you thought we would react rather than hear you, so we listen to you in Albanian, we have no problem with that, and if you do not do so in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, do not announce in time, do not act in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we listen to you and only later see how you spoke about the President of the Republic, about the Minister of the Republic of Serbia, in which way you spoke about us national MPs, and when you talk about us, you talk about us, you talk about Serbian citizens. As long as it is, we will fight against such attitudes. We have nothing against identity, but when you say, the flag in Gracanica is freely winded, they say, Serbian, so it will grumble, because Kosovo and Metohija are part of Serbia, and we accept Bosniaks as our brothers and are always welcome in Serbia. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-30-0.u4685	Just another brief comment. So, the entire presidency was exactly in line to protect the dignity of the National Assembly, when it was Rules of Procedure, we regulated it, we try to build an atmosphere and ambience, we create an atmosphere where everyone can express their position. I thank you, too. (Jordje Milicevic: I do not ask the Assembly to plead. ) The word has Minister Branislav Nedimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-30-0.u4686	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the People. I thought we were having a debate based on facts, not on someone saying something and just disappearing from the O.R. I will have, above all, to point out a few important things, primarily because of the integrity of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. If there is one country that is marked everywhere about protecting the rights of national minorities, then it is the Republic of Serbia and it has also been heard in the presentations of their representatives during today, and I think that every other connotation, is about ousting facts and trying with some cheap political irregularities, causing problems in this House of the National Assembly. I think it's completely inappropriate and I think it would be intended to lead the debate in another direction. Not wanting to tell anyone, any lessons or anything else about the Law amending the Census Act, there was a public debate that no one, we checked, we just didn't file on that kind of thing, and we heard the remarks in the previous debate, no complaints. If there were any objections, that would be discussed. The other thing, I was your colleague myself. There is an institution of amendments, on Friday at midnight, a deadline for the submission of amendments could be completed, if someone considered it appropriate to any amendment and thus discuss and possibly try to amend it, if one considers it and there is a majority to amend the text of this law or supplement it with any proposals, in order to correct the whole list process, if necessary. At the very end of the line, this law and the law that is original is adopted and marked as a modern law that respects all the rights of those who live in space and so far goes that far, commenting earlier on with a fellow from the Republic Institute, that it goes so far that they are so open questions that you can write, and when you don't see yourself, however marked, you don't have a relationship, so you can write whatever you want. That's how far it goes. Absolutely, no discrimination, no intention whatsoever, and in this case is a colleague from the parliamentary group, who was a representative of the parliamentary group, I think Biševac, from the SDP, who said that in the working body for the implementation of this list, on the basis of the co-ordination of the National Minorities Council of the two Bosnians and Croats will be implemented and where will you be more open then? I have one more thing to say which is very important because of the political correctness or something else someone wanted to do. When was the road built across the cave high, around Karajukic Bunar, now or 20 years ago? When is the road contracted, the highway Požega – Bolar, worth 1.6 billion euros? Now or then or ever in the last 50 years? When is there a cave water that connects Sedica and Tutin, now or 10, 20, 50 years ago? Anyone who wants to observe the facts, I think this is a sufficient number of reasons to talk about how much the Republic of Serbia invests in that space. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-30-0.u4687	Thank you. We're moving on to the list of MPs to report for word. The first is Prof. Dr. Jahja Fehratovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-30-0.u4688	I thank the Honorable Chairman. We have heard today that MPs of the Justice and Reconciliation Party will support this bill, because we believe that the census is extremely important, as we thought 10 years ago, that it is necessary to express our will, in a way that we do not go out on that list because of certain procedures of that regime which in every way wanted to do evil to the Bosniak people. We also believe that the processes have begun to change and that we have realistically good indicators that this list will contribute to all national communities improving their positions in this country. As we have spoken here several times, the legislative framework is extremely high quality in the Republic of Serbia, the right national communities when it comes to the legal basis are far better than the rights in other countries in the environment, but we do not need to be a rapper because we have reached the region we must fight for what is relevant and what is the EU standard. We have long overcome, so, when it comes to the legal basis of both Croatia and Bosnia and Montenegro. The intensity of moving towards the EU is something we need to seek. What this list and everything else should show when it comes to the rights of minority people and national communities is to start implementing all these legal frameworks, and that, above all, means to start with reciprocal employment, as the law requires in those communities where these members of national minorities make up a certain percentage of the population, so if in one city, such as the Market 80% of the population, Bosniaks should be 80% in all national and republican institutions. That's where we're supposed to insist today, work to improve the overall position. On the other hand, populism doesn't lead to anything. Today we had it on both sides and that's something that's not a policy of reconciliation between the people. Also, as a Sarajevo student and student, I have to react somewhat to the exposure of a younger colleague who said that 300,000 Serbs were expelled from Sarajevo. It's simply not the fact that they're expelled. I studied in Sarajevo for those years, and I have equally studied in that university and University of Sarajevo in both Bosniak and sprawl literature and I have witnessed that this has not changed today, and that people simply for existential and other reasons have left the city in the largest number and have been making migrations as they have felt where they should belong. So it's not good without confirmation, it's also said by members of the Serb people who are participants of that time, it's not good to abuse facts on either side. It's just that we have to build a policy of reconciliation. It's what we hear and it's what's coming from all over the place. that both Bosniaks and Serbs are intertwined and that we must build our own future. In this respect, we need to be guided by facts in every sense and that we need to build a better future for our children, and it can be built if we speak with truth without the populism of any party and without imposing any reactions, relationships, or opinions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-30-0.u4689	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Djordje Todorovic, right to replication. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-30-0.u4690	Thank you. All I have to do is react to my colleague's exposure. I didn't say 300,000. I said 150,000, and that's a fact. I said that before the Sarajevo conflict, there was 30% of the population of Serbian nationality, and that after the wars, there was about 3%. They're facts, they're historical facts. That's what I was talking about, and I was talking about other things, and specifically about Bosnia and Herzegovina, so those 300,000 were about the Republic of Serbia and the expulsion of Serbs from the centuries-old hearths. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-30-0.u4691	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Jahja Fehratovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-30-0.u4692	Thank you for your clarification, because it's very important that we be precise. Your exposure was multiple, it's about the whole region and then I, and I believe most listeners and viewers got the impression that you were talking about Sarajevo. So, Sarajevo has suffered what has suffered and remains a multiethnic city, both in the war and after the war, and of course, there have been emigrations, as have been evictions from Belgrade and all other cities. People literally went where they thought they'd get better. All those who have not committed any crimes in these wars have sought their future either abroad or in countries where they consider their future to be. So nothing's black and white. Leaving Sarajevo was not motivated by this, and it is very important because it is very popularly respected. He was not motivated by the fact that people were expelled, people who lived remained alive today living in Sarajevo, and others simply sold their property and went to live where they thought the future should be built for themselves and their children. That is why it is important to specify all these things because these are very sensitive topics and leave space for the population and for the manipulation of those who do not think well of the Serbs, or Bosniaks, and especially those who use such things to have the opportunity for cheap populist, political points and to build their own policy which is destructive and which brings us back to a vicious circle from the 1990s, which can't do anyone any good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-30-0.u4693	Thank you. We agree that it is difficult through one replica to cover the entire historical context, but clearly there are good intentions. The word has a folk MP, Vladan Glisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-30-0.u4694	Thank you. Understandably, the government wants to postpone the census, given the epidemiological situation. However, this delay brings us into one problem that will happen in another register that is very important to us, which is the Unique Election List. We, based on some of the records we have, have 6,950,000, more or less thousands of citizens on the list, so for the first time in 50 years, we fell again under seven million. However, in RIK data, we had 6,700,000 voters in previous elections. So you see for yourself how disproportionate and impossible it is that we have so many residents, and so many voters, because here it turns out that we don't have minors, or there are very few. We do. It turns out that those who have left for their economic and other reasons, we are a country of great emigration, also remain here on the electoral lists. So he had a problem with why it was left like that, and if we keep doing it again, we'll be in a situation where, thanks to the unsettled voter lists, elections and results will be questionable. Of course, in the 30 years of the multi-party system that was restored, no ruling structure liked to arrange voter lists because it was on this margin, so-called. Phantom voters, dead souls and everything else had the opportunity to manipulate hundreds of thousands of votes. As a lawyer, I'm not going to fall into a trap, so let me give you a cause for replication, to accuse you of doing it, because I don't have any evidence, but I think it would be necessary to prevent you from being tempted to manipulate those votes in the next election. How can you do that? In the modern legal and political theory dealing with the relations of electoral law and sovereignty of citizens and peoples, the idea has emerged that it is necessary to seriousise the electoral body and voters, after 200 years of general electoral law, abandoning various censorships that were discriminatory, is first mentioned the possibility that censors who would not be discriminatory and make voters responsible. That's one serious theory that we can talk about, if there's an opportunity on the round table of parties on election terms we'll talk about, but there's one item in this theory that can help you solve the problem of the single combat list. The people's network of organizations that I belong to in inter-party dialogue will present the idea of censorship of interest. With this censorship, we would be in a position to resolve a very elegant and simple electoral list, and that all dead souls, people who have left Serbia, and are still being held as voters, have no intention of voting in the next election, simply exclude them from the election process, without harming their civil and human rights. The centzus of interest would mean that, in addition to those elements that make up the right to vote, that is, a citizen to be a voter, we also insert his will to vote, which is an interest in participating in the election process. They would do so by calling on all those who have the electoral right to apply to vote in one half-year period and, on the basis of the application, getting the opportunity to participate in the next elections. It is simply clear to all that in that case all those who died in the meantime would not be able to apply, all those who left our country in the meantime, although they are still being led as our citizens, and they have no intention of coming and voting, they will not. So it's very simple. We will already start next year, before the spring elections we will have clear information on who the people who will vote in these elections are. After that, no one can accuse the ruling structure of manipulating those who were dead souls or phantom voters, no one can manipulate the election results with neither the authorities nor the opposition, and it is very important that even those who are boycotting the elections, if any, make a difference between them and those who are essentially uninterested to vote at all to participate in the election process. So this is a thing that would help both you and us out of the opposition to solve problems and essentially restore decision-making into the hands of the people, citizens, to have sovereignty equal to the electoral right and that we, in fact, are in a position to bring back responsible and serious voters to the electoral process, and that those who essentially do not want to vote, to participate in the political electoral process, those who are perhaps willing to manipulate this process simply turn off in one elegant way. I know that there will be objections about how difficult this is because of some legal and constitutional frameworks to implement, but if there is political will, we can find a way to solve it. Anyway, if you're not in the mood for this and I understand that, because you're a ruling structure and it's hard to give up certain privileges that can be beyond the law, but I want to tell you, colleagues from the SNS, one day you'll be an opposition, and then you'll realize that this is a good proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-30-0.u4695	Thank you. Next on the list is colleague Ana Miljanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-30-0.u4696	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we have before us a bill on amendments to the Law on List of Populations, Households and dwellings in 2021. As the collection, holding, processing and use of personality data is governed by the law, it is necessary to discuss that proposal in Parliament and in the day of voting we make the same statement. The draft law regulates a new period of implementation of the list from 1 to 31 October 2021, although we now have a new proposal, i.e. an amendment to postpone the census for October 2022. The census was originally planned to take place from 1 April 2021 to 31 April 2021. In order for our citizens to understand the reasons for this delay, I will return to the words of our Prime Minister Ana Brnabic, who spoke here last week about the reasons and priorities managed by the government and the crisis headquarters in making decisions to stop the coronary pandemic. The first and certainly most important among them is, without compromise, the health of the nation, and as the list implies participation of about 20,000 direct participants who will have direct contact, it is clear that in these present circumstances this list presents a health risk to our citizens. Also, Eurostat's view is that the coronavirus pandemic has a serious impact on the implementation of European statistics and that many countries face difficulties in implementing only lists. What's important to us, putting down the list itself won't have any negative consequences for the results. In line with UN recommendations since 1961, we have established a ten-year period of implementation of the census, which was only violated in 2001. What I would like to say to this occasion is that in 1971, a much more extensive migration wave was first registered mainly towards Western European countries. The trend was, unfortunately, continued until the last census in 2011, but was also recognised by SNS, President Aleksandr Vukic and our government headed by Prime Minister Ana Brnabic. The whole "Serbia 20-25" programme is directed to make our citizens a better place to live. Since 2014, heavy economic reforms have been implemented and, as our president has said, our citizens deserve the biggest round of applause, and the objective of this programme is that the average salary in Serbia is 900 euros, and the average pension of 430-440 euros, and what I find very important for this topic today is also the information that 500m euros will be allocated to encourage young people to stay in Serbia, and we already have examples in the past few years that young couples have returned to Serbia and started their own business, which is certainly for every praise. It is very important for our citizens to function in the labour market, which has seen significant improvements over the past few years. Strong economic growth has been seen in labour market indicators, which have reached record levels since the start of the 2014 labour force survey. Activity and employment rates have increased, while the unemployment rate has dropped to 10.9% in the annual cut for 2019. Long-term unemployment, as well as the unemployment of women and young people, continued the trend of decline. Real earnings have increased and all of this is listed in the European Commission's latest report. In addition to all these indicators that we make our Serbia a better place to live, it shows the number of infrastructure projects visited by President Aleksandar Vukic these days. Serbia will be networked by highways and fast traffic and will be a completely different country. How dedicated we are to the better life of our citizens can also be to the fact that as a form of help to citizens and businesses through three packages of measures in these difficult conditions caused by the pandemic of the coronaryvirus, we have singled out eight billion euros. In the end, I can't help but mention our president's commitment to providing all of us with conditions for vaccination, which is the only possible solution to the end of this global crisis that has long since come out of the context of a health crisis alone. The Serbian Progressive Party's policy is to take care of our Serbia, take care of our citizens, and we are committed to making our Serbia a better place for the lives of all our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-30-0.u4697	I thank my fellow Members, as well as all the other MPs. Now, in accordance with Article 87, I'm setting a break of one hour. We continue work at 15.00 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-30-0.u4698	Ladies and gentlemen, let's get back to work. The word has a folk emissary, Jasmine Karanac.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-30-0.u4699	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Ministers Nedimovic, colleagues and colleagues, SDPS, as a socially responsible party, taking care of each individual, the community, the state of health of citizens, respecting the need to reduce all negative aspects due to the pandemic of the virus, supports the proposal to move the census in Serbia in April to October this year, and if the epidemiological situation is unfavourable to maintain the census when safe conditions are obtained. This proposal is understandable and expected, because the census is extremely important for one country, for its economic future and it must be provided with accurate data on the number of inhabitants by municipalities and cities, their age, gender, education, interest, material and social status. In addition to the basic question of how many of us, the list also gives us the answer to the question of who we are, and in terms of nationality and all other features of each individual, as well as the answer to the question of where and how the population lives, how many households and dwellings we have. The census is comprehensive, covering even the answer to questions about how we are going to work, whether every school in Serbia has a toilet. Data obtained from a census conducted every ten years are an extremely significant parameter and give guidance on the country's effective planning for social and economic development for the next decade. Based on these results, countries create educational, social, health, economic policy, planning production and consumption, investing in infrastructure, building roads, hospitals, kindergartens, investing in the economy, which affects the distribution of budget funds and ultimately reflects the personal standard and quality of life of each of us. The census is an instrument that can improve the status and position of each individual, as well as members of national and other communities. Certain minority rights are regulated depending on the percentage of their representation, such as the right to education and textbooks in the native language, the right to information. Serbia has 22 national councils of national minorities and they have the right to funding from the budget to promote cultural and educational activities. And not only do they have them, they use those rights. The Republic Statistics Institute has accepted the proposal that national major national minorities actively and at all levels participate in the work of the bodies that organise the census, from the republican, over the province, to the urban and municipal levels. The national council will also be involved in helping translate materials into the languages of national minorities into a media campaign for the census. That's why there's no valid reason for anyone to boycott the list. In addition to the rights guaranteed by the Constitution to all citizens, national minorities in Serbia have additional rights that further enable them to decide on certain issues related to their culture, education, information on the use of official letters and languages. For us, it is of great importance and the result of the census in the Serb-dominated countries, not meddling in the list, but in order to determine the exact number of Serbs in those countries, because not based on the percentage of representation they will be able to draw the rights guaranteed by the Constitution. In the surrounding countries, but also many EU countries, the census has been postponed due to the pandemic. In some countries even for 2022 because the list is the most complex and complex, even the most expensive statistical research. The decision to postpone it has been made with us because of an unfavourable epidemiological situation that could endanger both the preparation for the census and just the implementation of the list on the ground. The list requires training of about 20,000 candidates for instructors and censuses, which at this point was a major epidemiological risk. An even greater risk is to get a censusor out on the ground that needs to be visited by every apartment, every house, to enter nursing homes, boarding schools, dormitories, reception centres, collective accommodations to list the entire population. Therefore, the postponement of the list is the most reasonable solution. As important as the list is, it is more important to avoid the danger of spreading the infection and to implement this process when safe conditions are acquired, not risking human health or life. Finally, to conclude that it is necessary that we all prove ourselves to be as responsible as possible, to strictly adhere to the measure and to be vaccinated as much as possible, to get back to normal life and all regular activities, both individuals and society at all. Since the Minister of Agriculture is present here, I must say that the list of agriculture will be delayed and that it will not be held at the same time as the census, and that is good, because the list of agriculture needs to paint the situation on the ground, to paint the structure of agricultural holdings so that the state can plan to help and make decisions when it comes to agricultural production. I must point out that I expect these results to be much better compared to the previous list, since the state, as never before, invests in agricultural production, subsidizes agricultural holdings, from the purchase of machinery and tractors to the subsidisation of fruit, vegetable crops to livestock production. It's a good incentive for farmers to produce more, but there's one problem, and that's what when we produce, how to place these products. I understand the laws of the market, the laws of supply and demand, but we need to find a way to somehow help farmers place their agricultural products. I have recently mentioned here in the Assembly that at present the biggest problem – large amounts of unrepurchased potatoes in western Serbia and if the state intervenes, please and I appeal to the minister, he knows about it, even spoke several times on the ground, even the state has helped to buy some quantities, but it is minimal. If that potato is not placed, it threatens to compromise the spring crop. I appeal again – do something if it is not too late. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-30-0.u4700	I would like to thank Parliamentarian Jasmine Karanac. Time for the parliamentary group is still three minutes away. Word has the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-30-0.u4701	The Honorable Chairman, thank you. Dear fellow MPs, just a few comments, first of all, on the matter, and also on behalf of the public. As for the first part of your discussion, which is related to the market, thank God, several months ago, the results for 2020 were summed up, a year marked by the crown. Serbia exported agricultural and food products for 4.2 billion dollars. Compared to 2017 it's about $2.8 billion, and five years before that, I think, $1.9 billion, then you see where we are. Why did that happen? Because we found new markets and because we had quality goods that we could offer. So that I wouldn't worry too much about the rally and I owe the whole story, some markets we've never exported to, for example, China's market. We're exporting a bunch of agricultural products to the Chinese market right now. We export apples to the Indian market, beef in China, lamb meat, honey exports, wine exports. So far, we have not had Turkey's beef export market, i.e. duty-free beef exports. Since yesterday, again, under the Free Trade Agreement with Turkey, we are re-exporting to Turkey beef. There are many other examples like this, and I think that the markets on which we need to plead are primarily the Middle East market, which is well-paid, but for some types of goods, like pig meat, we need to look a little further than our noses. First of all, I mean the Vietnam area where they're not as strict as in the case of China with regard to African swine fever. We've already submitted a great deal of the app and we're waiting for the Vietnamese side's answer to that. Now someone's going to ask, "Why Vietnam, where did you get this whole story?" One of the biggest pigmeat consumers in the world is Vietnam, is that it's a little far, but they pay well. As for total trade, it is the most focused on the EU and CEFTE countries, but don't forget that we export over $200m of apples, for example, to the Russian Federation space. These are the things that start society, because if you don't have a market, if you don't have a place to place, you're going to make those frees, because sooner or later you're going to bury yourself with a certain amount of food that's going to go down the price. What's new is our opportunity, and I've been talking to a few big kickers these days, these are stamps and finals under our brands that we could place in those ritle chains. Those goods are missing. We're missing quantities, and we have to do a lot of work on it. Therefore, the Government of the Republic of Serbia will bring a special regulation concerning the supply of new equipment that I have for the food industry in order to reach these quantities that are necessary not only for the needs of rijle chains in Serbia, but rather for those multinationals who can place at any point in our environment, above all I mean the market for Bulgaria, Hungary, Romania and other countries that are located in our immediate environment. As far as potatoes are concerned, this is exactly how, speaking with large trade chains, we succeeded in certain quantities of potatoes from Gornji Milanovac, Ivanjica, Prepolje to place there. There are two kinds of problems here. One appeared because of an extremely fertile year and extremely high yields. On the other hand, there were good prices in previous years, and right away, like the raspberries that used to go, everyone turned that way. The other problem that came before us is because they don't do hotels, restaurants, they don't do halls for celebrations and consumption has decreased. Thus, as soon as demand falls, there is an automatic drop in prices that are extremely pronounced on the side of the offer. What we have to do is adapt to these big chains, in terms of the calibration of goods, in terms of packing goods, and that's our next job. Now they've bought us what we could offer, but we're gonna have to work on this a lot. You know how, in today's food world, Mr. Customer is incomparable.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-30-0.u4702	I thank Minister Nedimovic. The word is from the vice president of the National Assembly, Marija Jevdzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-30-0.u4703	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Ministers with an associate, I will try to get as many minutes as I have in front of the JS parliamentary group to point out the importance of the list, because it will give us a real analysis of where we are and how many of us are, comparing with the last list. I look forward to a new list with great impatience, because I think it will help us greatly with plans concerning population policy, migration, education, and plans for our country's future. When we look at statistics, she says 66,000 babies are born on a 10-year average, and more than 100,000 people die, which basically means 36,000 people are less than a year old. Serbia needs more newborns to maintain a simple reproduction, and we have, based on official statistics relating to demographics, set the alarm on and the state has taken concrete measures to address problems in this area concerning the unfavourable relationship of mortality and birth. The population policy that would stop the boom that is increasing amongst the estimated population is being implemented for years back and 2020 is increasing funds for the firstborn child to motivate young couples for the second and third children, but we should also motivate mothers who give birth to three and more children and simply reward them. There were also some stories about family pensions for mothers who gave birth, I don't know, more than four children, because that's exactly how we protect the Serbian family, and in the end, what do we need if we're not there as a people? Local self - government should also be praised for helping families from their budgets. A good example is Jagodina, which through direct assistance helps multiple families, stimulates young people to start families. It is also a good example of the town of Kraljevo, which through the Tri Plus card project helps families with three and more children. Minister, you know the story in town is one thing, and the story in the village is another and what we have to do is save our villages. Population policy in villages must be part of economic, agrarian, development and cultural policy. She has to break up with the practice so far that young people have been pushing out of villages and agriculture. It is therefore important to improve the situation and these industries, to invest in the transport and municipal infrastructure of rural areas. The condition for any progress is to improve social security, but also to educate and enlighten young farmers. Minister Nedimovic, I am glad to see you today because your ministry is on track to protect farmers, to protect villages because Serbia has always been a country of farmers and the new subsidy you announced since April of the month to buy tractors is another incentive for our farmers and with the continued opening of new markets, a greater need for Serbia's product is being created. As important as the census is, it is also important for the list of agriculture and, above all, for the sake of national need, because we know how important agriculture is and how important it is for all future farmers, because European funds are allocating funds based on that list. We also have a problem with leaving Serbia's interior population to Belgrade, Nis, Novi Sad, which is because of work, which is also because of better schooling conditions. I'm talking about high schools and colleges, but also basics. You have, for example, that almost everyone in Belgrade has pills, while in the interior they don't have, and there's a story to be started through the Ministry of Education to try to separate funds and even the status of founders in Serbia. It is one of the encouraging measures that would affect keeping our citizens inside Serbia. It is not only Serbia in the problem of the number of declines in the population. Many countries are in trouble starting with Italy, Japan, Spain and other countries and there is sufficient data, purely comparisons for the sake of, and that in 1950, women had an average of 4.7 children, and now it is about 2.1 children and that is a global problem. A unique Serbia will support moving the list date for reasons that currently there is no possibility in the epidemiological situation that 15,000 censusors can adequately do this important and complex job. We will also support the Committee, or amendment of the Committee, which provides for the possibility of even moving the census by 2022. We heard today in a statement by counterpart Tomic that it was done by Romania and Germany. As I said, in the voting day, the JS Parliamentary Group will support the proposed changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-30-0.u4704	I would like to thank the vice president of the National Assembly. The remaining time for your parliamentary group is almost five minutes. The word has been made by the People's Ambassador, Plasimir Stević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-30-0.u4705	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, the Honored Citizens, today we have a draft law amending the Law on the List of Population, Households and dwellings in 2021. The law was passed at the beginning of last year, but due to the current situation around the world and the adverse epidemiological situation, it would not be safe for instructors and citizens of the Republic of Serbia to carry out the census within the prescribed deadline. So today we are considering a postponement of this deadline for October of the month of the current year. I'd like to remind you of the newspaper provided for by this law. This year's census will last 30 days instead of 15 days and more than 15 thousand will be hired instead of 36,000 censusors, and laptop computers will be used to collect data. For the first time in this list, questions about the number of biological children will also be asked to men. The census isn't a newspaper on our premises, we've had many so far. In the early 19th century, in fact in 1834, the first census was conducted in the modern sense of the word. The dynamics of the census, household and apartment lists have entered the so-called the periodic census system, which means that the census must be carried out every 10 years, so that demographic and other population movements should be monitored. The census sets out the total number of inhabitants, households and dwellings in the Republic of Serbia, as well as all other data that are of the utmost importance, such as economic, educational, migration flows, statistics relating to ethnic and other characteristics of the population. All this data is necessary to obtain a more accurate picture of the country's current state of affairs, but to predict future flows. The population is the most important resource of every country. Serbia is a small country with long and rich history, tradition and culture. The last census was conducted in 2011, and seven million and about 200,000 inhabitants lived in Serbia according to the data received. From then on, about 600,000 citizens have left Serbia and, according to some estimates, we can expect less than seven million people on the upcoming list. Almost all countries of the European continent, including Serbia, have been recording a higher mortality rate than the birth rate for decades, and so on is noticeable. ageing population. For almost 30 years, Serbia has been losing about 35,000 people in this way, namely a whole city the size of Zajecar or Sremska Mitrovica. Statistics show that the population reduction is not evenly distributed, but is much more intense in southern Serbia, but in the north. In Jablanic County, the biggest fall was recorded in Leskovac, which is the administrative centre of this district. Demographically, the largest decline in the population has Crna Trava, Babusnica and Majdanpek, while the percentage increase in the population of Novi Pazar and the Belgrade municipalities of Starar and Surcin is recorded. In view of the above, I would point to two things, one concerning the Serb village's depopulation, and one relating to the boycott of the election of the Albanian and Bosniak population. One of the biggest social problems in Serbia is the rapid reduction of the rural population, i.e. the depopulation of the village. In the villages, mostly the elderly, the birth rate in the villages is extremely small, while the mortality rate is increasing, natural growth is negative. If this trend continues, I'm afraid we'll face mass extinction of the village, and I think the state should be actively dealing with this issue. Agriculture is a very important branch of our economy, and the further depopulation and departure of younger generations from the village will have no way of producing food and basic foods. It is in the state that its policies and subsidies motivate young people to stay in the country, process land and create their families. Another problem I want to point out is more political nature. The 2011 census, as well as the previous two, was strongly influenced by political events. The population of Albanian nationality in the municipalities of Presevo, Bujanovac and Medvedja, boycotted the census. There have been similar attempts in Novi Pazar for members of Bosniak nationality. In view of all these circumstances, we cannot determine the exact number of inhabitants in these municipalities, but we are relying on the evaluations of international organisations. I hope the state authorities will do everything possible to make sure that the boycott doesn't get on this list, as was done on a few previous lists. Given that the population is the most important resource of each country, it is very important and important that the censusors do this big job, the task is valid, safe and responsible, and in this way a precise picture of the state of the country's population would be obtained, but the future flows and activities of state bodies and institutions would be foreseen. The SPS parliamentary group will support the census bill in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-30-0.u4706	I thank the People's Messenger, Zvonimir Stevic. The word has been given to the People's Messenger, Milly Miletti. The remaining time for your parliamentary group is two and a half minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-30-0.u4707	Thank you. Dear Ministers, fellow MPs, citizens of Serbia, I am Milija Miletic, and I come from Svrlig, which is the most beautiful municipality in Serbia located near the town of Nis, it is the most beautiful city in Serbia. By the way, here in the Serbian Parliament I represent the United Peasant Party, and selected from the SNS list – Aleksandar Vuci – for our children. Otherwise, in the previous period, I talked about the problems of our southeast Serbia, the problems that are happening in our villages, in mountain-mounted areas, in areas with more difficult living conditions. All of what I said in the previous period will now be seen by the list that will be done. We are now talking about the census and the extension of the deadline for October, where we will see exactly how and how the population loses, as the first large population of our people from these communities outside these small communities where they are like the municipality of Svrljig and Bela Palanka, Gajin Han, Babusnica, and a large number of such municipalities, these are municipalities that have difficult living conditions. The bottom line is that we here and in the Assembly together with our government must have both the obligation and the possibility to invest more in such areas over the next period, because it really shows what the population was, say, 2011. In 2001, how long will it be now, or 2022, if the amendment is adopted to be a list in 2022. Otherwise, we're a real example of what I'm talking about, how hard it is to live in such municipalities where a really large number of people, let's say in 2011, we had 17,700, and before that there were 17,000, now 3,000 fewer people, so 14,700. We are now expected to have less than 14,000 inhabitants. It is a real parameter that things that are bad happen in such environments and that we need to put much more attention on such municipalities, help such people, provide greater investment, give greater release to businessmen, for farmers, because that's the only way for people to stay there to live. The parameter that will show how few people are left in such municipalities compared to the previous period is alarming and I think we are all committed to solving these problems through larger investment, larger investment, greater attention. It will be the only way to ensure that they remain in such environments. This applies specifically to the people living in the country, too, living from the village. It's the same thing for businessmen living in these small communities. They must have greater incentives, to provide for these needs more resources for each landowner, for every woman in the country, for every child in the country, for every businessman living and working in such environments. I will as an MP support the bill, because I think we need to make a list, but in the situation now while the crown is it's difficult to perform. Once again, I will support the esteemed as an MP and president of the USS, because this is necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-30-0.u4708	I thank the People's MP. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-30-0.u4709	Thank you, Mrs. Kovac. Dear Ministers Mr. Nedimovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we are discussing a very important topic, a census of the population that was supposed to be on a regular basis this 2021, but which, for objective reasons that are understandable, we must postpone for next year. That's not just the case when we're talking about our country, that's the case with other countries. Almost all countries in the region have already decided on a similar step, and I must admit that I am looking forward to the results of the census in the countries of the region, because this list will give the right picture of what I am saying, the situation is a large number of Serbs in the region, about their position, but also the relationship that the countries of the region have with the Serbian people. Speaking of the position of Serbs in the region, unfortunately we are mostly talking about the problems Serbs in the region are facing. The basic rights are infrequently threatened, they are often persecuted, they are rarely harassed. There is no solution to the status, such as in Slovenia, so there is not even a recognised status of a national minority, and somewhere they have no right in their native language. Let's not talk about the right to study in native language or information, etc. It's already a much higher level. Although some of Slovenia have come to us with a variety of objections, and you all know who I mean, there is one lady who would like to decide who will be in power in Serbia, and when we look at Slovenia's relationship with the Serbian people in Slovenia, the conclusion would be that Mrs Fajon should focus more on democratisation of Slovenia and propose some activities towards improving the rule of law in that country, protecting human and minority rights, for example, etc. Why am I pointing this out? Because Serbia in Slovenia is the most numerous national community, and yet they are not recognised as a national minority. So, we do not exercise collective rights there, we are not represented in the Slovenian parliament, the Serbian language is not recognised as minority language, we have no media, we have no mother language school, practically, the path to assimilation is open. When we talk about Northern Macedonia, at least we have the right to education in the native language, although it is declarative, because the number of Serbs attending classes in the Serbian language is measured by the Constitution guaranteed the right. These are three municipalities – Staro Nagorjane, Kučešte and Tabanovci, with the need to bear in mind that there are no fewer than 36,000 of us in Macedonia, however, according to the 2002 census, and it is justified to believe that we are significantly more. Therefore, it cannot be said that the position of Serbs in northern Macedonia is satisfactory, primarily because we do not enjoy freedom of religion, which is also guaranteed by their constitution. People need to know that we're banned from our church, canonically recognised. But unlike Slovenia, which I mentioned, at least we have national minority status, and then we have some TV show, so we have a radio show, but it is certainly not nearly satisfactory, with Serbia regularly funding the activities of the Macedonian National Council, publishing activity, the informative work of Macedonians in Serbia, etc. The situation of Serbs in Montenegro is particularly problematic. There we are neither a national minority nor a constituent nation. We don't have the right to use the mother tongue, we don't get financial resources from the budget, so, from the state, to cultivate an educational, cultural identity, and not to talk about total disproportionateity when we talk about representation in state bodies, or in the state service. And it should be mentioned that there's almost a third of us there. So, not less than 29.36% when considering those on the 2011 census, on the last census, declared themselves Serbs, and two other sub-categories -- Serbs withdraw Montenegrins and Montenegrins withdraw Serbs. When these two categories are added to those who have declared themselves Serbs, there are 29.36% of us and here, if you want, according to the municipalities of Montenegro: Andrejevica – 5.071 people, 3.193 Serbs, 63%, in Bar – of 42,000, the Serbs have 10.895, almost 26%, Berana – 34,000, 14.800 Serbs or 44%, Bijelo Polje – 46.000, 16.700 Serbs, or 37%, Budva – 19.218, Serbs – 19.280, Serbs – 22.657, Serbs 778, Danilovgrad – 18.472, Serbs 5.155, Herceg Novi – 30.800, Serbs 15.260 or almost 50%, Kolašin – 8.380, Serbs – 22.600, Serbs 7.028, Mojkovac – 8.622, Serbs 3.096, Nikšić – 72.800, Serbs 15.260, Serbs, Serbs 15.260 or almost 50%, Slav 5.7.7. And in total, of 629,029 citizens, 182,046 are those who have declared themselves Serbs. So almost a third of the population, a third of the citizens, a minimum, plus a lot more of those who plead to speak Serbian, are almost 47%. And in real life, it's like they don't exist, like they're gone, like they're a statistical mistake. This is all due to the policy conducted by Milo Djukanovic, and the anti-Serbian policy exploded after 2006, following a suspicious referendum, when Montenegro separated from Serbia. The late patriarch Iriney once said that the position of Serbs in Montenegro reminds him greatly of the position of Serbs in the NDH. A lot of people convicted him for that statement, but I don't think he made a mistake in the assessment. Anyway, the changes happened. Milo Djukanovic is on his way to political history, more specifically towards a dump in political history, and it is up to the new authorities to improve the status of Serbs in Montenegro. We'll see if he shows political will for it and how it goes. That's why I said in the introduction that I was impatient about waiting for the results of a new census. The special topic is the position of Serbs in Croatia. Hundreds and hundreds of books can be written about this, but unfortunately, it is the only thing Serbs living in Croatia know about it. They live there and daily are exposed to various abuses, various persecutions, but also to complete ignoring and ignoring basic human and minority rights, every day, at every level. The other day, Milanovic in a hysteria attack, whenever he has a hysteria attack, he exclaims Serbs, insults Serbian representatives, insults Belgrade, the most monstrous insults on the daily level we get from that side and what's worse, it doesn't come under conviction. This does not touch Tanya Fajon or the rest of Europe, none of these on-call concubines are advertised, "my tears have no parents", which the great Negos would say when it comes to Serbs and the few Serbs left in Croatia, and we will see after and some figures, and it is little that is not banished to "Blash", which is not expelled in "Storm", cannot exercise its rights which I repeat, the Constitution guarantees. It was best seen in Vukovar, where Serbs, despite the fact that they are almost 35%, cannot get Cyrillic plates, the mayor does not like Cyrillic and that is it. He's stronger than the Constitution, you can tell him. Now, imagine that something like that in Serbia. Imagine that in any part of Serbia, there is a situation where the Constitution does not guarantee minority rights, any minority. Imagine that. All Europe would immediately be on its feet. Every father in the European administration would immediately condemn, within two hours, everyone would condemn. Declarations, resolutions, convictions, threats to bombings, threats to sanctions, who knows what happened? So what Serbia is looking at through the bat, it seems to be out of line for other countries. Human rights? It doesn't matter. The position of Serbs in your country? Who cares? Because how else do you explain the systematic and systematic disregard for the rights of our people and the fact that from the list to the list, we are getting less and less in Croatia. If that is not the case, I ask: Where have all these people gone? Let's remind ourselves that there were 582,000 Serbs in the SR of Croatia, the Socialist Republic of Croatia. In 1991, right after my colleague, Djordje Todorovic, who is our authorised representative for this debate, said in 1991 in such an atmosphere, 582,000 Serbs were able to plead as Serbs in such an atmosphere. Of course, about 100,000 others who have declared themselves Yugoslav should be classified in the Corps. I guess that's easier for them, not to judge them, should be understood. If we add 74 thousand to that, those who refused to plead, and we know that most Serbs are from the Corps, whether because of fear, whether because of the discomfort, refused to make a statement, because we remember the context and the whole hysteria that was at the time, then it brings us together to a figure of between 750 thousand and 800 thousand Serbs in Croatia, and in 1991. Now there's a question, and where are these people? Where are these people, if we consider the 2011 census, when only 186,000 Serbs, or 4.36%? We know well and where they are and what happened to them, but these issues are actually issues for the governments of these countries and for Europeans. I don't want to spend all my time in the debate, and I'm going to analyze the situation in the Federation of BiH, Albania and other countries, where there's a lot of problems, and I want to conclude that it's time for everyone in the region to look up to Alexander Vukic, to put aside the differences from the past, and to turn to the future in which we have to cooperate and work together for the benefit of our citizens. Peace and political stability, in the region, are a prerequisite for every kind of progress and when we talk about economics, and when we talk about fighting the crown of the virus, and in any other sense. I am glad and proud that Serbia, led by Aleksandar Vukic, is ahead, to say, in preserving peace and political stability in the region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-30-0.u4710	Thank you. The word is by MP Branimir Jovanovic, head of the parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-30-0.u4711	Thank you, esteemed chairman, respected ministers, colleagues and colleagues, the list is not just a simple set of data on the number of inhabitants, as we often experience the census, it's actually a set of information that gives us insight, based on which we can do analysis, based on which we can do projections for the future. The census is not by itself a goal, it gives us a comprehensive picture of the social and life conditions in which our citizens live. The results of the list are just the basic tools for effective policy, for planning and decision-making. Based on the statistical data obtained, we can plan how to improve, for example, the health care system, how to go in the direction of education reform, which measures are necessary to reduce unemployment, etc. I will only list some data from the last list, in 2011, and they say Serbia then had seven million 186,000 862 inhabitants, the average year was 42.2 years, about 17% of the population was over 65 years old. This is a short thing, when we talk about demographic structure, which tells us a lot about the population structure in Serbia. Now, based on that data, we're going to be able to compare the situation to that of 10 years ago, to see how old we are on average, or younger, if there are more or less of us, to see what our overall demographic image is, and I'm going to remind you that already, when we talk about a painful topic, such as demographics, we've already brought some measures to improve the situation in this area. When we talk about the list, I just have to point out that in 2019, a trial list was conducted, it was one good terrain to test methodological organisational and applicative solutions, which were first applied, as well as all instruments and new patterns. In three major cities, Belgrade, Novi Sad and Nis, a new form of the census was applied, it is self-recording, and citizens were able to fill out the questionnaires themselves and pass them through internet applications. Of course, I do not expect that we are still in a situation that, as in Estonia, citizens themselves fill in the data, and on this basis the census is carried out, simply in this way we have made a positive step in this direction, and a positive step is that the censusors, in future on the ground, with laptops, will be able to type data directly into electronic forms and thus the results will be able to process and publish far faster than they were before. When we talk about these amendments to the law, of course we need to monitor the health situation, the health balance, and according to the fact that the list is carried out in one of the best possible ways in accordance with the epidemiological situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-30-0.u4712	I would like to thank the President of the Parliament Group. The word has a folk MP, Vojislav Vujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-30-0.u4713	Thank you, Chairman. Mr. Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs, the president of my parliamentary group Dragan Markovic Palma and counterpart Marija Jevdzic have already spoken on behalf of our parliamentary group and you have heard that we will support this law. They were certainly proportional to the time they had much more detailed. Well, since I only have three, four minutes at my disposal, I'm just going to try to say what I think is very important, which you'd say stays somewhere recorded. Reading some demographic research, as one colleague talked about similar data today, I came up with information that Serbs did not go like this, that we Serbs did not go the way we did from the Balkan wars to the First World War, the Second World War, Jasenovac, Jasenovac and so on, so that today's simple reproduction would be 27 million. So only the Serbs would be 27 million. Unfortunately, according to the last list, there are seven million of us. To be honest, I'm afraid that when we do this list now I think that number will be below seven million. In 2011, 37,000 censuses participated. From then on, we've improved, today with different equipment, with different techniques, for this list, it's estimated that there are enough 15,000 censusors. One small proposal, these days all of us who are involved in politics in some period ahead of us are awaiting elections for local communities. Once upon a time, of course, and now, but that was sometimes more pronounced, people, the hosts raced who would be presidents of the local communities and who with their idea and experience would be most able to help. Personally, I think we made one mistake in 2012 when some MPs who are not here today came to the point that we have abolished the accounts to local communities. The local community without money comes down to a voluntary cultural and artistic society that can possibly make a proposal, and unfortunately there is no possibility that it can only participate in some similar realizations. Why do I say that? Times have changed today. Young people got a desire to deal with politics, to do something good for their community and run for office in the same local communities. In these 15,000 censusors, since most of them will be from the labour market. So it's not easy to get those 15,000 names, certainly train those people and wait every ten years for us to get some statistics. I think it would be good for every local community, in front of young people who will be an integral part of these local communities, the list committees to train these young people, that maybe from time to time they can do some periodic cuts, that we don't have to wait every ten years, but that we can update that statistics more easily. What's interesting about it, and something should be said about it, is that beside us, the Serbs who live here in Serbia a million and 100,000 of our countrymen live in Bosnia and Herzegovina, I'm only making those significant figures, 178 thousand in Montenegro, 186,000 in Croatia, 450 thousand in Germany, 300,000 in Austria, 100,000 in France and so on. To be honest with all these forces that have struck us and all the injustices that our people have survived, thank God there is still us, one thing would be good, if we never again came into any situation that we had to fight with anyone or that our people had to be targets of some moving again. Today we live in a country where such things, I'm sure they won't be able to happen because Serbia is not what it used to be. We're pretty strong today, we're complicated, and things like that shouldn't happen to us. As part of that listkeeper organization, we had a chance today, Zarko Obradovic and I to talk to a guy, a young waiter, who says – if he is a deficit, maybe we, waiters, could join those list committees, so we could go ahead and list a little bit. You know what, if we list, then add it all up, then round it up a little bit, it turns out there's about 10 million of us. Sure, a little joke. But we answered it -- we believe that you're going to start working for the next few days, because about how things are happening now, the epidemiological situation is going to start in some better direction, so we're going to leave the censusors to deal with these statistics, and the waiters are going to start doing their job. Since you're here today, Minister, and I'm glad you're here in front of the government, just another short question or a little proposal for you, I think we've already talked about it, because there's never been anything going on in realisation. It might be good, Minister, that the topic we once launched, which is the information centres for agricultural producers that should be regionally divided compared to already represented cultures or livestock funds, are only more often informed in which direction they should move. The president of my parliamentary group, Dragan Markovic Palma, also said today, and I am sure that you are aware of these problems as well. That's one little suggestion. Once again, I repeat, as regards the law on the agenda today, the Single Serbia parliamentary group certainly supports it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-30-0.u4714	I thank Parliamentarian Vojislav Vujic. Your group's time has been spent. The word has the deputy president of the SPS parliamentary group, Snezana Paunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-30-0.u4715	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Ministers, fellow Members of the People's Parliament, citizens of Serbia, the Bill on Changes to the Census Law, has been said a lot about this. It's a change that concerns only the maintenance period. It is perfectly understandable that the Koron virus pandemic dictated that we cannot do so in the period from April 1st to April 30th, as planned, but rather shifts to October, and as much as the aspirations of individuals to turn it, perhaps even a political question is really insane to comment or respond to such accusations. I think it's good to wait for that October for many reasons, first of all for security reasons, because fellow Vujic talked about it, 15 thousand people will be included in the census. half as much as it was in 2011, but still not a small number of people who will be directly exposed to personal contact in order to obtain relevant data. The census is important and not only for the population, but also for households and apartments. It is an organized collection of data on the population of a country and seems to me the most important statistical source. We're not the first, nor the only country to carry it out, just by getting the circumstances, it happens this year, the pandemic of the coronary virus. The basic question to which we're going to get the answer is, in fact, how many of us are there? We talked about these numbers, my colleagues spoke before me. In addition to getting an answer to how many of us are, we will also get answers to questions about where and how we live, who we are in the context of age, which, I'm afraid, will be a data that we won't like, which half, what education, what occupations and all the other parameters that are more relevant on the subject. What is important to say is that this picture of the number of people in Serbia has really changed. They're right colleagues, I think that's what Bane was talking about, but in 2011, there were about 7,200,000 of us. Of these, two thirds of the population lived in urban settlements. It's good, Minister Nedimovic, that you're here. I suppose you'll have one more precise picture of how much more endangered our villages are today or less endangered. I want to believe that they are less endangered and somehow believe in statistics that will show that there are more young people who will devote themselves to the village, because I really think that there is a perspective for Serbia, among other things. The female sex, according to the 2011 census, was more representative, with about 51.5%. I think that percentage is now going to be higher, but the largest population was between 15 and 64. And that's the information somewhere that scares us all about, which is the age structure, that's the fact that our birth rate is falling. I even have the data that from 1971 to 2011, the birth rate fell from 14.4% to 9.1%), while the mortality rate rose vice-proportional. Is this a reason to be concerned as a nation and state, but we haven't done much. I think the current government is, in fact, one continuity when it comes first and foremost to improving the quality of life of young people, increasing the number of employees, reducing the number of those who leave our country for, first and foremost, and it seems to me that at the moment that we are the economic leader in the region, and perhaps more and less, there is a reason why young people are leaving us. In that sense, do we have a problem with the possibility that experts might be paid abroad more than we do? Yes, but on the other hand, the practice has shown that even the countries of the European Union that we, at some point, have portrayed as promised countries, are no longer. The pandemic of the coronary virus has shown that it is still important to live in a responsible state, in a country that cares about its population, above all. The confirmation of this is vaccines, is this rate of vaccination that we have the opportunity to see at the daily level, and even this weekend, which has shown us how many people from the region have come to Serbia for the vaccine. These are the parameters that are great plus for Serbia and which unequivocally indicate that we are the leader of the region, but on the other hand, I am sure that they will also awaken the anger of all those who criticise us, mostly, for no reason, using some of their parameters to lower what we have, a good will and to do in favor of their demands. When I point to this sociological aspect, I say it for a reason because where there is no population there can be no state either. What is another important category of people I really want to consciously invite to think about? First of all, these are national minorities, and when I say so, then as well as my colleagueplatmir Stevic, we are talking about the end of the South, I am talking about this political attempt to profit quickly in the way that you will convince your fellow citizens and members of your nationality that it is a great shame for the state of Serbia if you do not respond to the list. No, I don't. The damage will be exclusively for you, for your children to be raised in Serbia, because being a citizen of Serbia is currently officially listed as a serious benefit. If they don't believe me, Albanians from Presevo and Bujanovac can consult with all those relatives who are officially or unofficially listed and are residents of the so-called state of Kosovo, whose passport they cannot go out with except for Albania, I mean nowhere without a visa. It's very important which country you live in. It is very important that you are not the victim of someone's great appetites, political and personal, and that is one of the reasons why I really appeal once again, that we take a sound look at the population list and that each of us is determined according to the facts. Everything else seems to me, to a good extent, already said, and the position of the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group, which is that we will certainly vote to amend this law, first of all, because we believe that the health and safety of our citizens is first and that there is no compromise on it, six months is not a deadline that anyone knows how tragic it is. I am sure that in October we will have a successful census that will show that the figures are not so terrible, and then give us the task of how to as high House, as MPs, help us to make our statistics as good as possible every year, even in this age structure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-30-0.u4716	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Sandra Jokovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-30-0.u4717	Thank you. The President-in-Office, respected ministers, fellow MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, is now ahead of us with a bill amending the population, household and housing laws in 2011. In this Act it is defined that the census is conducted from 1 to 30 April 2021, but given the fact that the pandemic is Kovid 19, it is not possible to carry out a quality and safe list because it requires direct contact with the censusors and citizens. That is why this list is delayed by six months, which means there will be no negative consequences as a result of the census, except that the publication of the final results will start six months later than previously planned. Field data collection, 15,000 censuses need to visit every apartment, house to list the entire population. The last census was in 2011 and the total population was 7,186,862. There are 4.271,872 inhabitants in urban settlements, while in other settlements there are 2,914,990 residents. It was an opportunity for citizens, among other things, to declare which religion and nation belong and much more that is important for the state and the citizens of the Republic of Serbia themselves. According to the 2011 census, 147,504 people have declared themselves Roma. According to an off-the-book check, that number's way higher. Many Roma live in informal settlements, which have 702 in our country, and which are not safe for the residents of these settlements. I'll remind you that only twenty days ago in an informal settlement during an electric shock, seven children were killed. One succumbed to injuries and died. The other kids are in Tirshaw, and they're in bad shape. I am sure that the town of Belgrade, the municipality of Chukarica, as well as the competent ministries will find a way to provide housing for residents of this village, and they can do so through various projects financed by our country together with the EU. The overall position of the Roma is bad. It is therefore necessary to raise awareness of the Roma's importance to participate in the list in 2021, to express their nationality and exercise their rights provided by the Constitution, as well as other benefits. As for the benefits, President Aleksandar Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia increased the parental allowance for the first, second, third and fourth children in 2018. One-time cash aid for the first child is 100,000 dinars, for the second child 10,000 dinars per month for 2 years, for 3 12,000 dinars for 10 years and for the fourth child 18,000 dinars per month for 10 years. According to statistics, every sixth couple can't naturally have a child. It is commendable that the state recognized this problem and decided that women under 43 years of age are carrying out an out-of-body fertilisation on the cost of the Health Insurance Fund. We have good examples and local self-government, such as the city of the King, the city from which I come. In the case of out-of-body fertilisation abroad, the city of Kraljeno provides financial resources of 300,000 dinars, and the age limit to which women can compete is 50 years. Also, for the first child, the city helps with 30,000 dinars of one-time cash aid. They also have many other privileges related to mothers with three and more children. These are discounts on city heat, cleanliness, plumbing. Many women have decided to have a third and fourth child. Behind such brave mothers is our country which provides them safe monthly incomes until the child's tenth year. All these encouraging measures by the state and local self-government will contribute to the birth rate, and we will see the results when the final results of the list are published. In voting day, I will uphold this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-30-0.u4718	I would like to thank Parliamentarian Sandra Jokovic. The People's Messenger Nenad Krstic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-30-0.u4719	The Honorable Chairman, Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, one of the laws passed every ten years is the Law on the List of Populations and Property. Such a law is necessary so that we can create a picture of the population, both national structures and age categories. That a good part of our villages is slowly dying we know and we see that fact exactly. It is a good thing that the Minister of Agriculture is here today, where we all know that one of the key reasons for the development of the village and is a branch of agriculture, so in this way we will also get one of the most realistic images of what is happening in the Serbian village and how many inhabitants we have primarily, I say, in rural and rural areas, given that one of the biggest drivers and economy and economy is also the branches of agriculture. As for other parameters, I would refer to southern Serbia, since we know that the Albanian national minority, living in southern Serbia, has boycotted all possible lists so far, and everything else, as members of the Serbian state, is exercising all possible rights, so I think in this case it is an invitation for them to write well, and that we all know how many Albanians are in southern Serbia, because we know that Albanians have, I say, that attitude to enroll in both Kosovo and northern Macedonia and Albania, if necessary, so that they finance and count themselves in much greater numbers in order to exercise their rights in four different regions, i.e. three countries. As for the other parameters surrounding the census, I would point out, a short time fellow Alexander spoke, in 1991, at a statement about the separation of northern Macedonia, then there were 295,000 Serbs in northern Macedonia, and on the last list of 36, which means that the status of Serbs listed in the region is seriously threatened, as the status of Serbs is much higher in northern Macedonia, and in other republics, such as Montenegro. Only this parameter suggests that there were 140,000 Albanians in northern Macedonia in 1991, and we know that 295,000 were said to be Serbs, which means there were twice as many Serbs as Albanians in 1991, and you can see which status the Albanians have almost half of the Macedonian governments, of the resolution ministers and all that belongs to the leadership of a single state, and how many Serbs have in comparison. I therefore urge Albanians, who are in southern Serbia, to write, to see the real and real picture, not to distort the current situation and use themselves for the use of rights, and when the law is due to follow, they only appeal to their rights. And these rights need to respect and execute the list and then we know exactly how real the situation is on the ground. I would just like to point out that after this law, I say, the Minister of Agriculture is there, there should be an automatic summary of the overall situation, because there will be a list and nursing households. There will also be a list of rural people, or people living in the country, and so that we can do with urgent measures and save the Serb village, 2 as once was the basis, engine of the economy and survival in these areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-30-0.u4720	I thank the People's Messenger, Nenad Krstic. The word has a folk letter from Olivera Ognjanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-30-0.u4721	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, we are talking today about amending the Census Act for 2021, which will also be the last to be implemented in a traditional way, directly contact with the population. What's most important here is that because of the current state and the threat to the pandemic of the coronary virus, we need to be realistic that in April of this month there can be no fulfillment of these plans and therefore we need to move them by October of the month. The government is implementing a strategy to increase the birth rate, and in this sense it has implemented all possible measures several years ago to finally give Serbia a positive percentage when it comes to the number of babies born in one year. Also, 88 municipalities received a total of 650 million grants to improve population policy in January last year. In 2018, the Serbian government increased the parental supplement for the first, second, third and fourth children, which you will admit is a great help and stimulation to couples who want to have more children, and were not able for financial reasons. On the other hand, in order to improve the demographic image in Serbia, the government has set itself the goal of keeping young people in our country and trying to bring back those who have already gone abroad. The reconstruction and construction of Serbia includes the opening of a large number of jobs, giving young people a chance, as well as those who are jobless. That's why unemployment is now at 9%, although the big problem has just created a pandemic. It is important that we finally get reliable information about the economic, educational, ethical, vital characteristics of the population, because they are necessary to get a precise picture of the current situation and we can make projections for the next period. As for the pandemic itself, I address citizens to avoid any gatherings, especially performances organised by irresponsible and unserious people who do not want well to anyone, especially their own country. The other day – Ada Ciganlia – full of people, grilling, beautiful day, beautiful. I know it's a lot of sitting in the house, but, guys, hold on a second, think about your safety and your loved ones, and you're endangering the lives of both young and old, while on the other side of the hospital we're full of medical personnel who, by jeopardizing their lives, are trying to help us all day and night, all of us sick and vulnerable. I appeal to the citizens of Serbia to be vaccinated, because it's really the only way to normalize life the way we're used to being able to walk and go out with kids, go shopping normally, go back to normal life. After all, we all do, don't we? You've asked so many times that we have arranged weddings again, like before, that we have children's birthday celebrations, that we go to cafes, so, well, that's the only way to live normal and safe again. You can all be mad at the president as much as you want, but the president is not the one who brought the crown to our country. It is he who fought to have all existing vaccines in offer when other countries did not have them and did not have them. It is he who helps foreign citizens to fight Kovid, and this government has given everyone the opportunity to decide freely whether to vaccinate or not. It is not a normal gathering in the masses, but with a request which is nonexistent. So they don't have a specific request, except that something doesn't suit them. Well, none of us are comfortable sitting at home for over a year wearing masks, constantly disinfecting his hands, keeping his distance from his loved ones and loved ones. It's sad that you have someone like Gilas, who literally doesn't sleep, but is looking for a reason to criticise and resent every move of this government. These are the people who tell you - I love my country but... As soon as he has that "but" means that he doesn't really like that country and that people, and that he prefers to devastate it and take it all away, even to Mauritius. Watch out now, 68m euros in 53m euros in bills, plus everything we knew before, not to repeat, and who knows how much more we'll find in his accounts around the world, our former mayor of Belgrade. How much money do you think you'd have in your accounts if you got all your money back and shared it with everyone? How much money would be in each of us's accounts? On the other hand, if we were building factories out of these pairs, how many new jobs would we have? But that doesn't just mean a job, it means existence and a better and more decent life for your families. He has to, he just has to refuse the polygraph. What I insist is to continue the investigation into which all the investigative authorities must be involved but to do the same with Mr. Jeremic, Šolak and find all their accomplices. To all this, Gilas presents himself as a victim, a poor, persecuted politician, whom we are trying to represent as the greatest thief. He recently said he would be detained. I wonder why, when he's so clean. Is he starting to regret it? That maybe he won't publicly apologize to the citizens for the stolen money? She's obviously been panicking, so we can expect everything from him, because he's cornered. Dear citizens, 60% of us have given our trust to President Vukic in the previous elections, and I have no doubt that will be the case in the coming elections. President Vukic and this government have shown that they are doing everything to make us feel better, to have a better and safer life, and we all see that they do not care about work and economic progress despite the pandemic. In the voting day, I will support all proposed laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-30-0.u4722	I would like to thank Parliamentarian Olivera Ognjanović. The People's Messenger Nenad Mitrovica has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-30-0.u4723	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, today we have amendments and additions to the Law on List of Populations, Households and Apartments. The proposed amendments and additions to the Census Act move the time limit of the census due to the coronary pandemic of the virus. This Census Act provides for comprehensive data on the person to be listed. Listers participating in the list will be technically equipped with a technique that will facilitate the entry of data on the person to be listed, which means that there will be laptops available that will make this process much easier. There'll be plenty of time to train the list committee to do this job as best and quality as possible. What I want to look at is the last census of the 2011 population where we had a situation that the Albanian national minority boycotted the census. As a problem that has arisen, there was a problem in forming an Albanian National Council on the number of members of the Albanian National Council, as by law the number of members determines the number of members of the national minority listed on the last census. Given that national councils of national minorities will play a certain role in the upcoming census, I hope that this role of the Albanian national minority will not be repeated. Due to the 2011 boycott I mentioned, we came to the situation that in 2015 we are doing an estimate of the number of inhabitants as something that was needed to know the number of inhabitants living in the municipalities of Bujanovac, Presevo and Medvedja. A population estimate was carried out by an expert international group that established a way and methodology for assessing the population of Serbs, Albanians and Roma before the start of the population assessment. The estimate found that 38,300 people live in Bujanovac, Presevo 28,000, in Medvedja 7,800. If I could just mention the fact that we have 43,000 voters listed in the polling list for the municipality of Bujanovac, and we have an estimated 38,300. Mr. Minister, two days ago there was an election in Presevo municipality, an extraordinary local election, and we had the opportunity to see that the 18000 citizens who voted went to the polls. What I'm saying is, we have 28,000 residents at our discretion, and we have 41,000 registered voters on the Presevo polling list. I just want to say that the Electoral List of Aleksandar Vukic - For the future of Preseva has achieved historical results, because 1,250 Serbs went out and voted for the list because they recognized the policy led by President Aleksandar Vukic and the Serbian Government, that it is a policy that guarantees survival and survival in these areas. What I'm saying is that lately we have an opportunity to hear here, in the National Assembly, from my fellow MPs Shaip Camberi and Nadia Beqiri, the problem of pasivating the residence for persons living in Bujanovac, Presevo and Bear. These same persons were not listed on the regular census in 2011 and we have no information whether these persons are there or not. As I have already said, the national councils of the national minorities will play a certain role in this process, I am convinced that the Albanian national minority will sign up and will not boycott the upcoming list, so that the problems I have been talking about will not be repeated. Only by participating in the census and identifying the real population allows us to know how much we need doctors, nurses, teachers, teachers, civil servants, etc. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in voting day, I invite you to support the proposed amendments and amendments to the List Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-30-0.u4724	I thank the People's Messenger, Nenad Mitrovica. The word has a folk letter from Nevenka Kostadinov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-30-0.u4725	I thank the chairman. Dear ministers with an associate, distinguished fellow MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, we have before us a bill amending the Law on List of Populations, Households and dwellings in 2021. The reason for the change is the pandemic caused by the 19 Kovid that literally changed the world. There is no area or activity that is not affected by this pandemic. So, due to the pandemic disturbances Serbia as a responsible country, which is the health of its population in the first place, decided to move the originally planned deadlines for organising and implementing the census by six months. The census law, which we adopted in February last year here in the Assembly, was planned to implement the census from 1 to 30 April 2021, and now this amendment to the List Act shifts to the period from 1 to 31 October 2021. Since the previous census was in October 2011, this list fits into a ten-year cycle in which lists are organised and implemented. Because of the global crisis caused by the Kovid 19 pandemic, it is not possible to carry out a quality and safe list in the planned term. To implement the list, it is necessary to carry out a series of activities that require contacts, all of which poses a risk to human health due to contagion. As a result, it is proposed to move the deadlines for the implementation of the list, as well as to take additional activities for the implementation of the list under new pandemic circumstances. In favour of this shift, the recommendations of the UN Statistics Department, as well as the UN Population Fund, are also made for countries that organise the census in a traditional way to postpone the list as the most reasonable solution. Serbia as a responsible state, which has decided to apply this most reasonable solution since the start of the pandemic. to postpone the list for six months. The immunity process in Serbia has already started and hastened because Serbia is the only country in the region that has enough vaccines to immunise its citizens and is therefore at the very top of the list of countries to carry out the vaccination. That Serbia is ahead in the process of immunisation we are also witnessing these days when in border municipalities what my municipality is like are coming from our citizens who have dual citizenship, who live in neighbouring republics, to be vaccinated in the state of Serbia. The period of postponement of the census by six months will allow for the immunisation of most of the population and will significantly reduce the risk of infecting participants in the list itself. The upcoming list will allow for the collection of data both on population numbers and on basic geographical, demographic, socio-economic, ethno-cultural and other characteristics. A list of complete, quality and internationally comparable statistics remains important for the planning of social and economic development. The census makes a recapitulation of a ten-year period from which one conclusion is that certain strategies have affected life cycles, what was good and what did not give the expected results. Since changes over the last ten years have been much more intense compared to earlier periods, both the consequences and the turbulence have been much larger and more significant, very often and unexpected. The 10-year period for us marked the expansion of Internet communication, natural disasters, climate change, local and global migration. The erosion of migration that has occurred in the last 50 years has been the most intense in hill-mounted areas, in border and rural areas, in underdeveloped areas, where there is no adequate road infrastructure, where the harsh conditions for life and where existence is difficult to provide. As a result, we have completely empty environments, villages without population, small towns without young people and constant pressure towards larger centres. Along with that, we have problems in larger cities that can't accept that number of people. This further leads to problems, such as insufficient number of kindergartens and schools, air and water pollution, problems with dumps, and a stressful way of life that we don't even talk about. The gap between developed and undeveloped regions is getting bigger. Statistics show that around 40% of the population lives in rural areas of Serbia at the moment. Maintaining the population in rural areas is one of the priorities of the government of the Republic of Serbia. Realisation of development and infrastructure projects shows that government policy is committed to balanced regional development. Road infrastructure, construction of fast traffic and highways is the first step in that direction. Building a broadband internet, which we discussed here last week, is also one of the preconditions for the accelerated development of undeveloped environments. It is particularly important to build regional road infrastructure, as it is the main prerequisite for the preservation and development of devastated and undeveloped environments. I'm saying this because my Bosilegrad municipality has lost almost half of its population in the last 20 years. Because of the collapse of the economy and the closure of the factory, people started moving mainly for economic reasons, and this process continues today. In order not to lose small edges such as Bosilegrad, Shop, Black Grass and others who face demographic problems, and which will be identified by the upcoming census, it is necessary to take more immediate steps towards creating conditions for a better lifestyle in small and undeveloped environments. In order to achieve this objective, it is necessary, firstly, to build a quality and adequate road infrastructure, to apply a stimulating tax policy with tax discharges and investment reliefs in such places, to provide employment subsidies in these areas to target investments in areas for which investors are otherwise not interested. These are the necessary steps that we must take to keep people in these places, thus reducing the pressure for larger cities and making life for all citizens more quality and better both in small municipalities and in large cities. In the end, in the voting day I will support the bill we have today on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-30-0.u4726	I thank the People's Parliament of Nevenka Constantindon. The word is made by MP Stefan Srbanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-30-0.u4727	I thank the chairman. Dear fellow Members of the People, Mr. Minister, the pandemic of the Covid 19 virus became our daily life and, despite some life habits, forced us to adapt certain legal regulations to the new situation. This is the case for the Law on the List of Populations, Apartments and Households and because of the crisis mentioned by the virus Kovid 19, it is not possible to implement the planned census in the period indicated and will likely be postponed for the next 2022. In addition to the amendments to the laws relating to the terms of implementation of the census, it is certainly necessary that larger budgets be allocated for the training of censusors, instructors, the purchase of all necessary equipment, start with disinfective means and all that is necessary to carry out this list in an adequate manner because in this case, the health of our citizens is first and foremost. We must focus all our energy in the next period on winning Kovida-19, and we will only achieve mass immunization. The importance of the census is seen primarily in identifying demographic challenges and problems facing all countries, including Serbia and based on them, will be determined and formed guidelines to address them. This certainly speeds up planned development in the areas of economy, education, health and other economic and social spheres. We are witnessing that for decades back we have mass migration of the population, above all these movements relate to the migration of the population from rural areas to urban areas, but also to migration from country to country abroad. In both cases, which of course is not good, this leads to a desolation in certain parts of our country, and that certainly combined with the white plague makes one of the biggest problems that we currently have to face and for which we must seek adequate solutions. The precise census will give us insight into the reasons why these migrations occur, the consequences they leave behind and the way to eliminate them. The state has already taken certain steps and laid the groundwork for solving this problem. When I say that, I certainly mean the formation of the Ministry of Demography and Population Policy and the Ministry of Agriculture. In this way, the state shows that it recognized the problem and that it strives to solve it through the institutions, and certainly also the government's programme, namely the 20-25 plan, contains precise projects that will prevent a further outflow of the population. Our goal is certainly a strong and strong Serbia, Serbia that creates conditions for the survival and survival of its people in this area, and encourages talent in order not to lose the entire generation. That is why we must maintain peace and stability in all ways, for it is the basis of everything. In addition to this stated population movement caused by economic reasons, Serbia has, through its long history, and its population has faced serious losses in human life in times of war. I will remind you only that in World War I, Serbia suffered a relatively large number of victims, lost almost one third of its population. The losses of the population and the deaths of this people in World War II in our and now surrounding countries do not have to speak, and in the recent past we have certainly witnessed the violent eviction of our people from the territory of the southern Serbian province, the Serbian Krajina and today's Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina. What has not been carried out, which has failed to implement the action by liquidating and exaggerating the population from that space, is unfortunately being conducted today by assimilation, i.e. by banning the use of language, letter and religion, both in Croatia and even in Montenegro, and all with one goal, the goal of destroying Serbian national identity. We must continue to strengthen our country, because many times it has proved that the position of our countrymen in the environment depends heavily on the state of Serbia, or Matica. Also, we must work to improve the situation and quality of life of Serbian citizens, because in addition to the said violent migration of the population, our fellow citizens have left this country as simple as possible in search of a better life. These conditions will work hard to achieve here and affect the decision of those who have moved from Serbia to return to the country at some point. By investing in infrastructure, primarily in highways, fast railways that our countrymen will no longer leave Serbia, but return to it, by opening factories, opening schools and kindergartens, hospitals, raising living standards. These are all the goals we set for ourselves and whose achievement we will strive for. Also, the measures of population policy will affect the awareness of young people about the importance of the family and motivate them to base it. Dear ladies and gentlemen, the duty and obligation of all of us here is to preserve Serbia's biological future. We often hear claims that Serbia has lost all the wars it has waged in some recent past. It can be discussed and debated, but before us is another battle and one perhaps a much more important battle, it will not be fought against any outside enemy, but will be fought against ourselves, and that is primarily the battle for the biological survival of our people. If we lose that battle and lose it, then neither will all the roads and factories we build and we will scold in the future in the coming period really mean nothing to us. Long live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-30-0.u4728	Thank you. Ljiljana Malusic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-30-0.u4729	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honourable citizens of the Republic of Serbia, today I will talk about the draft law amending the Law on List of Population, Households and dwellings in 2021. The census should be held from April 1st to April 30th this year, however, because of the new situation, or the situation that has been going on for a year, the pandemic or the contagion that rules the entire world of Kovid 19, we are not in a situation to safeguard the health of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia to do this list now. The census was moved to October, however, and this is too close by the amendment of my colleague, Mr. Djordža Todorovic, we moved the census by 2022, and by October of the month, more precisely from October 1st to October 31st 2022, which is good, because we keep the health of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. As far as the list itself is concerned, everyone should be on the list. It's very important, because we're creating state policies under one. Two, we'll know the exact relationship between mortality and birth. Unfortunately, mortality is still greater than birth. We even passed a law a few years ago on the financial support of families with children. So we finance first, second, third and fourth children, which is great. For the first child, we have a stimulant, or one - time aid of 100,000 dinars. For another child, we have two years of help on a monthly level of 10,000 dinars. For a third child, we have 10 years on a monthly level of aid of 12,000 dinars and for a fourth child stimulant is 10 years on a monthly level of 18,000 dinars. Why did this for the third time, my colleagues already mentioned it, I'm also talking about it? Because it is very important for future mothers to know that the state is helping mothers who want to contribute, or by giving birth to children, that is to say, to be more than death in Serbia, which is natural everywhere, right? Then, when we do a list, it's very important to contact citizens, since it's 20,000 people, which is 5,000 instructors, which are 15,000 censusors, it's inevitable to get in touch, you're visiting someone's houses, apartments, and that's not good. There should be education, you are again in contact with people who need to listen to your education, so all this is about protecting the health of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Yesterday I was listening to reports about the pig, not good, so this way I appeal to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, who wants to receive the vaccine, let him receive it, it is not mandatory, but it is very good to receive the vaccine, because we will protect the crowd from ourselves. I don't know what to say, but first of all, we owe it to our doctors who work day and night, nurses and not just them, but to all the people who participate in treating people who are getting more and more in hospitals. I don't know what would have happened if we hadn't built these two covid hospitals, one in Batajnica with 930 beds, the other in Kruševec with 500. I heard yesterday that 900 people are already in the hospital in Batajnica, there are 250 people in Kruševec. What one doctor says, well done to those doctors, is partying. I was young, too, but can't we wait a little longer for the two million to be re-vaccinated, we know that there should be three million in Serbia vaccinated and re-vaccinated to keep the pandemic under control, so that this monster will eventually end. That they have parties, but in the Skuffanders, to see what it looks like when you're under 10 hours in the Skuffander, when you don't have the air to breathe, is it natural that someone has so much heavy equipment, and they fight for every citizen of the Republic of Serbia? So, be patient, give a little blow-off on the other side, read books, have fun. We were all young. It's not a time for parties. I understand youth, it's an honor for young people. Just a little while longer until this is over and you're vaccinated, that's my advice. As far as this list is concerned, it should be entered everywhere, into institutions of social protection, should be entered into hospitals, should be entered into homes for carefree children, it is not possible now. Not only that, the state has come up with a very clever idea that just because of the hovids, this pandemic puts people who are already busy working on that list, which I think is great. Of course he'll get a refund for that. The UN recommendation, or their Statistics Fund, is to postpone the census, which they have accepted, I think 90% of the countries in the world, which is good again, so that this monster called Kovid-19 would be eliminated from our lives as soon as possible to return to normal life. Unfortunately, migration has been very common and has been happening since the world and the century, and Serbia is somehow the West, the East-West, the road to the road, so we mainly bothered the great forces, again I say, unfortunately, in the Balkan wars, in World War I, in World War II, in the wars of the 1990s, during the bombing in 2004, when the KIM pogrom was missing, more than a million people, more than a million Serbs. That's inadmissible. I hope it never happens again, and thanks to our President Alexander Vukic's extremely wise policy, I'm sure it will never happen again. What is procreation or Nataliecy, I have already said, but not only that, one of the objectives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia is also the 2020-2025 Strategy, which is just trying to create a business environment for young people to return to the Republic of Serbia. That's why 600m euros were allocated. It also needs to connect the diaspora with the queen of the Republic of Serbia, that is also done. Instead of scientific and technological research, where 0.87% of the budget has been allocated until last year, at least 2% should be allocated, and I'm sure it will be. More attention should be paid and a higher budget should be given to culture. I'm sure that's how it's gonna happen. Now, I'm just going to have to, yesterday's most important news as far as I'm concerned, of course, except for the health of the population of the Republic of Serbia is in a negative context, that Mr. Gilas, his new accounts were found, in 53 accounts in 17 countries, has exactly 67. 966,814,00 euros. Dear gentlemen, for that money, he could have made four birds of the hospital, he could have done, plus 619 of his millions and 35 apartments, and who knows what else we'd find, a lot more. For example, with 619 million to build the Moravia Corridor, his name would have been remembered in history. That's not what you do. I'm sure our investigative authorities will do the job properly and that this gentleman, and not only him, but everyone who steals, will it be the opposition, or position, behind bars. As far as the list is concerned, of course we should do it and we will do it, because there are items that you are a religion or a nationality, this is a free country, a democratic, open country that has absolutely the same principle and attitude towards each other, it needs every normal, without any fear of making a statement, because this is simply a country that accepts everything with an open heart. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-30-0.u4730	Thank you. The word has Veroljub Matic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-30-0.u4731	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Proposal for a Law amending the Household and Apartment List Act in 2021, the main reason for the amendments to this law is that it is a pandemic. The census is delayed by six months and these are clear reasons why the list is delayed for half a year. I hope that in half a year it will be possible to carry out the list in one full capacity, because given the current struggle with the pandemic, engagement and results of the president of the state, the government and the health system, they simply give us the hope that in six months, the pandemic will already be at the end. As for the list, the evil languages say that statistics are the exact set of false data. I say statistics are the exact set of exact data. I hope we can make that happen through this list. It is very important that responsible, quality and accurate data be collected from the field. Based on field data, projections are being made for the development of this country in all its areas. What I particularly want to focus on, is to extract from this list the remains and survival of the population in the rural area, as well as the municipalities with the majority rural population. Because we are witnessing that simply these spaces are shutting down, and these spaces are full of one Serbian wealth from agriculture, through mine wealth, etc., not to say across rivers, quality water, forests etc. What is primarily needed is direction and possibility to allow for a large number of marriages in the rural area. We have a lot of guys in rural areas who aren't married. We should have more marriages, more children. We therefore also allow for the survival and survival of the population in the rural area, and in all crisis situations, Serbia had the main base in the rural area and in the rural population. As part of this, I want to highlight, within the list, the work of the Republic Geodetic Institute and the work of the RGZ working units, i.e. catastrans in cities and municipalities. The main units of the list are republics, cities, municipalities, statistical circles and censuses. The Republic Geodetic Institute is working with its cathedrals during the census, but its basic work is between the lists. Which means that all changes and changes in borders, censuses, I mean primarily statistical and list circles, are done between the census and the simple change of total content within the list units, i.e. primarily that list circle, which is the basic unit of the list. So if you do what the GZ does well, we have the quality of the list. It's a very serious job where you have to define exactly the boundaries, so that the censusors don't get in the dilemmas, that they overlap me, that the internal content is simply as up-to-date as possible, I mean primarily on immovableity, on apartments, on streets, on home numbers, so that a simple censuser is easy and simplified work. Without quality data, which the Republic Geodetic Institute does, it is not possible to make a quality list. There is no quality census of the population, households and apartments, without well-prepared data of the lists, as basic units, or good work of the Republic Geodesy Institute and its working units, or catastras, throughout Serbia. I wanted to point this out, because this important and continuous work of the Republic Institute, or catastre, is not visible enough and it represents a list base. What a base, the quality of the list. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-30-0.u4732	Thank you. The word has a National MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-30-0.u4733	I thank you, honourable chairman, respected ministers, with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, for the parliamentary group Aleksandar Vukic – For our children, the issue of the preservation of life and the health of citizens, is the principle of number one, the very principle which is the President of the Republic of Aleksandar Vukic, citing six basic principles for the work of the Government, formulating that the principle of life and the health of citizens is number one. The principle was accepted by the government and she in law making, and that she is taking care of the preservation of life and health of every citizen of the Republic of Serbia, whether it is a child, whether it is a young person, whether it is an adult or an old resident of the Republic of Serbia. What I must stress, as far as this Census List Act is concerned, is that the focus of this law is to restore the preservation of life and health, both of the citizens who are to be listed and of the censusors and instructors. So, the law is delayed, i.e. censusing the population is delayed, precisely for the reasons of the Kovida-19 pandemic, a pandemic that has affected the whole world, but the Republic of Serbia, thanks to our president, thanks to the responsible government and how it is successfully struggling with all the consequences of this pandemic. I must point out that the population list itself is an important tool in collecting accurate, reliable and quality, but also what is very important, internationally comparable data. What is the use of this data that is collected during the census, or through statistical research? They serve above all, for the adoption of adequate policies, at the level of the state, and policies relating to all segments of our society and economies and health and demographics, social protection, social policy and agriculture. In order to make adequate plans, this means that the state is ready to respond adequately and in good time to all the needs of its citizens on real grounds. This also means that the implementation of these plans and programmes will be monitored and, of course, timely and at the right time, the perceived shortcomings will be addressed. What I must point out is that the Government of the Republic of Serbia and, of course, our President Aleksandar Vukic, in battle with the Kovid, and in order to treat all those who have been affected by the Kovids, built only four months, two covids of the hospital, in Batajnica and Kruševec. The plan is to build a third in Novi Sad. Serbia has begun to vaccinate its population before other EU countries. Serbia is the only country in the world where citizens can choose which vaccine they want to vaccinate, and the vaccine has four. Serbia is the only country that has shown solidarity and humanity towards its neighbours but also other countries, only for the weekend, 22 thousand foreign citizens received a vaccine in the Republic of Serbia. Serbia is helping to deliver vaccines to both Montenegro and Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Serbia and Northern Macedonia, but the medical equipment plane sent it to the beginning of the pandemic and Italy, which we must recognise economically, much richer than we are. What was Dragan Gilas doing until 2011? He robbed people's money, 619m euros during the mayor's execution were in his accounts. The money was taken to 53 of its accounts in 17 different destinations of the world. The amount of money he spent was 68m euros, with 68m euros in Dragan Gilas of these stolen money, can be paid back to citizens and could be financed by thousands of doctors in five years, two thousand nurses also for a five-year period, to buy two thousand 219 respirators. But that never occurred to Dragan Gilasu, who was robbed by the people's couples, because Dragan Gilas and the yellow tycoon octopus were the last of the citizens. They convinced Serbian citizens that the economic crisis in 2009 was a chance, an exact chance for their private pockets, and humiliation and poverty for the vast citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Finally, I would like to stress that Serbia believes in the SNS policy, believes in Alexander Vukic's politics, believes the winner's policy, and this was also shown by Sunday's elections in Koseric, where the SNS won twice as many votes as four years ago, 67% of the total outputs also record 72% of the citizens, and it was convincingly won in Zajecar. Therefore, Serbia and Serbian citizens see who leads them to a better future, them and their children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-30-0.u4734	Thank you. The word is Rajka Matovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-30-0.u4735	Thank you, Chairman. Dear ministers with an associate, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, are ahead of us to amend and supplement the Census Act. This law was passed last year, and the census was planned to take place during 2021, that is, this current year. The census is made every ten years and represents a valuable source of demographic data, and demographic data is unfortunately not very fond of us. Demographic problems in Serbia and in these areas have been dating for decades. The biggest problems we face right now are the eviction of the population, the decline of the birth rate, the increase in the average age of the population. It is necessary to constantly combat these problems because, in terms of and exchange of this problem with regard to other problems, this is a burning problem for one society. The policy implemented by the President of the Republic of Aleksandar Vucic and all governments since 2014 and here, has begun to take concrete measures and incentives to address these problems, and some results can be seen today. The measure of financial support to parents is seen as increasing giving parents, so for the first child we get 100,000 dinars, for the second child 10 000 over two years, for the third child 12 000 and the fourth child 18 000 over ten years. This is a very big support for parents, and it's being implemented in order to raise birthrights. Migration of young people from villages to cities is a very big problem. Measures have been taken, on the one hand, to help young farmers, in terms of subsidies, and on the other hand, by building good infrastructure throughout the country, we are trying to provide equal opportunities for the development of citizens and cities as well as in the rural parts of our country. The eviction of citizens is a problem faced by much more developed countries than our own, so doctors from Germany go to the economically more developed countries of Scandinavia to work there. Therefore, this is the problem, as society strives for free transport both people and goods, it is not only our country, but many countries face this problem. We can't force someone to stop if they decide to go to another country, but we can try to provide them with the best conditions to work, the better the economic environment to bring foreign investment, the better the companies, raise their salaries, and thus try to keep all the young people here. The list of views was to be made this year in April, but for understandable reasons, the epidemic is delayed for, likely, next year. Just under this present situation caused by the coronation of the virus, we can see the results of the measures taken by President Aleksandr Vukic – we have restored hospitals, equipped them with the latest equipment, paid healthcare workers, we have created such conditions that healthcare professionals are returning from Western European countries to Serbia today. Unfortunately, not all of us, and we won't be able to bring back every man who's gone over to work, but we have to make every effort to bring him back to our country. Serbian citizens today are in a position to vaccinate, and besides providing vaccines for anyone who wants to be vaccinated, we have the option of choosing between four different vaccines, as many citizens of Europe can only think. On this occasion, I also urge all citizens of the Republic of Serbia to respond to vaccination because vaccination is the only way out of this situation. And what would be our demographic data next year if there was a yellow company in power that year? I'm truly afraid -- catastrophic. I would just like to point out that Dragan Gilas has placed 68 million dollars in his 53 bank accounts in 17 countries. Do you know what 68 million dollars it represents? It's a three-year salary for a doctor, that's 192 thousand minimum earnings, and that's a 50-euro single aid to every pensioner. Because of the policy led by Dragan Djilas, Serbian citizens have moved out of Serbia and gone to other countries to work and live, and because of the policy led by President Aleksandar Vukic, Serbian citizens are now returning to their homeland. I hope that conditions will be created for this census to be implemented properly, and I will vote in favour of the proposed amendments to the law in the day of voting, together with my colleagues from the parliamentary group "Alexander Vukic – For our children". Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-30-0.u4736	Thank you. The word is Milimir Vujadinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-30-0.u4737	Thank you, Chairman Orlic. Dear citizens, honourable fellow MPs, ministers with an associate, this is an interesting topic today. This legislative proposal speaks of more things in Serbia. First of all, the responsibility of Serbian authorities, headed by the president. First of all, responsibility to a job like this, where there's no question of whether the list will be. This is not the case in all countries in Europe, especially not in some countries in the environment. The next important thing is responsibility to the nation's health. In fact, the shift in terms of a few months is taking care of health and citizens who will be subject to the census, as well as taking care of health and censusors and all those people who will participate in this business. In addition to the usual financial planning, as well as the training of instructors and censusors, and with regard to additional staff engagement in local self-government units, as well as the media campaign that usually monitors the list, money is also planned for protective equipment and disinfectants. All of this is one responsible approach and speaks about the responsibility of Serbian authorities today and towards citizens in general. However, what he may be saying more when it comes to this legislative proposal, he speaks more about the democracy and tolerance of Serbian society and politics today. In fact, that might be the most important thing in all of this. Maybe someone thinks differently, but it seems to me that's the most important thing. The best of all about this tolerance and democracy of Serbian society is one sentence in Article 26 of this law, which reads: "A person covered by the census is not required to declare his nationality and religion." So he doesn't have to, and he doesn't have to, and he can if he wants to. Anyone in Serbia can say, according to this legislative proposal, to which the ethnic group belongs, which language it speaks and which religion it confesses. And he doesn't have to, if he doesn't want to. As important as it is, I know, because I come from one multinational and multiethnic town of Subotica and I know how important it is for the Hungarian national community that lives in large numbers in Subotica, Croatia and every other national community that lives there, but I think it is most important for the rebel national community and more important than everyone else. In fact, the Bunjevs in northern Serbia have been banned for decades from freely pleading on their national belongings, as to the language they speak. This sentence will enable the rebel people, after decades, to freely say who they are, what language they speak, what religion they belong to. All the things they couldn't do for decades, and when they were violently placed under the hat of Croatian identity. Of course, it will allow everyone else to say that – both Hungarians and Croats and Bosniaks and those who feel like Muslims and all others living in Serbia today. Is that true in those countries where the Serbian people do not live in the majority? Are these rules in force in Slovenia, where according to current legal rules it is not possible to declare itself according to national and religious membership? Is this true, all that I said, in Montenegro, where it is not certain that the census will be at all, and even if it is, it is not certain that a statement will be allowed by national and religious membership? Does such rules as in Serbia and our law apply in Albania, Macedonia, Croatia? In all these lands, can our countrymen freely plead national and religious belongings and the religion they belong to? Is that right? No, we all know it's not. And why not? Namely, the clear goal is to create some new identities by using an ethnic engineer, as a rule, at the expense of the identity of the Serb people, reducing numbers, undermining the identity of the Serbian people to create some new identities. If our people in the region were allowed half of what is allowed to other national communities in Serbia, it would be a good basis for a stable regional co-operation, a stable political situation in the region. As much as the goal of creating new identities with some kind of ethnic engineering at the expense of Serbs, which I was talking about, that won't be possible. It will not be possible because Serbia today is a very, very different country. Never did Serbs in the Balkans have a higher degree of national unity, and that is because their queen Serbia today represents a strong and successful state. They are gathered around common national goals, primarily led by a policy led today by the Serbian president and the Serbian government. Therefore, it is also a message and a request for all countries in the region to allow free expression of our citizens and towards religious and national belongings, to freely speak what language they speak, but also a message that they will not succeed in seeking to destroy Serbian identity, because behind our people in the region today stands both a strong Serbian state and a responsible Serbian president. The message and our countrymen in the region insist that they be given what is available to everyone else in Serbia, as well as that they freely declare themselves and tell which people they belong to, the religion they confess and what language they speak. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-30-0.u4738	Thank you. The word has Milan Jugovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-30-0.u4739	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with an associate, respected fellow Members of the People's Parliament, respected fellow citizens, is present today, unfortunately, the Bill on Amendments to the Law on the List of Population, Apartments and Households in 2021. Why do I say sorry? Well, because if today's agenda wasn't an amendment to this law, it would mean that the pandemic of the coronaryvirus has ended, that the whole world, that our country is returning to normal, normal flows and that the planned list can be realized within the intended timeframe. Since the situation with the coronary pandemic remains very serious, as we still have a large number of infected, the state leadership has made a responsible and only possible right decision, which is to postpone the list from April 2021 six months later, that is, for October, and all the opportunity under the proposed amendment is for the next 2022. At the centre of the policy led by the SNS is an ordinary citizen, an existence, a fight for better living conditions that will speed up the birth rate in our country, which will speed up a better demographic picture and I think the results of this struggle by the government of the Republic of Serbia, notably President Alexander Vukic, and how they are visible through dozens of newly opened factories, through tens of thousands of new jobs, through miles of new highways and so on. These are the results we're proud of. We are proud of our successful battle with the pandemic of the coronaryvirus, our successful struggle to preserve the lives and health of our citizens. In the context of this struggle, we should also look at this decision to postpone the census, because in order to maintain the list as planned in April of the month, it is necessary to make a direct contact between the employees of the Republic Bureau of Statistics with 15,000 instructors and censusors. On the other hand, those census instructors would be in direct contact with our citizens. In addition, in a month, as far as the list is planned, it is necessary to enter every house, list all persons in homes for the elderly, in psychiatric institutions, in dorms, in high school homes, which certainly carries one particular risk to the health of citizens. With this procedure, the government has shown once more responsibility to its citizens and has warned any possible potential risk in this complex epidemic and health situation in our country. As a fact-based and sole reason for the delay in the list of coronary pandemics, I will take advantage of the opportunity to appeal to all our fellow citizens to be vaccinated to preserve their health, the health of their loved ones, to reduce the pressure on our health system, to beat this monster that hit us all as quickly as possible. I think we're on our way right now. Today, when there are vaccine frauds all over the world, when EU countries are gnawing and conflicting over the distribution of vaccines, Serbia not only has enough vaccines for its needs, but is able to show solidarity with the countries of the region. We are proud of the fact that we are one of the most successful countries in the world by the number of vaccines. We are proud of the fact that our citizens have been able to choose between one of four vaccines at any time. That's how this success gets more meaning. We are proud of the fact that we will be one of the few countries in the world that will produce vaccines, Torlak, Sputnik V, and a factory that will also build Chinese vaccines. I'd look back on one moment to one fact. So in some previous period, global media mainly wrote about Serbia in a negative context, with negative sound, negative topics, etc. With the exception of sports. In recent years, Serbia's image has changed significantly. In recent years, it has been written about Serbia's economic successes, the successes of fighting the coronary virus, of successful vaccination. The last in a series of such texts came out in the Associated Press, which, in addition to a successful vaccination, highlights Serbia's solidarity with the countries of the region, i.e. the fact that we have vaccinated 23,000 citizens from surrounding countries -- Northern Macedonia, Montenegro, Bosnia and Herzegovina, etc. last weekend. So that's the policy that Serbia is leading today and that's the policy that Alexander Vukic is running today. No matter what Serbian people, my colleagues have mentioned it on several occasions today, does not enjoy the rights of their national minorities to enjoy, therefore, regardless of how we turn to the future, turn to co-operation, because only co-operation is a prerequisite for any progress, and this is only one indicator of how Serbia behaves, or what kind of policy is led by President Aleksandar Vukic. Once again, I call on the part of the people who have not vaccinated or applied for vaccination to do so, not to fall under the influence of various anti-vaxer groups, the various self-proclaimed leaders of the opposition, who called on citizens not to be vaccinated, and they ran faster and better to vaccinate at the Russian vaccine "Sputnik V" fair. For example, I find it more interesting to know how many censusors should only list all the apartments of the self-proclaimed leader of the opposition, Dragan Gilas and his brother? So how long and how many operatives would it take to list all these properties that have been acquired, the competent authorities will determine how, and all the opportunity is to rob the money of Serbian citizens? At the very end, I would like to express my support for our colleague, Janko Languri, who is again on the target of the media being financed by Dragan Gilas, I recall, the money heisted by Serbian citizens. So anyone who dares to touch millions in Mauritius, Switzerland, etc. He's going through an unscrupulous, dirty campaign by Gilas' media. On this occasion, I am telling him that he will not stop SNS MPs, MPs of the Electoral Group Aleksandar Vukic – For our children to bring the truth, to expose all affairs and malversions of Dragan Gilas, because Serbian citizens deserve to know the truth. In the end, I will take the opportunity to congratulate the citizens of Koseric and Zaječar in the election, to win the policy of continuity, to win the policy of the future, to win the development policy which is the only guarantee of Serbia's successful and advanced, i.e. in this case Koseric and Zaječar. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-30-0.u4740	Thank you. The word is by Professor Dragoljub Ackovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-30-0.u4741	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister with Associates, ladies and gentlemen, the wise move of our leadership has been decided to postpone this list by six months, perhaps even more if the occasion, or the difficulties are so. A list that is very important to us and that we have to do, like all the nations of the world, a list that is important to everyone, including to the Roma people, and I want to tell you how important it is to the Roma. For members of the Roma community in Serbia, the main motive for participating in the upcoming census, even if held, is to determine the exact number of Roma in the country. What's it gonna get you? The Roma will beat the fear of public declaration in terms of what they are, that famous ethnic microcry, because as many of them say -- it wasn't easy being a Roma at the time of wearing the yellow ribbon. I will tell you for a moment one of the great fears of the Roma people that I have personally listened to. When I asked my father a few times why he didn't come forward as Roma, and he didn't always say as Roma, when we really did, he answered me – well, my son didn't wear yellow tape and you don't know what it looks like when you have to prove that you're not Roma, and everyone sees that you are, and I told my father, for the big money, bought confirmation that I was the third knee of Aryan guilty and thus saved myself from death in the Fair. He was a camper for three years. Three times they took me out there for a shootout and then they didn't mean anything to me to prove I was Aryan or anything else so I wouldn't get shot. Namely, his father, I already know that from their story, and I have this document that's been paid by big money, as much as it cost two three-year-old oxes so much that it costs a document to prove that you're Aryan if you're Roma. Afterwards, I was sorry to ask my father more than once why he didn't enter the lists, his right to do so. I have heard, gentlemen, many such answers from the older Roma, and therefore I advocate to fight the fears that fascist beasts have implanted into our Roma people. We must plead in terms of who we are for many reasons. We have to in the next list, whether this or some of the following years, say that we are who we are because it is our duty. This must be helped by the state, first of all, by hiring as many roman nationalists as possible to explain the importance of being honest and correct, and not without fear and shame, which I will talk about, we declare. I suggest that soon the online training of a large number of Roma and other national censuses is started, because they will contribute to a more correct census of Roma and others. When the time comes to do a census and we don't have censuses that are Roma by nationality, what happened in 2011, and in 2011, one third or at least one quarter of Roma came out as such. The state and the Roma in it don't want it, but they want to know the right results, because it won't do any harm, it'll only benefit. We will not be 150 thousand, but between 400 and 500 thousand, which is the real number of Roma nationalities in Serbia. Why do we have to map all Roma settlements before the list and figure out how many are there? I know that information. I've heard some of them out there, they're not true. We don't have 700 Roma settlements, but somewhere around a thousand. Each of them has more than 10 houses. I've done a few years of that analysis and lists. If we all pleaded as Roma, we would be the most numerous national minority in Serbia, and this would bring a number of improvements to our people and our lives. That is why we need to invest a lot more strength and desire to make the census as proper as possible. The Roma do not plead because of the fear of ridicule, but also fear. Let me say something about ridicule, one number, as it says, is not being declared because it is in a slightly better economic and social position than the people who live in the moss. They're the ones who are afraid of ridicule, to be told they're gypsies or Roma, and they're not exactly equal with the others. What else would you get? In this high house, I'm going to argue that Roma aren't ashamed of it and even less afraid to say they're Roma. Why is it important to try to get real information about the number of Roma in our country? More precise data on the total number of Roma would allow for more successful planning and implementation of social inclusion policies, which would lead to new measures to improve the position of the Roma national minority. The fact is that the state of Serbia is constantly making efforts to improve the situation of the Roma, but I have to say that it is still not enough and I guess it will and will probably be. I am convinced that both this government and Serbian President Aleksandar Vucic will do everything possible to make the Roma in Serbia feel like first citizens, not second-row citizens, to which the statement on the upcoming census will contribute very much. In the end, I call on the citizens of Serbia of all nationalities to be vaccinated, especially those of the elderly who are my litigators and thus provide themselves with a better and safer life. Long live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-30-0.u4742	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger George Dabic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-30-0.u4743	Thank you, Chairman. Dear People's MPs, ladies and gentlemen, respected ministers with an associate, Serbia has all the material, simple, financial resources to hold the list to be implemented this year in the next month, but of course, since we are socially responsible people, we will support the government's proposal to postpone the census for October, and in the voting day, that is, when the list is in particular, we will consider the amendment that concerns the fact that we may need to consider the postponement of the 2022 census, given that we are following the example of other countries, such as Germany, Scotland, Ireland, which actually moved the list to next year, because we are witnessing that we are in one unprecedented crisis caused by the pandemic of the virus and that it might be wise to wait for everything to be returned to normal, so that the censusrs can do our work in the best possible way. What I particularly want to stress is that the list in Serbia is a classic statistical issue, not a political issue, as is the case everywhere, almost everywhere in the region. When I say the political question, therefore, is in action, I can freely say in the entire Western Balkans one identity engineering, when it comes to the translation of the Serbian people into other nations, which we do not need to do here. We don't need to prove to someone that we're something, that we're Serbs because we're not something else, like they need to do. So you can't say you're a Croat if you say you're not a Serb before that. That's the same thing in Montenegro. You can't be a Montenegrin if you're not a Serb. So they need to somehow throw out their equation, simply try to make identity engineering a situation to reduce the share of Serbian people in the environment as much as possible and say once more, almost everywhere the case is that we have to defend our national rights and freedoms in the region, and here in Serbia we have the opportunity to see that everyone can plead out as they wish, everyone can say in what language they speak, which religion they belong to, and we have no problem with that. Once again I say, from that equation, everywhere in the environment -- throw out the Serbs, they cease to exist. It is a question for them -- why they do not have a clear identity and have the need to deal with Serbian people everywhere in an environment in a way that lowers the percentage of the Serbian people in the environment. When we look back in history, he's actually saying he hasn't been since yesterday. In Croatia, we all know that Budakov's theory that one-third of Serbs should be cataclysed, one-third expelled, one-third killed, and that's the formula they've been running throughout the HH century when it comes to relations with the Serbian people. So today and when you look at how they went and they're not very good. Everywhere they drove and killed Serbs, they're empty areas. Today, practically everything in Croatia is estimated not even three million people in total. So, they didn't go well at all with dealing with our people. Our people in this area continue to survive thanks to the great support they have from Serbia, and we will continue to try to help our people and to appeal that we continue to help our people today and who want to stay in their hearths in Croatia. When it comes to, say, Albania, you were not allowed to plead as a Serb during the course of Emir Hodge. You shouldn't have signed in practically, to get an I.D. as a Serb, and it wasn't, I say, that long ago. So we had practically one huge identity engineering in that space. In Northern Macedonia, go to every cemetery and see how this engineering took place. Look, literally on every grave you can see how they made "ski" so from Blagojevic, the formation of Blagojevsky, and today you have new nations from the Serbian people. What I say again, we don't have to work here. We know who we are, we know what we are and we don't have to repress others to be Serbs. When we look at it, let's mention the last example, it's fresh, in Montenegro, what we had in Montenegro. We had a situation on the previous list that 64% of people said they speak Serbian, and only 28% said they were Serbs. It's illogical. Of course, now absolutely many forces are resisting to prevent a census that will first be free in Montenegro after more than seven decades, where people will be able to say that they are Serbs and where everyone is afraid that the share of the Serb people will exceed 50%, that they will practically equalise the number of those who speak Serbian with the number of those who plead as Serbs. That's why Serbia's people in Montenegro are being attacked today by all means. They don't choose funds. They're hitting on the Serbian people. It hits legitimate representatives of the Serb people, or people from the Democratic Front. He tries again to accuse the Serbian people of being a remethylatic factor, as was the case in other countries, which definitely have some problems with their own identity so they try to suppress the Serbian people and be what they would try to be, to be what they would like to be without being Serbs. As far as this list is concerned, it will be the most detailed list so far. We will have the opportunity to see all those aspects of social life that interest us in Serbia. As far as identity solutions are concerned, I'm sure everyone will plead the way he thinks they should and there's no dilemma. We're going to get exact information here on this list on some of the other issues that we're interested in. Of course, 20,000 censuses will have a month to visit all households, write down all the people in Serbia and the first census was organised almost 200 years ago. It is certain that we have a long tradition of statistical data processing in this way and that this list will also be significant for the entire country, that we will see where we have certain gaps, where we have problems. As soon as we talk about certain problems, of course it's demographics. Bad demographic trends are a fact, what's been following us for the last few decades. Again, there are often people who like to somehow put the blame on poverty and say – where poverty is there is small and natality. It's not like that. We have an opportunity to see that in the richest Belgrade municipalities, practically the central Belgrade municipalities, Vračar, Savski Venac, Stari Grad, there is the smallest talent. It's not easy to say where poverty is, there's a little bit of talent. On the contrary, our greatest talent is in our midst in KIM, to the joy of all Serbs and to the simplest of our people. We have the largest number of children right there and where poverty is most unfortunately the most widespread. This question should not be seen from a strictly economic standpoint. We will, of course, help and President Vukic adopted the strategy in 2018 and today we are actually giving a huge amount of money to people who become parents. First child when you win, you have 100,000 dinars. We hear there's an increase in that amount to 300,000 dinars. For another child, each family will receive 10,000 dinars for two years, for a third child of 12,000 dinars for 10 years, for a fourth child of 18,000 dinars. It's really data that doesn't exist anywhere in the environment. If there are, you correct me. We have the most important policy, good politics when it comes to birthrights. Today, the state invests huge sums of money first and foremost in young people. When you look at "Serbia 20-25", our programme envisions 600m euros in investment in youth over the next few years. It's actually an investment in demographics. That's what we need. The programme "First Salary" that every young man when he graduates from high school has a safe job. You have so many state incentives. Minister Nedimovic is here and we know that in 2017, when we adopted a programme of support for young farmers, we had only 600 registered, and now we have 4.5 thousand interested, previous years. This is an indication that when the state invests specifically in young people and their stay in the country, they recognize it and increasingly register. We have a good response to these subsidies that the state is organizing today. What else is there to say about this? It is often seen as a major outflow of young people from Serbia. Unfortunately, there have been times before, and today we cannot say that young experts are not coming from our country, but more and more are coming back. The Vienna Institute for International Economic Studies has given an assessment, not some government institution, which is the Vienna Institute, located in Austria, is not subjective, I mean, in four years, the previous 23,400 people have returned to Serbia. These are indicators that our country is certainly doing better than it was before. When the coronary crisis began, 400,000 people returned to Serbia. Young people have returned to Serbia, and most of them have stayed here since the borders are closed, not to circulate so much towards Western Europe. We will try to keep these young people here, to find a job in Serbia, not to go looking for happiness under someone else's sky because there can never be as good as the man in his country. You'll always be second-, third-, fourth-row citizens. You've also seen in the crown crisis practically that they didn't have health care or any help from foreign states our people there. So this is where we're supposed to build the future. Here we need to build our common state, no matter who says it, who writes it. We'll get a chance to add it up on the next list. We see how many of us there are. What do we do next? Of course, I'm sure the government will bring out a good program in the next period and we'll win this monster that hit us. We are second in Europe by the number of vaccines, and that is a trend which I am sure will be positive in the next period, that we will be the first to emerge from the crisis caused by the coronary virus, so that we will be able to speed up the development of our country and to strengthen the state as was the case in previous years since SNS and President Aleksandar Vucic were in power. Once again, we will vote on this proposed law and we will also consider the amendment to extend it to another year and I am sure it is the best solution for all citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-30-0.u4744	Thank you. The word is Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-30-0.u4745	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, of course, that every census that the state has conducted in order to determine the number of inhabitants in its territory is very important for that country because the economic potential of a single country determines not only territory, it does not only determine its geographical position, it determines not only its traffic infrastructure, but it also determines the potential in the number of inhabitants, population density, activity and professional preparation that these people have. Of course, we won't be the happiest with the results of that list that awaits us in the future, and there are many reasons and excuses for that. One of the reasons Serbia has in some things had so far negative trends, is at a low birth rate, on the one hand, we had earlier years, especially a decade ago, perhaps a little bit more, the terrible migrations that were caused by the economic crisis. Mr. Minister, you know that 400,000 people have lost their jobs in Serbia since 2008, 2012. We've reached 28% of the unemployment rate. What's left of our citizen who's out of a job? To address the state, the social work centres. He may as well be an individual, but he has a family. A significant question is how many of the 400,000 jobs lost and those people who lost those jobs left Serbia. It's just, you know, Mr. Minister, he doesn't leave here for one Serbian job, he leaves the whole family. And on this list, we will have the consequences of what the former regime and Dragan Gilas were doing. Here, these days, thanks to investigative journalism, we have information that Lord Dragan Gilas has hidden some 68m euros worldwide. I'm not going to guess now how many miles of highway, how many preschools, how many hospitals it is. Let me ask you a question. Does anyone have any idea how much money that is? To translate. It was the moment Dragan Gilas was in power 68m euros and 70m euros were 0.25% of gross products in Serbia. And as time goes by, I'm sure that up to the famous 2% of the GDP that Dragan Gilas has split all over the world and kidnapped from our citizens. This means, Mr. Minister, in a rough bill, without some serious analysis, that out of 1,000 people who are in Serbia by population, we are not counting on workable, the three inhabitants had to work for Dragan Gilas, a simple mathematical equation, nothing made up, nothing easy to prove. Now imagine what kind of leadership we've had. What else affects migration and nationality? Of course it also affects health care. Tell me, Minister, do you remember whether a hospital was built, renovated or opened during the regime of Dragan Gilas? I really don't remember. I guess that's the first thing. If you want to have the birthright, to provide good health care, to disrupt the firstborn to give birth to another child. But that's why they made those websites attack all those changes that we made in the state to make it possible to increase the birth rate. Remember those powerful ones, I won't mention names, portals that attacked our health system. What else does it affect? They're affecting the birth and preschool institutions, schools. I don't remember any school being built. Preschool institutions here and there, but Mr. Minister, at the time the mayor of Belgrade was Dragan Gilas. You know what made him famous? After an unwarranted and illegal increase in compensation prices for preschool institutions. Here's the day today both Radojcic and Vesic must return money to the citizens of Belgrade who stole and robbed Dragan Djilas, but only now returns from the budget. We're talking about how they think something good about Serbia. These are the problems we'll have with the list. Mr. Minister, you were when those floods, natural disasters, we were together when Sremska Mitrovica was defended. I have to ask a question – how would it be in Serbia if they were in power then? Could you, as mayor of Sremska Mitrovica, organize a flood defense? With a country like we inherited in 2012. I'm telling you I wouldn't. I claim that most of the cities that were threatened would be flooded and that our citizens would drown because the former regime was unable to do anything but think how much more money could steal and make money. Here, Mr. Minister, we've all heard of a report from the European Parliament. These are our fellow MPs, and I'd have to ask you again, whether they know it or not. They told us, among other things, that the report mentions that our doctors are slightly less professional than those in the countries from which they come. I don't know now, but I know something else, that in Serbia, no doctor, no specialist, no medical technician had to choose which patient would remain in his life and who would be connected to a life support device, to a respirator, and whom he would leave to decide about his fate God or anyone else. Did my fellow MPs, when they voted on that report of the European Parliament, think about it? To attack our doctors who care about the health of our population, who care that as little as possible we suffer the consequences of this pandemic that has hit us. I can only imagine how many Serbian citizens would be listed in October or November 2021 if Dragan Gilas had been in power during the pandemic caused by the coronary virus. I believe there'd be half of us. I believe that dying in a hospital would be a privilege if he were in power, that we would die in the streets, in the parks, where he is now exorcising the youth to demonstrate against the measures carried out by the Crisis Headquarters. These would be results that we would like even less. So both economic conditions and health conditions and education and everything else influences and the number of residents in one country in order to achieve some economic development and achieve their economic goals and protect their population from dying. A colleague, Dabic, said only one thing about younger people returning to Serbia, but since Aleksandar Vukic is implementing these measures and reforms and restoring Serbia, the process of draining our citizens from Serbia is beginning to get a final reverse direction. It gives us the right to say that the reforms implemented by Aleksandar Vukic are the right measures for the citizens of Serbia. Since 2018, more citizens of Serbia have checked out in Germany than they have registered. It is true that all these citizens do not return to Serbia, they may go to another Western European country, but one good indicator is that the reverse process has begun. It's that reverse process that the president is talking about at every beginning of the work or tour of the work, when it comes to traffic infrastructure. If Serbia were to be built, it would be a easier place to live, where one would live easier, where he would earn more. This is the goal of all these reforms, among other things, for those who remain here in Serbia, to build Serbia, to multiply and increase their families, and for those who, because of the irresponsible and thieving authorities of Dragan Gilas, have left Serbia to give at least some of them motives to see that Serbia is both a better and happier place to live than the countries where they are today.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-30-0.u4746	Thank you. The word is from MP Zoran Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-30-0.u4747	Thank you, Mr. Orlic. Dear ministers with an associate, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, citizens of Serbia, are ahead of us an important act concerning the implementation of the census in Serbia. As we had the opportunity to hear, what has been proposed is that this procedure itself is delayed due to the fact of the Coronal Virus effect and I absolutely support the idea that even with regard to the solution that has been given here before us, which amendments will be complemented to postpone it absolutely for next year, given that today is an absolute priority, when it comes to the government of the Republic of Serbia and the policies being implemented, to preserve the health of citizens and to fight for our economy to function successfully. We also had opportunities to hear from a number of colleagues the results that the Republic of Serbia achieved in the previous period, when it comes to population policy, demographics, the fight for children and the struggle for our population to stay in the Republic of Serbia. We literally see everything we see every day in all of Serbia only construction sites that are nothing. Motorways are being built, modern traffic is being built, aircraft traffic is being invested, foreign investors are being brought in, significant funds are being given as an incentive and domestic economy, as well as other businesses that have great ideas on how to implement it in our country and to achieve excellent financial and business results. It is all a struggle, and all of these are the absolute measures that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is taking to preserve our population. I'm especially glad that my younger esteemed colleagues are also trying to make sure in the media that these are the results that they're talking about. In particular, I will mention my colleague Neven Đuric, who has just mentioned one of the significant results that President Aleksandar Vucic has achieved through a policy that leads, which is that Serbia has managed to stop the brain drain, has managed to become a country in which young people are actually returning. No matter how hard they try, when I say they mean this extraparliamentary opposition or actually politicians in an attempt that is obviously the only way to hide the money they took from Serbian citizens in attractive tourist destinations, they are trying to challenge such claims and results that are indisputable. I thank you very much to you, Mr. Orlic, who you've potentiated immediately after the visit that even what they write in their media can't read and often forget it. Here I have in my hand an article that has just been published on their media, which says Serbia is a country of inflow, not a brain drain. It is interesting that, of course, the text quotes the results achieved by the Vienna Institute for International Economic Studies and found in fact that in the period from 2015 to 2019 Serbia did indeed send a country where you have a net inflow of brains, where, in fact, highly qualified people, people who are academics, graduates abroad, are forming their families, opening their business businesses. It is an excellent indicator that all of this is being invested, and when it comes to infrastructure, when it comes to education, when it comes to health care, when it comes to culture and education, it contributes to such a result. Of course, they talk about young people who have graduated from high school, who are mostly studying abroad. I would point out that since Serbia gained its statehood, back in the 19th century, it has tried to make young people with high potential, people who can make a significant contribution to their knowledge of this country to stimulate and support them financially, even if that knowledge comes abroad and that knowledge and experience, or as it is said, "know how" to bring it to the Republic of Serbia and to apply it today. We have the results of exactly the kind of people we can see here. They say when highways are built, I will specifically mention the Moravia Corridor, they are trying to say – well, we don't need a highway, we can build four tapes. Or, they say -- you're building highways to get people out of Serbia. No, gentlemen, we are not building highways to get people out of Serbia, we are building highways to make Serbia a better destination for foreign investment, a destination where they will invest, but also a way to connect all the ends of our beautiful Serbia so that we can go on vacations, so instead of going abroad to visit Zlatibor, Zlatar, to visit Vojvodina, to visit the Old Mountain, to visit the Vranjska Banje in which we saw ourselves and how they invest the funds. I invite you, distinguished colleagues, all to visit Kruševac, Fishing Banja, our mountain Hawk, the most forested mountain in Serbia, which has indeed begun its potential in a touristic sense since SNS came to power and in every other sense to show. So, all we've done is we've had the opportunity to see that these works, when it comes to the Moravsky Corridor, are doing a great job, that it's going to be the most modern highway Serbia has, where we're going to have the first digital road, or an optical cable implemented, and that we can get all the up-to-date information about traffic and that it's really an opportunity to enjoy the road when you're going to visit the West Morava Basin where about half a million citizens of the Republic of Serbia live. All these investments in infrastructure are later contributed by investors, as we know that you with an idea, with a vision, with financial resources to invest in Serbia, must provide them with basic infrastructure conditions so that what they produce abroad and can place or place on our market and market in the region. What I'm saying is that the commitment to preserving citizens of Serbia is precisely that we are the leader in the region and the only country in Europe that has four different vaccines that it offers to its citizens. We have a really adequate amount of vaccines, and as we can see, and we will soon get close to the number of the millionth citizen who has been rehabilitated, which we have actually fought to raise collective immunity and we are slowly approaching the conditions that we can slowly return life to normal, even though we know that in the next period we will have to live with the crown and its consequences. What is very important, we have shown that we can be champions when it comes to the development of health care, are provided absolutely all the necessary amounts of respirator, medicine, are built two coves of the hospital, one in Batajnica, one in Kruševec in four months. We will always repeat that because it is a matter of pride, something Serbia has not seen in modern history. We saw only such an example similar to that in China where, of course, they, in accordance with their capacities and needs, built a covid hospital in record time. It will build new ones, continue to invest in health care, continue to invest in young people. What's very important is that all these yellow tycoons, politicians who only said they were fighting for our children, fight for young people who, by their own plan for the day after tomorrow, promise free textbooks, free schooling. I don't know, they get everything for free, and they don't know how much money and how many bills they have abroad. It's just, it's terrible how much they're hitting themselves in their statements and they just have a short memory, they forget what they said, they forget what they were doing. But fortunately, there are competent institutions, there are also great patriots, my colleagues here and in the Assembly and within the SNS who fight for the truth in Serbia to come out and the truth to be the only thing they'll talk about and that we never have the spins they've ever done again. I'm sure that this plan that keeps promoting Serbia and we see it trying to bloat numbers that, I don't know, is so accepted, that they themselves will soon forget such a plan, as they forgot about failure and the alliance, as they forgot about the campaign boycott and that they are nothing but a boycott coalition. What will not be forgotten are the results that Alexander Vukic's policy has contributed to Serbia's progress and how successfully we and during this period realise Serbia's 20-25 plan. That we now have over 540 euros in average earnings, that in 2025 it will be 900 euros, that we will have pensions of 440 euros, that we have record low unemployment below 10% which in Serbia's modern history has not happened. That we are champions in attracting foreign direct investment, that we have a stable exchange rate which is also one of the important factors and in attracting foreign investment, in the development of our economic environment that we haven't talked about so much. I thank my colleague Arsic, who kept mentioning it, that in their time it simply didn't know how much that course was fluctuating and that it was actually known when the course was jumping, when it fell, it was actually dependent on the interest groups. In any case, in the voting day absolutely, as well as colleagues from the parliamentary group, we will support this proposal because the process of implementation is not a small matter. It's not something that comes out within a month, we go from door to door, we write down, it's the whole procedure, it's the application and scientific methodology that's very important, the preparations that are done and what's very important, that these changes will make additional preparations to protect and the health of people who will be directly included in the list, but also the health of citizens. Why? Because the statistics we receive are the basis for creating other economic policies and policies that the state will lead when it comes to population policy. I talked more about it at the previous conference when we were talking about the statistical program. We are all aware of how important it is that when decisions are made that we have absolutely good and reliable data, and therefore this procedure is something that absolutely does not need to be rushed, it should be done when it is best. This is an example that countries abroad have set out to do. Once again, I stress, we will absolutely support the change and I am sure that you, Mr. Minister, as Prime Minister, will support the suggestion that this may be extended in October 2022.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-30-0.u4748	Thank you. The word is Ugljesa Mrdić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-30-0.u4749	I thank the Chairman, Mr. Orlic. Mr. Minister, Deputy Prime Minister Nedimovic, with his associate, distinguished fellow MPs, dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the whole population census procedure just confirms that the country of Serbia is the health of citizens in the first place. This is confirmed by new information about the vaccination itself, that the Republic of Serbia, which is the first country in the world to allow citizens of the neighbouring country, in this case BiH citizens, can freely stay at the border without any kind of delay to reach the territory of the Republic of Serbia and receive a vaccine against the crown of the virus. As far as the census is concerned, Serbia is one democratic state where everyone can plead whatever he wants, and that confirms that the Republic of Serbia is the state of the Serbian people and all its other citizens. The national minorities have about 20%, about 81% are Serbs, these remaining 19% are our dear Bosniaks, Hungarians, Roma, Albanians, Russian, Slovaks, Romanians, and all other nations that live with us, respecting the Serbian Constitution, have every right regardless of what nation they belong to. Unlike, say, the Republic of Croatia, where my fellow Members of the people are and how well they spoke about how they treated Serbs, that I do not now remind myself of the 1990s, how Serbs lost their constitutionality in Croatia. We have heard very well how they treat the Serbian people in the territory of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, in Montenegro, in northern Macedonia is a slightly better situation, in Slovenia it could be far better, without talking about Albania, where even those who are Serbs pleading as Albanians even had to change their names and last names to stay in their places with their family. But let others do whatever they want, the Republic of Serbia led by Alexander Vukic, and how it knows that responsible, democratic policy is being led, as all have the same rights in the Republic of Serbia, and so we send a clear message to both Europe and the world. In addition to these developments in the region, we had years ago, more specifically by 2012, a policy that drove young people from Serbia. Former regime policy led by Dragan Dilas, Boris Tadic, Vuk Jeremic, has driven young people, so we had a situation that young people had nothing to look for in Serbia, or they didn't have enough work to do, and enough money and resources to form families in Serbia, or they were forced to leave Serbia by the politics of Dragan Gilas. For example, the number of our population has decreased from year to year, it seems to me, by about 50, 60 thousand, is one average city in Serbia, not to mention that at one point, it seems to me in 2014, the number of Serbs in the world has leveled with the number of Serbs in Serbia. So, Dragan Gilas and his comrades did everything possible to prevent all of them, not just their unthinkers, but all those who were not part of their mafia machinery, from making good life impossible for them in Serbia and driving them away. Not to mention a series of politically wrong decisions of the former regime and about the economy, investment in health, education or economic sectors. Fortunately, that is the past, but we must remind our citizens of what is an alternative to this excellent Serbian government policy, whose vice-president you are to Mr. Nedimovic, the excellent Serbian state policy led by Aleksandar Vucic, and the benefits of this excellent Serbian state policy have also been shown in the case of this vaccination, as well as all those countries we are bordering. I have to look back on a sector where we had a terrible, maternal relationship, a thieving relationship with that sector, and that's the sector, Mr. Minister, that you run. Several agricultural ministers changed in the period until 2012. They, and you know it, better the ministers, have destroyed Serbian agriculture. Not only did they destroy Serbian agriculture, but they stole hundreds of millions of euros from the agriculture sector. Fortunately, political changes occurred in 2012, the agricultural sector was reformed. In your performances, you have said this on several occasions, and now the agriculture sector with the economy, the infrastructure sector, the transport sector, the energy sector is one of the most important sectors that fills the Serbian state's budget and where new jobs are being created, new investments are being attracted. Then young people have the motive to stay in their country of Serbia, and that will also affect some next census that we have more people of all nations in the territory of the Serbian state. But in order to do that and to implement that policy, we must continue to support a great policy that has style, not by chance, "For our children", for our future. We need to support Alexander Vukic's policy and the public that we always remind ourselves of an alternative. Alternative is a former regime's thieving policy led by Dragan Gilas, but fortunately both the last local elections in Koseric and Zajecar have confirmed what the people think of the politics of Aleksandar Vukic. Even more support, much better results, the people are now in these difficult moments of fighting and against the crown of the virus and fighting the mafia and fighting for the growth of the economy, giving even more support to our President, Alexander Vukic, because he knows that this is a policy for our children, for the future we believe in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-30-0.u4750	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-30-0.u4751	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I support Aleksandar Mitrovica, one zero for Serbia. So, for those of us, two-thirds of our viewers who, due to this violation of the law by Gilas and Solak, cannot follow Serbia's team, I am obliged to say that Serbia is leading us all with one zero. I hope that result will be increased further. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, statistics are a miracle. Says genocide? What's genocide? He says it's a deliberate submission between another group, living conditions that cause it to be completely or partially destroyed. So it's not just about killings, it's about deliberately subjecting the group to living conditions that cause it to be completely or partially destroyed. Ethnic cleansing is the extermination of the minority population by the majority on a particular territory. Statistics can help. I will mainly use Bosniak sources, Croatian sources, to say that in the territory of the former Yugoslavia, which did not correspond to some Western forces and which the Yugoslav peoples turned against each other, using their mutual entanglements, while blaming only Serbs for genocide and ethnic cleansing, which is incorrect. The Serbs were an armature of the former Yugoslavia and probably bothered with these jobs that the Western forces had to carry out, in order to achieve their interests and not ours. The genocide was carried out over a group called "Yugoslavni". They only exist in Serbia, I think between 20,000 and 30,000. Otherwise, they are gone in Slovenia, no more in Croatia, no more in BiH. They disappeared in the '90s. We can conclude that it was under such conditions that there was destruction, total destruction of a group in Croatia, Slovenia, BiH. Ethnic cleansing was conducted on parts of the territory, mostly over Serbs. According to the Croatian list, between 1991 and 2001 400,000 Serbs and 242 thousand Yugoslavs disappeared. If a genocide against the Yugoslavs has not been carried out, then ethnic cleansing has also been carried out in Croatia. In BiH and the Federation, out of 500,000 Serbs, only 2.5% remained, nearly 500 000 Serbs no longer live in homes and territories they have lived in BiH since 1991. In KIM, the non-Albanian population, mostly Serbs, has been expelled or persecuted over nearly 200,000. Over a million Serbs were ethnically cleaned from the territory where they once lived. Now a nation so cruelly ethnically cleaned is accused of ethnic cleansing. Statistics say they're basically victims. Ladies and gentlemen, the Serbs have not committed genocide against the Yugoslavs, they still exist in Serbia and only exist in Serbia, while in other republics of the former Yugoslavia they no longer exist. I also owe it to say, for some other reasons, that, for example, in BiH, the number of Bosniaks, or the percentage of Bosniaks from 43% in 1991, increased to 50.1% in 2001. I use their sources, their lists. The number of Serbs fell 1%. The number of Croats dropped by 2%. Now the question arises - who is the victim, if the Serb and Croat have fewer, and the Bosniak has more, and I have nothing against what more? At the same time in Serbia, the number of Bosniaks increased by 6.75%. I am sorry that this coalition with the programme "Acif Bluta efendija Hadjiahmetovic", which is not here right now, to cross this data, is this information and data that they have provided. In the end, I don't want to be too long, imagine a list committee that needs to list the assets and finances of Dragan Gilas. Imagine if they had to write down the property of Solak and Gilas, these same ones that prevent two-thirds of our citizens from watching their country's national team, imagine that kind of list commission! What kind of passports are they supposed to have, a flock of passports, I'm not just talking about a bunch of passports, I'm talking about these passports, I'm talking about travel documents? I think that would be impossible travel documents, because so many visas in one passport can't stop as much as they have bills and how many countries their accounts and their names say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-30-0.u4752	Thank you, and I'd like to inform you that we are no longer on the air. The word is Alexander Mirkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-30-0.u4753	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, Deputy Prime Minister with an associate, respected fellow Members of the People's Parliament and fellow MPs, above all, I am the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the List just shows how responsibly the Serbian government understands every situation and how realisticly it sees all this worry and torment that today the whole world is plagued by the coronary virus. Of course, in the voting day, we will support this proposal, but speaking of why we have to postpone this list, we must point out, as previous fellow MPs have pointed out on several occasions, the fact that Serbia and in this battle are one of the most powerful countries, if you compare the conditions it has for vaccination, if you compare the conditions that our country is responsible for fighting the Coronus virus. The very fact that we are the only person in the world who offers absolutely free, even four different vaccines to our citizens, shows how responsible the policy is, above all, President Aleksandr Vukic and, in time, the struggle for vaccines has proved to be good and useful for our citizens. Over a year ago, our country faced this coronary virus and this virus found everything in the world. Thanks to the sacrifice of medical workers, the consequences are not yet greater. The Serbian government followed President Alexander Vukic's policy, so we fought daily for every respirator, medical equipment, for every drug, for every mask, for everything that can provide health and safe life for Serbian citizens. The list as a list can show us some serious data and it's done for many reasons, but its delay won't change much, for the simple reason why today the epidemiological situation we're in isn't at an envious level. Although the state is doing everything to reduce the number of infected, unfortunately because of irresponsible individuals who are trying to compare the dangers of the Coronus virus or people who scare anyone who wants to vaccinate, here's the situation that today's numbers are increasing. My colleagues also talked about some figures, and it concerns the list today and comparing it with some previous period, and I think Mr. Todorovic was the best at talking about it when he was presenting numerous data. Serbia still shows today that no matter how some countries in the region have treated us in some recent or distant past, Serbia has shown great courage, great strength, great determination, but it has shown what has long existed in our people, and that is that we are ready to help everyone when they are in trouble. The fact that only in the last three days, therefore, if we take Thursday, Friday, Saturday and Sunday, Thursday is the first official day, but a total of four days should be vaccinated more than 22,000 foreign citizens, only shows how much our country's current strength and power is in this fight against the Coronus virus. One of the previous fellow MPs talked about how we built two Kovid hospitals. Yes, and in Batajnica, and in Kruševec and that only shows that our country is ready in every way possible to presently face the biggest problem in the whole world of reckoning and to preserve every life. But the question is in itself - what would this fight be and what would be the situation in our country today if the people who led our country to 2012 or 2013 were in power today? Col. Rističević mentioned one interesting thing, and we touched it and when we discussed statistics, here is now and the list, these are categories that are always interesting to citizens, for a simple reason, because by comparing some figures you can clearly see where your country or your budget is, or any institution you take as an example is today, and where it used to be. Here we must point out one very important thing, that the state of Serbia since 2014, following those painful reforms that we had to have, economically, in order not to experience the collapse and total bankruptcy brought by Dragan Djilas, Boris Tadic, Vuk Jeremic and that team, the click gathered in the regime of the Democratic Party, every day and every month, our country progresses in economic terms. We are developing further, increasing both wages and pensions. Our land is being built and built. Roads, bridges, traffic infrastructure are also built, and plumbing and sewerage in places where some people thought they would never get water or sewerage for their lives. All this just shows how strong our country is today, so each part of its country can see as equally important and as important, not as in the Democratic Party period, when they were only dealing with urban environments and when their greatest success was to organize some sort of asphalting in downtown Belgrade. Speaking of lists and statistics, I am convinced that this list will be better and better done than the previous one for the simple reason that last time it was done directly I witnessed that some people had abandoned this job only because the representatives of the Democratic Party directly hired them to deal with this list, and they didn't care if they did it properly, so there were errors with both forms and those surveys. It was all there, but on that case we could see how nepotism in practice was restricted by the Democratic Party, and they even dealt with it when it comes to the census. Mr. Risticevic said one very important thing and I will end it. What would happen if statistics and a list were to deal with everything Dragan Gilas has in his account or has in his real estate. So, the list is also when you list accounts in the white world, when you play interesting geography by following the accounts and money flow of Dragan Gilas. The list is also when you're interested, so you walk to Morović and you see that instead of plantation, I know, marijuana, you have chickens, coke stretches, so it can be some statistical information to write down, count how many you have, and then let's inform Marinika Tepic how many there are in the number. The list can be viewed from different angles, but the list is the most important in the part where it is in accordance with the law, when that list clearly serves citizens and when citizens can clearly see the benefits and see the figures they are interested in. Dragan Gilas taught all of us that the list or statistics in his sense means something else, which is that it's very hard to write, remember or somewhere to be a little forgetful that you don't know where you've sown all your money, so you have in more than 17 countries to over 50 and some bills almost 69m euros. The question now arises how he, as an expert in window washing, gum sales and a failed entrepreneur, came up with the statistical data or the number used today to only have 25m euros in real estate, according to his recognition, and richly at 69m euros in these accounts. The competent institutions have, above all, begun to deal with this problem, the Directorate for the Prevention of Money Laundering. Finally, what the Serbian citizens wanted and were looking forward to, and that is to finally find out while they were getting poorer, the citizens were running out of work, Dragan Gilas was getting richer. Dear Ministers, Vice-President of the Government, I want you and in the coming period to succeed as Minister or, above all, Deputy Prime Minister and part of a major team that follows the policy of President Alexander Vukic you have even more success, because for us as MPs, it is most important, and I am confident for all of you, the future of our country, our children. As our list says, for our children – Alexander Vukic and generations to come. Thank you and live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-30-0.u4754	Thank you, Mr. Mirkovic. I also thank the MPs who gave up their application for a word. Does he want to speak to Miodrag Lint? Miodrag Linta: Yes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-30-0.u4755	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I will also welcome and support the bill and amendments to the Law on Population. I think it is a wise and responsible decision to postpone the census for next year for well-known reasons, so due to the pandemic of the virus's coronary and the current process of vaccination of Serbian citizens. In my speech, I would stress the importance of the census in the region. Namely, the census should be primarily a statistical issue, so the total set of data used by one government, one country to create a comprehensive, population, agrarian, social, economic and any other policy, but it is in this region and at the same time an important political issue, particularly regarding the survival of the work of the Serb people living in the area of Southeast Europe. It is well known that in eight countries of the region approximately, according to estimates, lives somewhere slightly less than two million Serbs. Of course, most in Republika Srpska, about a million. The latest censuses show that in 2011, for example, in Montenegro, there were around 180,000 or close to 30%, that the number of Serbs in Croatia was 186,000, the number of Serbs in Slovenia close to 40,000 in 2002, although some unofficial estimates suggest that the Serbs in Slovenia live more than 100,000. Also, the census in Macedonia took place 19 years ago, 2002. At that time, 36,000 Serbs were listed, though estimates show that the number of Serbs is far higher. In Bosnia and Herzegovina, the census was held in 2013. I especially want to highlight the Federation of BiH area, where the devastating consequences of Islamic policy of Ali Izetbegovic are best seen. Nearly 600,000 Serbs lived before the war in the Federation of BiH, and according to the 2013 census, only 56,000 were registered, and I fear the next census will show that the number is significantly smaller. I take only an example of Sarajevo, where on the eve of the war, if we take a significant number of Yugoslavs, or Serbs who pleaded as Yugoslavs, there were more than 180,000 Serbs living in Sarajevo, and according to the 2013 census, only 13,000 and that number is now drastically smaller. I would especially like to highlight the current situation in Croatia. I'm afraid the upcoming list in Croatia will show that the number of Serbs is far less than the number that was listed, I repeat, in 2011. That was 186,000. The Serbs lived in Croatia on the eve of the war, about 700,000. Over half a million Serbs were expelled from Croatia. We see that after the end of the war in Croatia, not only the remaining Serbs, Serb returnees, but also those of the vast majority of the expelled Serbs living in Serbia, Serbia, are being scattered around the world, to a greater or lesser extent. The aim of this policy is to cement ethnic cleansing, to constantly launch criminal charges, to file indictments, to make hundreds of thousands of false judgments, and all with one goal to justify a complete and meaningless lie, a fiction that is defined so-called. a declaration of the Homeland War, adopted by the Croatian Parliament in 2000, by the consensus of all MPs in the Croatian parliament's meeting at the time. The country war declaration says, officially, that Serbia, JNA and the Krajina Serbs have committed aggression against Croatia, that Croatia was the victim of the so-called ". Greater Serbian aggression and that it led to God's righteous freeing, defense war. That's one brutal lie. It's one cynical invention. All the facts clearly show that the main culprit for the war in Croatia was the Ustasha regime of Franjo Tudjman who wanted to finish what Ante Pavelic started in NDH, so to create a clean ethnic Croatian state without or with as little Serbs. I will give a few examples of this policy of scaring Serbian fighters, Serbian veterans. A dozen Serbs have been arrested in the past few months. For example, in October and November, Croatian police arrested eight Serbs, three of whom were detained in an investigative prison. It's the village of Manoslavci near Vukovar. Then, in November, a Krajina Serb who left Belgrade, from the village of Borca, visited his friend in the town of Sekovica in the region of Birac in Republika Srpska, was arrested after crossing Serbia's border into BiH and very quickly delivered to Croatia. In January, in early January, Milenko Djurdjevic, a Vukovar Serb, was arrested on the basis of a Croatian warrant living in Sweden. During January, three Serbs were arrested in Dala, Baranja, who lived peacefully there, as did these three Serbs in the village of Negoslavci. So no one has touched them for 25 years since the end of the war, and now the Croatian police are arresting them based on false statements by a fellow witness. During March, we had the arrest of two Krajina Serbs based on Croatian arrest warrants. On March 4th, a Serb from Banija Savo Grnovic, who lived in Iceland for many years, was arrested at Frankfurt airport. Savo Grnavic has traveled dozens of times in the previous period from Serbia to Iceland and vice versa and has now occurred to someone to construct a false story that he allegedly participated in some kind of war crime in 1991. A Serb from Vukovar Dragutin Hyde was then arrested in mid-March at London's airport. Also, the man who traveled for many years had no problems. Here, four, five days ago, the County Court in Osijek sentenced nine years in prison of Vukovar Serb Milan Gojkovic, who also lived peacefully in Vukovar all the time. Look at that policy of intimidation. So, every little bit of international arrest warrants, Serbian arrests, creates fear among Serbian veterans who fought with honor and courage and a fair fight for their people and the state. Who judges Serbian veterans? I'll make an example of the County Court in Osijek. Remember, it was almost nine years ago, in 2012, spectacular actions by the Croatian police when they raided the Serbian village of Trpinja near Vukovar and arrested 12.13 Serbian people. Of those 12 or 13 arrested Serbs, at the end of 2014, 10 were sentenced to 139 years in prison without any material evidence. In the end, it turned out that they were convicted on the basis of statements by a local drunkard, cabadija, a violent Serb Đurdjevic, who was hired by the Croatian police and who was used to condemn innocent people who are now rotting in prison on God's justice. Those fines are 10, 15, 20 years. Out of 10, only one got out of prison, seven served time in Leprechaun, and two serve time in prison in Clay. Who condemned those ten suffering Serbs? They were convicted by the then President of the Council for War Crimes of the County Court in Osijek Darko Krušlin, for whom we are following the affair in Croatia these days, where the former head of Zagreb's "Dinama" Zdravko Mamic said that Darko Krušlin and a series of judges were giving bribes, taking them on various trips. These are people who are corrupt, vulnerable to influences, who are biased, and this Darko Krushlin, a corrupt judge, has condemned the patients in the past to 139 years in prison. I mentioned just before Milan Gojkovic, who was sentenced a few days ago in Osijek, and was convicted by Zdravko Vekic, also president of the County Court's War Crimes Council in Osijek, who was corrupt, received bribes. Who judges Serbs in Croatia? So they're being tried by corrupt, biased judges based on false evidence, based on false testimony from a fellow witness, and now we need to accept that these judgments of such immoral people are valid and credible. I have repeatedly appealed to the public, and now I want to appeal to Justice Minister Maja Popovic and to send a press release to the Croatian Minister of Justice, to request a meeting and to make it clear that it is unacceptable and unacceptable for Croatia, here, 26 years after the end of the war to continue the policy of intimidation, i.e. the arrest of honorable Serbian veterans on the basis of Croatian arrest warrants. I also urged Mrs Popovic to make a request to the German authorities that Savo Grnović be delivered from prison in Frankfurt to Serbia, to make it clear that the Croatian judiciary is neither independent nor impartial, nor professional justice, that it is an ethnically motivated judiciary, that Croatia, if it has, delivers evidence to our judiciary and we will judge him here. If there is valid evidence, he will be convicted, if he does not, Savi Grnovic, Dragutin Hajdou and all other Serbs should be guaranteed freedom of movement. Also, I think it is important, I repeat, that the state establish an office to assist indicted and suspected Serbs in war crimes that would provide professional, legal and financial assistance to Serbian veterans who are, I repeat, ethnically motivated judiciary, not only in Zagreb, but also ethnically motivated judiciary in Sarajevo. So these people, I repeat, fought honestly and honestly for their people and the state and they want in a fair court procedure to clear their name that they are war criminals. Why did I mention this segment, why is this important? It is important for this reason because this policy of intimidation has a very negative effect on the process of assimilation, the emigration of Serbs from the Federation of BiH and Croatia. I'm just making an example of Vukovar. The city government of Vukovar, led by followers of Ante Pavelic, suspended the Statute of the city of Vukovar, abolished the official use of Cyrillic and Serbian even though it is guaranteed by the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities of 2002. Imagine now, meaning that the Serb population in Vukovar has 34.3% in 2011 and according to the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities Serbs have the right to use the Serbian language and Cyrillic officially if there are at least one third of the population of the local self-government. According to the 2011 census, the Serbs have over 33.3% in 21 municipalities and two cities, in Vukovar and Vrbovska. Now, look, for almost seven years, the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities in Vukovar has been suspended. There is a ban on the use of Serbian language and Cyrillic, therefore, of bilingual boards on institutions and on the use of boards at the entrance and exit of the name of streets, cities, etc. Now look at the opposite case, here, I end up, members of the Croatian national minority in Subotica have 10%, Croatian language in Subotica is one of the official languages. Under our Law on the Rights of National Minorities, the national minority has the right to use its own language and letters if the participation of the national minority in the municipality of the city is 15%. So, in the town of Subotica, members of the Croatian national minority have 10% and we respect that the Croatian language is one of the official languages, and Serbs in Vukovar have 34%, and there is, therefore, a minimum for Serbs to have the right to use the Serbian language and Cyrillic to have 33.3%. Imagine that Serbia now abolishes the use of Croatian language in Subotica. It would raise the hook and the disruptors and the European Parliament and the European Commission and the Council of Europe and the OSC, the UN would say -- look, Serbia is a chauvinist state that does not respect the rights of national minorities. I'm finishing up because there's more colleagues. I repeat, it is very important that we, as a state, insist, because we have heard that there is a tendency in Slovenia to say that in the list of people in the form, there will be no questions about religious and national membership. I don't think that's good. Yesterday, we had a delegation from the Alliance of Serbs in our assembly and we heard that chill of our representatives of the Serb community in Slovenia that we would not have these list questions. It is important that in dialogue with official Ljubljana, we insist that these issues be. We expect these issues will also be on the census in Macedonia and Montenegro. On this occasion, I would like to call on all of our Serbs to contribute to the survival of our people in these countries and, of course, our queen, our government, or the state of Serbia, in the coming period to help their survival and improve their position and to respect their national and religious and cultural identity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-30-0.u4756	Thank you. Does the word want Milos Bandur? Yeah. ) Up to seven minutes, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-30-0.u4757	The Honorable Chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, respected ministers, I really think it is logical to support the law on the agenda, moving the census by six months, especially after consulting the health authorities of the Republic of Serbia. We received the material on March 12th, and the material said that after consulting people dealing with the epidemic and the prognosis on this issue, the list was proposed to be moved by six months. It makes perfect sense to me, given that the process of immunisation is ongoing, i.e. the vaccination of the population. We count that most citizens, most of them in a few months, will be vaccinated and there will be conditions for the census to be done properly in the fall. Since the previous census was completed exactly 10 years earlier, so, October 2011, nothing is lost, it's being shot at the month literally, the 10th anniversary. The mobile population in April and October is the same, which is more static in October than in April, so October is a good month for the census. What I would point out is the additional costs that the list will surely require in such a pandemic or epidemic condition. I see that the costs are higher by about 400 million dinars, it's because of the application of all anti-aemic measures, protective means, etc. So, hiring additional staff, personnel to be engaged in disinfection, cleaning, etc. What I would suggest, as far as the Republic Bureau of Statistics is concerned, which defines criteria for selecting people to make a list, i.e. the censusors and instructors and defines the selection process of the censusors and instructors are required to include in the criteria instructors and censusors, including members of the municipal commissions must be vaccinated immediately before so that they have sufficient levels of antibodies. It's just, I'd put in a condition, maybe it's not in accordance with the Constitution to get into the law now, but the Republic Bureau of Statistics, as someone who prescribes criteria, can include in its criteria people who make a list, and they're about 20,000, 15,000 censusors, and 5,000 instructors are previously vaccinated. That's a very important psychological question, because I think those who want to sabotage the list will go to that map. You know, there's gonna be a case that after the censusor arrives five days someone gets sick in a family, and then they're going to go through some media and they're going to spread information about how the censusors brought in the virus and trying in every way possible to sabotage the list. So I think that the measure of mandatory vaccination of all those who participate in the list is something that is quite logical, and something that has to be a condition. Also, I think that one good epidemic, that is, anti-epileptic course, must be maintained for all those participating in the list, because I see that a large number of people who handle masks don't do it in the best possible way and it's necessary to provide anti-epidmic masks. My people, for a month now, we've known from the funds of public information from the West that regular masks, surgical masks, cotton masks don't protect enough when it comes to the British strain of the virus and that the best protection against the epidemic mask that isn't expensive today, five of them in packing is 180,00 dinars in retail. So, let us provide for the best possible protection for the censusors, teach them how to use it, and be vaccinated before that, so that the people they come to do not fear. In part, the correct statement is that those who have been vaccinated can spread the disease. Yeah, they can spread the infection, but not as much as someone who hasn't been vaccinated. In a month, two will be completely clear what vaccines give, so-called sterilizing immunity, or person who received the vaccine after the development of the antibodies, cannot develop the virus and spread it further. So, the thing will be in the very near future completely clear. I think it's necessary to insist on injecting the censusor, because you have their previous education, where at 700 courses you have about 30 participants per course, so you have to maintain 700 education times 30 people. One part of those people don't live where they're educated, they travel, you have to provide them with a place to stay, a place to eat, and so on, they stay together. In order for all of this to go safely, this particular requirement for all of them to be vaccinated and to have proof of vaccination is in favor of that. So the stories that the person who has been vaccinated can spread the infection, or the thesis, are partially accurate, but the possibility of it is much less, as it is true that the person who has gone over the crown can get infected again, but the probability of it is far less. What my proposal is is a list of the population in October, on time, but with mandatory vaccination, that is, the vaccination of all those involved in the procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-30-0.u4758	Thank you. Since the lists are no longer signed up for the word, I ask if representatives of the parliamentary groups or someone who has not used his right wants to do so now? No, I don't. Thank you. I am concluding a principled search on the draft law. We'll continue tomorrow at 10:00. Thank you.
