ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-01-0.u4864	Thank you, Mr. President. I will ask as well as certain questions to competent institutions specifically concerning a large number of people living in both southeastern Serbia and Serbia. Specific issues are related to the EPS and to the subscription to be paid via the EPS to the public service of RTS. Since we are witnessing that a large number of people in Serbia's territory through the EPS pay and RTS normally expect that coverage and presence from these regions to be on public service which I can say is not exactly so, but the essence of my question is that there is the possibility that a tax paid by all citizens of Serbia, and I am now specifically saying that for areas with difficult conditions of life, for areas of rural areas, for mountainous mountainous areas, where we have a problem that a large number of our residents, these are the crowds of old people in rural areas who had, who lived in those areas, and because of the age of death, their successors die if they don't cut the electricity, and normally it would be that no one turns off the electricity, because that is something that is important, he wants to have a firehouse, those in those houses where they have a reasonable place, except that they pay that fee, electricity, and the tax is also paid specifically for the RTS subscription. This applies to those people who don't live in those houses, and that applies to the economic courtyards. In particular, in our rural areas, there is the possibility that people live in the house, and the economic yard is separated from them 50 or 100 meters, and they, if they have this measuring place and pay for RTS subscription in that measuring place. I don't think it's normal, because cows, sheep, pigs, chickens probably don't watch RTS, and that should normally not be charged to those households. We also have situations when irrigation happens now, we have quality orchards, where people want to deal with irrigation, so that it's all right and they have a measured place and they also have to pay a subscription to RTS. It is an imposition for our agricultural producers and in order for them to not pay it, they should submit certain requirements, it is a procedure, and in the end they lose time, and sometimes they don't do it, but they pay it, and it goes from their budget which is in a difficult situation as it is. My question, is there any possibility that such people who have such problems, that they have two measured places, one where they live, the other are the economic courtyards of the stables and where their source of income is, of which they live, that if there are two dimensions of being in that second place not to pay RTS and that those of them are free and normal it is a need and an invitation to get rid of it as soon as possible, because the essence of it is that the large, largest number of our people living in southeastern Serbia, and also in other areas of mountain mountainous as I have said, are regular subscribers and RTS, and normally pay electricity regularly, and because of their honesty and kindness, they are now paying something more than these friends and fellow citizens living in large centres. For me as a man it's important to get rid of it, not to pay a subscription to RTS in such places where it's already paid for where they live and not to charge. And it should either do it either EPS or coordinate with RTS. Serbia's radio television normally won't give up its fees, but I don't think it's right to charge someone twice, although one household is, and the barn is set aside and there's a measured place there. Once again, I call upon all those in charge to resolve this for the benefit of our farmers and those people whose homes are left in some villages, and they live in some major centers. One more important thing, I'm going to say this now, and for me, this is important to say, for everyone's sake, not to be a April joke, is today April 1st. I'd take the chance today...
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-01-0.u4865	No more chances, since five minutes have passed.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-01-0.u4866	Just to thank our team and our Dragan Stojkovic Pixie, who is from Nis from the Pesja Field, the man who runs the team in the best way, bravo Dragana, bravo Pixi, forward for our Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-01-0.u4867	That's what we agree on. Since as you know, we're going after the strength of the group, but since no one's answering now, these groups aren't picking up any sooner than they have. Here you go, then, Gjorge Milicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-01-0.u4868	Thank you, Mr Dacic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today is exactly 20 years old, since the former president of Serbia and the SRJ was arrested, and a few months later, more specifically on Vidovdan, 28 June, was kidnapped and delivered to The Hague tribunal. This treacherous and shameful act is unique in world history for many things. During the arrest, domestic investigative authorities, Milosevic was suspected of abuse of his official position. Milosevic was the first current president of a state to be charged with war crimes before an international court. After handing over the war crimes indictment to The Hague tribunal in Kosovo and Metohija, war crimes and genocide indictments in Bosnia and Herzegovina were added. I would return for a moment of extradition and a holiday that has an extremely great symbolism in our people, which is Vidovdan. It represents one of our most important spiritual, historic holidays and reminds of the deaths of Serb soldiers in Kosovo far from 1389. This date will remain remembered in recent history as the day of issue unfortunately. Slobodan Milosevic was extradited to The Hague on the basis of a government regulation declared by the Constitutional Court unconstitutional. The Dossov authorities have declared the Constitutional Court a Milosevic, their decision illegal, and thus infrequently violated the constitutional order of a country by meddling in the work of the judicial branch of government, which should also be independent, independent, immune to all types of pressure and all kinds of influence. The interference of the executive branch of power in the work of the judicial authority was never more obvious than at the time. I can't even imagine how the current government would be shown in domestic and world circles if something like this happened today. Certainly as a traitor, a five-wheeler. It can't happen to us today. Everything we do is in the best interest of all our citizens and our countries, which could never be said for our informants. From this time distance, would I ask the government of the Republic of Serbia if the act of arrest and extradition to The Hague tribunal of President Slobodan Milosevic was legitimate? Another very important thing, not only for us from the Socialist Party of Serbia, we believe that the citizens of Serbia deserve the truth, which is Slobodan Milosevic died in The Hague tribunal under suspicious circumstances, and the tribunal's report is a little insulting to the intelligence of every reasonable citizen. The same politicians who handed Slobodan Milosevic over to The Hague tribunal have hypocritically expressed their condolences to the family and the SPS and announced that the government of the Republic of Serbia will seek a detailed report on this tragic event. I'd like to ask another question, is there official information on whether the then government has taken any concrete steps in this direction, which and do we have relevant information about it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-01-0.u4869	Thank you. The word is made by MP Stefan Srbanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-01-0.u4870	Thank you, Chairman. The priority that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, led by Prime Minister Ana Brnabic and in co-operation, has set and designated co-ordination with President Aleksandar Vukic as something of extreme importance is the concern of young people, i.e. the struggle for young people to build their future in Serbia. In this connection, the "Serbia 2025" plan envisions 600,000 euros in funding for these purposes and a way to reach an average salary of 900 euros to 2025. What does it matter? First of all, because the prerequisite for preventing young people from going abroad is a better standard of living and creating conditions, i.e. opening jobs for young people with higher education and for those without a college degree. I am convinced as someone who has spent a part of his life abroad working that nowhere is as beautiful as his home, but at the time when you can live normally from your work and when you have the opportunity to have your knowledge, work and effort evaluated in the right way. What is certainly a positive example and shows that Serbia is on the right track and that things in Serbia are going better when it comes to this topic is certainly "Continental" from Novi Sad, which has employed about 500 young engineers over the past three years. It also encourages the report of the Vienna Institute for International Economic Studies, which determines the inflow of young high-level people in Serbia, and something that is contrary to what we have so far had the opportunity to listen to and these are allegations of brain drains from our country. This institute, I remind you, is not an extended arm of this state and government, but a relevant and recognised institution abroad and its results, the results of its research are obtained by a very precise methodology and is behind all the results obtained. With this in mind, my question today has been addressed to the government of the Republic of Serbia, above all, Prime Minister Ani Brnabic and Resolute Minister Sinisha Malo, as I receive a large number of questions from members of the younger population. These young people, above all, are they interested in the announced construction of apartments for young couples this year, in which cities and municipalities will be built, and what will be the conditions for obtaining them? It is only one segment of everything that the state has defined and what the country's plan is when it comes to young people, but certainly very important and important, because a housing issue has been resolved, the basis for family enlargement and the provision for a safer and more peaceful future. When we add more infants to this, you will agree that the state is doing everything it can to stimulate ethnicity in Serbia and thus ensure the future of the nation's biological future. We are all aware of how much money we spend on vaccines, on tests, on drugs and other medical equipment, and how much money the state loses and the measures it takes to contain the spread of the pandemic. That is why I hope that all these people who are talking to me, that this situation will not disrupt the normal functioning of the state and that it will continue to implement all these projects, that we will continue and keep focus on what capital and the future of this country is, and these are certainly young people. As you can see, respected colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, all of these are concrete proposals and all of this is a concrete policy. The Serbian Progressive Party has been offering solutions to all those issues it hasn't cared about in years and has led Serbia to be a state without perspective and that the thought of every young man in a near past is how to leave this country and to get some papers and documents from a foreign state. I am convinced that we have interrupted this trend and that we are building Serbia as a country capable and suitable to provide all its citizens with a better future and the best conditions for life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-01-0.u4871	Thank you. Since no one's answering anymore, we're going back to work. We move to a unique search on the 6th item of the agenda – Proposal for a decision on the termination of the office of President of the Criminal Court in Negotin, the Court of Fundamental Court in Kruševec and the Court of Fundamental Court in Novi Pazar. I'm asking MPs' groups if they haven't already done so to report immediately. According to Articles 192, paragraphs 3 and 202. Rules of Procedure, I am opening a single search into the motion for a decision. Since I do not see a representative of the promoter, the proposer is the Committee on Justice, we are moving on to the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups. The word has been given to the People's Messenger Muamer Zukorlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-01-0.u4872	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, dear colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, precisely because of the frequent need to appoint in the judicial positions and the leadership positions in the courts, as well as because of the need to stop these functions, the subject of the judiciary has been extremely common here before us. It is certainly necessary to support the proposed steps in a concrete way. We also have a question of ending the position in the new market justice system. The procedural theme and the procedural activity for which the Justice and Reconciliation Party and its MPs will support. Until we experience that we have a healthy judiciary, a judicial system that will be one of the most bright aspects of the whole state and national face, this topic must have both in the National Assembly and on other occasions its presence and we must look at it with more aspects. Of course, to the end we are aware of certain limiting factors when it comes to the judiciary, when it comes to even desire and good intentions when there is a way for the judiciary to work out the way it should actually operate by respecting the principle of separation from executive power, but what is problematic is exactly that limit between independence and independence of the judiciary, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, the mechanisms of control of judges and prosecutors. So, even developed societies or the most developed societies are not exactly able to formulate and define that line precisely and actually establish an ideal balance between judicial independence, on the one hand, and control mechanisms, on the other hand. Imagine what it's like in a transition society, especially in a society where transition takes more than 30 years, where transition is no longer a transition, but a situation that, by its nature, is messy, or extraordinary, but that when it takes so long takes on some aspect of its regularity. So it's like getting used to a certain deviation, that's to make up with that it's normal to live in transition all the time. So that's a question we're not dealing with enough. So the question of when the transition will end is the question raised by the citizens and asked by every free-minded man and what is the way in which the transition ends. So it's a kind of overall political but also cultural-civilization agony in which societies so-called. Eastern European countries, or those countries that were under the eastern communist bloc. True, some countries are more successful on that road out of transition, but we here in the area of the former Yugoslavia, unfortunately, have not yet seen the point at the end of this tunnel. It is certainly to welcome everything that the state, or its government, is taking on that path and perhaps in the field of activity, or economic and economic activities, we have had the most significant results, of course now again faced with the challenge and the test of the pandemic and the layer of crisis that this trial is causing. But what is very important is that we at the level of political elites and intellectual elites should not or should not be reconciled with the transition becoming a normal state. We need to keep reminding ourselves that we are on that road and that we should finally stop at that hill and end that kind of our condition. So it's a state that burdens us, which has its implications. Unfortunately, there is also the most common question of consciousness. What should be one of the topics of our and political intellectual elites is, in fact, the question of our consciousness and what we do about the formation of healing and improvement and awareness. True, the issue of reform was once a very popular issue, but now it is no longer a popular issue of reform. The very word, the concept of reform itself, is quite a spent term, and now that you say "reform," you can only hear a joke at the expense of that topic because, in fact, what was expected of the concept of reform and the reform itself has so much, I say, failed in expectations. So, the people are disappointed by the idea of reform itself. I don't know, we need to find another word, but we need to continue with the healing, both personal and family and systemic healing. However, why have almost all or most of the reform processes and reforms that we have launched in the last three decades or especially for the last two decades, why have they entered a stalemate, why have they entered into a certain collapse and why have the reforms not yielded results? So, probably this question is not for Parliament's speech until the end, but it's in some way a symposium question that should be answered with multiple aspects, because it's very classy and requires an insight into all aspects of that layering, but definitely it is important for us here too. So reform is a kind of, as I said, healing and the question is whether reform can succeed if the activity is carried out by those who, first of all, don't believe it, and on the other hand, who can freely say, are viral or infected by those ideas that have led to the need for reform. So this is one of the key issues of judicial reform and education reform and reform in various other fields. So, you, in order to reform the judiciary, and you know that there have been several attempts in recent years, are usually formed certain groups, working groups, certain commissions tasked with preparing either strategies or plans or concrete programmes of these reforms. But you, when you see, usually in these groups, are again the most influential, dominant in the sector, and it's usually the most influential ones that have ever been the most influential before, and you actually just have the same spirit that's actually going to try to change or find a new package through reform. We have a continuation of this content, because the powerful are usually powerful, especially in closed systems, what kind of justice is. So, then you can't... Powers from these positions are very difficult to break down, because when you try to break them down, when you try to control them, when you try to sanction them, you actually face that excuse that executive or legislative authority interfere in the jurisdiction of the judiciary and that, in fact, you do not respect the principle of separation. The judicial authorities give you a whole bunch of answers and counter-attacks on the subject, and then, in fact, you stop or you have neither legal nor procedural mechanism to deal with, or exclude them from the influence on these processes. What today is a disease of the judiciary can also be seen through this prism, that one reason is that. You when you look at certain personnel in the justice system, especially the prosecution, because especially all the power to rule human lives in the justice system is either mainly in the prosecutor's hands, because they're the ones who actually decide on human destiny -- to arrest, not arrest, to extend custody, not send to custody, etc. In fact, there is a concentration of power and, on the other hand, a concentration of corruption. You, if you follow a lead or the path of certain names, certain personnel in the prosecution, you will see that these people, despite the fact that they can receive a number of information about them, about corruption involvement, about crime, you will see how long they last. One of these names is a certain Vojislav Isailovic, an assistant, or deputy prosecutor for organised crime, which was set up during the so-called so-called. democratic authorities, which lasts so long. Otherwise, well-known for its connection with certain criminal, tycoon and other corrupt groups, it is very well paid by these groups and with a very banal motive -- that certain competitors and competition are being expelled. So, to his friends who pay him, and that's how a man works in the prosecution, at the very top, in such a delicate thing, when it comes to organized crime. So we're wondering, then, what we've got in recent weeks, the actuality of the organized crime, where we have a significant public who supports it, as well as, I'm sure, most of the political entities, especially here in the National Assembly. As you know, MPs of the Justice and Reconciliation Party, as well as the entire structure of this party at the top of the programme scale, are fighting corruption and organised crime, and with attention and support we are monitoring all these attempts to deal with organised crime. However, it is easy to go over it when we read in the daily press or we see or hear on other media how many criminals and these organised criminal groups have had the edge with certain state structures. Let's read that, we even get names, we get numbers on how many members of the MUP have had an impact on how many prosecutors, how many judges. We hear it all and we read it, and then we squeeze out for a few minutes and move on. The more we get information like that, the more it looks like it's getting normal. That's exactly the problem. The problem is that when you have inflation of bad phenomena, not to say inflation of evil, I guess that would psychologically defend himself he starts to get used to these abnormalities and, when you permanently bomb him with such phenomena, he at some point to save his mental health and his family's mental health says -- well, what are you going to do, so mind your own business. In fact, criminals and criminal groups and those structures that represent the carriers of corruption, they and they want to tire us out, to get bored in a way that we say -- well, well, people, so what, they're so powerful, so strong, they can't be, he's a prosecutor, he's guaranteed a position, you can't touch him, you can't touch him, come on, he's fine, he can get revenge on you tomorrow, he can turn his pipes against you. In other words, mind your own business. So that atmosphere isn't good. It's not a good atmosphere where we get used to bad phenomena and evil. We have to be loud about it. The most important volume to be expected is actually from the National Assembly. We here, therefore, get dozens of hours of direct transmission at the public service. So if that were to go into these marketing seconds, you could think how much would it cost? So it's a huge national state resource that has been allocated to us to the MPs. That's why we need to use those expensive and most expensive minutes and seconds that we've been given at our disposal in the best possible way. To hear, yes, of course, both our voters and our citizens to hear what we think about it, but also to influence them with the highest quality, the healthiest of their minds that they see they haven't made a mistake by choosing us here to represent them during this term. If we here, therefore, do not show courage or, God forbid, show a certain cowardice, a certain selectivity that those in the strongest prosecutorial and judicial positions should not be called upon, we must not point to them... True, we don't have executive authority here, we can't arrest here, we can't make judgments, thank God and we don't need them, because we are the highest legislative, highest representative and highest supervisory authority, but from that position and from those three roles that are strategically important, we have to have very loud views over which we will emancipate and free the citizens, so that those in organized crime structures, in the structures of criminalized judges, criminalized prosecutors don't see super power that can't be resisted. I would like to inform here and the National Assembly and the public that my complaints about the behavior of the Pirot traffic police at the border crossing after the City border crossing, as you know that there is a huge frequency at that border crossing, dozens of buses from Novi Pazar circulating across Bulgaria towards Istanbul. Imagine now a bus that has 50 passengers coming back from Istanbul, which passes all the border police and customs procedures, 200 meters behind the border, people tired, driving more than 10 hours from Istanbul, stopping traffic patrol and harassing people, throwing out all passengers, throwing out a driver, one, with one policeman staying on the bus, negotiating with him. You can imagine why a policeman negotiates with one driver in four eyes, brazen, impertinent, threatening. Of course, in the end, it ends with blackmail and rackets. That's what the new market carriers are telling me, and they're asking me to raise my voice about it, and here I am doing it right now. So, I call on the Ministry of State, which I have to say at the level of the Minister, is cooperative and always responds positively and inventively when it comes to similar cases, but this is not a question that needs to be solved by one intervention, this is a question that needs to be resolved by the processing of these blatant police officers who see themselves as some local sheriffs, who can simply be robbed for years by these people who have been struggling to make money transporting passengers. So what we're asking the minister and the competent authorities in the MUP to do is to take the necessary action, that such people are being processed, that such people can't be cops. A cop on the ground, on the street is actually the first face of the state, and that's what's in direct communication with the citizen. You can have an ideal government-level state, at the level of the Assembly, at the level of the ministries, at the level of senior authorities, but if we have problems on that first line of communication between citizens and police officers, citizens and other officials, then we still have a problem. That's why you have to go all the way. It must not be allowed for those local cowboys to be away from Pirot, that all of this is far from the centre, from Belgrade, so that it can be neglected. That's why we are the People's MPs here so that every voice we have from the field can be passed on here, because we are messengers, because we have been sent. The people sent us here to represent him, and we have to do it extremely consistently and in a way that will benefit the citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-01-0.u4873	Thank you. The word has an authorised representative of SDPS, MP Sanja Jefic Brankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-01-0.u4874	Thank you. Dear President, colleagues and fellow MPs, today we are considering a motion for a decision on the termination of the office of President of the Criminal Court in Negotina and the basic courts in Kruševec and Novi Pazar. The reasons for the termination of their duties are, in the case of one of these judges, the completion of the working century, i.e. with the remaining two judges, the appointment of the senior judge, or for the judges of the higher rank. I am sure that these judges in their work so far have made their full contribution and development and improvement, as well as the reforms of the judiciary itself, but they are also aware that by appointing more positions, i.e. the functions of the courts of higher rank, they also have greater responsibility for the implementation, i.e. to continue the development of the judiciary and their contribution in this regard. I will remind you that over the past 10 years, Serbia has been going through a comprehensive judicial reform, and it has necessarily been facing a number of difficulties. When I say that, I mean transferring the case to other courts, opening up the department of individual courts, adapting buildings, human resources solving problems, or human resources, etc. All of this was somewhere in order for the new organisation of the courts to present all the burden of reform, which as such would be functional, would result in the visible development of the judiciary itself in our country. That doesn't mean that we still don't have problems with the functioning of the courts themselves, and I'm going to mention what's very often in public, and that's a large number of old cases we still have. We still have procedures that take too long and very often, so I can say to the unprofessional public, the need for courts to resolve certain procedures as soon as possible, or to solve them quickly. I think that speed is not a feature of the courts, or their actions, but that it should be left to the police authorities, to the investigating authorities, to the inspection bodies, but not to the courts. Any link that exists within a single judicial system must make its full contribution, in order for the efficiency of the judiciary and the work of the judges to be seen in the end. I'm not saying that this is an excuse for overdoing certain cases, but every judge, and you'll agree with me, I'm sure, must also make some personal contribution when we talk about how in certain procedures and how they will act, at what speed and what efficiency. I think I've already mentioned an example of the Court of Appeal in Nis, which for several years has been fully fulfilling the program of solving old cases and he doesn't have old cases today if we count the moment these cases came to the Court of Appeal until the moment of their resolution. Or, for example, the problem of writing delivery in Novi Pazar as a good example that has increased the efficiency of writing delivery by as much as 80%. Personally, I believe that all of these good examples that we have in various courts in Serbia should be used, that they should be adapted or adapted in some other courts, so that as a result, there is efficiency in work, if not all, then at least most of the judges we have in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Also, I think there is plenty of room for improving the judiciary, i.e. the judiciary, in terms of agreeing on issues in question. Judges know this matter much better than I do, because this is what they meet in everyday work, but I think that the amendments and the additions of the law are sometimes passed or too quickly, because of the importance or urgency of the issues involved and that from the very beginning they have certain legal gaps that may not be seen at that time, but later they cause major problems in the process of bringing judges into line when it comes to them. I'll give an example, let's say, when a whole new kind of dispute occurs, it's natural for judges and judges to not have a built-up view of dealing with a particular case and it may be one of the things that may have been neglected, but which should be given a particular attention, because it leads to security in a single state legal system, which builds and trust citizens in the same. All of this time has led to a decline in the very importance of bringing the issues in question into line, but we should not allow that, for the reasons that the presidents of the court are precisely those who are obliged to follow these reconciliations all the time, and that as long as there is a need for at least any issue that arises as a disputed solution, to organise meetings, to try through various colleges or meetings with departments of others, try to reach one common position. Here is also a significant contribution from the Supreme Cassation Court and its decisions and conclusions from the session of the department on the unification of court practice and I think we should pay more attention to this. This leads me to think about the change and normative framework in the work concerning the independence of judges in making decisions and conduct of court proceedings, especially with respect to the prejudgment of innocence as one of the fundamental human rights in each legal system, and also in ours. This means that there should be normative changes in that part which would oblige the imposition of a ban on commenting on court proceedings during their duration, and in particular to ban the violation of the presupervision of innocence by presupposing appropriate sanctions for such conduct. Why do I say that? I say this because we are witnessing an increasingly frequent commentary of court proceedings and violation of the presumption of innocence, especially by means of public information, and it can lead to the harassment of citizens, the public and the creation of a completely wrong picture of the responsibility of a person for a criminal act and before the court proceedings itself is initiated. I think we need to pay attention to that. The mechanisms are enough, and we have how effective we will be and what measures we will take to solve this problem in this context. The development of justice has also been set as a strategic priority of the government of the Republic of Serbia and it implies not a short-term but rather a long-term process, which, with all its changes in the end, should lead to the creation of full trust of citizens in judicial institutions, because this is the only way to achieve the rule of law and that we can safely say that Serbia is a legal state in which not only human rights are respected but also the laws this Parliament is making. I would also mention that in the last six years, the European Union has given full support to the rule of law and the development of justice in Serbia, thus financing only at the moment EU assistance to judicial reforms worth more than 13.5m euros. In the end, today, even though it seems so, we are not just talking about the termination of the functions of judges in a negative context. On the contrary, the judges of the basic courts in Kruševec and Novi Pazar took over the functions of the Judges of the Court of Appeal, or the Great Court, and that is why today we may also have to talk about what is before them as tasks, in order to respond to increased responsibility by appointing these functions. That's why I'm gonna end up texting them, and I hope they understand it the right way. To begin with, judges must have both integrity and authority and have to perfect themselves and work on themselves and therefore I advise them to judge by their conscience, because the conscience is the best friend of justice, to judge by their character, because it provides them with impartiality in making decisions and to be innovative and open to the suggestions of their colleagues, because they also show their expertise, but also the willingness to be efficient in their work. So on the day this is decided, the Social Democratic Party, starting with social justice, will provide full support to one of these proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-01-0.u4875	Thank you. The word has been made by the deputy president of the JS Group of Members of the People's Parliament of Life Starcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-01-0.u4876	Dear President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we are on the agenda to discuss the resolution of the President of the Criminal Court in Negotin on the basis of his retirement, on the discharge of the President of the General Court in Krusevec, who was appointed to the President of the Court of Appeal in Kragujevac, as well as the decision to dismiss the President of the General Court in Novi Pazar, who, meanwhile, was elected Judge of the Great Court in Novi Pazar. Article 74(3) The law on judges says that the decision to dismiss the President of the Court is made by the National Assembly as the highest legislative body of this state to draw it out of the will of the people who voted for this and this assembly. Of course, the JS Parliamentary Group will support these proposals in the voting day, as we have repeatedly pointed out to advocate the independence and independence of the judge-holders and not only that we have already spoken and we are saying that we are first and foremost in favour of strengthening the capacity of our judiciary to respond to the challenges of today, the challenges of the information society, the information era in which we have stepped up, the challenges of today when the importance of social networks is growing more and faster and today when we have a situation where journalism and the media are becoming less neutral and independent and, as I say, objective, and increasingly holding some side, one or the other in some ideology or politics. We could see that in the US elections, where the media openly supported one side or the other, but I think that in Serbia we could best see it during the preparation of the world public for the illegal and unconditional bombing of Serbia by the NATO Pact during 1999. Somewhere since then, it has become perhaps the most brutal, to say the least, and it has started to repeat itself in other situations. Namely, this practice to first prepare the public and spread false news which will be an excuse for the actions taken by the one who spreads the false news. Remember Račka, remember the refugee columns under the name and the camps in northern Macedonia and Albania, remember Markal. All of these were pre-cut events, which, with great media manipulation, led to the terrible consequences of war and bombing. But there were no social networks at the time. Their appearance and their increasingly significant role, the placement of false news has never been easier than it is today. Never more important had social networks than today during the Kovid 19 pandemic, when residents around the world are in the fight against the pandemic, and in accordance with the requirements of keeping physical distance, often locked, closed in their homes and their social activities, social activities, because man is primarily a social and social being, they transferred social networks and platforms for online communication. There are, of course, good sides, but they'll admit you, never easier than never more than today, there's no room to place false news. This is especially today, at a time of pandemic and mass immunization, a particularly sensitive issue regarding human and nation health. We are witnessing an increasingly aggressive and brazen appearance of people spreading false news and spreading panic in people, all in order to undermine the immuneisation process in the fight against the Kovid 19 pandemic. These people go so far as to even deny the existence of the virus itself, and at the moment today, more than 2.8 million people died from the effects of the Coronus virus in the world, and in Serbia 5,270 of our fellow citizens. In this situation, the issue of anti-vaxer activity on social networks can not only be a health issue, since by spreading false news, spreading panic, sowing hate and anger towards those who have vaccinated or those who plan to vaccinate, they undermine the process of immunisation, and thus the fight against the pandemic. Arturo Grafi said in time - knowledge and justice speak, and ignorance and injustice cry out. As we speak in the language of science all the time, in the language of arguments, we appeal to respect for scientific facts, they shout all the time, giving no argument and knowingly breaking the law and spreading injustice. I'm even inclined to conclude that the background of this is not their ignorance, but the conscious and deliberate spread of prejudice, and we know that nothing goes beyond the truth of prejudice, even ignorance is closer to truth than prejudice itself. So, undermining our country's efforts, the health ministry, medical workers to preserve people's lives, these people are making conscious damage to this society and breaking the law. In fact, I recently said that these people, by their activities on social networks, by spreading false news and panic, are in violation of the Criminal Law in the act against public order and peace, Article 343, but I am sure that they are also violating other members of the Criminal Law, which are related to the preservation, that is, the threat of human health and safety. That's why our judiciary is on a special trial today, because I think it's high time that the people who are carrying out these socially extremely harmful and dangerous activities are being processed to be punished, because that is the only way we can stop this extremely negative social phenomenon. This appeal to the judicial authorities is not an attempt to influence the independence and independence of the holder of judicial functions, because the holders of judicial functions are independent and independent today in Serbia in their work, but the holders of judicial functions must not and cannot be estranged from such large social issues and problems. Judges are not judges of any imagination, they are judges of the Serbian state and Serbian citizens who chose them as holders of judicial functions. We of the JS consider that the principles of judicial independence to be the central postulate of a democratic society and of a order based on the rule of law, but we believe that judicial independence is not and must not be seen as the privileges of a branch of state or of a court office, but rather as an institutional means of protecting human rights and freedom. By doing so, judges must protect them in accordance with the law the best interests of citizens and peoples who chose them in those positions. As health care professionals are today the primary task of combating pandemics, so judges today must be the primary task of fighting all those who undermine all efforts by state authorities and institutions in the fight to preserve human health and life. There is no more important fight today than fighting the pandemic, because by fighting the pandemic, we are also fighting for a faster recovery of our economy, to preserve jobs, to protect the living standards of the population, for higher wages and pensions, to create new jobs. In this fight we must all participate, we must all make our contribution to defeating this 21st century monster and we must not allow those who sit on the sidelines to entangle us in our efforts and efforts. Therefore, from this point on, I am giving all my support to the holders of judicial functions to make their contribution to this fight in such a way that it is uncompromisingly, quickly and effectively in accordance with the existing legal regulations that these irresponsible and evil-doing individuals will stand in the way. This quickly and efficiently means not only the first-degree verdict, but also the second-degree decision, according to complaints. Why? Because fighting the pandemic of Covid 19 is a kind of struggle with time. The worst thing that can be done on the tenth is that the verdicts they make in a primary or criminal court are returned by appeal, as is the case in the case of threats to top state officials and their families lately. That's why I said at the beginning that we need to strengthen our judiciary's capacity to meet today's demands, information society's demands, digitalisation of social networks, to fight false news and spread panic. The most important part of it is the judges. A good judge, the one who has sworn to judge by law and justice, who is dedicated to his work, professional and faithful oaths he has made and if he respects the universal values of society, this judge was, is and will be independent and independent and respected in society. Those individuals who are fortunately very few, who in all respect their own personal or political interest were not, nor would they be independent judges, because they tied their position to a personal or other interest, not to law and justice, and to the interests of society and the state whose judges are. I am convinced that we are making a good choice today, or today we are solving judges who have mostly gone to higher functions, obviously thanks to their good and quality work. We hope that they too will see this appeal and this desire to join in the fight for the fastest, better and more quality fight against the Kvid 19 pandemic as an appeal towards the benefit of all citizens of Serbia. That is why the Single Serbia will vote in favour of this proposal in the voting day and support any similar proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-01-0.u4877	Thank you, colleague Starčević. The word has the mandated representative of the SPS, MP Tom Phil.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-01-0.u4878	Madam Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues representing this people, nationalities or whatever you want, we are all here together to speak what the people deserve. To do this part, first formal, in the voting day, the SPS MPs will vote - yes. It is my personal regret that this law has been withdrawn from the courts, because I would vote for it. It discourages us to consider proposing laws if we withdraw. Today, on April 1st, 20 years as the founder of the SPS, former SRJ and Serbia, Slobodan Milosevic, was arrested. He was arrested in a double-crossed manner, with lies, with a false promise not to arrest him for extradition to The Hague and that he will not be extradited to any international court or to The Hague. I'm a lawyer, and I'm very careful about the words I use. I don't need parliamentary immunity. What I'm saying is true. I'm saying it's a double-crossed way, because it's been cheated. Today I'm listening, there's this "Family" show that I'm not going to comment on, and today some of them never heard from you, and they have no idea what was in those guarantees, and whether there was a guarantee, and they never heard it, they didn't see it. In front of this honored home, I brought you two documents. Both of them are here and I will read to you what was promised that night when I was and what Ceda Jovanovic brought with him. You'll let me, I have time to read you completely from beginning to end. The statement reads - We are the undersigned, officials of the SRJ and the Republic of Serbia, clearly defined to implement the law and set up a rule of law, and in order to prevent further unnecessary victims, I declare, I warn you of the law, that this is why the DOS regime is removed. They're for the law. I haven't heard anything funnier or poorer. A criminal trial brought before the Belgrade District Court against Slobodan Milosevic, the former president of the Republic of Serbia, the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the president of the SPS was not initiated at the request of the International Criminal Tribunal for War Crimes in the former Yugoslavia, but because of a reasonable suspicion that he committed a crime under Article 26. KZ SRJ. It will be resolved before the SRJ judicial authorities. So, the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, the judicial authorities. We guarantee Mr Slobodan Milosevic that during the trial he will have uninterrupted communication with his family and the family of Mr Milosevic, personal property security is guaranteed, including the possibility of using a residential facility in Užička 11-15. This is the villa ‘Peace’. Since Milosevic, the signatories, is the most important, SRJ President Vojislav Kostunica, President of the Republic of Serbia Milan Milutinovic and Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia Dr Zoran Djindjic. Since we didn't have enough of this, because it was a guarantee not to be arrested, and not not to be extradited, Mr. Jovanovic left for another document. Another document called Anex One - Slobodan Milosevic will not be handed over to any judicial institution or other institution outside the country Annex Two – Slobodan Milosevic is guaranteed a daily visit to the family. For the Annex one and two -- under the authority of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, who had, Dr Zoran Djindjic, signed Cedomir Jovanovic in Belgrade on the night I was, on April 31st, 1st. So, don't waste time on TV not knowing if they were documents, whether the guarantees were made. Don't lie to the DOS if there wasn't an American presence. He was an American ambassador with $50 million. That's why he was here. You had to arrest the president of the former on March 31st to get 50 million. Ladies and gentlemen, Judas Iscariot sold Jesus Christ for 30 silver pieces. The Serbian government sold Milosevic for $50m, it looks like the silver coins picked up. In their government they did criminal privatisations, corruption and all sorts of things, that today we're discussing them and you're talking about them. I read you all this to prove that he was arrested in a double-crossed manner. It's the longest night of my life. I was a lawyer for Slobodan Milosevic, not a member of the SPS, I was not in any party. The mouth was full of all those I contacted, the laws and laws of Yugoslavia and the Constitution of Yugoslavia and the Constitution of Serbia, everything was – we must apply the laws. Then they decide to send him to The Hague. I asked for an assessment of the Constitutional Court of Yugoslavia's decision, whether it was extradition under the Constitution. Friday, I don't know what date it was on the eve of Vidovdan. On Friday, the Constitutional Court announced a decision that Slobodan Milosevic cannot be extradited to The Hague. It will enter Serbia's history that we are the only country in which the government has handed over its former president. Do you know what courtesy is in America? The new president gives the president an abject so that someone doesn't harass him according to various procedures. Decision, I listened to the lawyers who congratulated me back then, that I thought of it. We went to the bar together, and I said I saw Zoran Zivkovic, a former MP here, sitting down and saying he was convicted. He said afternoon – today Milosevic is going. While we were sitting, they tried to invite me to go to jail, so I guess I told him the decision, and in fact they packed me up to go after Tuzla's helicopter with Slobodan. Who would I explain to today if I hadn't betrayed him and not sold him out and not shared that 50 million maybe? Evidence that they were acting against the constitution, proof that it was a cowardly procedure, so they couldn't get one judge to sign it. They found some ministry officer who sold himself out for nothing, and the warden of the prison gave him to take him out without a court ruling. Well, it wasn't Slobodan Milosevic who went to prison for what was going on, but because the Belgrade District Court decided that.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-01-0.u4879	Mr. Risticevic, I ask you not to comment. No one comments when you're discussing and I ask you to listen to Mr. Phil. Whether you like it or not, that's another thing. (Marian Risticevic: Are you looking up? Listen, the time of October 5 is over. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-01-0.u4880	Mr. President, I'm sorry... (Marian Risticevic: Is it a private assembly? )
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-01-0.u4881	Mr. Risticevic, don't comment while someone's discussing. If you'd like to take your word for it, please. We've always been correct with you personally. I don't understand what that means. (Marian Risticevic: eleven minutes. He's an authorised representative, he has 20 minutes to speak. If you don't like it, I understand.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-01-0.u4882	Does Mr. Risticevic mind me saying something? I've got 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-01-0.u4883	Here you go, Mr. Phila.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-01-0.u4884	I don't know if I should get a permit from you? Stick to your silos and don't talk about anything you don't know. That night they broke the Constitutional Court's decision, packed a man. And now let me tell you something else, I'll use 20 minutes to tell you what it was. First, it was tried in a gangsta way to steal Slobodan Milosevic on Friday, take him to Tuzlo, and say some gangsters gathered him. These were people who had stolen weapons from Mother Jerosima, here near, sat in their coats and tried. It didn't work, because Pavkovic kept Kobra back then. But the next day Pavkovic retreated. He ordered the army to withdraw and take the weapons with them. Interestingly, there was one BOV, a combat armored vehicle with a machine gun facing the gate. There was ammunition on the machine gun. They expected one of us there, not me, of course, not the Socialists, to have some different people, to jump on it, to start shooting and be declared a coup, to attempt a coup and ban the Socialist Party of Serbia. Why would Pavkovic pull guns and guns and leave the BOV? It's a combat armored vehicle, who served the army knows what it is. I've never seen anything desperate, more miserable in my life than I've spent that night. Well, they're handing him over to Vidov day, on the most holy day of our day. Is it possible that those 30 silver coins are worth that much? They're so worth it, they started stealing and lying that day. Well, they set this assembly on fire to light the ballots. Who counted those 500 thousand, which Kostunica allegedly received more? You know when the election's over? You know very well when you sign the records. Where are your records? Who was counting those voices? Believe me, I don't speak as a socialist, I speak as a citizen and a lawyer, who could have done that night... Well, look how this could have been done with dignity, the way Slobodan Milosevic was. He was not a man who would seek to kill himself or kill anyone, nor tried, nor did he think of it, nor was he armed. Only Maria had that gun she fired from when we left, but not to Chadda, as they say, but to the investigative judge who happened to be there. Why was Cedomir Jovanovic sent? He could've been killed there if something came up. Why didn't Kostunica come to talk to his predecessor? Well, if he didn't want to give him a headache, then tell him why they sent him to prison. But there's a reason for that. Well, if it wasn't him, why didn't Zoran Djindjic come? He didn't have a hard time coming, so he came to the sofa, while people were banging in pots and pots. Secretary Milosevic told me - come to Tomo if you want to see him, there he is sitting on the three-seat Zoran Djindjic. Of course, they kept it from Vuk Draskovic, for example, whose MPs sat here, and later confessed. They just didn't agree on the finance minister, I think. So, he could have come by and told Zoran Djindjic. That's why I used the word fraud. Lies, lies started, and when you start power with lies, then you get to stealing very quickly, because whoever lies and steals. I read this to you on purpose, so that people don't get out. They're lying today. I'm listening to comments about this "Family". That family isn't a documentary, don't believe everything that's in it, it's a game. I've been there longer on that show than I really was, but that doesn't matter, it doesn't matter. What matters is that it's not true that he pointed the gun at himself, etc. If they had come to talk to him as people, with Slobodan, he would have gone where he agreed. There was no plan, there was no desire to die, and I knew if anything came up, we'd die. What the Legion told me - Tomo, I know you, I'll keep you safe. How? Like Mirko and Slavko? Watch out, Mirko, and he'll get out of the way. If something had happened, I don't even know why they sent that sinful Chad. They say if there is, if people die, the least shame is for him to die. He was young, he wasn't even married. When he was extradited to The Hague, they called me to the Russians and the Russians told me, so I can't say that, but the Russians told me that the new 60 million had given the Americans for the head of Slobodan Milosevic. I didn't know that night that the ambassador who brought in $50 million insisted on being arrested alive, because he wasn't sure he was gonna be alive. Then they told me they gave an extra 60 million for him. The price of Judas's silver coins has increased. They killed a man in The Hague. They didn't kill him with a gun, they didn't kill him with poison, they killed him with exhaustion. Do you know what it looks like out there? He had a bedroom where he slept and a room across the street where he kept his papers. From the dust and all that, they give you one million pages to get exhausted. The last one was seen by Pavle Bulatovic, my good friend, God rest his soul. He told him I couldn't take it anymore, I'm tired, go talk to my lawyers, I'll sleep and he never woke up again. That's what I want to tell you. It's a disgrace to Serbia. No one betrayed, betrayed or sold their president, worse, it never was. So even the Americans, I was defending at The Hague then, and I went upstairs and everyone told me -- how could you give the president? Look at the Austrian example. Did we prove that Kurt Waldheim was in Kozara as a lieutenant and he was the president of Austria, so no one tried him, no one sent him anywhere? They waited nicely for four years to go away.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-01-0.u4885	Mr. Phila, it's been 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-01-0.u4886	I'm sorry, Mr. President, but there's a lot of anger in me.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-01-0.u4887	Thank you. The word has a folk emissary Jelena Žarić Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-01-0.u4888	Dear President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we have a motion for a decision on the termination of the office of President of the Criminal Court in Negotin, the Court of Fundamental Court in Kruševec and the Court of Fundamental Court in Novi Pazar. As a member of the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government, I would like to say that certain conditions have been met in each specific case, in each individual case, which is why the Committee on Justice, State Administration and Local Self-Government and submitted the proposal to the National Assembly and nothing is disputed. On the other hand, it is convenient that when we talk either about laws that directly refer to judges or when we talk about the election or termination of the functions of judges and prosecutors to refer to the situation in the judiciary, how it is today, but also to recall some of the situations that marked the period until 2012 in our judicial system. It is an opportunity to talk about some current political topics, so let it be the day-to-day policy topics that are important to our citizens, to be informed and to understand how the budget of the Republic of Serbia was spent or, for example, the budget of the city of Belgrade while Dragan Gilas was mayor. This topic, which I will briefly discuss today, and how it has to do with the judiciary, i.e. the obligation and the judges to act in accordance with the law, to make decisions in accordance with the law and whether it is a member of a political party or not. So I expect a reaction from the state authorities in one particular thing that a lot of my colleagues and colleagues have talked about here at the tide. Although we know that in certain media and social networks we will be marked, that we will be insulted and demeaned, but for the sake of truth, which Serbian citizens are willing to hear and on which Serbian citizens are entitled, we will continue here in parliament to contribute to the fight against fraud and crime. In recent days, we have had the opportunity to see the results of the investigative journalism that the journalists "News" met with, and I think that many have surprised the amount of money associated with Dragan Gilas, although we have been suggesting, but in any case with Dragan Gilas, or with his accounts or accounts from his companies abroad. It is certainly the amount he did not report, did not present to the competent state authorities when he began to deal with politics, which further opens up a series of issues and the question in which such money was obtained and whether there was abuse of position in his political career. Furthermore, how is it possible that while Dragan Gilas was in power, Serbia was poor and failing, and his accounts were being charged with money? The next question is whether the money may have something to do with the affairs that relate to Dragan Gilas while he was in Belgrade Mayor's seat, and I would remind you that many of his associates from that period have been arrested and processed precisely for pumping money from the Belgrade city budget while individuals have become rich. Because of all these issues, we are insisting here on investigating and applying the law, first of all, that Serbian citizens learn the truth, because it's about their money, it's about money from the budget, to find out whether Dragan Gilas may be connected through a certain Pascal Schmidt to as many as 34 companies in Switzerland, because by searching the Swiss business portals, you can see that a certain Pascal Schmidt is an authorized person in as many as 34 companies, including Gilasovo. So, it's a company that was named "Multicom Open AG" until 28 December last year, when it changes its name to "Open International AG", whose signatories are just Dragan Gilas and Schmidt, and the fact that three times the recapitalisation has been carried out, i.e. the increase in funds in the account and the change of names, are already in their own right to suspect that money laundering and tax avoidance are involved. Besides, there's another firm. Ascanius LLD is suspected of operating behind which is also the name Dragan Gilas, whose account has nearly sixm euros in Mauricias. Furthermore, Gilas has an account in Hong Kong with more than threem euros, and again as authorised persons, Dragan Gilas and Pascal Schmidt, as well as dozens more in nearly 17 countries. So, in addition to this and how this is related to the subject of justice, judges and other state bodies, except that I expect our state authorities to be involved in an investigation to do their part of the job, to check all the allegations, there is obviously the possibility that the state authorities of those countries in which accounts are located abroad, and it is clear how much the situation has gotten the whole case and why Dragan Gilas is nervous about addressing citizens, in addressing journalists, because he is probably not sure where all the accounts exist and the amounts are being dealt with. Of course, instead of clarifying all this to the citizens, instead of answering all the questions, he's going deeper and deeper, he's going from lying to lying, and finally when you look at the way he's been answering the questions of the press you can actually see that he remains as the primary goal only to attack Alexander Vukic, to blame him for the situation he's found himself in, as well as all of us from SNS, and even, I say, journalists. In his nervousness, I say, it is likely that the state authorities from the countries where these accounts are kept will be involved, he goes from mistake to error, trying to hide the origin of the money, trying to justify himself. No one disputes the fact that in Serbia there should be rich people or there should be, but you know, when it comes to politicians who have acquired so much money and when there is a doubt that such amounts of money have been acquired while in power or in the functions they have performed, I think that such politicians still fall into one particular category and that their property should be investigated, or that it should be examined the way they acquired their property. It is unacceptable, of course, for someone to use their positions, their functions, to use politics for personal gain. Therefore, the competent authorities should examine all doubts, origins of property and then verify in the end and whether the obligations to the state have been met. If we just bury a little beneath the surface of Gilas' lies, we find scandalously large amounts of money that may be the money of Serbian citizens, we find the results of investigative journalism in terms of millions of euros in foreign accounts, we find documentation that proves it, facts that cast serious doubt in the way of obtaining property. Just imagine if we've learned all of this by now, what information is expected from us when the investigation of state authorities is complete, what information is expected from us about how many illegal transactions were, or how many illegal transactions, how many abuses of position there are, how many pumps of state money, how much trade influence, and how many apartments for Dragan Gilas, for his brother, and how much money for the accounts of their companies. Of course, among other things, when we talk about judges, we have to keep this sort of thing in mind. We must bear in mind that crime in a certain percentage exists in our country, and we must from this place, right from the National Assembly, give support to state authorities to do their job in full capacity. Because only through institutional action will we be able to learn the truth, but on the other hand, only through institutional action will we be able to know that justice is served. The second question now is whether the money will eventually be taken away, whether at the end of all investigations, the money may, in an indirect manner, end up in Serbia's budget or Belgrade's budget from where it was taken. The same Dragan Gilas who feels invited every day, in fact, that in the worst way possible insults President Alexander Vukic, to direct threats to him, to place fictions, and to actually against all of us from SNS who raise their voice and tell the truth creates a lynching campaign, which on social networks, which, of course, on televisions that he finances, where we are uninterrupted and daily subject to humiliation both on a personal and professional basis. At the speed of light, we become suggestions on different shows. For us in these shows, of course, we will vote and we will comment on ourselves in the worst possible way, in the least possible way, and that they do not hesitate with these TVs to draw our sentences from the context and give them a completely different meaning. They insult our dignity, talk about how we look, talk about how Alexander Vukic writes to us the speeches we read. They try to undermine our professional and intellectual integrity in all ways. I'm going to tell you that I wrote this speech myself today, because I do my job every day in the National Assembly, and part of my job is to turn to the tide and yes, I have decided and I want my speech today in the National Assembly to look just like this. This unscrupulous targeting of MPs from the legislator group Aleksandar Vukic – For our children or members of the SNS presidency or members of the board of directors, it usually comes from people who, when they look in the mirror, usually see one big nothing. Such men, ladies and gentlemen, want to return to our country to power. Such people want to come to power so that they can pick up where they left off as soon as possible, which is personal wealth and carelessness about all the issues that really bother the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. During that time, Aleksandar Vukic worked, worked and fought alongside the Serbian government, and along with all those people who were placed on a pillar of shame just because they said the name Dragan Gilas or mentioned his millions. Alexander Vucic is fighting for our health system to withstand all severe epidemics. It struggles to continue to develop economies and economies, to fight for a better standard of living and to help, primarily to help pensioners and then to prevent all others from feeling the consequences of the epidemic and to further develop Serbia. In fact, it is a very simple situation, the people entrusted Alexander Vukic and the SNS with the exercise of power. We respect it, and every day we show that we are doing our best to work exclusively in the interests of Serbian citizens. Many times we have made some decisions regarding the SNS we belong to, which did not suit the party just because we put the state and the people first, and that is our priority in the work. The results behind us are visible, they are visible in all areas where we could and got a chance, in whatever areas that we got a chance to do, we made the result, and whatever we could achieve and put before us as a goal we achieved. Serbia is today a strong, financial and politically stable country that they respect in the world, which continues to take big steps forward, as all Serbian citizens deserve to live in a modern and orderly Serbia. They are turning their wish into their own electoral will and giving votes to Aleksandra Vukic and SNS on convincing victories since 2012 to date at all levels and in all elections. Personally, I have no doubt that this will continue, because we need roads, we need schools and hospitals, railways and bridges, apartments for young couples, theatres and museums, kindergartens, scientific and technological parks and safety, and no one will stop us from living in such a country. Long live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-01-0.u4889	I thank the MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic, the authorised representative of the parliamentary group Aleksandar Vukic – for our children. Since we no longer have registered representatives or those presidents of parliamentary groups in the system, we are moving on to the list of registered speakers. He has the first word, People's Messenger, Samir Tandir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-01-0.u4890	Dear President, colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, today we are talking about the termination of the office of President of the Criminal Court in Negotin and Novi Pazar. That's one formal act. We as the strongest Bosniak party in Serbia, as the Justice and Reconciliation Party and as the MPs' Club of Justice and Reconciliation and the United Peasants' Party in the voting day will vote for this proposal. Our party leader Muamer Zukorlic spoke in principle of high-academic and phenomenal terms on this subject, and I will deal with a bit more specific local problem, especially in the case of Sanjak municipalities and in the case of justice in Sandzak, primarily in Novi Pazar and in Prijepol. I especially want to refer to the work of the prosecution in Novi Pazar and Prijepolje, and I want to remind myself of an old truth, that there are no new solutions with the old people. So, both in courts and in the prosecutions, both in Novi Pazar and in Prijepolje, emergency reconstruction is necessary, the arrival of young, decent, unsuspected personnel. On this occasion, I will remind you of a case that is rocking the neighbouring country of Croatia. So, the case of Zdravko Mamic, who, after a verdict against him, met the public with whom he hung out with prosecutors and judges, who he gave them gifts and now they're all suspended and there's some process against them. On the basis of this case, I want to ask the Ministry, the Government, to ask us as the National Assembly, we who choose people in the judiciary, whether we know who the judges are sitting with, who they drink coffee with, who the prosecutors go to winter and summer with. Prosecutorial offices in Novi Pazar and in the Prepolje of the Political Accounting Service serve to eliminate political and business competition. We'll be done with it for good. So, those who have installed their personnel for 20 years, politically similar to helping them both in business and politics, must understand that that time has passed, that the time has come where we are fighting for essential democracy, for the fundamental respect of the Constitution and the law where all citizens and citizens are equal, and that there are no more equal and those who are completely discriminated against. So, with this practice, we're going to break up for good. What I'm saying is that since I'm out of time, we're going to do more detail at the next assembly sessions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-01-0.u4891	Thank you. The remaining time for your parliamentary group is three minutes. The word has a folk letter, Daniela Veljovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-01-0.u4892	The Honorable President, colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, although today we should discuss the motion for a decision on the termination of the office of the Criminal Court in Negotin, the General Court in Kraševec and the Basic Court in Novi Pazar, and according to the Report of the Committee on Justice, the State Administration and the Local Self-Government, whose member I am also a member of the Court of Justice, because of my retirement, in the second and third cases due to the entry into force of the decision of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, I would only at first find that there are legitimate reasons why I would continue to base my speech on the emphasis of the problems that should be dealt with, and regarding the functioning of the judiciary, if we would, of course, get an effective judiciary and institutions that function. I'd like to stay on the case of the Criminal Court. The infringement court in daily work is subject to 270 laws and about 800 regulations. In addition to traffic violations and violations under the Law on Public Order and Peace, they prosecute customs offences, corruption, foreign exchange, access to information of public importance, etc. The Republic of Serbia has 44 criminal courts established for the territory of one or more municipalities. An example of the Kragujevac section of the Infringement Court of Appeal is that it covers the areas of infringement courts in Jagodina, Kragujevac, Kralje, Kruševec, Novi Pazar, Paracina, Požega, Prijepolje, Raska, Sjenica, Trstenik, Čačka and Užica. Then you can imagine the size of the job. The most frequent objections to the work of the courts relate to the length of the proceedings. Judges of criminal courts point out that, in addition to certain court proceedings, it is difficult to ensure the presence of all defendants, one of the main reasons for the length of the litigation is the problem of the delivery of court letters. Each of us has a duty to report his residence, but also to change his residence. Unless we do, it's a felony. The maximum number of court documents is delivered via mail and delivery cannot be made, so it often happens that police must help with the delivery. The important question is whether the judge works in quality, how familiar he is with the case, how burdened he is. There must be the court's authority in the application of the legal norms, but also in the application of the procedural powers given to them. The general view of citizens is that there is a lack of confidence in the judiciary and in the justice of the trial. The government and the mistrust that institutions will behave in accordance with laws and norms. Most citizens feel that the judiciary is ineffective, that it depends on political and other interest groups, that it is biased. It's not a better situation in the region either. And there's more trust than trust. When asked how citizens imagine a good judge, most respondents replied that he should be truthful, fair, respected in society and, interestingly, that he was well paid. On the other hand, judges of criminal courts often point out that they are in an unfavourable position because they are the first on the battle line, and the last on the payroll. They also point out that they are often dragged through the media in different ways without any protection. As for the trust of the other side of the government, it's not a great situation either. Citizens have little confidence in the work of parliament as bodies of the legislative authority. There is an important role for all of us who advocate a very democratic society and strong institutions. Institutions must be a pillar of stability, a pillar of knowledge, integrity. Trust must be restored to the institutions and thus strengthen society. One way to strengthen institutions is the SDPS proposal, and it is about reforming the electoral system. What we SDPS advocate is a vote for a person, for a candidate, not an election list. This would strengthen voters' votes, and the name of MPs would get its full meaning and justification and would strengthen the role of MPs by representing citizens and their interests. The legislative authority must be transparent in its work and must be in the service of the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-01-0.u4893	I thank the MP Daniela Veljovic. Mr. Djordje Kosanić has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-01-0.u4894	Thank you, Chairman. The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is before us today the proposal for a decision on the termination of the office of the President of the General Court in Kraševec, the President of the Basic Court in Novi Pazar, as well as the President of the Criminal Court in Negotin. Of course, the JS parliamentary group in the voting day will support the proposal for this decision, because first the two judges who are presidents of the basic courts cease office, the first because of the election for the Court of Appeal in Kragujevac, and the second because of the judge of the Supreme Court in Novi Pazar. Of course, the President of the Infringement Court in Negotin ceases his post on a personal request, due to the completed working century. Today when we talk about this very important topic to say that the JS parliamentary group, in general the JS advocates the maximum strengthening of the judiciary, the independence of the prosecution as the basis or precondition of the rule of law. An independent judge guarantees that the law will be applied equally, impartially and will not be privileged in all proceedings. On the other hand, I have to say that this does not mean that the maximum strengthening of the judiciary, the independence of the prosecution means that it is a detachment from the people, but, quite the contrary, the detachment of both the prosecution and the judiciary from inappropriate influences. On the other hand, I want to point out the importance of investing in judicial infrastructure facilities. Today, when Serbia, when the whole world is faced with a major economic crisis, many major economies are on their knees due to the pandemic of the coronary virus. Serbia is in the works, when it comes to the pandemic of the Coronal Virus, our health system has proved to be much more successful than many health systems that may have been much better evaluated before the pandemic than ours. Then I want to point to the number of vaccines. The whole region is inoculated. Then, the dominant economic growth or decline, as you will, over 60% of the total investment coming to the Western Balkans goes to Serbia. It speaks of the trust people have in Serbia. That's why I didn't even hear that any investor who came to Serbia, despite the pandemic, gave up investment in Serbia. Then, miles of highway, unemployment below 10%. These are all parameters that say how big Serbia is moving forward. That is why I also pointed to this significant segment, the segment of investment in infrastructure. I come from Kragujevac. Kragujevac was once the capital of Serbia. On the other hand, where the Constitution was written in 1835, which was the basis of modern Serbian statehood. Today, a modern palace of justice is being built in Kragujevac, more than 25,000 square metres, where all 11 judicial authorities, prosecutors, will be placed, with over 800 employees. This is certainly one of the biggest investments that has come, which has been built in Serbia in recent decades, but what I have to point out here as a Kragujevac to the importance of such an investment for Kragujevac, and certainly for the entire region, especially if I say that the judicial authorities were more scattered in Kragujevac, in several buildings, and on the other hand, the worst were the criminal and commercial courts. Today in Serbia, the judiciary, there is no better object than this, than the palace of justice in Kragujevac. What I want to point out is that all judicial authorities will be in one place, and so justice and the speed of justice will be available to all the Kragujevci, but also to all citizens of the entire region. Finally, just once again to say that the JS parliamentary group, in voting day, will support the said decision.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-01-0.u4895	I thank the People's Messenger, George Kosanic. The word has been issued by the SPS parliamentary group president, MP Djordje Milicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-01-0.u4896	I thank the Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The division theory, founded by John Locke and Char Montexi, today is the starting point, I would say in reviewing and analysing the division of power in this presidential, parliamentary and mixed system. The idea of these two philosophers greatly influenced the civil bourgeois revolution in France and the order that began to be established in Europe in the late 18th century. The idea since then is that this state government has three functions. They're executive, legislative and judicial. It is important that there is mutual control and balance, with judicial authority independent of its work, while the lack of power-sharing makes the political system non-democratic. As Justice Dealers, judges play a very important role in the functioning of a democratic society, such as Serbia today, it is the court that, by applying the laws, should remove all disputes, disturbances and injustices in social relations. The Constitution and the law have shown great trust, and for this reason it is extremely important that judges do this work in the best, most worthy and most competent way, to be the most competent, best and most worthy candidates, the person of high integrity and moral qualities. In addition to the fact that our judiciary is, in fact, not necessarily our judiciary is, but it is, and independent and impartial of all influences, it is also necessary to be effective. Unfortunately, the judges are often overloaded. There are increasing numbers of objects, and the issue of efficiency is also being raised. In their work, judges of criminal courts, 44 on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, are particularly burdened. A colleague, Tom Phil, as an authorised representative, spoke of one phase of the Serbian judiciary's sunfire, I will not discuss it, I just want to add another event, an event, which was executed by our judiciary, took place in 2009, during the re-election of judges and prosecutors, we have talked about it many times before. This illegal process has brought into question the principle of judicial independence and the independence of the prosecution. In just two days in December 2009, there was no job left, almost 1,000 judges and prosecutors, past the procedure provided for by law and without any right to appeal. The main basis of the re-election was party membership and depending on who was similar and who was not similar. This re-election cost Serbia 44m euros. To many citizens, he extended too many too long disputes, and perhaps the worst, he threw faith in an independent judiciary. The reputation of our judiciary has been ruined internationally, and these events have cost many judges and prosecutors both health and health, some unfortunately, and life. Now that part that is very interesting for us from the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group, which concerns the European Commission's report on justice in Serbia, concerns what European parliamentarians are telling us when it comes to processes and justice in Serbia. So, according to the European Commission's 2020 report, the Republic of Serbia has achieved a certain level of preparedness, it reportedly encourages us and speaks positively, and then says that the constitutional reform of the judiciary has been delayed for a period after the report. The constitutional reform will be implemented after the parliamentary elections and the deadline for the change of the constitution, in the case of the judiciary and the prosecution, is the end of 2021, as far as I know. So this finding doesn't stand. Also, according to this report, it is a major political influence on the judiciary, which is causing great concern. I do not know who is exerting influence and pressure on the judiciary, whether European parliamentarians have their views and their report, directly interfering in some processes that have been completed, in some processes that are under way, or whether we are doing so here in Serbia, in particular us, MPs, or representatives of the executive government. So this is what European parliamentarians do directly. But when they do, then they have to tell the truth. When they mention some kind of factory affair, let them remember, by the way, the bar, and Mauritius and Hong Kong, well, let them talk about it a little bit. According to this report, a large number of lagging executives say -- corruption remains a major problem and cause for concern. They do not have to worry, quite enough and well done by the President of the Republic, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, one synergy, practical action and normative acts. Practically, it has been defined that one of the key principles and principles on the basis of which the government of the Republic of Serbia is formed is a determined, non-selective, continuous fight against crime and corruption. The government shows by works and not by words, not only by words, but by works, that it specifically advocates it. All that's been happening over the past few years is a serious blow to organised crime and corruption. The competent authorities, the competent institutions will, we are convinced that we from the SPS parliamentary group will continue to operate in that direction. They certainly have our full support. As far as the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is concerned when I say the synergy of practical and normative action, I mean the law that we recently passed, which is the Law on the Origin of Corruption, which I see has upset critics who probably have reason to be nervous, and who probably have reason to say that this is the way that this ruling coalition is being dealt with politically with by political insinuators, which, of course, is not true. If the President of the Republic says - I'm ready to be the first subject to check, if MPs say we're all ready to be the subject of a check, why are gentlemen nervous? That she's not nervous about Mauritius, that she's not nervous about Hong Kong, that she's not nervous about all these other accounts that the media's been writing for days, encouraged by facts, and encouraged by very precise and clear data. The recommendation is in the coming period that Serbia should strengthen judicial independence, the independence of the prosecution, including changes and additions to constitutional and legislative provisions, etc. That's all the Republic of Serbia does. So, as the highest body of the legislative authority, we are very committed, very responsible, serious and committed to doing our job and we are just giving full support that we have an effective judicial system, far more effective than the one who fired thousands of judges in one day. A topic that is important, which is important for the sake of the Serbian public, Mr. Fila spoke about a little bit, I will not speak in the way he spoke, but I must mention the Hague tribunal, while we are talking about Europe, while we are talking about all this, let's also mention the Hague tribunal. The Hague tribunal failed to meet the purpose of its existence and failed to fulfil the task it had, which is reconciliation. On the contrary, he made his actions deeper and more conflicts with his work, sharpened relations and Serbia went the worst in the whole process, which, by the number of years, was condemned by Serbian citizens who were in the proceedings, which unfortunately, by the number of deceased who were in the proceedings. You know, The Hague tribunal has not handled justice, but has predetermined Serbia as someone responsible for all the crimes committed in the former SFRY space. International law must apply equally to everyone, it can't be less for someone else. Serbia has shown its willingness to co-operate and I think Serbia deserves only one thing, and that is what we insist on, truth and justice, nothing else. So law and justice weren't the key principles that the Hague tribunal conducted, it fell on that basic test, which is a reconciliation test. He failed to realize the task he was set up by the General Assembly of the United Nations Security Council. I also said during last night's show that only one word can be described as grotesque compared to achieving justice for many Serbian victims. And that's not the word I used, that's the word used by Judge Fausto Pokar, the former president of the Court of Appeals in the case of the defendants Gotovina and Markac. So the Serbian and international public must be familiar with the work of The Hague tribunal, the UN tribunal's procedures, so that the crimes will never again be amnesty and greatness, because there is a possibility that if such things happen, unfortunately, they will be repeated in the period ahead. It is very interesting that the Hague tribunal never mentioned the "yellow house" in its indictment, absolutely never. The Serbian public is very interested in the process against former KLA members and former UCK members, especially when it comes to Hashim Thaci. I took advantage of the parliamentary right and the parliamentary opportunity, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and asked the Minister of Justice – in which way we can help protect the witnesses and help collect and collect documentation that will help us, so that the Haradinaj case does not happen to us when witnesses were killed when they disappeared. It's not my finding, it's the court council's finding, it's first and foremost the judicial council that confirmed it. When we talk about the "yellow house", I see that now it's trying to demystify this story in some way that it's supposed to be made up. I see some lawyer, Gashi, is making an indictment against Dick Marty over an illegal stay in that house. And I want to be very precise, I will not improvise to you, a statement by former war crimes prosecutor Vladimir Vukcevic, who says – at the time of the crime, Ramush Haradinaj came to Barajbar, Hague investigator Patrick Lopez, journalist Anthony Montgomery, found evidence that pointed to crimes and the host had a hollow story about slaughtered animals. It was determined that the blood was human and we had knowledge then, Lopez gave us complete photo-documentation, we had statements from numerous witnesses, it turns out that the drugs, whose boxes were found to give to patients for muscle relaxation and to be used for organ transplants, the prisoners knew when the end came. I'm quoting further. Vukcevic says he went to Tirana, said he had knowledge and sought excavations at 12 locations, which he did not agree to. Why did it not agree, and why was the "yellow house" never part of the indictment when we talk about The Hague tribunal? I want to point out one more thing. Serbia, when it comes to the region, is leading a very clear and precise, clearly defined policy. So, it does not interfere with the internal issues of other countries, but, let me say, this is not an internal issue of other countries, because if in our neighbouring country, we want the best possible relations with Montenegro, we do not interfere with who will be in power in Montenegro, but we are very interested in the rights and freedoms of our fellow citizens, our Serbs, whom there is 29%, I believe far more, we will see after the census, we are interested in the property and status of the Serbian Orthodox Church, and this right cannot be taken away from us by any international convention. Now, a politician named Dritan Abazovic appeared in Montenegro, with four MPs, who has the right to say that anyone who does not think that a genocide has been committed in Srebrenica cannot perform a state function. Mr. Martinovic, since Toma Fila is not here, you are an eminent lawyer, you will help me and only tell me if I'm right. So when we talk about Srebrenica, this is where we need to separate politically from that legal act. The legal approach is that it was a crime and this parliament is the only parliament in the region that adopted the resolution, and that was our international, moral obligation, our step towards reconciliation, we expressed our condolences to the families and showed our determination never to repeat these things again. But why am I saying that it's legal to separate from the political act? The legal section says they're not, so it's not genocide, because the elements of genocide prescribed by the 1946 Convention on Genocide seem to have not been met. I think she hits the Jews most, correct me if I'm wrong. So war crimes and crimes against humanity. Serbs are between the crimes in "Storm" and the crimes in Srebrenica, the difference is only a few weeks, so the court does not find that the "Storm" established genocide, Srebrenica is said to be. Why are these things not applied when it comes to “Storm”? That's not genocide? On the other hand, a few nights ago, I spoke to a fellow Montenegrin parliament member, who is an MP in the Montenegrin parliament, and you know that during the previous period, MPs who came from Serb lists passed through the Montenegrin parliament, arrested, extended their stay in custody, he told me and asked me to mention only one thing - the village of Velika in Montenegro, and to mention the date – June 28, 1944, Prince Eugen and Skenderbeg's division, and how many people were killed and slaughtered – about 500. Montenegro has never determined that and has never bowed to the victims. Murina, bombing, three children - Miroslav, Oliver and Juliet, children who fled Pristina for bombing in Montenegro died. The president of the Republic of Serbia bowed down to them and mentioned them by Aleksandar Vukic, Montenegro never. We, of course, will support this proposal as a parliamentary group of the Socialist Party of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-01-0.u4897	I thank the chairman of the SPS parliamentary group. Replica, MP Aleksandar Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-01-0.u4898	Thank you, Mrs. Kovac. Since Mr. Milicevic mentioned me, I just want to give a little review of his exposure. There are many views regarding what happened in Srebrenica in July 1995, but I will remind you, Mr. Milicevic, of a intercepted telephone conversation that was used as material in The Hague tribunal against Slobodan Milosevic. It's about a conversation that was secretly recorded, probably from some Western intelligence service, in May 1996. So, May 1996. The conversation was conducted between Slobodan Milosevic, who was in Dobanovci and Ratko Mladic, who was probably in the Palace at the time. In the talks, Slobodan Milosevic told General Mladic that there was some crime against civilians in Srebrenica and Ratko Mladic told him -- over what civilians in Srebrenica, and Milosevic said -- no, not in Srebrenica, at a farm there. Those are the words that stand in the transcript of that conversation. He was probably thinking about a farm in the village of Kravica. Mladic further tells him - no civilian has been killed on a farm, in Kravica, or in Srebrenica, I, he says, quote what Mladic said in that conversation, I hope that no one will mind this, because this was a secret conversation, but since it was published and since it was used in the process in The Hague tribunal, it is no longer a secret, so that it can be spoken freely. Mladic says -- I am with them, therefore, with representatives of Muslims who stayed in Srebrenica, who did not retreat with the parts of Bosnia and Herzegovina's 28th division towards Tuzla. He says - I signed a contract with them where they should come and who came to the checkpoint was saved, and those who died died in a breakthrough against Tuzla because many flew into minefields, and one part of the former Bosnian and Herzegovina's 28th division, commanded by Naser Oric, who, watch out, left Srebrenica in April 1995. So, in April 1995, he left Srebrenica, on the orders of political leadership in Sarajevo, knowing probably what the plan was between Ali Izetbegovic and Bill Clinton, related to the NATO-led pact to act according to the positions of the Republika Srpska Army over the alleged genocide in Srebrenica. Mladic said further in the conversation -- they flew into minefields and said -- did you hear that child talk, that Muslim fighters were killing each other, because one part of the Muslim fighters was for the surrender of the Republika Srpska Army, and one part was for them to break through further towards Tuzla and in their mutual conflict there was an opening of fire. There's another detail, and that's what The Hague tribunal tried to hide. I came up with this detail by accident, and I spoke about it in the National Assembly when, at a great pressure from Boris Tadic, the National Assembly voted that famous declaration, or Resolution on Srebrenica. On the NATO Pact website, the data was later deleted, from July 1995, the data stood, I say later deleted the data because it did not go to NATO's alliance, and this data suggests that on those days, when a column of Muslim soldiers broke through to Tuzla, the NATO pact acted out of air in the positions of the Republika Srpska military, and since the positions of Republika Srpska's army were almost all the way from Srebrenica to Tuzla, it is highly likely that a large number of Muslim soldiers were killed by NATO bombs. Why am I saying all this? Because the Srebrenica case is very complicated and the easiest thing to say is that there was genocide in Srebrenica or there was no genocide. There was no doubt a crime in Srebrenica, but what is the key question - who is the inspirer and who is the taskmaster of this crime? And after all, like every crime, to whom does the crime benefit? Did the crime go in favour of Republika Srpska at the time? Absolutely not. The conversation between Mladic and Milosevic shows that Mladic had no idea of shooting captured Muslim soldiers in Kravica. So he didn't know about it. In May 1996, he convinced Milosevic that there was absolutely no shooting, but that Muslims were losing their lives by breaking into Tuzla, and that he signed a contract with them in the presence of representatives of the Dutch UNPROFOR battalion in Potocari, a place where Muslims should come because one part of Muslims, or women and children, but also men who agreed to lay down arms, one part of Muslims was transported to Tuzlo by buses, and one part to Kladanj. The talks show that Ratko Mladic had little to do with what was happening in Srebrenica and around Srebrenica, as regards the shooting of a number of captured members of the 28th division of the BiH Army. I'm not saying this because I want to justify anyone, I don't want to justify any crime, there must have been a crime there. Did the crime of these proportions happen that more than 8,000 people were shot? I'm not sure that's because Spanish forensics are talking about much smaller numbers, but in the end, when it comes to crime, it's not a matter of mathematics and it's not a matter of counting, it's a crime, so did you kill one man, 100, thousands, eight thousand, ten thousand, etc., it's not the point, but it's the essence of something else. That there were political inspirers of what happened in Srebrenica, as there were political inspirers also for the streets of Vasa Miskina, as there were inspirers and for Markal one, as there were inspirers for both Markals 2 and as, in the end, there were inspirers for Račak, because what was happening in the premises of BiH and the former Yugoslavia is not something new in European history. You remember when Germany attacked Poland on September 1, 1939. Hitler came out with a statement that the Poles had attacked the German patrol, and then the Germans fought back by storming Poland with their strength, and since Hitler had previously reached an agreement with Stalin Poland was divided between Germany and the Soviet Union. So, in history, there is often a need for a cause for military intervention. The fact that innocent people pay for it with their lives, unfortunately only confirms Hegel’s thesis from his “phylosophy of history” that human history is not the soil of happiness, but that the periods of happiness in it are empty sheets. What we all need to learn from this collective tragedy of ours, not only that happened in Srebrenica, but at all in the premises of the former Yugoslavia, it is to try our mutual differences to overcome. If we can't kill each other in any other way, then at least we don't kill each other anymore and destroy each other. What we can learn as a lesson, we Serbs and Muslims, or Bosniaks, which is crucial, in my opinion, let people who will, but that is my personal opinion, a key mistake was made the moment that the Bosniaks, or Muslims in BiH, tied their political destiny to the Croats. The Croats put them up to it. They were invited to a referendum to separate BiH from Yugoslavia, not because they wanted well to the Muslims, but because they followed Tudjman's idea that BiH was an old Croatian country and then the first step was to be a secession from Yugoslavia and a second step to BiH's accession to Croatia. This tells you the fact that the Croatian army was constantly present in BiH from 1992 to 1995, which is also one, as the late Tudjman would say, signifying the fact that Croatia's larger defence was educated on 18 November 1991. So the Croatian Community of Herceg-Bosnia, which was allegedly formed under the then Constitution of BiH as a community of municipalities of western Herzegovina, was formed on 18 November 1991 on the day JNA entered Vukovar. Now somebody tell me it was all an accident and there was no plan. And as there was a plan, but I hope both Serbs and Bosniaks learned something from this collective tragedy, which is that they don't hate each other anymore, that they don't kill each other anymore, but that they think with their heads, that we all work together on the permanent harmony of Serbs and Bosniaks, and that we follow the policies of Aleksandr Vukic, which is reconciliation in these areas and constantly hand-provided both BiH and Bosniaks. When I tell Bosniaks, I mean Bosniaks in BiH, but also our Bosniaks living here in Serbia. I thank you, Mrs. Kovac, for taking a little too much time.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-01-0.u4899	Time over the time foreseen for a two-minute replica, and that is why I am subtracting you from the time of the legislator group Aleksandar Vukic – For our children. The word is Gjorge Milicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-01-0.u4900	I want to thank Mr Martinovic very briefly and I did not accidentally mention him, but as a man who is a prominent lawyer and I know that he knows history well and that he talked about these facts in parliament and I felt it was equally important that we try together to start, to round up this story. I completely agree with you. Justice and truth are something we insist on. Neither Mr. Martinovic, I, nor anyone in this room, fully convinced, wants to justify any crime. Anyone who committed a crime isn't innocent and for that crime has to and should answer. I agree completely that there are political inspirers and that should be defined and they should be achieved from this collective tragedy, and I am fully agreed with that, we should all learn lessons, and the lesson should be mutually understood, to overcome differences, to work together, peace, stability, prosperity, economic co-operation and what, among other things, the President of Serbia, during Kovid, has said very clearly – we are very small in the region individually to do something individually and to speak badly of each other, because we are leaning against each other. So, with one vote in front of the EU and Brussels and the world's forces. Thank you, Mr. Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-01-0.u4901	Thank you. We can proceed to the list of registered speakers. The People's Messenger, Milenko Jovanovic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-01-0.u4902	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, first of all, I'm going to say something you may not know, you may not have heard, but it is my duty and my duty as vice president of the SNS and as a man who comes from Kickinda to meet both you and the public that two days ago our colleague from Stanislava Hrnjak District has an unknown person demolled a car in front of a building where she lives with her family. In itself, the question of how much and in which direction conversation, discussion, and analysis would have taken place that some other things had not happened a few days earlier. In fact, on 17 March this year, four people have been detained by the Viking police for writing graphics and sharing some flyers in which they wrote - Milenko Jovanovic is a disgrace to Kikinda, signed by the Freedom and Justice Party, and that is nothing controversial. Political struggle involves that kind of communication. But the issue is something else. Of the four people, three were brought from Belgrade. Of these three persons are two persons who committed the following crimes: in 2008 – robbery, 2009 – attempted murder in 2013 – use of intoxicating drugs, 2015 – robbery and extortion, 2016 – heavy theft, two crimes, 2017 – heavy theft, two crimes, 2018 – robbery theft and public traffic. These are the persons that Dragan Gilas sent to a quiet town, in which I am confident, even if there is no passwords and fly-shares, on behalf of his party. He brought tough criminals to the door of the people of Kickinda. Stanislava Hrnjak, a co-worker from the Regional Parliament and the trustee of our party in Kikinda, a brave and isolated woman publicly condemned this rampage of Gilas criminals in both the media and the press conference, on social networks, and then she saw wonders in front of her house what happened. Now I ask, since there is only one verdict for all these crimes – what should they do and what should criminals do to be convicted? Is the one who tried to murder also supposed to commit the murder where Gilas sent him, and will he still be convicted then or will there be any extenuating circumstances again, so he'll be allowed to sit at home, watch TV and snack popcorn, and eight months go out just in the yard? We will not accept a model of Marinika Tepic's behaviour from Pančev that threatens criminals to emigrate them. Ours from Kickinda will not be evicted by the criminals of Gilas, nor his local criminals like Zoran Milosevic. So nobody's moving us out of kickinda. We will not be intimidated, and we will continue to fight for the politics of Alexander Vukic and the SNS and against Gilas and his criminals. Today we choose judges who, as is said, will go into more positions, and I last time we talked about judges said something that was then interpreted in a way that I didn't say. I'm going to read what I said, but I'm curious to know how they interpreted it. So I said this -- "I cannot accept that the judiciary is independent if it is not independent of the Serbian government, but is therefore dependent on foreign governments. I cannot accept that the independent judge who attacks Vlada or Vukic every day on the media is standing outside foreign embassies as a dog and waving his tail when he is released for three ropes and two cocktails," the end of the quote. How did that from the tycoon television of Gilas and Solak recognize Judge Majic I'm not alive to know? Did they recognize him in a tail swing or waiting in front of foreign embassies, or do they know he's hitting on ropes and cocktails as soon as he enters the reception? I don't know, but I didn't mention the man in that context. So, Mr. Majic, since he was very upset about it, he should have addressed Gilas and Šolak and their editors about bringing him into the context of what no one said, and how do they know exactly what was not said in him? However, something else has been said, which is that there is a string between individual judges, individual media and individual politicians. And that string was well-proven on March 8th and 9th of this year. So, on March 8th, everything happens after that press conference where President Vukic published those fearsome images of the monstrous works of the arrested Veljko Belivuk clan, news of one of these tycoon televisions is coming out at eight o'clock -- photographs are not enough evidence against Belivuk's group. After that on the same media, TV – everything Vukic broke at the press conference, it's around 2:00. Then March 8th at 4:00 – photos of the murdered may be evidence, but difficult to reach the verdict. Then the newspapers they recently bought say – the disturbing content the state summit published was not to be displayed at national frequencies. You see for yourself what direction things are going and what the media are trying to do, but there's no credibility and who's going to give credibility? Of course, Judge Majic. On that same television he appears at nine o'clock in the evening to stamp the whole story and says – "Vučić's conference is the degradation of the judiciary." There you go. Is there co-operation and this symbiosis between certain media, tycoon media, individual parties, tycoon parties, and individual judges who participate and cooperate in all this? You're on your own. What my desire is for judges not to behave as Mr. Majic has been very upset about it, but he is a negative example of everything a judge can be, because who authorized Mr. Majic to speak for the Serbian judiciary when he is not the Serbian judiciary, is not even his court? So we already have a situation that some people abuse the fact that judges or presidents of courts are like that Stefanovic Alexander... (Alexander Martinovic: Called Stepa.) )......................................................................................................... It will now be in another procedure to look for both nicknames and age and everything else. He takes a man and signs a court statement that no one but him and his closest associates have seen, and in that court stands twenty-one judges. What does that look like? That's what bothers the judiciary. I don't know what's bothering them with the congregation review. If they're a branch of government independent and we're a branch of government independent. If they, as a branch of government, think that they have the right to criticise both executive and legislative authorities and how whoever is speaking in the Assembly and what are our themes and why we perform like this and why we do so and why we mention this, and we don't mention that, etc. Then we, too, have every right as representatives of the legislative authority to criticise another branch of government, and by that I mean both judicial authority and what is not clear? Or they go again with the fact that there are some people who are sacred cows in this country, who are allowed to do whatever they want, talk about whoever they want, bring out whatever they want, and nobody can run and talk about them. So we'll keep talking about what anomalies are, we want the courts to work faster and more efficiently, so that Gilas' criminals don't walk around the cities of Serbia, so Gilas doesn't send them to local self-governments where he can't build local committees, not knock on people's doors. We're looking for all of this, not that we're fundamentally doubting that they're banging people's cars, but that they're sitting behind bars where they belong, and of course they're finding someone who's gonna have enough courage and enough independence to tell us how a man for life can make and get out of the country 67.8 million dollars. How many destinations are all these accounts? In how many countries, how much that man's currency holds all his money and for that he has to be held accountable. It is possible and I understand as a politician the decision by Dragan Gilas not to answer to the press. What would you say to them? But, my God, to the state organs of Dragana Gilas, you'll have to answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-01-0.u4903	The word has a folk MP, Prof. Dr. Jahja Fehratovic. The remaining time for your parliamentary group is three minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-01-0.u4904	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. Well, from the discussion of the basic courts, we came to a story from the 1990s, a story that we can never all agree on, and that's the only thing we'll agree on. So for us Bosniaks, it's a different story than the one we heard today, and we'll definitely agree with another finding by Mr. Martinovic, which is that we all need to learn from this and that we need to learn that what happened in the 1990s doesn't happen to us. However, we cannot agree on some other things, and these things apply, for example, to that resolution that this parliament adopted. It clearly states that it was brought on the basis of the International Court's rulings, and this court of justice has characterized the crime or what happened in Srebrenica by genocide. It is that the resolution made it clear that this is a crime, however, the Hague and the International Court of Justice said it was genocide, and a resolution based on these verdicts, which means that all of us MPs must respect that resolution voted by this parliament, and if it is not in the right sense for all of us, then we should repeal such a resolution and that it is not binding for the MPs. So there's been genocide, and it's certainly encouraging that we have common views of having a simple lesson in everything that's happened. Also, when it comes to political motivation, all unfortunately what happened in the 1990s had its political background, and so did those events that occurred here over the Bosniak people in Strptci, in the North, in Kukurovici, and in the space of the then common state in Bukovica, in Kaluderska laz, so we had politically motivated events on all sides and if we were to determine who was behind which political event, if we were dealing with who was behind the mounted process, against politicians from the 1990s from the ranks of the Bosniak people, then we will see, let's say, that many of those who were then tried to be condemned, experienced tortures, and eventually this state had to pay them compensation for all that happened. So no one is free of any responsibility, but also everyone has a certain share in what has happened, and what is our obligation is to respect every sacrifice regardless of whether it belonged to Serbian, Bosniak, any other people, because the lack or murder, the disappearance of one man means the disappearance of all humanity. The disappearance and murder of one person means the disappearance or murder of all mankind and we, above all as humans, as bearers of responsibility, must have that attitude towards the future, so that none of us will happen to our children or to our descendants what we all have lived or lived together in the 1990s. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-01-0.u4905	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-01-0.u4906	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I really do not wish to heat up the atmosphere on this very, very painful subject, but since I also consider Mr. Fehratovic an intellectual, I think it's time to exchange some arguments that are historical in nature. I will list two Bosniaks who have spoken publicly about the crime in Srebrenica being organised by Ali Izetbegovic in co-ordination with the Americans. One is called Ibran Mustafic, and the other is called Hakija Meholjic. Hakija Meholjic was the head of police in Srebrenica at the time of the war, from 1992 to 1995 and he testified that he and Naser Oric called for a meeting in Sarajevo and that he told them, quoting his words - Americans are offering me that Chetniks enter Srebrenica and kill 5,000 people, and that after that they will act from the air in Serbian positions and then Meholjic told him - well, are you a normal man to send to the slaughters of 5,000 people, if you send them to slaughter, then go to slaughter with them. And he left that meeting. Another witness who spoke about the organised crime in Srebrenica was Ibrana Mustafic, who was the president of the IO of the Srebrenica Municipality Assembly at the time of the war in BiH and who wrote the book "Planned Chaos". He was scheduled to testify at the invitation, i.e. to witness BiH's prosecution in proceedings against Naser Oric. But the court council kicked him out of court before he started testifying, and then he turned to the media. Ibran Mustafic practically repeated what Hakija Meholjic said and, in fact, what was less, everyone knew more in political Sarajevo. So, Ibran Mustafic confirmed that Ali Izetbegovic knowingly left Srebrenica to the Republika Srpska Army and that someone had staged the shooting of a number of Muslim soldiers and that it was then the reason to act in the positions of the Republika Srpska Army and then, as you know, Mr Fehratovic, followed a think-Croatian offensive not only in the area of Srebrenica, but was followed by an offensive on the entire territory of BiH, along with the Croatian army's fruit, so in September 1995 there was a danger that the Croatian Muslim coalition would fall into the hands of the Croatian coalition itself. I want to tell you that a reason is required for NATO to intervene in BiH and for Republika Srpska from about 70% of the territory, as at that time the Republika Srpska Army has kept down to those 49% that existed in the Vens Owen plan and which were later signed in Dayton, as the percentage of BiH territory belonging to Republika Srpska. So, things about Srebrenica aren't as simple as they seem to some at first sight, and I just want to correct you, I don't think you've been well invited to an international institution. It is not the International Court of Justice, but the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia and the term and genocide is in fact mentioned in a verdict against General Krstic, commander of the Republika Srpska Army's Drinski Corps, but the verdict says -- there was a genocide in Srebrenica, but it is not the responsibility of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. Now, as that verdict occurred to General Krstic, it is now a very, very long story, not to go into it now, but I want to tell you that there are testimonies of Bosniaks who hardly accuse Ali Izetbegovic of what happened at Srebrenica. I don't think we Serbs, you Bosniaks, should look forward to this, but we should just think carefully that we are running politics in a slightly different way and that these things don't happen to us anymore. Too many dead heads on both Serbian and Bosniak sides. I think it's time to turn to the future, turn to co-operation, economic development, to help each other and as we have seen President Vukic is also going to Srebrenica in 2015, when an assassination and murder was attempted on him, but also these days when he selflessly shares the vaccines both BiH and Northern Macedonia and Montenegro, I think he opened a new chapter in our Balkan history, which is that Balkan peoples should turn to themselves and realize that our close friends do not have one another, and this epidemic has shown that in crisis situations everyone first of all thinks of themselves. Unfortunately, the EU has shown they don't care about both Serbs and Bosniaks and Montenegrins and Muslims. The most important ones are themselves. When they are most important to themselves, what would we, the Balkan peoples, consider to be closer to us than those who live in these areas. So let's do a little bit of acting like some smarter, wiser European peoples and not looking for friends in the white world, but to realize that friends are actually the ones who live with us.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-01-0.u4907	Dear People's MPs, I fully understand that the context of the judiciary is extremely important and I understand the sensitivity of the subject, I would remind you all that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia brought the Declaration of Criminal Conviction in Srebrenica, which does not mention a word – genocide, March 31st, 2010. Please try to return to the agenda which is the motion for a decision on the termination of the office of President of the Criminal Court in Negotin, the Court of Fundamental Court in Kruševec and the Court of Fundamental Court in Novi Pazar. Of course, the time that is exceeded beyond the time foreseen will be taken away from the time of the parliamentary group. I understand you've been called directly and I'll give you my word of course, but strictly two minutes. National MP Jahja Fehratovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-01-0.u4908	Thank you. This is exactly the kind of conversation between friends when it comes to clearing up a relationship. It is very important that he had dialogues like this where arguments will come into common ground or that at least those attitudes get closer, light up to see that my view is not like the view of Mr. Martinovic on a specific issue, it does not have to be at the end, just as he says there were Bosniaks who witnessed something different. There were also members of the Serb people who testified in The Hague different from what is the official version, which was generally accepted in the Serbian public. Also, for me, I have been to Srebrenica many times on the dams, etc., I have witnessed the testimony of certain people who have lost their loved ones and should understand the pain of all these people. Also, we all witnessed that video, let's say "scorpion" that kills those youngsters, etc., but it's very important that we made it clear that it was at least a crime. I'm every murder, every single person is at the level of killing all mankind. Now we'll probably come to a position once and for all to be brave enough to leave our children with clean bills in the inheritance so that we can let them build these common bridges, and those clean bills should certainly be discussed both with motives and with the political backgrounds of the crime in Strpci, in Severin, Bukovica... And everything that happened in the '90s. I say that there have been politically motivated decisions, crimes on all sides, etc., but that we have to clear all of this up in order to allow future generations to be able to build on healthy relationships what is a common future for all of us deeply aware that only one with each other can be prosperous and that we can build a common future in these areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-01-0.u4909	Thank you. The word has Alexander Martinovic, two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-01-0.u4910	Just one sentence. There is one verse with Borhes that says, "Only one man is born on earth, only one man has died." Everything else is pure statistics, addition is impossible. So this conversation between my friend Jahja and me is more proof that the Serbian Parliament is not as black as it was presented in the report, or in the European Parliament resolution. He's not as black as Dragan Gilas represents him on his media every day. The Serbian parliament is a place where every citizen of the Republic of Serbia can see and testify that together they can work on the well-being of Serbs and Bosniaks people who have different opinions about what happened in the past, but also have a common vision of what we should do in the future. I thank you, Mrs. Kovac, for allowing this conversation between my friend Jahja and me, and thanking Mr. Fehratovic for showing that, regardless of our differences and our different views of the past, we Serbs and you Bosniaks can work on the well-being of both people, but also on the well-being of better relations between Serbia and BiH.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-01-0.u4911	Thank you. We're closing a circle of replicas and going back to the speaker list. The word has a folk MP, Snezana Paunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-01-0.u4912	Thank you, Vice President. You're gonna help me if you tell me how much time I have left for the MP's group? (President: eleven minutes and five seconds. ) Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, distinguished citizens and citizens of Serbia, today we are talking about and this has been warned by the Vice-President of the Assembly, Mrs Kovac, about the termination of the term of office of one number of judges. It is more or less, like my colleague, Life Starcevic, and everyone who spoke before him, said to me, it seems, the end of the term, but above all, in order that these people will take up some high or more responsible place. It is important to talk about how judges are elected and who are people who are elected to such responsible functions because from several discussions that preceded this one today, we have heard what they know to be the bad side of the poor choice of judges, the bad side of the poor choice of people to whom you will show trust, the bad side of the bad judgments, and at the end of the day, what are the consequences of years after that. When it comes to judges, I kind of have to, and I believe that most of you share my opinion, always to mention Mrs. Danica Marinkovic. I'll agree completely with the discussion that preceded this one, and it's high time we got out of this whirlwind that keeps bringing us back, which keeps making us count our victims for some unknown reason, we've all had countless of them. These are severe and open wounds that will never stop hurting. But we have a responsibility as responsible men to leave everything to the legacy but not hate for generations to come after us. They have to go their own way, and I totally agree that the only way we can impose on children is the path that will say they have no enemies. They may have people who think differently from them, but that doesn't mean that because of their differing opinion they should fall into the traps of conflicts that unfortunately, from this distance we can almost claim, in the 1990s only happened to some Western powers that profited, swam, lived, earned and did so today. The former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia must never again be a space where one can count 100% when it is able to build a focal point, regardless of what can't be said today that there are no people who would be ready for it. We have to show that most of us have outgrown that one moment of nationalism, regardless of whose nationalism it is. Why did I mention an investigative judge at the time, Danica Marinkovic? Today, there have been talk of some sedated situations that have been mounted, designed to result in some military interventions, in order to seek cover for something that will happen, for something that will permanently devastate all the peoples concerned. Regardless, I will never accept that any salvation for the Muslim people was NATO's intervention in Bosnia and Herzegovina. No, nor will there be, the victims were as many as anyone else. The exact same situation was in both Kosovo and Metohija. This Račak, which was designed as a motive to bomb the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia first at the time, and then on the basis of it, the current President Milosevic, and then hand it over to The Hague tribunal, thanks to serious judges such as Mrs Danica Marinkovic, one such improvisation, one such lie, one such installation fell simply before the International Court of Justice. Never on the basis of what was written in the indictment could he, nor would he be convicted of Slobodan Milosevic. What happened, it's that the charge of Racak is absolutely down. What didn't happen, and it was supposed to happen, is the fact that even if we succumbed to that pressure on extradition, I can't and I don't want to talk about it in the way that Tom Phil's lawyer spoke, he spoke as someone who took part in it, and I don't think it's bad what he said, no matter how much he caused the reaction, first of all because it's good to remind the Serbian public and what the mistakes were. It is no shame to admit that you once made a mistake, a team before we could have been convicted of genocide by a free Milosevic. This would not mean that Slobodan Milosevic was convicted, that would mean that he was a convicted state and that he was a convicted people. It would be something that would turn us both into a genocide state and a genocide people. You will agree, both then and today and tomorrow and hundreds of years ago, we are neither, nor can we be anything equal to Hitler's Nazi Germany. So it was professionally stopped by Danica Marinkovic, who made a report and defended the truth even before the tribunal. Today is April 1st, today is the day that the socialists remember with pain. Today, the greatest injustice has been committed and perhaps one historic mistake and a shame that generations will yet become aware of. There is another detail I would like to point out before the time for my discussion is up, which is the moment I heard, which is why, in spite of one position held by the Federal Government and Mr Kostunica, it actually made that decision from a republican level that Milosevic was extradited to The Hague, which is based on a 1990 Constitution member, Article 135. Why am I saying this? Because I want to stress that when we adopted the 1990 Constitution, we tried to restore Serbia's integrity and abolish the 1974 Constitution. Those who did not live under the 1974 Constitution in the southern Serbian province do not know how bad he was, do not know how much he left room for pressure by those who were absolutely legal authorities, practically with the level of authority that was equating with central Serbia's territory at that time. So, one such constitution, which was adopted in its contents, had a Article 135, which states: "The rights and duties of the Republic of Serbia, which is part of the SFRY, are within this Constitution, and which are achieved in the Federation under the Federal Constitution, will be achieved in accordance with the Federal Constitution. Where acts by the authorities of the Federation or acts of the authorities of the other Republic, contrary to the rights and duties it has under the Constitution of the SFRY, violates the equality of the Republic of Serbia or otherwise endangers its interests, and no compensation is provided, the Republic authorities shall adopt acts to protect the interests of the Republic of Serbia. “ This was written at a time when there was a Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. When was it applied? It was applied at the time of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, in fact, only the Alliance of Serbia-Montenegro. Why am I saying this? I will also refer to my colleague Djord Milicevic's discussion, which spoke about pressure from the European Community when it comes to constitutional change, as far as the judiciary is concerned. It is very important how the Constitution will be changed, as we now see how important it was to think and the 1990s, unfortunately, no one could have predicted, that a member like this would be brutally abused. But, look, it's all happening. That's why I understand why the reports are so rude. So I understand why the pressure is going to get bigger. So I ask that we all have consciousness, not today when we talk about the past, it affects personally, personally or in any way, but what are mistakes we cannot repeat. If they've been taught by socialists, and they have, it's not a bad practice to overwrite them from us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-01-0.u4913	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-01-0.u4914	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we are solving two presidents of the basic court and, I think, a misdemeanor court. It's about Krushevec, Novi Pazar and Negotin. With that in mind, I wish some other judges had been relieved. Let us say that the High Council of the Judiciary does not only play a role in resolving judges who voluntarily, and in this case it is about progress and voluntary resolution that judges are not only resolved because of this, but also because of the mistakes they make. Let's say, if the judge starts to deal with politics, which is contrary to the ethical code, in which case the High Council of the judiciary can't stand in the corn, and it's making the ignorance not to see it, and when it sees how judges, not the basic court, but higher courts, are very happy to have a late policy. Imagine, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, that we should initiate judicial proceedings and begin to judge as MPs, take over the work of prosecutors and judges, and start doing their work, bring judgments, settle complaints, release appeals, not release, etc., criminal punishment. What would the judges tell us if they took over part of their work or the whole job? I also believe they would be dissatisfied, but we should be dissatisfied with the situation in the judiciary. A good part of the judges began to deal with our work, to present political assessments, qualifications, to participate in political shows by Olje Bećkovic and others, without the approval of the court president or the court's elder, which is not allowed. When you ask a member, which we have done here, the High Council of the Judiciary, is it a rule that the prosecutor, that the judge, before participating in a show and making a public statement, must address the Elder for permission, they tell us – yes, there is a rule, but that rule has been overcome, and the best rules, regulations and laws are those that are being implemented. If the judge tells you that a rule in the judiciary is overcome, then anyone who is accused of a misdemeanor or an act can say – you know what, it's already overcome, etc., no matter what it says in the law. Judge Majic, regardless of his verdicts, the verdict for the Gnjilan group was declared illegal by the Supreme Court of Cassation, is that right, Mr Martinovic, was not allowed to be resolved, it had to be done by the High Council of the Judiciary. The Assembly is now required to give up the last role it has in the judiciary, and it is the first choice of judges to be elected for the first time, etc. We are likely to change the Constitution and give up that part, which would not be disputed if we had a judiciary that is in its place, which does its job under the law, etc., which enforces the law and by the law rules judgments. If a judge, and I have witnesses here, says at the trial, when you refer to the Constitution and the law if it says yes, it says it in the law, to write it in the Constitution, but I think otherwise, what do you think the MP who comes to trial and who quotes the provisions of the Constitution what should be done to a judge who says, yes, it exists in the law, that it exists in the Constitution, but I think otherwise? I don't think the judge's opinion can be like that to avoid laws, legal procedures, legal penalties, etc. And to say that his opinion is more sacred and impertinent. The independence of the court cannot be divine, they must be dependent on the law and must enforce laws, not their own opinions, and it is often the product of their political action. At this point, at least 20% of judges have become the reserve composition of opposition parties that are obstructing, and our people think that the National Assembly, the President of the Republic, the Prime Minister and the Ministers, is the authority that can affect the court and most of all our citizens and our people complain about judicial decisions that are often, illegally and often the guilty are released, and the innocent are punished, which has often happened lately. I believe that with such a judiciary, we cannot change the Constitution and allow them absolute freedoms because, as far as I can see, our judges, honor the exceptions, are probably more than half of the fair judges, but a good part of those chosen in 2009 and 2010, that famous reform or deformity of the judiciary does not do its job in a legal and constitutional way. As for the debate on whether there were genocide or not in Srebrenica, I must remind you that there were over 2,000 Serbs living in Srebrenica before the 1991 war in the city. In 1995, when the Serb army entered Srebrenica, they entered Srebrenica, as the minors were released to Srebrenica, only one person of Serbian nationality was found. It was an old woman named Giuki, I think that's her name, which was 81 years old. So, each story has its two ends, as Mr. Martinovic said, and we should think about the sunset, the events, the crimes both in Srebrenica and in Srebrenica, the crimes against Bosniaks, the crimes against Serbs, because I think the crimes that took place in Srebrenica and around Srebrenica were mutually linked, that is, that some crimes have caused other crimes. I judge both. But to remind you that all state figures from the Republic of Serbia, including Boris Tadic, including Aleksandr Vukic, I think that Dodik was there, all came to Srebrenica to the mesars and all honored the victims and condemned the crime. In the villages around Srebrenica, Bratunac, no Bosniak statesman came to do the same, and I think that would be good, to condemn crimes and to recognize victims and other sides, and I don't consider myself a corpse merchant. As far as The Hague is concerned, I wouldn't hand over a sword to The Hague. No kitten. No pets. That court didn't establish the UN Assembly, did it, Mr. Martinovic? That's what the Security Council did. It is as if the Serbian Parliament would not establish courts, but rather do so by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, means an executive body that has its own motives why this court is founded and why it does so. Also, the way this Hague court works is very strange. It's a mix of various rights, better say injustices, injustices, etc. So I wouldn't give them a dog, but I wouldn't sign the co-operation with The Hague tribunal. It was signed in Dayton in 1995 between the SR Yugoslavia, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatia, by making an even greater mistake that we have committed that justice and injustice, that co-operation with The Hague court also includes Republika Srpska. This led to the delivery of civil wartime leaders from Republika Srpska, i.e. Mr. Karadzic and Mr. Mladic. This signing was a little harder, as the agreement prescribed that the obligation to co-operate was very strict and that the agreement applies to both the SR Yugoslavia and the authorities, as it said, of the Bosnian Serbs, i.e. Republika Srpska. So, the commitment was strict, strictly prescribed, and it began to be fulfilled in 1996 in Belgrade. The first two persons extradited were Erdemovic and Kremonovic, right, Mr. Martinovic? This was a bigger accident, because the first one appeared as a false witness in various cases, even in the case of Milosevic, as I recall. That's why, for the purposes of the lever and taught to all our state officials, they have to watch what they sign, what they sign and what they mean, which are made, not only for those who sign, not only for the country in whose name they sign, but also for future generations in that country, because when you sign one agreement, one authority when you sign an agreement on behalf of the state, that agreement, is it, Mr Martinovic, obliges all other authorities. I am proud that this authority, unlike all previous authorities, has not extradited anyone, nor has it been said that because of the alleged influence on witnesses, has been sought in the case of three members of the Serbian Radical Party, one has died, while it seems to me that it is Mrs Radeti and Mr Jojic. I am proud that this authority has not extradited them, and I believe that they will not extradite anyone, and I think that this authority is acting in accordance with what I said at the beginning, that those who do justice in such a way, or injustice, should not even be delivered to the dog. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-01-0.u4915	Dear People's MPs, a little note. When a person looks for a word by article 104 as a replica, of course, that in an explanation he can touch other topics of the agenda, but when someone gets a word on the 96th list of speakers, then I ask him to stick to the subject of the agenda and not to violate Article 106. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. We're moving on. The word has the People's MP, Ugljesa Mrdić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-01-0.u4916	Thank you, President-in-Office, Mrs. Kovac. Dear fellow MPs, distinguished citizens of the Republic of Serbia, we know how judges are elected. It is being tried since 2012 until today, and I hope it will be in the future, they choose as they should, in accordance with the law, to be elected in the Serbian Parliament. We now have here at the agenda point, as my predecessors have said well, the termination of the judicial office of the President of the Criminal Court in Negotin and the basic courts in Kruševec and Novi Pazar. But what is very interesting, on the one hand, we are struggling to support as the MPs and the Serbian Government and our judges and all those who want to respect the Constitution and the laws, and on the other hand we have one obvious situation for individual judges, as my predecessors said, above all, Mr. Risticevic, to choose either in some embassies or to choose on the municipal committees of certain parties, as was the case during the Democratic Party's period of rule, when we had a catastrophic reform of the judiciary in 2009. Also, I do not understand why the competent judicial authorities do not respond when it comes to numerous cases, concrete crimes, this time I would first highlight the incursion of the fascist incursion of former regime members in this Serbian Parliament building last year. Then, an apparent attack, which can be characterized as an attempted murder on MP Marijan Risticevic. Then, what have the judicial authorities done in the event of an attack on my dear fellow MP, Dr. Aleksandr Martinovic, at a meeting of the Administrative Committee of the Serbian Parliament. Then what did they do when some opposition MPs here attacked MPs, physically attacked them, I mean SNS MPs. Then, what did the judicial authorities do about the direct threats directed to President Aleksandr Vukic and his family, and how many threats the opposition made or not, certain judicial authorities did not deal with it. They didn't even consider it, which is unacceptable. How many people in the judiciary, and this time I want to point out, of course, that the largest number of people employed in courts and prosecutors are honest and honest people doing their job well, but it is totally incomprehensible that in Serbia it is allowed to threaten President Alexander Vukic and his family, even to threaten those members of his family who have certain health problems. I would like to remind you that when President Vukic's son, Danilo, had a crown last year, a good part of the Gilas regime, he himself, and his supporters and parliamentarians, threatened and brought numerous charges against Daniel Vukic. The same thing happened at the end of December last year when President Vukic's father, Mr Angelko, was also given the crown, and when he was hospitalized, well, when he was then examined for his suspicion that he had a crown, and the mother of President Alexander Vukic, Mrs Angelina Vukic. Then again by Gilas, by part of the tycoon media, by members of the former regime, we had the most brutal lies at the expense of both Mr. Angelko and Mrs. Angelina. As long as Dragan Djilas, Dragan Šolak, Vuk Jeremic, Bosko Obradovic and their fellows were monstrous in their attacks, it was confirmed two weeks ago that the brother of the president of the Republic, due to the mutual pneumonia of the lungs admitted to the hospital, they continued brutally to insult and attack through the media and through their press conferences for journalists and brother of the President of the Republic. In his situation, Aleksandar Vucic shows his strength and helps all citizens of Serbia, not only Serbian citizens, but also in the region of the citizens of BiH, Northern Macedonia, Montenegro, to defeat this monster together from the crown of the virus. On this occasion, I would like to quote our president of the parliamentary group Aleksandar Vukic – For our children, Dr Aleksandr Martinović, who first gave us an excellent historic hour, where some of the things he said himself I didn't know, and how interested I am also in these topics concerning and crimes against the sprawling people and the Bosniak people and all other peoples. Dr. Martinovic said that Aleksandar Vucci, our leader, writes a new chapter in Balkan history. That's right. This new chapter in Balkan history leads to reconciliation, new investments, construction, excellent co-operation, the integration of the people, because the Serb, Bosniak people, Montenegrin, Macedonian and Croatian, Hungarian peoples and all others living in these areas have no closer than each other. This shows that at this point in time, the Balkans, not only the Western but the entire Balkans, has one man who shows himself in this crisis period as a real leader, and that is our president, Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic. At this point next to that battle against the Coronal Virus, we have one fierce struggle against the Mafia. But in the fierce fight against the mafia, which my fellow MPs have spoken of, we have certain brakes, and those brakes next to these former regime members and those that are in mob structures, we have among certain people who are in charge of judicial functions. It is not normal for the judicial authorities not to react in the case of these Belgrade criminals, who, by order of Dragan Gilas, came to Kikind, as my fellow MP Milenko Jovanovic spoke of. There's no reaction from the authorities, but that's why Gilas is allowed to have criminals, like his mercenaries. I think a colleague of Jovanov listed a dozen, fifteen serious crimes they committed. What will the judicial authorities do? So far, nothing, and I hope he does something. What will the competent judicial authorities do about all these threats to government officials and MPs and all these crimes that I have listed? What will the competent authorities do, and as for the fascist procedures of former regime members? We were talking about culture here yesterday. I would like to remind myself of this occasion and of an event where at the centre of Belgrade in the Hall "Progress" was an organized promotion of a book by Goran Vesic, deputy mayor, it seems to me that the book is called "My Belgrade". I witnessed an attack by 30 supporters of Dragan Gilas, Mark Bastac, Vuk Jeremic, where they came across the three of us just because we were going for a book promotion. Then, like fascists and Nazis, they carried out the burning of that book. During this period and during and before the campaign and after the campaign, they regularly threaten their political opponents through both the media and live and the embassies and the press conferences, in any way, not to say that the competent judicial authorities in my opinion have not yet completed their work on beating up journalist Pink TV, Gordana Zelec and Mare Dragovic. Then what about the threats posed by journalists "Studija B" Barbari Živic. So, dear citizens, we have a situation where someone is threatening by Gilas, so, when Dragan Gilas and his fellow Members threaten, hit and beat up the MPs, members of the SNS, journalists who are professionally doing their job, we do not have an adequate reaction from the competent judicial authorities. I only hope that these most honest and honest people, who work in the judiciary, will overcome these weeds in the judiciary that make up those judges who are seeking opinion on Western embassies, are flirting or co-operating with both Gilas, and with various types of mafia, organised crime groups, and who certainly do not care about Serbia being a country of order and law. In front of us, we could also function as a state and fight the mafia is a serious task, which is to clean up all state institutions from corruption and crime. It's already being done at the interior ministry, it's being done in some other institutions. I hope that's what happens in the judiciary, too. Then when that happens and in the judiciary, then you'll be afraid of all those who want to threaten, beat and work against the state, do criminal acts and threaten children as well. As my colleague Jovanovic said, I must quote it again, I hope that Dragan Gilas will be responsible for all these affairs, if he has justice in Serbia, and he has the right to answer for those affairs he has and millions he has stolen as mayor, as head of the People's Office of the President of the Republic, as Minister for National Investment Plan. Or these affairs, which are not actually affairs now, are already proven, as far as dozens of his accounts are concerned, by the various destinations of the world where tens of millions of euros are found, that he will respond, and that everyone who has struck both the journalist in Serbia and the MP and who threatens the family of the president of Serbia who, despite all the difficulties of our Serbia, our people, will lead all citizens in the Republic of Serbia to a safe and strong and stable future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-01-0.u4917	The word of the People's Messenger is Adam Shukalo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-01-0.u4918	Thank you, Chairman. It's going to be really hard for me after my colleague Mrdić's inspiring speech, the energetic and emotional talk, to keep talking about this part of the agenda, but we're going from the beginning. Given that we are discussing here today at the home of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia the resolution of certain judges in local courts, I would say at the very beginning that this is an extremely important thing in Serbia, that in this very home, given that we have division, as well as everywhere in the world, on three levels of government – executive, legislative and judicial, but in any case it is extremely important that in the legislative, highest body, we choose and resolve judges according to the applicable procedures. Why am I saying that? I speak for a simple reason because too much of this information and qualifications in the public, in certain media, and that is for media that play a special role in the Republic of Serbia, to violate its institutions. It's often pointed out as a negative example, in terms of us having exactly this kind of point. I must tell you, given that I have spent most of both the life and the professional and this political century in BiH, which has been mentioned here many times today and which is, unfortunately, still a protectorate of the international community, a completely dysfunctional state, unfortunately, in every sense, that the experiments these representatives and opposition political parties here advocate in the Republic of Serbia that we should have these nadinstitutions, quasi-institutions, that we have such an example in Bosnia and Herzegovina. For example, this is an example of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council, where one body, composed of just the judges and prosecutors, chooses each other, sanctions themselves, and solves themselves. The experiment began after 2000, by the international community and individual embassies in BiH, also had an impact on the normative, so, among other things, since we mention a lot of criminal processes and procedures today, to say that by force and imposing a certain law by the High Representative, let's say, intervention in the Criminal Procedure Act, has wiped out the institution of a subsidiary or private prosecutor, so in that case you cannot as a damaged party in BiH, if the prosecutor is not in favour of protecting his rights. And it was all done by foreigners in BiH. The result of all this talk is that the BiH judiciary experienced such a flood, one unfortunately of the countries that records the worst results in fighting both crime and corruption and all other forms of crime. When foreigners saw it, they tried to intervene in the way they knew it and one of these ways was to change individuals who would go the way they expected them to judge or press charges, etc. It's a negative example. All those who advocate it in Serbia should just look over the Drina and see what the dreary results of this struggle are. It is also extremely good to point out here once again, when we talk about this subject, that although we have a division in three pillars of government, even though the judiciary is independent in decision-making and everything else, it does not mean that we need not to highlight the Institute of Mutual Control of all three pillars of government, and precisely in terms of the reports that we receive here in plenary, these resolutions and appointments, as well as certain things that are negative phenomena that are in the judiciary are both both the task and the obligation of the MPs and the National Assembly, not only to discuss, but to say certain things. What is forbidden and what has never happened here in this tide, yet certain media of certain political groups, unfortunately, and some others, are trying to honor the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, that we interfere in any way in deciding judicial institutions or to talk about individual examples. It never happened here. There was talk of justice, but no one affected any judge in terms of the verdict or the prosecutor in terms of his decision and orders and everything else. So let's split up. On the other hand, what we need to do is sit here like a kilo of salt, when we see that someone in the judiciary doesn't do their job, that after publicly said qualifications, the processes that are launched, the criminal charges that have been raised, the prosecutors are silent, and they're doing nothing. And they don't answer for it. As a negative example, another one from Bosnia and Herzegovina I will also tell you that there, unfortunately, prosecutors cannot answer in their official duties. And you, as part of your official duty, can also damage not only the state of Serbia, but also any citizen who is damaged by foreign, commercial society, here, privatisation processes, which are listed here, etc., etc. At the very beginning, or the middle, given that it has been five minutes already, I have one more thing to say, and that is that I am also pleased that today we have such a quality debate in which the topic is the relationship between Serbia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. Even if I focus more on the message between the two peoples living in both Serbia and BiH, between the Bosniak people and the Serb people. And everyone else, of course, but this was in focus today. Mr. Martinovic, our head of the parliamentary group has also talked about how well Mr. Fehratović is, I am very pleased, for a simple reason, here we will have at this session a point of the agenda which will concern the relations of the two states, in terms of the maintenance of bridges, and we will also have the opportunity to see how important the shifts are, not only in terms of initial co-operation, but also concrete things that are important to the citizens of both countries. In that sense, I must say that from the beginning of the session, especially the heart in place, because here in the tide, nine days ago I spoke and prayed, appealed to the health authorities, to say, the institutions and state institutions, to allow the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, who want, and at that point I had a large number of calls from friends from Republika Srpska and the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, to be approved that physically, at least in one place, they could come and be vaccinated. I'm just so happy that this appeal was bearing fruit, not because of me, but because of what I said. So we're not beating up empty straw here, we're starting extremely serious initiatives, which are Thursday, Friday, Saturday and Sunday to lead to more than 22,000 citizens, and this continues, unlike those that in the tycoon media of Dragan Gilas, the name and last name of his are trying to make what is the brightest act, I'm going to condemn myself at this point, maybe even after the conflicts of the 1990s that happened, practically last week, to try to get dirty. I can't get that kind of story dirty, the citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the whole region, especially from the Federation of BiH, and from Sarajevo, from Tuzla, from Zenica, and from certain municipalities from Herzegovina, of course from Republika Srpska, from Banja Luka, from Bijeljina, all of them assessed life, not politically, that kind of story that is extremely important. (President: Theme. ) Of course, I refer to all topics, including this one. Please, since you didn't warn anyone else, there would be no reason, but it would be extremely important in this kind of story to highlight this. Why? Here, I'll give you an example, since you're already bringing me back on the subject. The Constitutional Court, given that the judiciary is a subject, Bosnia and Herzegovina via the Foreign Ministry addressed Serbia here, asked our institutions in Serbia here before this decision to come inoculated. Why does it matter? I cannot do judicial institutions, courts and prosecutors, neither in Serbia nor in the region unless we have these things we are discussing at this point. So everything is also connected to this kind of story, which implies that practically this event that happened, which was approved by our institutions, by our President of the Republic, is primarily the most important act from the 1990s to today. This is how people have experienced it, and this is what is important, given that we have referred here on various topics, there is no country in the world, which is neighbouring country or neighbouring countries, approved that its citizens, citizens, pass without a PSR test in another country, according to current procedures, without any barriers to being vaccinated. There's no way you have one, two, five or ten examples, so let's say Serbia did it best. The heart that Serbia has shown, the strength of responsibility, but also the raid towards this story that our country, our institutions, our economy, our economy, our infrastructure, our bridges, which we will, here to BiH, according to the region, are a prerequisite for exactly the health situation in which we are all in. Until everyone in the region is vaccinated, it is such a sad situation that the BiH authorities have failed to organise and that there is no, not enough number, there is not a minimum number of vaccines there, and the state of Serbia has shown, its leadership, when it is most difficult, as it should be answered. While we are already in the judiciary and in these topics it is important to point out and today it has been said, unfortunately, of Srebrenica, of a great crime in Srebrenica and everything else, that Serbia, regardless of its president, then the Prime Minister of the Government, experienced at a memorial in Srebrenica, many years ago, that there are still no official responses from the BiH institutions, who ordered it, who did it and we, unfortunately, could have had the situation, that the then Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Aleksandar Vukic, could have suffered. To that story, which certain forces, which are very bad in BiH, which is not a common people, are not normal people, who have tried to stay away from the two nations. We on the stone that was thrown at the president, answer with help when it's the hardest. In health, in vaccines, we respond with bread, we respond to the opening of new jobs, building bridges, opening the arms of the highway, which means connecting. That message is more important than any other discussion in this kind of story, because this implies, not only that we're on the right track, but that we're just the leaders of these relationships. What are the others in this kind of story, and how are those who qualify us for what we're doing here and how they're trying to get this most light act, to get dirty, I'm just going to do one example to give, and that's one of the daily papers that described this vaccine that is so important, to make one picture that is so ugly. Well, they wrote, “the authorities made a fuss, because the vaccines are running out of time. ” Imagine, he says why they didn't deliver these foreign states, in the neighborhood, the vaccine, as if they didn't know, just confusing the public, that we can't deliver the vaccine without their approval because of the manufacturer. What's wrong with this kind of story, if something in the future is running out of time for some vaccine, what's that supposed to mean? Well, that can only mean what they recommend, since I see that last night, and these days, they stand out in the media. What they point out, so they say, you see, and the prime minister has confirmed, as she confirms, that she is running out of time for that vaccine. What would they do? What does that mean? Well, so they'd stay here if those vaccines expired, they wouldn't invite friends. Do you neighbors, when you have extra food, or when you celebrate something, do you take it across the board, across the street, and you want to clean it up? Now, we're neighbors, we're gonna fight for that story, and they're gonna try to get between the two nations, between the two countries, and they're gonna keep getting dirty. That's why they'll never be an alternative, and we'll always be good neighbors, good hosts, but also good patriots.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-01-0.u4919	Dear People's MP, I don't know if you've been present in the O.R. in the last hour, I'm obliged to give you a notice, an explanation at 13,01 when we concluded a circle of replicas between Mr. Martinović and Jahjaga, I said try to return to the agenda before Snow Paunović. At 13.22 p.m. after the presentation of the MP, Marijan Risticevic, not to be that I tend to have anything against anyone, I said that when someone appears in the replica, they can, of course, touch other topics, such as Srebrenica, but when it comes to the list of speakers, they must stick to the agenda. So, I tried very nicely to get you back on the subject, because I just said the subject. Otherwise, next week, we have a debate on the draft law on the confirmation of the agreement, which you mentioned earlier, between the government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of BiH, on the maintenance of the reconstruction of road, interstate bridges. I hope that we will discuss the relationship between Serbia and BiH in detail all day. Here, I see, I wanted to take a break and give a few notices, but since MP Aleksandar Martinovic called... . (Alexander Martinovic: Give you a notice. ) Well, just in case, since we don't know, I have to give a notice, that according to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I must inform you that, if necessary, the National Assembly will work after 18 hours today, because of the need for the National Assembly to bring acts from the agenda as soon as possible, this session. National MP Jahja Fehratovic reported, also according to the Rules of Procedure and MP Aleksandar Martinovic, although I do not see him in the system. Here you go, Fehratovich.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-01-0.u4920	I would like to thank the Honorable Chairman, Article 108 and Article 107. We have been in this Parliament for 5 years with you, and you have now violated my dignity, you have called me Jahjaga, it is a politician from Kosovo, and my name is Jahja, and the last name Fehratovic, so it would be good to correct yourself for the general public and simply refer to all of us MPs as our name and last name. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-01-0.u4921	Without me mixing you, I'm really sorry, and it's too long a last name I couldn't even remember to get out of my head, Mr. Fehratovic, my deep apology. Do you want the People's Assembly to make a statement on whether I really broke the Rules of Procedure? Some say yes. We can vote next week. My deep apologies. I've really tried to connect a few things. I also apologize for the meaning of the laps I made. The word has been given by Parliament Group President Aleksandar Vukic – For our children, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-01-0.u4922	Thank you, Mrs. Kovac. I'm suggesting a violation of article 27. Rules of Procedure. First of all, I want to say that all SNS MPs talked about the topic of the agenda, in the way they think it should be done, political style is the personality of each and every one of us, and I think the chairman should not interfere. What I also want to point out, I as president of the parliamentary group Aleksandar Vukic – For our children, I am not angry, and I may have reason, but here I am not angry with our coalition partners, who are in power thanks to Aleksandar Vukic and SNS, who are silent and pretend not to see, that Alexander Vukic is today, in fact the main target and only target, both political opponents from Serbia and those who do not think well of Serbia and come from various world power centres. Now, if we SNS MPs, too, shut up, I'd like Mrs. Kovac to explain to me, who will speak in favour of Alexander Vukic's politics today in Serbia. I will not say who will defend him on purpose, because we have nothing to defend Alexander Wolfiche from. Alexander Vukic didn't commit any crime. What bad has Alexander Vukic done since he came to office as Prime Minister, or President of the Republic of Serbia. It is bad that it has brought hundreds of thousands of investors to Serbia, which has opened hundreds of thousands of jobs, which we are making schools, hospitals, making highways, which we are able today as a state to allow Serbian citizens to choose with which vaccine they want to vaccinate against Kovid 19. What are we able to do to help our neighbours in the region, to vaccinate their citizens here in Serbia, or Belgrade? No country, not in Europe, not in the region, no country in the world speaks. If you coalition gentlemen keep quiet about it, and I can see that you are not in the O.R., and you are sitting here thanks primarily to the fact that Aleksandar Vukic planted his back in the 2020 elections because Bosko Obradović, and Dragan Djilas, and Vuk Jeremic, etc. And I haven't heard of any other leader of any party being with us in the coalition. I'm saying, I'm not mad. It is your right to remain silent, to speak, not to say, to think that something is important, irrelevant, it is your business, but we, Members of the SNS, are not obliged, but we have the right, and it is our pleasure to affirm here in parliament the policies of the Serbian Progressive Party and Alexander Vukic, and one of the scopes of that policy is the justice sphere, because in Serbia today, no judge, when it comes to judgment, does not say as it was at the time of the Democratic Party and Boris Tadic – I received a verdict, but – I am making a verdict on behalf of the people. I would like to hear what judge it is, which is the public prosecutor, who is the bearer of any judicial function in Serbia, Aleksandar Vukic called either by any of us from the Serbian Progressive Party or any of the ministers and said - you must make such a verdict. When I come to speak, I will read to you only two 2021 rulings against Alexander Vukic and against Goran Vesic, and you will understand whether in Serbia the judiciary is independent or, as those who do not think well of Serbia, depending on Alexander Vukic and the Serbian Progressive Party. We will prove to you, as we have proven to you so far, that the judiciary in Serbia, as far as we are concerned from the Serbian Progressive Party, is absolutely independent. Mrs. Kovac, please understand that every member of Parliament has its own policy. Someone has a policy to keep quiet, someone has a policy to talk about topics that I personally think are not the most important in Serbia, someone has a policy not to have at all in the hall, someone has a policy that at a time when the Assembly is doing coffee and reading the paper and all of this is legitimate, but let it be legitimate that Serbian Progressive Party MPs are also afirmic about Serbian Progressive Party's policy, which is and how it has done a lot of good and for the judiciary, that we are not talking about business, that we are not talking about health, that we are not talking about education, about defending the country, the military, fighting crime and corruption, and so on. So, to refer only to the judiciary, not to read statistics as much as we have refurbished the building of basic courts, senior, appeals, as much as we have obtained software and so on and so on, all this has been done thanks to the fact that Aleksandar Vucic was the only one in Serbia who had the courage to carry out difficult economic and financial reforms, so now we have enough money for both vaccines and for education and for the economy and for helping entrepreneurs and so on. They say that vaccines have expired and that this is why we vaccinate citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Montenegro and Macedonia here in Serbia. It is an honor for them, but it is an honor for us to affirm all the good that Alexander Vukic has done for both the state of Serbia and the citizens of Serbia, but also for many citizens living in the countries of our neighbourhood.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-01-0.u4923	Dear People's Messenger, I am really trying to keep my best knowledge and knowledge in order at the session, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I am truly maximumly tolerated as regards the breadth of the topic and content and to ensure that every MP, regardless of the belonging of any member of the parliamentary group, is free of speech, in accordance with Article 103(2). The constitution, because I believe the citizens have just chosen the MPs to speak freely here. Do you want to make a statement in the voting day about the breach of the Rules of Procedure? (Alexander Martinovic: No. Thank you. In accordance with Article 87. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I now set a break of one hour. The work continues at 15.00 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-01-0.u4924	Ladies and gentlemen, let's get back to work. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-01-0.u4925	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, whenever we are discussing the holders of judicial functions, whether they are elected to office for the first time or cease their mandate on various grounds, it always draws the attention of the MPs, but also our public. But never before has it happened to go so far that the MPs attack to break the Constitution, to insult the holders of judicial functions, to disobey the rules of good conduct, and even the code we ourselves have brought. I will only read one part of the text, which came out today in some weekly, I will not tell who, but in this text as a subtitle or introductory text you can call whatever you want - New attacks in the Serbian Parliament on Judge Miodrag Majic, former Commissioner of Rodoljub Sabic and Dragan Gilas show that MPs do not know or do not want to know their job and mandate, but that they are knowingly breaking both the Constitution and the laws of inappropriate insults and slanders of judges, lawyers and political components. In the text itself, I found nothing that could be called a violation of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, nothing that would be an insult even, there were comments of a variety, but I believe that we as MPs should protect the holders of judicial functions from individuals who are indeed in a great minority and who violate the Constitution and create a bad picture of our judges. The text quoted one part of my discussion, tendedly interpreted, as saying, "The People's MP Veroljub Arsic accused Majic of protecting both rapists and asking when he would come to the Assembly as a judge." True, I'd like him to come to the Assembly once, probably not be a judge then, but he'll be an MP, seeing as he's more inclined to engage in politics. I don't mind that's his choice. I said the following, which later, was rather unmistakable, if I interpret the verdict that Judge Majic had annulled the first-degree verdict that was condemning the person who made the promise of a minor child and who was 13 years old at the time, I asked the question - would you also apply such analogy to numerous cases of an affair where the proteges were in some way, we would see these affairs, the courts should make their final decision, but for now some people are suspicious of such acts, that they have committed a promise against their protégégé, and that, as I said, Majic would say that the verdict is annulled because he is willing to offend all our artists, meaning, not me, but Majic, as already offended all members of the Roma national minority and says that such a view of the behaviour among them is common. I just pulled one parallel on a very harmful verdict by Judge Majic, and later we'll deal with it a little bit. It is further stated, I cannot say that the journalist did not bother to write this text under the current law, "The work of all judges and presidents is worth the board of the High Council of the judiciary, the High Council of the judiciary, not existing or ruling or any political option. In the other case, the Rules of Procedure order all courts to provide the Ministry of Justice with a regular report on the work of all judges. According to this evaluation of the work, the judges can only carry out committees of the High Council of the Judiciary while the Ministry of Justice receives a regular report on their work." It's all true, but they just forgot one thing - who's questioning the judgments of the appeals courts? That's not a word, and that's exactly what this was about, the Supreme Court ruling. A little later, we will return to that ruling by the Supreme Cassation Court and who here violates the independence and independence of judicial officials involved in politics. First, let's sort these things out. Now, look at this, which I think is an insult to all the MPs and a violation of the dignity of the National Assembly, the judge of the Court of Appeal, Miodrag Majic, says: “It has obviously become a cheap party. Also, in a certain part of the people, such an insult is causing positive emotion and confirmation that we really need people who insult us to lead the state." That's what one judge, the judge elected by the MPs, says, though, not these others, but he's a judge. "It is obvious, he added, that pointing to inadmissibility, insult in the assembly has no effect on people sitting in parliament." So we're brainless. "We are constantly commenting on something, and it is obvious that vulgar treatment has been accepted as a way of having a debate in the Assembly, but also in society. It's also obvious that our reaction has no effect. Moreover, it adds fuel to those who insult to intensify the attacks and degrade their opponents with an even more inappropriate language. So far, it has proved repeatedly that there are no codes of conduct in the Assembly, Majic stressed." Look, the judge can't judge or judge the MPs of the National Assembly, but that happens, unfortunately. Even the Association of Judges issued a statement. The statement said: "The Association called on MPs to refrain from encouraging citizens' mistrust in the judiciary, and the public authorities' holders to direct knowledge and energy to the quality of their responsibilities, instead of mutual accusations and the calling of individuals." Correctly, I completely agree, but the MPs have given those who make Serbian citizens lose confidence in the holders of judicial functions or come from a small number of judicial officials. The same Majic says on 28 December 2019 – we are getting closer to the collapse of the rule of law. That's what the Court of Appeals judge says. Listen now, November 15th, 2020 – Serbia's judiciary is operating in the atmosphere of survival and fear that in such conditions it is impossible to achieve a function entrusted to the judiciary in a democratic society. Are MPs the ones who create mistrust in the judicial system of the Republic of Serbia or the holder of the judicial function of Judge Majic? Or -- August 3, 2020 -- Serbia became a country of absurdity. This is where comedies make the rules. I don't know who he thought he was a comedian, is he a Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, is he a Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, is he a Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia? I don't know. Listen, keep going -- comedians make rules here, and geniuses make criminals and fools. Who's the genius? Maybe he's turning himself into geniuses. We'll talk about his genius later. Is the genius after him and Dragan Gilas? Well, we're the ones who made so much money in Mauritius. Is that why he's brilliant? Looks to me like it is. Is his sister-in-law brilliant? I have to admit that they did, the way they robbed the state was indeed successful hundreds of millions of euros. How much Gilas earned in those four years is measured by the 100 euros each Serbian citizen received as an incentive from the government to measure the coronal virus. So, from every citizen of Serbia, Dragan Gilas stole 100 euros from both the baby and the pensioner at 100 euros, as we know. Is that why he's brilliant? He has to admit that he did. Is that why he's a criminal? I don't make him a criminal, for my God, so why do you hide money in Mauritius, exotic islands and other states? Why don't you keep the money in Serbia? You've changed the Foreign Exchange Act here in the National Assembly so you can make that money if it's legal and it's not criminal, and then it's the MPs who attack the holders of the judicial functions. It's not like that. It's not like that. The same judge Majic on 22 September 2016 – politics is managed by the Serbian judiciary. Let's go back to what the Association of Judges says - MPs to refrain from encouraging the mistrust of citizens in the judiciary. They're calling us, and their judge's been doing it years ago. I'm not going to comment on his verdict for the Gjilan group. We'll deal with it some other time. Yes, the verdict was a shame, but it is said, among other things, in that same statement by the Association of Judges that the courts and judges are obliged to make a legal and reasoned decision based on a legally established factual state to which the material law was properly applied, and that is where we actually come to the beginning and end of everything that happened in that discussion last week, last Thursday. Namely, my smallness, as a folk MP, and my fellow MPs attacked Judge Majic's verdict, which he made as an appeal judge and whose earlier verdict was found guilty of liability by reason that it was generally accepted by a norm in an ethnic group that belonged to both the damaged person and the perpetrator of the crime. The Supreme Cassation Court, which has the right to review the decisions of the lower courts, in this case of the Court of Appeal, said the Supreme Court, whose position I defended in its discussion, that the judicial verdict of the Court of Appeal in Belgrade was a violation of the law in favour of the defendant who, under the reasoning of the legal error, was freed from the charge of the girl's promise in 2017, who was 13 at the time, I was defending the Supreme Cassation Court, a liberating verdict last September, signed by the Court of Appeal judge in Belgrade, Miodrag Majic, and the legal and lay public resented the argument in which it was stated that the accused girls, members of the Roma national minority, in which they are acceptable to children. Do you guys know what this means in that verdict? Anybody got a play? We're talking about a judicial verdict, finally. Only the Supreme Court of Cassation in the legal process that has to be initiated by the Republic Public Prosecutor can annul this verdict and all the happiness that has been initiated and all the happiness that has been annulled. The verdict that she remained in law would cause Serbia serious problems because when a citizen for any reason initiates proceedings before international courts, who do you think he is suing? Do you think he's suing the judge? No, I don't. Is it the court that reached the verdict? No, I don't. He sues the state of Serbia. The court is a state, part of the state, but the state thanks to its constitutional order, is a place in constitutional order. What would a verdict like this mean if it remained in force? I have to ask my fellow MPs, if you members of an ethnic group or of a national minority are singled out, you are ousting from the legal system of the Republic of Serbia or any other state, what does that mean? There are more negative consequences. First, it is a big and serious consequence of this ethnic group itself, but other than you lock them in the ghetto, you show at the small door that they are not equal citizens of the Republic of Serbia, that they are not as valuable as we are, that the laws that apply to us do not apply to them, that our rights do not apply to them, that their lives are less valuable than ours. What kind of ideology is that? What did Majic involve us in fascism, the darkest part of human history, civilization? The state arrests pedofiles for the exchange of pornographic material, and he says – this is generally accepted. Well, it's not, I have to say it first. He's wrong, and he lied. In the vast majority of Roma, it is not accepted at all. My high school friend, he was sitting in a bench with me, he was a Roma. I went to his house, he came to my house. It had nothing to do with what's who. It's no big deal. The color of his skin is a little darker than mine. We responded as comrades to each other. So we hung out, and he'd want them to be less valuable, so they wouldn't suffer the consequences of the crimes they seem to do to them or what they do. It's not a favor to that people. Good thing the Supreme Casation Court annulled that verdict. Tell me, please, what difference does it make, it's a 13-year-old girl, does she... in the light of the ruling, the Supreme Cassation Court states that the promise with the child is not only a violation of the right, but also a violation of the moral order, which is why, according to domestic legislation and international standards, minors enjoy special protection in respect of sexual relations, especially children who have not reached a sufficient degree of physical and mental maturity. Well, does anyone's nationality or belonging to an ethnic group define how much that child has physical and psychic maturity? And that's what Judge Majic did, and that's what my discussion was about. Because he's the one who violates citizens' trust in the justice system. Because he is the one who defiles and disgraces the vast majority of honest judges who judge by law. He is both ours and their shame, the shame of our society. He tried to trick Serbia into entering a fascist ideology. He can spray his ashes and wash as much as he likes, that's what he did. Never in this congregation will he have the support for such things he has done. The verdict itself is a disgrace to the justice system of the Republic of Serbia, but I cannot blame the judges who did not participate in it, I cannot blame the Supreme Court of Cassation or the High Council of the judiciary. I blame whoever signed it, and don't hold back from bringing it to trial, because as chairman, he's preparing a referendum for the council, and it's he who defends and represents the referendum. The report said that because she was a Roma woman, that because he was Roma, he could make a promise to a girl who was 13 years old. So let the tabloids of Gilas and Šolak defend him; I ask only the question: those who defend him, would they defend him, that their acquaintance might have done so? Would you defend him if it happened to their children? I'm sure you wouldn't. It just shows double standards and double arches, because what happens to someone else doesn't hurt, it only hurts when it happens to us. We cleared up with such a Serbia in 2012 and it will never return to Serbia again. And this verdict is only a reminder that judges must be responsible for doing their job, to ensure that all parties are protected in the proceedings and, as the Association of Judges says, that they make judgments after a legally implemented procedure, make a legal and reasoned decision based on a legally established factual state to which the material law is properly applied. This is what the National Assembly requires of the holders of judicial functions, including Judge Majic. Nothing more, just that and it's fortunate that the great majority of judges, indeed the vast majority of judges, are really leading the proceedings like this, not like this mess and the shame called Judge Majic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-01-0.u4926	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Alexander Mirkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-01-0.u4927	Dear President, dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament and fellow MPs, at the very beginning of my presentation, I must point out that I, like the Serbian Progressive Party MP, will support this decision for our children. I think the discussion that my fellow MPs had before me is best depicted by everything that citizens think today, first of all. Although today on April 1st, a day known in the world as a day of jokes or a day of laughter, one political group used that day to convince us that, although they hold a conference on April 1st, their conferences look alike to each other, so there is no difference in the Dragan Gilas conference much from that conference held today by his party councilman Borko Stefanovic. The meeting of the Belgrade City Assembly held today, which Dragan Gilas with his other coalition partners, and now has been boycotting former coalition partners for two years. But he does not boycott the register, as some previous MPs in the past have boycotted this parliament, tried to sneak into it in a violent way, as Bosko Obradovic would say, to try to break the door with a flag, though at any time of the day and night as a national MP they can enter. What is particularly interesting is the fact that today we as city councils, as well as the citizens of Belgrade, and God and all of Serbia, were able to see one continuity of the policy of threats and intimidation of anyone who belongs to the SNS or is part of the ruling coalition. Before the press conference, which turned into a monologue of Borko Stefanovic, most of the council members who attended the session suffered some insults and threats. Of course, it did not scare anyone from the SNS, from our parliamentary group, as it did not scare the MPs that they were now satanic for months ago and every discussion of the MP here in the Assembly is trying to make a mockery. In addition to these things that I only mention along the way, and let the judiciary consider whether there is work for them, it is much more important what was happening at that conference, which is to bring out the lies and another mockery of everything that makes democracy and the democratic process in Serbia. In fact, Borko Stefanovic, at the conference today, made a rough joke thinking that he was funny, and God forbid those closest people who stood next to him didn't smile, tried to hide all the anxiety and hysteria that affected them, and all because of these numerous bills that appear day by day in public and of Gilas's own interesting geography, where you meet the exclusive places on planet Earth by seeing where Dragan Gilas has bills. Today's conference began with a statement that their boycott had succeeded, a boycott of previous elections. Maybe someone who doesn't follow politics or doesn't care at all could believe it, but it's easy to check it out. These people who boycotted previous elections, held last year in June, do not exist today in fact, but are the most aggressive in making threats and making any demands. Come on, that boycott, as far as they think they've done it, I don't know why they're trying to convince the citizens that the historical result the SNS has achieved isn't like that. So, respected gentlemen from that part of the opposition, I am sorry for Borko Stefanovic, I am speaking to you, Mr Stefanovic, which you cannot explain to Dragan Gilas that the past elections have shown only that Serbian citizens recognise SNS and President Aleksandar Vukic as the only policy that brings prosperity to our country. If we're talking about that part, their despair is their problem, so about the boycott and his statement that the boycott was working, I wouldn't pay any more attention to it, like some other things. In his unfavorable address, Borko continued with a policy that Dragan Gilas has, which is that some people or SNS officials are criminalised by mentioning their names, bringing them into a connotation of what there is no basis for, bringing them into some awkward position, and that is simply because he cannot explain where Dragan Gilasu has 68m euros in various accounts. He mentioned one of the officials in town today, asked about his apartment. To be understood immediately, anyone, and that part of the SNS, if he's wrong about any law or misused his function and position, he'll answer to the law and there's no doubt about it, and there's no doubt about it. Since 12 March, the Law on the Origin of Assets has started to apply and, as we have repeatedly pointed out, President Aleksandar Vukic was the first to say that his property is being examined. I am absolutely convinced that all MPs sitting in this House will have no problem with it, but at least it's funny, just as many people laugh and laugh today, sounds like a first-april joke that Borko Stefanovic is dealing with someone's real estate, while his boss Dragan Gilas, who can't even explain where he gets 25m euros in real estate alone or where his brother Gojko Gilas has more than 35 properties. Why didn't he ask his boss where he came from and how this enormous wealth came about and how it came to be. What now appears as a practice, and counterpart Orlic talked about it today at a session of the City Assembly, is the fact that this is all for the upcoming city elections, for elections for the city of Belgrade. And now they're trying to hide, because their ratings are such that they're at the level of statistical error, they're trying to hide behind various associations of citizens. So they tried to give weight to some associations of citizens. Watch it now. So, the assembly that allowed them to be in the city parliament because they participated in the 2018 elections declared Borko Stefanovic illegal. He's probably from me longer in politics, not likely, surely, so now I'd like to hear that this assembly is illegal, if you've participated in these elections, won some number of votes, and now just because of your impotence you're boycotting this assembly, you don't want to appear at these sessions, but you're taking the fees neatly, and how is this assembly illegal now, and it wasn't illegal for you at the beginning of the session? I also don't understand why in this battle, both Dragan Djilas and Borko Stefanovic and Bosko Obradovic were now on opposite sides. People who do not remember, Bosko Obradovic was then with Radulovic on the town list. Their list was called "To make these go away without them coming back," thinking the SNS would leave power, but not to return Dragan Gilas to power. In his campaign, he accused Dragan Gilas of various machinations, thievings, of abuse of the official position, but shortly thereafter, after a year of their interest and a blind desire for power and naked hatred for Alexander Vukic and SNS quickly agreed and united. So from "Gilas, thieves" and "How much did you steal on the bridge? “, Bosko Obradovic starts with the campaign, “Jilas is the best.” Troubles in heaven happen to them these days when they insult each other in the most brutal way on social networks. I wouldn't add anything to that, I'd just say that they know each other better than anyone else. But to deceive the public like this and to make such false things at the very least is incorrect. I know that in their political struggle everything is allowed and that they are not far from anything, but it is our duty as MPs to talk about everything that happens on the daily level. This conference for Borko Stefanovic's press will go into history as one of the funniest and I don't know if he pulled it out on April 1st as joke day, but he was so desperate and so much of the nebulos said that in about an hour, a little harder, at 17 o'clock, there's a repair on one of Gilas' TVs, where he's going to try to take out all the stains he's done today at this conference. Saying today that the city of Belgrade, the state of Serbia does not think about children and does not think about kindergartens could be someone who is least maliced. For the sake of truth, we have talked about this here and this is an exact example of how Dragan Gilas led the city of Belgrade, as the last function that could best recommend it to the citizens of Belgrade, absolutely. So, while he was mayor, as many as 15,000 families were damaged because he was double-charging kindergartens, and today the city of Belgrade is returning those debts. When you translate that into free figures and figures, the figure is more than 35m euros that the city of Belgrade has to pay its parents because they have absolutely no right to charge a kindergarten in that amount. Thirty-fivem euros to make the citizens see and understand it, is somewhere around six new schools a set or 15 new kindergartens. For the sake of truth, over a period of three years, the city of Belgrade will have 25 new kindergartens and are currently being built or even eight are being built. But what Serbian citizens must be most interested in is the fact that, for example, in many local self-governments, the waiting list for kindergartens no longer exists. The city of Belgrade is also seeking the best information as it has taken care of the youngest is the fact that in its day, only 44,000 children were included, and today that figure is more than 73,000. Then you wonder if Borko Stefanovic, by the command of Dragan Gilas, thinks someone can believe these things. To the very end, what I want to keep the citizens of Serbia as the strongest impression is a dangerous statement that only says how much they are fed up with this hatred and the desire to return to power at any cost, and then to avenge each and every one of us, and also to give the citizens whether Belgrade or all of Serbia. Borko Stefanovic said that, watch out now, it will also reflect on the republic's parliament, such a policy, will actuate all decisions made by the city's parliament so far, which will apply later on, as well as to this republic. My people, I don't know if anyone serious can think that all the decisions they've made will be adjudicated just because, well, he didn't have most of them at the time or he wasn't in power. I'm only interested in this particular case – does this mean you'll get us back in the past, when Belgrade was in charge of 1.2 billion euros, today that debt is about 300 million? Will you bring us back to that situation where the Belgrade city budget was 565m euros and in 2020 it was 1.2 billion? Will you bring us back to the past when the salaries in Belgrade were an average of 452 euros, and today they are 628? Are you going to overdo all those streets now, and there are over 400 that have been renovated, renovated, are you going to re-orient, as you promised, and the Square of the Republic, are you going to pull out, rip out the fountain? Are you going to go through suburban municipalities and people who first got the sewerage now dig up, dig up and are you so willing to go in your frustration and hysteria just because every new project, every new good thing done for the citizens of Belgrade and for the citizens of Serbia is proof of your incompetence and evidence that instead of taking advantage of that opportunity when you were in power to work in the interest of citizens, you were just using your personal interest and your personal wealth? This is what I'm gonna end up with. Whatever they try to do, as much as they try to intimidate someone or as desperate as their moves were, and in that hatred, more uncontrolled, the will of the citizens of Belgrade and Serbia will not be able to change, because the times have passed when Serbia was on its knees, when we were on the verge of the abyss, when we were thinking about whether we would have to pay for salaries and pensions and the time has passed when our country seemed disastrous just because Dragan Dilas and Vuk Jeremic, and that Borko Stefanovic too, were not able to walk around the white world, the money citizens put on their own accounts and make themselves and their loved ones even richer. They will not be able to justify these lies, nor to hide the malfeasances that Dragan Gilas has reportedly committed, they will fail either one of us to shut their mouths and prevent us from talking about the fact that 68m euros has been allocated to more than 50 accounts in different 17 countries in the world and will not prevent these lies from Serbia going forward and developing. And as for the judiciary, judges, I will repeat it once again, let them judge by law, let them judge in the interests of Serbian citizens, because only when they do so, when they judge Serbia will go in the direction we all want, which is strong, stable, advanced and Serbia in which our children want to stay and live. Thank you and live Serbia!
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-01-0.u4928	Thank you. Professor Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-01-0.u4929	Thank you, dear President of the National Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here, while our so-called. Political opponents, mentioned earlier by my distinguished colleague Mirkovic, play politics, play the countries, holding press conferences, insulting our committees, specifically today in front of and during the session of the Belgrade City Assembly, our President Aleksandar Vukic, visited together today with Ambassador of the People's Republic of China the works on the Cačak-Požega highway, which will continue, therefore, its construction will go to Bolar, to Montenegro, which will represent a strategically significant corridor for our country, for our trade, for our workplace. That's what separates us and that so-called. the opposition, our approach and our leadership and the perception of the state by them, who are playing with politics and who are trying and doing their best to come to power by all means, just not by what it is to the entire democratic world and developed countries, which are elections. The election at every level, whether it's local, whether it's a national level, whether it's presidential elections, everything is ready to do, just not ready to go to the polls. Here, for several years now, they have not threatened us, as the ruling coalition, with SNS, or with President Aleksandr Vukic, threatening the people, threatening the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, that they will boycott some elections in advance. This has already happened during the republican elections held on 21 June last year, which clearly showed that President Aleksandar Vukic and SNS and our coalition partners have almost plebiscite support for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and that we have a clear mandate to lead the country as we have spoken during all these years. So, from 2014 until today and during election campaigns, but also of course, and after the election, election campaigns, because our program is modernization, our program is the development of the economy, our program is jobs. Of course, we are in such a position that it is practically easy for us now, because the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the people, can clearly see the difference between that so-called. The opposition and Alexander Vukic and us who represent the majority here in this House, who every day are working on making it better for our citizens, to fight for our health system, to fight to improve our geo-political and foreign-political position, to open up a new job daily, to develop our entrepreneurial society, to do everything possible for our young people to stay in our country. Certainly, and if today's issue as in the previous period is the judicial system of the Republic of Serbia, we very much need to be precise in this process of selecting judges at all levels. I must point out that they and the efficiency of the judicial system, of course, of the efficiency of the prosecution, depend heavily on the development of Serbia, depends heavily on how the economy will develop, but in what direction our country will move. It is not enough that we as politicians and, of course, we as the strongest, strongest party that has the largest support of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia have, and we have shown this, we show it from day to day. They can say whatever they want, they can underestimate us, but I'm not sure any of these opposition men, this Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jermic, Bosko Obradovic, would have been allowed to come out on a duel with our chief of Parliament club, Alexander Martinovic, who today, but also to all of us, and to all the people of the Republic of Serbia, gave one hour, a serious lesson in history, but also showed us what kind of access SNS has to do with co-operation with minority communities, when it comes to respect the views of other people who do not belong to the majority community in the Republic of Serbia. We have shown that we can do this with the Bosniaks, we have shown that we can find a common language, we have shown that we can build our Serbia and our colleagues from the Hungarian community, and with the Russians, and with the Slovaks, and with all the others who want to build this country together, no matter what religion or nation they belong to. However, I am very concerned, Your Honor, because today in our judicial system, we have people who do not have the priority of protecting the interests of the state. I do not want to comment on the individual judges, to talk about them personally, but I am talking about people who are still in the justice system of the Republic of Serbia today, who, for example, released several thousand Albanians among them, 620 of whom were convicted or have been prosecuted in the Republic of Serbia who were accused of hostile activity and terrorism. Among them are Flora Brovin, who, of course, is on the loose today, who is actively involved in politics in the party of Hashim Thaci. Among them is Albin Kurti, who was chosen for the second time by the president, the so-called president. temporary institutions in Kosovo and Metohija. As SNS, we want the judicial system to be strengthened, to be efficient, but to be, of course, patriotic, so that these people who work in the judicial system know what the state is, because what I said earlier speaks enough about how people who came to power in the Republic of Serbia after 5 October treated this country. These people who were then released so generously even though they were accused or even convicted, Flora Brovina was sentenced to 12 years in prison for the crime of hostile action and terrorism. These people have not calmed down, these people have not said – well, wait for me to use our influence to agree with Serbia, with Serbian authorities, to see how to build our future. No, this Flora Brovina, as an MP for Thaci's party in parliament, so in the interim institutions in Kosovo and Metohija, showed a picture, a photograph that went around the world, which was naturally a fake of how Serbian soldiers raped Albanian girls during the Kosovo and Metohija conflicts between our regulatory military and police forces and the terrorist KLA. Of course, the lie was revealed very quickly but it served as a clagworth for Atifete Jahjaga to go to the United States and for American Congress and American institutions to have the opportunity to speak about the rape of 20 thousand Albanians in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija during the war by the regular military and police forces of the Republic of Serbia. What I mean is, in this address, we all have one huge responsibility and we here at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and our colleagues in courts, and our colleagues and the Government of the Republic of Serbia and in all the state institutions, and the first thing we need to remember when we wake up in the morning before we get to work, is that every move we make, every move, every action, is tied up and has an impact on how our country will be and how it will be for our people. My colleagues previously talked about it and, of course, I can't help but mention that I want to encourage these people to simply do their jobs, to encourage them to do it, because, as far as we can see, so many insults, so many attacks on the institution of the president of the state, on his family, on many people who are public employees, and as our distinguished colleague Martinovic says, who are in favour of this policy, we don't defend, we don't need anyone here to defend, but we do contribute to Serbia, we work in favour of the development of the Republic of Serbia. Our voice should be heard and we want to say that this is simply inadmissible and that we are also taking part of responsibility by choosing, having this right to choose certain judges, to consider and well analyze who will lead the justice system of the Republic of Serbia in the future. Because the wrong choices can cost us a lot, and they can, worse still, cost us in the long run, so on the long run. We're paying a huge price today because of what happened in 1999, 2000, 2001. What happened at the time, what they missed, led to a crime in Old Grack as well, to reach the pogrom in 2004 and that no one was responding against it, that no one was responding to the beginning of the 21st century being buried over a freed people with a long democratic and state tradition, a Christian people in the heart of Europe. And we have to say it loudly and say that it has to change and that we will not tolerate it as a state, yes, as MPs, as people chosen by the people and that we only want each of us, whatever branch of government it belongs to, to do maximumly efficiently, professionally and ultimately, but, of course, not least important but most important, in a patriotic way of his work. I think it's been a long time since we've been ashamed to defend our national interests, that we're ashamed to just say what's true, nothing else. Because we are fighting today, led by Alexander Vukic, only by the truth and, of course, by facts and clear data about what was happening in the near past and, accordingly, we will continue to lead our foreign policy in the future. As for these geopoliticalists, our political opponents, counterpart Mirkovic talked about this, many of my colleagues today and the previous days, and that was their geopoliticals – how to allocate the money that was drawn from domestic businesses, from the budget of the Republic of Serbia, how to deploy it and how to deploy it in various destinations around the world. As far as we have information, it's four continents, 53 accounts, from Hong Kong via Moldova, Switzerland, all the way to New York, Delaware, various states. It was their international co-operation, it was their geopolitical strategy and the geopolitical positioning of our country. Of course, I've made a little joke and a digression, although I expect from the same judicial system that everything I mentioned and my colleagues mentioned earlier, to get their court epilogue and that what was taken from the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, to get it back to them. Because both this act and this kind of behavior is the preservation of national interests, because we want, in addition to protecting our territory, to protect our people, to protect our cultural and historical heritage, to protect our money, to protect our resources. We do not want to see a single dinar from the register in which the citizens of the Republic of Serbia put it go in a way that is not adapted and not in their interest. And to conclude that Alexander Vukic, both of them and our European friends and American friends and everyone in the world, gave them a great lesson in regional co-operation. Today we had very good discussions, very high-quality controversy about what was happening in our near history, how to build together the future of our country, how to unite all the forces and how, of course, we remember it, to find a common denominator in everything that happened. But what I think was most important today at this session, which we came up with is that we share the common interest, both in Novi Pazar and us here in Belgrade and down in Vladic's Han and our colleagues in Subotica, Hungary, to build this country, to modernise it, to welcome the whole region to come here during the weekend to vaccinate here in Serbia, and our friends from Bosnia and Herzegovina and our friends and our brothers from Montenegro, and why not to say it from Albania, and other countries and all of them could come and show that Serbia is strong, not only economically, but also the political leader of this region thanks to the leadership of President Aleksandr Vukic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-01-0.u4930	Thank you, just to add to what you said to Mr. Marinkovic, Flora Brovina, of course, showed a fake photo, and later it turned out to be a rape, and later it turned out that it was Iraq, and you know, a miracle that the military was present and whose army was present in Iraq. To remind you, Kurti was sentenced to 15 years, and was pardoned by former SRJ President Vojislav Kostunica. The word has a People's MP, Predrag Rajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-01-0.u4931	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, honourable citizens, today we have points on the agenda that tell us about several important moments when it comes to the work of Parliament. I think it's also a great honor and a great commitment, when you're part of a summons that chooses judges and decides on who will share justice and who will solve certain issues in accordance with the law in an adequate way. I say, it is a great honor, because this mandate has been entrusted to us by the citizens, but at the same time we will come up with a question that can be characterised both as a challenge and as a problem, and I would like to characterise it primarily as an important and large question that must be fully considered. We have in our judicial system, this one item that has been inherited from a long time ago, from some times when there are intensely speaking about the independence of the judiciary, which actually puts this parliament in a specific role, where we are both obliged and responsible for choosing judges to their positions, or those persons who have met the law to be judges, but the question is whether and how much after that we actually have adequate instruments to control their work. Why am I asking this question? Because since 2000 we have been witnesses, we have not had many times, various pressures, both our foreign partners and what is called the civil sector or the non-governmental sector, that the judiciary and this judicial branch of government must at all be an independent influence of the executive, including the legislative branches of the government, which, in itself, in some idyllic world, would not be controversial that these same branches of authorities, or those representing it, and here we are talking about a convincing minority of such judges, because the vast majority of judges are fair and honest and do a very difficult job, are doing it professionally, thanks to their profession, their knowledge and energy, which they have invested in their education, but also thanks to their moral qualities. I am talking about a convincing minority who is still present and unfortunately often in certain, important, high positions, precisely in that branch of government, who may be independent of the executive and legislative branch of government in the Republic of Serbia but hardly independent of certain branches of government in some other countries. It's a question that we have to ask and it's a question that needs to be an initiator and an integral part of a general discussion, a public discussion that we're going to be dealing with and where we're going to try to find an adequate answer. Why do I say that? It is not disputed that those who make decisions, protect themselves from what we can often call a day's political interest, speak now in principle. It is not disputed that there are individuals, probably involved in politics, who would love to, that we have witnessed countless times by 2012, who would like to influence the judiciary and all those who make decisions in this branch of government. It is also not disputed that in the judiciary itself we have persons who may be independent of the state of Serbia, but are certainly not independent of some other states or certain criminal groups that exist in the Republic of Serbia itself. That's what we've been witnessing in the last few months when there's been a major crackdown with one of the biggest criminal groups in our country's history. And this very effective accounting where it turned out, let's say that the executive branch of the government was far and incomparably more effective than the judicial branch of the government, because it proved that individuals from that same judicial branch of government were actually doing everything they could to strengthen that criminal group, to cover up their activities, to let them out of prison earlier, to destroy evidence. There were such individuals certainly within the executive branch of the government, but it is more efficient, it manages to cope with its shortcomings, primarily because of this and among other things, the relationship with the legislative branch of the government, which controls it in an adequate manner. What about the judiciary, I ask that question? From ancient Rome, I have said this in my previous address, and I will repeat it, because the saying is very good, the question of who will guard the guards is in continuity? Who will control those who need to share justice in the name of the people? So the people chose us, we choose them, but who controls them further? In what way? In what way? You know, when people are in a position of power, and the judicial branch of power brings real serious and broad power, then they can express themselves to individuals and a certain tendency to fall. It's nothing new, it teaches us science, and it teaches us all these books, a man is prone to fall, he's prone to challenges, he's prone to sin. It is particularly challenging when, say, you realize that a representative of another country invites you and wants to show you some kind of honor by carrying out a subtle form of pressure on you, so that you actually act, in accordance with the interests of his country, and at the expense of your own. Why? Because this country of his, let's say, is bigger and more powerful than ours. Then this individual, who slowed down for the first time, hopes to have the support and protection of that other country in continuity, and he doesn't know or doesn't know, and he would know if he opened any history book, that it was you and the worst of them that went through at the end. Because if you're working in the interest of another country, the one you work for or the one you account for is looking down on you with contempt. If you've betrayed your own country, what's it cost you to betray that other country you work for, at that moment. Almost every time, in every era, in every country, it turned out to be a pattern and it was true. Secondly, there are some other moments that are interesting. When you're dealing with a subpoena, and at the same time you discover some of your writing skills and a tendency to perform in the media from a political analyst's position, for example, and then you rebel when you're spoken of by those who are truly involved in political analysis, because you've settled in that category and you show up in that ring, you can come back in your position to think that you're invited to criticise everything and everything in this society. I will draw your attention to an interesting fact that has even threatened to put the Republic of Serbia in an uneasy position, that is to argue with one very powerful, if not the most powerful state of the world. On March 14th, Judge Majic published on his Twitter account, commenting on the initiative "The Association of Judges and Prosecutors" to ban the "Sky" app, which is the same app used by Veljka Belivuka's criminal group, as it is a special level of bizarreness and that the law should still be dealt with by experts. Now, let's put aside the fact that Judge Majic looks so proudly at his fellow judges and prosecutors, so he thinks they're not professional enough to comment, but it's interesting that only three days later information appeared that the U.S. FBI has fallen into the headquarters of the same company Sky, banned the work of their website, seized their materials and, by order of the US court, opened an investigation against those who ran the company and against the company itself. Do you think Judge Majic was still talking about it? So when it's an initiative from Serbia, it's a level of bizarreness and it's a reflection of the intricacies, when it happens in America, then we keep quiet about it. Not to mention, in that way, he indirectly insulted the FBI himself, because he called them non-professionals prone to bizarreness, if we used analogy for what he used as his colleagues. I'm not sure anyone favored America would look at it, maybe that's how Judge Majic wanted to fight us with America. I don't know, I don't get into that intensity, but I'm sure that's what happened. That's why I'm saying the subpoena is very important. He may be the most important. The Russian proverb says that justice holds land and cities. A society without justice and a society without rights is not a society, not a civilised society, not a society in which resources are distributed properly and where people can be adequately protected. There's always talk of this branch of government, legislative one. Since 2000, we have had a full campaign, aimed at destroying the Serbian parliament. Well, then, in continuity, it was talked about the prices of a congregation restaurant, as if they were just being sanctioned here, as if they weren't being sanctioned in every public enterprise, for example, or any other institution. What was the point of that, actually? The goal was to present MPs and parliament as persons on the burden of the budget, who are irrelevant and who do not do their job adequately. The goal was to strike at the heart of the state's sovereignty, which was very dedicated, for years, it was a serious project involving many, and from the world of the media and the non-governmental sector, but also certain political parties and certainly the managers of the executive until 2012, which sought to illustrate the role of this high home. Then we came into a situation that whenever you speak something from Parliament's jurisdiction you face... Insult and assault, and who are you to comment on the work of, say, a judge? Who's going to comment if not parliament. Who will comment if not those who are citizens sent here with an obligation, not only with the right, but with the obligation to comment on the work. Our roles in this regard have been largely reversed and replaced, and we are now in a long and difficult process of restoring Serbian statehood. This monument to Stefan Nemanja is actually proof of it. And it is an ideal symbol of the restoration of Serbian statehood, precisely because it was discovered by President Aleksandar Vukic, because Stefan Nemanja was based on Serbian statehood and Aleksandar Vukic renewed Serbian statehood. You must be aware of the fact that for 22 years we have been wandering through the post-Yugoslavic abyss. If we hadn't been allowed here since 2000, for years to adopt the Serb symbols we've seen here for years. For years after the break-up of the SFRY, we had an emblem behind us from the time of the Socialist Republic of Serbia for years, because every time they mentioned something that had to do with the heart, it was seen as a nacio-chovinism. Who are you Serbs to talk about Serbs? This must not be done because the mantra is weak in Serbia, a strong Yugoslavia has been in the heads of the entire generations of those who ruled over us. Then, after October 5th, we faced another moment that spoke about the fact that Serbia's minority states should not be, that it is ugly and dirty that it is called, that it should in some way be shortened to, as one of the veils of that movement said, a reasonable measure. Serbia must be reduced, she says, to a reasonable extent. She's not in her life anymore, so I don't want to mention her. Then, when today you have actions aimed at restoring national consciousness, to finally talk about the victims of NATO aggression in an adequate way, to finally talk about the victims of the March pogrom in an adequate way, to finally talk about the victims of genocide operation "Storm" in an adequate way, you have synchronised attacks by different sectors of society, including individual judges who are on call for these same TVs and to talk about how any mention of Serbia was introduced into chaos, senselessness and conflict. And when we vaccinate half of the Balkans, and that's the problem because a large number of people have arrived in Belgrade. I guess we were supposed to go home to vaccinate in Bosnia and Herzegovina and neighbouring countries? It's not them, it's just that I'm going to tell you, and that's what I'm going to conclude, quite easily, because they have a warrant to criticise everything that Alexander Vukic does, and then when you see a 10 minute contribution on CNN and not a paid contribution, as they do, let's say, their mentors take and pay, they lease the term, so they do it in a commercial way, but you have a 10 minute contribution to CNN that speaks of Serbia as the country whose leader has provided that it is the first in the vaccination process in Europe and not only does it, but it manages to export vaccines and to vaccinate neighbouring countries. It's about us being the wonder of the world. Then how do they comment on it? Then how do they attack it? It's very difficult for them. Now, that's where the individuals who are protected by their judicial role and function, who will attack whatever the state is doing, but if you give them back the argument on the quasi argument, they will say -- and, no, you can't attack, you're politicians, you're ministers, you're MPs, who are you to comment on my work, I'm here on God's day, we've made one closed cast, we choose one ourselves, we assign each other knowledge, titles, everything we need, because it belongs to us, we're here as the second Serbian elite to live our Yugoslav dream, and we Serbs will keep you under control, because we're destined, since 1975, to rule you. The situation is now changing and changing the situation and the fact that we have a whole new generation of politicians who are not infected with this Yugoslav virus, has caused sadistic attacks on some of my colleagues here, young MPs, sadistic attacks, and I congratulate them on what they are suffering and how they suffer. In doing so, they are not brave when they need to talk to someone who is a more experienced MP or who is more experienced in public appearances. Then they run away and go away. But when they're about to attack, to insult, to experience, they're the first. Not to say that such behavior, in fact, in that same West would be qualified as cowardice, first of all, because you didn't invite that man you were attacking to give him a chance to even defend himself. If they haven't read Mark Miljanov, they may have read some others, so they know what humanity is, what heroism is. They don't have those categories in their dictionary, and that's why I want my colleagues who are my age or are a little younger than I am to order, if they are suffering these attacks, to endure because of Serbia, because what they are now suffering, is the last scream of quasi elite, second-Serb, exugoslavic who has kept the entire resources and sectors occupied in this country for decades, and I've said well in occupation, because nobody chose them, they choose each other, both at universities and in the judiciary and in business. We are now, in this way, actually dealing with what is the monster of Serbian society. We're all building and rebuilding the Serbian state together. It's a very difficult venture and it's going to take a long time. Naka God is helping us to bring him to an end, because we have many of those who do not want us to succeed in this project, but what he can and must interfere with is the obligation not to betray our ancestors and our descendants to provide our children with an adequate future in a country in which a man of dignity will live and who will not be ashamed to say that they are Serbs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-01-0.u4932	Thank you. The word has Professor Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-01-0.u4933	The Honorable President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, due to one of the two biggest blows to Serbia's parliamentary life on 5 October 2000, one of the two greatest shames in the history of the Serbian people, the extradition of former President Slobodan Milosevic to The Hague tribunal, that greatest political and moral freak of the HH century and attempts these days by many, even his associates, to wash their biographies, as his last witness, on his side in The Hague tribunal and my personal relationship with the country of Serbia and President Milosevic, I will not speak of him today, although many have said, let me say, which they should not. History has already put everything in place, those who follow it, but there have been also talk about topics that I will not talk about today, and perhaps I am competent to talk about. When it comes to Srebrenica, my distinguished colleague, Dr Martinovic, spoke about it, let me just say that I am glad that Mr Bosniaks can have a dialogue with us in terms of reconciliation, but that the truth as people of the profession are looking for you on our side and I am informing you, the honourable MPs, that these days a congressman will come out of an international gathering where about Srebrenica are the authors of my pettyness and Dr Martinovic, so I recommend that they also take fellow MPs, to see in our opinion and read the sources of not ours, but all abroad what happened in Srebrenica. Let me just say, those who called today, before the court was on the agenda, in court, there was no genocide in Srebrenica, but there was a crime. Dear People's Messengers, don't say that sentence so easily. We need to know what genocide is. Very few historians, let them forgive me, they know what genocide is. Three things are important in genocide, and it's not the most important one in Srebrenica, but that's why 1941, which is why it is also "Storm", which is the intention. Mr. President, I don't have time to say and quote many before the events of things and the intention that happened. So it's not a matter of the number of victims, then we're talking about homocid, but the intention in this case wasn't, but that it really happened, and it is, it should be seen for what. That's what Dr. Martinovic was talking about, my smallness wouldn't. When it comes to the Hague tribunal, only two sentences. Since I said I would not speak out of pitet to the country, because everything is said in The Hague tribunal, you must know, the respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia and the honourable MPs, remember this sentence, the creator of The Hague tribunal, and the most monstrous moral and political freaks of the HH century, is Theodor Meron, who is the first chairman, and I think the last one to say before the formation of the UN tribunal, quote: "Let's formalize an ad hoc court, to put all the political champions of Serbia in all Serbian countries, because that's the only way we can take them out of power, because the people of Serbia are behind them." It is clear to you, dear People's Messengers. Now we move on to these candidates for judges. All of them, as you've seen, meet the criteria and criteria for the judge's selection of both expertise and training and dignity. I hold on to all three elements, but I especially underline dignity. That's missing from the former regime when they chose judges. How? Well, the party of the former regime, decorated in DS Tadic, Jeremic and Gilas, did not adhere to both expertise and training and at least dignity. Only one criterion was adhered to, and we spoke in this high house at the time, which is party membership, DS membership. That was a condition. That's why our judiciary then during their rule, and I will repeat as long as I live and fight for truth and justice, was the worst in Europe, according to the assessment of the European officials back then. Dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, honourable MPs, some judges died of injustice in their time, and some committed suicide. Five judges during the Gilas government, a 619m-income tycoon in 17 countries, committed suicide, and at least 20 fell ill and died because of re-election. That's not just me saying. That's what the unions in the judiciary say. No function, this is an exact figure, 837 judges left, and the best at that time and 200 deputy prosecutors. That's the reform. How much anarchy was during the judiciary in their time best tells the data, and I will keep repeating it in this high house, that they have even chosen a dead judge, the late Ljubiš Ristic of Požega, a miracle, although the president of the High Council of Justice Mrs. Nata Mesarovic said, I underline this because she has been holding back that letter about the judiciary for two days, and she has said that she has spoken and spent 200 hours with all the judges. You know, what's 200 hours? One month, seven hours. I call her all the time – come out, Mrs. Mesarovic, the day before yesterday you spoke and criticised this judiciary, how could you conduct a conversation with a dead judge? Explain that to the citizens and the MPs. They also elected Judge Sonja Brkic, who violated the Law on Judges, and it is known whose cousin from the DS, who also served as president of the Republic Election Commission and Supreme Court Judge, although I underline, was not allowed to perform the post under the Justice Act. But she charged for working at RIK two million 633 thousand dinars. She didn't return that money until today. Let me leave these political opponents alone, but quote what the European Commission said about justice at the time. I quote: "The reforms implemented by the government of Djilasova, Tadic and Jeremic in Serbia since 2008-2012 have been the worst possible thing. Dot. The judges' re-election process was non-transparent, risking the principle of independence," concluded a quote from the book "Court Reform in Serbia 2008-2012", page 96. That's what European officials said. Let's move on. According to the judiciary union, at the beginning of Gilas, Tadic, Jeremic's reforms were 780,000 unsolved cases, and when they completed the reform, miracles, instead of reducing, three million increased, and that when the SNS came to power, here, in 2019, that number was cut in half by a million and a half. Dear President, they have destroyed our past that we are renewing, our present, destroyed the future of our children, and if they had stayed in power for just one more year, they would have destroyed our roots. Dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, you didn't give them this because you sent them into a political past that they certainly won't come back from. The judiciary has been transformed since the arrival of Prime Minister Nikola Selakovic, Nele Kuburovic and the current current current current minister, as the judiciary is an integral part of Serbia's accelerated modernisation conducted by the government of the Republic of Serbia, the largest number of honourable MPs and the largest number of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, almost plebicitarian, and the engine of Serbia's accelerated modernisation is our esteemed President Aleksandar Vucic. Finally, while our Serbian President Aleksandar Vucic daily returns our country's international reputation worldwide, implementing peace policy, solidarity policy, the health policy of all of our citizens in Serbia, the region, the policy of accelerated economic progress in these difficult pandemic times, the bastard Dragan Gilas, I will not mention it today, because I am waiting for the answer yesterday, last night, 24 questions, to answer the press conference wherever it wants, it is doing everything it can to keep huge millions of euros and dollars in accounts, see miracles, Mauritius, Zurich, Holland, Bulgaria, Croatia and God knows which other countries. Dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I hope that the prosecution and the judicial authorities will also complete the process of the Giki Mafia case, which was a common nudity when it came to power, and when it came down from power, the heavy income of 619m euros in 17 and God knows how many countries around the world. We're gonna beat the mob! Long live Serbia!
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-01-0.u4934	Thank you. The People's Messenger Milos Bandur has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-01-0.u4935	Dear President of the National Assembly, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, it is difficult for me to speak at the level of my predecessors who spoke highly professionally and inspiringly on the subject of the agenda. When it comes to these three resolutions, or withdrawing from office, there is nothing disputed. One in three people retires, two go to other functions, so they leave the functions on which they are and, of course, I will, when this item of the agenda is put to the vote, vote for its adoption. There's been a lot of talk today about the state of justice. There have been different assessments, there have been a lot of criticism, critical views, so when I hear what our MPs say about the situation in the judiciary, it doesn't take much to surprise the European Commission's report on the situation in the area, because there are criticisms on that and on our part. Of course, maybe the angle of their view isn't very good because they say that the legislative authority has too much influence on the judiciary, and I don't see it, since we are here last in the chain and what we do is just to confirm the proposals that the judicial system casts before us, that is, through a certain procedure for the VSS to deliver to the Serbian Parliament. The impact on the judiciary is certain. It has many stakeholders, lobbys, structures that once brought someone in, selected him, placed him on a particular judicial function, and now he is obliged to either retaliate or play the game that was intended for him and which he accepted, and I am deeply convinced as someone who was then watching political processes in Serbia that the greatest entanglement was made from 2000 to 2012, but that there were certain gaps before 2000. It wasn't our judicial system that was ideal, but total confusion, or total destruction, was made in the period of DOS authorities, when he was ultimately criminalized, became corrupt and led to a part of the citizens and the public being far less trusted in the judiciary than he believed then or what he believes today. Today, I am convinced that citizens essentially have confidence in the judicial authority and in the judicial authorities. Of course, most of the people who work in these bodies are doing their job excellently and honorably, morally, decently, but there are also those individuals who spoil the picture and they are most visible, most of them are heard, most of them are known, and in the rest of the fact that we have had problems with both the mafia and organised criminal groups, and such groups and such structures are not supported by the executive authority and by the judicial authority and the prosecution, the fact is that there are such failures and that we now need to minimise these, that is, to the least possible extent. Perhaps we should consider the process of simplifying the resolution of judges and prosecutors. It is certainly necessary to pay attention, to the maximum attention of the choice of the President of the Courts, because I believe that the presidents of the courts, if the right people are affected, if the right people are brought to those places, regardless of the environment they are in, who they should be working with, sharing jobs, the most important link in the whole chain, and what I would stress is rejuvenation. I think it's time for the best students of state law schools to get seats as trainees in the judiciary and the prosecution, to get seats and to show by their traineeship whether they deserve them, whether they deserve a further career, or simply not for the job. It is quite possible that even the best law school student would not be for a job in a court of law, it just doesn't do it, it doesn't work, it doesn't work, or any other traits spoil it, so it's not for such a job, because other than being the best student, and you know everything you need to have some other qualities, which your colleagues talked about, Rajic and Professor. Atlagic. It's to be moral and to be worthy of your judicial or prosecutorial duties. I would like to commend something I read today in the media, which is the action or activity of the Major Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade for the suppression of anti-Vaxer hysteria, which, I think, is causing great damage to the Republic of Serbia at the moment because there is no more important process and task than the vaccination of citizens. The only way to cope with the epidemic is to vaccinate. There's no second time. There's no other way. Those who spread false news, those who bring lies, those who fear the citizens with false news and call for non-vaccination in fact work against both health and individual and nation in general. I hear five people were brought in for questioning today. Maybe it should have happened before. I personally had a very unpleasant experience on Twitter. I got into some controversy, and then from hundreds of profiles, they came at me, and I just had to retire because I saw that one person uses a dozen profiles, or the same person under multiple profiles, but they're very aggressive, totally intolerant, and they share a lot of false news, so they bring confusion. Let's just say, you have antivaxers that are against every vaccine, which is totally insane. The vaccine saved the world, the vaccine saved humanity. Over 300 million people died of a variety of faith until a vaccine appeared. In March 1972, we had an unpleasant experience when a variety of faith in the then SFRY was discovered and Ibrahim Hoti brought it to Kosovo. For a month that virus was developing there, it reached Belgrade. Fortunately, with the lightning action of the state and health authorities through the entire international community, primarily the Soviet Union and the United States, which gave their vaccine reserves, 18 million citizens were vaccinated in a month, 18 out of 20 million. In Belgrade alone, over a million citizens have been vaccinated in 10 days. Imagine it didn't happen, and the mortality of that virus is 60% to 70%, and now you have those who are pushing against vaccination, and that vaccine, for example, saved us then, saved many other peoples, that vaccine saved the world from dying, and that virus is gone, it's probably gone somewhere but probably somewhere in some laboratory conditions. You have our domestic specialists here now, Antivacser Kovid 19. They say – well, the vaccine can do it, but you know, this one for Kovid 19 we have in Serbia is not good. Then I ask – what's wrong? So she says, "She's not safe and she's not effective." You know, the process itself of making these vaccines guarantees their safety, starting from Chinese to Russian based on traditions, or procedures that are classical, conservative and have been known for decades. It's absolutely impossible for her to be insecure as proven. That it's efficient and it's proven through three series of tests. Only as such have they come to us. Therefore, if these vaccines were not safe and not effective, Putin would not have given them to the Russians, the President of Si Chinese, the American president would not have promised the vaccination of 100 million Americans in a short time, not the presidents of Britain, Germany and other states of their citizens to risk and to vaccinate them with these vaccines. You know, that story about that there's a world conspiracy called Kovid 19 that doesn't quite stand because then it turns out that all these presidents of all the forces that are mutually entirely opposed to each other are now in some common world conspiracy, etc. Total nebulosis, total nonsense that is being placed across social networks, but one part of people get caught and one part of people has a reserve, has resistance to vaccination, so they say – you know what, someone says we're not safe, etc. This story that the vaccine was given to us to try on us is pure nonsense. Why? What is not given to the Macedonians, which is not given to Montenegro, BiH, Bulgarians? What? They love them more than they love us? No, we were capable, or our president was able to get it. Our foreign policy is such, long-term, that it allowed all possible sources to be given vaccines. You know, those who relyed on only one source they seem to be hanging. If you are part of the EU and you are waiting for the European Medicines Agency to certification and permit you to use something, you will continue to wait for it, but if you are out of it and have good relations with both Russia and China and the EU and the UK, then independently, and you have your authorised agency, then you get it well and inject your population, which is what Serbia has done. Sometimes I get the impression that all these stories that are being staged with the aim that our citizens are not being vaccinated are not the result of self-convincing, i.e. the belief of individuals that this vaccine is not good, but there are also some policies. Because I'm absolutely convinced that these same people, if Serbia wasn't able to get the vaccine, they'd say, come on, we all want to vaccinate, yeah, here, there's no. We will. There is no vaccine. It is the power because it has not been obtained. Now, since the government has obtained vaccines for all citizens and the vaccine has enough, well, they're bringing confusion, panic -- the vaccine is not safe, it's not good, it doesn't need to be vaccinated, and the ultimate goal is political. The ultimate goal is that, by risking individual health, the health of their own family, family, nation, essentially, political gain, to get some point, or to apply some counterpoint to the regime. So, I've tied myself to the subject of the judiciary today's action by the High Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade. I think she came at the right time. I welcome all the measures that are being taken in Serbia in the fight against the Corona epidemic and the Crisis Headquarters, I fully understand. Unfortunately, the crisis staff doesn't have all the instruments to wash their measurements to the end. There is one interruption, although the mayors and presidents of the municipalities are members of the Crisis Staff, when they return to their seats, they are unable to coordinate with the municipal militia and municipal inspections and sanitary inspections until the end of what they agree on at the crisis headquarters. I myself often like to walk around town and check out the situation and see that few people stick to those measures we used to follow. It's mostly a process now, or when someone sees it, or when someone's watching. You know, cafes and restaurants, they cried out to work, to do business, to have guests, but no one held onto that measure, no waiters, no owners, no guests. Very often, a month ago, when I set, it reminds me of a wedding atmosphere in those facilities, which just shocked me, but I can see that there was no, no municipal militia, no communal inspection, it looks like they've all raised their hands. It's waiting for the CID to come up with a special solution, and the CID doesn't have a magic wand, the CID has cities and municipalities, or city and municipal bodies that need to act in accordance with their powers, and I don't think we've been doing it the best we can since the beginning. I support the proposal that's on the agenda and I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-01-0.u4936	Thank you. National MP Bratimir Vasiljevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-01-0.u4937	Dear Mr. President of the Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, today we have a decision on the termination of the judicial office at the place of the Criminal Court in Negotin, under Article 74(1). The law on judges. Because of the years of life, you retire. The basic court in Kruševec, president of the same court for the election of senior duty, i.e. The Court of Appeals in Kragujevac and the Court of First Instance in the New Market for the election of a greater duty. It's a good thing that things like this are happening, and this is how some judges progress in performing their responsible and complex and difficult functions, which means they do their job well, and hence, the High Council of the Judiciary has proposed that they go to more functions. I will always support this proposal normally, along with our parliamentary group Alexander Vukić – for our children. In voting day, I will certainly vote for this decision, but that does not mean that the trail of events will always be that way to the judges, where they obviously do not carry out their duty and their obligation in accordance with the law and in accordance with law and justice. Last time in my presentation, I said that there were complaints and complaints from citizens about individuals, I hope it's a small number of judges, where you can order judgments. Confirmation of that came in the other day. I believe that many of you have had the opportunity to see on Happy TV how it works, I won't use the names here, but as the basic court in Nis works and what kind of nastaradics, I would even dare say the scaling judgments made for a person who used someone's house as a residential space for six months, seven of them didn't pay any of that. To be evicted from there, the owners were forced to move him out in one way that was not common, but simply people were brought to that position to save the pile of expenses and everything that goes with it. With witnesses, they listed all the things that were in their home at the time so that the same person who failed to perform any obligation to the landlord would file a trial before the court and claim that he had been stolen 55,000 euros. Fortunately, the acting judge did not accept... It could not be proved that such a store happened, but to make it to that, a counterfeit receipt was forged, on the same basis the owners of the house were sued for receiving 55,000 euros on loan, no less. On the receipt itself, instead of a home number containing 13 digits, this one has 18 digits. It is regrettable for the judge in charge, and it is not the first time, there is another citizen who participated in the show and claimed that he was almost the same. I ask all of you and ask all of us – what to do with such treatment if we are constantly calling for the independence and independence of judges in my work which I support and what is fine, but you cannot be independent of the National Assembly where the Assembly has no possibility of overseeing the obvious violation of the law and violation of justice? Therefore, there must be some possibility that the highest body of the legislative authority has the possibility to intervene in such cases which are obvious and any layman who does not deal with this business can be seen to be wrong. Often from today's discussion, we've been able to hear that many judges want to deal with politics, and it's all right and it needs to be made possible for people, but first of all they have to give up the work of a judge, because it's incompatible with that job. Unfortunately, there's little to it. I would take this opportunity to set up a VSS, just before my colleague from Nis, Mr. Bandjur reminded me that for the functions of the judge, people with completed law school who had better results and good grades should be chosen. Here's a situation in Nis. Of the 14 proposed judges who first need to deal with the judicial work for places in Nis, Leskovec and Aleksinac, 14 candidates have been offered and I have knowledge and it is convincing, that one of the proposals that is best with grades both in the university and in their work as a judicial assistant has received the highest marks but unfortunately is not on the list. Now I ask the VSS – what are the criteria for determining such a complex and responsible job? Further what I would like to remind the citizens that the government has performed its function and role from 2000 to 2012, certainly reminding the government from 2012 to today. If we look at the city of Nis, where I come from, I'll remind the citizens, and we often forget the things that happen quickly, but that's why we're here to remind ourselves of what happened to companies or social enterprises from 2000 to 2012. I would like to remind the companies and companies in question: "Electron industry Nis", "The Nis Machine Industry", "Agropromet Nis", one of the largest suppliers and trade chains that existed in southeastern Serbia and had over 4,000 employees, Nis, "Piteks" Nis, "Poljopromet" Nis, "Djuka Dinic" Nis, "Omladnka" Nis, "Jasrabac" Nis, "Pik" Nis, "Duvanska Industry", unfortunately sold in privatisation for only 450 million, and the same company that was in Rovinj area, which is three times the capacity of less, was sold for 1.5 billion euros. Now I ask the question -- how is it possible that the "Duvan industry" was worth only 450 million, and some have been well in the sale, not to mention names, the citizens of Serbia who are concerned? What is specific, the then "Duvan industry" had nearly 4,000 employees in its company and had money for all workers, for good wages, had as much money to finance sports clubs and donations as you want. Today there seems to be only for the owners of the company and only 300 workers, 300, 350 workers working in the company. I would like to remind – "Zitopromet", "Mlekar" Nis, "Zitopek" Nis, these are all companies that disappeared from 2000 to 2012 and this is the biggest success and result of the previous government. That's why citizens know perfectly how well they ran the country and what they're offering new, so it's not easy for citizens to fish on such easy promises, when we see how rich individuals have become, while a huge part of Serbia's citizens have practically lost their bread. I would only mention that there were 400 to 500 thousand workers left in that period without a job. That's all there is to say. I'd like to remind you of what the current government has done since 2012, I'm talking about the territory of the city of Nis, because I know the best part, since I live there, that I've been working there and that I've been on jobs that can be easily seen and monitored. So, Johnson Electric, Aster Textile, Leoni, Cumtobel, IMI, Jura, Singju, Clinical Center, Scientific and Technology Park, Laboratory Lamela of the Electronic Faculty, how many highways were built and how many more in the construction phase, how many fast cars, Clinical Center, health homes, hospitals, high-speed railways, a monument to Germany. So it's just part of what the current government has been doing since 2012, until today. When we look at everything as Serbia stands today and as it stood in 2012, it cannot be compared completely, because we know perfectly that in 2012, we were on the verge of bankruptcy, only the question of the day was, but with a wise policy, primarily the president of the state and the Government of Serbia, the state was saved and today it is 1,000 miles away from bankruptcy, today the Republic of Serbia and when it had over 8.5 billion euros at its disposal to help the population, help the economy, help citizens to overcome this difficult nemancer that has hit the whole world. I am sure that, as our president of the state does, as the Government of the Republic of Serbia does, we will succeed and we will manage to vaccinate a large, and the only way out is to vaccinate a large number of citizens to warn this non-human who has attacked us and thus save both the state and the citizens of Serbia, and certainly the economy to continue its course. In the end, I would just like to remind you that by 2012, the previous government had called NATO the actions implemented in Serbia. I've never heard the name of a crime or anything. It has been called one entirely different names, so as not to resent those who have committed a real crime to Serbia and the Serbian people and to all the people who live in Serbia. What did they do with the Army of the Republic of Serbia? It was brought to ruin, and if we look at what the Army of the Republic of Serbia looks like today, it's incomparable. Today, it is very strong, well-trained, well-armed and it is a factor in deterring the evil intentions of those who have them, and apparently have them towards Serbia. In the end, Serbia lived! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-01-0.u4938	Thank you. The word has the vice president of the National Assembly Dr Vladimir Orlic. I'd just like to remind you that you have 29 minutes left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-01-0.u4939	Thank you for the important information, too. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, whenever we talk about judges in the National Assembly, when we are dealing with a subject that involves judges, justice, in something narrow or broader context, you know, it is certainly directly about the subject of the rights of Members of the People to speak freely, it is in direct connection with the right of the National Assembly to plead on the issues that we consider important. Because it is truly created by the former regime, by subjugated and obedient media, by different members of the NGO sector, and what they call themselves, therefore, all those who politically belong to that side, the topic, the false subject, the rights of people to freely plead on political issues in the way they think it is right, to represent ourselves as a policy which we have chosen to represent and the right to even respond in political communication to everything we consider to be lies, what we consider to be an unfair treatment of our own country, at the end of the day, and which comes all the time from that other side, so from the ranks of the former regime and their subjugre, whatever they are called and whatever they are formally classified. Is this or are they, essentially, valuable they're the same, all of them. That's why it's a terrible sin whenever someone from these benches here responds to the political content that comes from the other side. And it really is, and it's essential, and it can't be anything more than that when someone, so they consider themselves a judge, however they want to be, tells of their own country that it's supposed to be dictatorial, that it's allegedly autocratic, that it allegedly violates human rights, that there's supposed to be some terrible pressure on the judiciary. These are all black on white political content, and with them everyone has the right to discuss politically, to question them, to challenge them, to show why they are a lie, to show what they are wrong at. Whenever we do, we always get the same reaction on the other side. Apparently, a violation of the Constitution. Apparently, the unauthorized commentary of the work of the judges, and even today, we spoke in this room, through our media, once again dedicated another text, in which they say that the judge, they are now quoting - is subject only to the Constitution and the law, that every influence on the judge is forbidden in the performance of the judge's office. And who bothers the judge in performing his judicial duties when he deems himself in his political position? And how can you possibly explain that? Is there a right, the name of Majic, Stepanovic, or whatever he wants, to comment on the National Assembly, to call the People's MPs the ugliest names. They say he's right, it's his freedom of speech, but we don't have the right to speak freely, to say why it's unacceptable for us. Is there a right literally, every rumor in this country that all the worst things, even those things that a decent man would not think would not, and let alone speak at the expense of Alexander Vukic, at the expense of his family members, at the expense of anyone who is politically on the same side led by Aleksandar Vukic himself? They say, they have the right to do it, they have the right to say it, they even have the right to threaten, they have the right to even insult, to slander people. It's all their freedom of speech, our freedoms are not there. So, he can't say anything to Alexander Wolfie. None of us, none of these lines, are allowed to comment on anything, and when it comes to pure politics. Then you come up with the same, common campaign, that stretches on several fronts, which is actually just one goal, to stop us from talking about things that we think are important, to stop us from commenting on anything. To prevent us from pointing out even when some injustice was committed to this country, but when anything good happens in this country. From the same kitchen that falsely accuses us of disturbing to God, some judges, come and comment on why you comment on something that appears in the media. Why are you commenting on something that has been cited by some self-called NGO, and yet we all know essentially where they are and who they belong to, and they don't hide it themselves. And they won't get free commercials on this occasion, even though I know it's the most important thing for them right now. You have said enough that if you say that the political people who together with Dragan Dilas, Vuk Jeremic, Bosko Obradovic, were in full line with them, were trying to break the fence in front of the presidency, taking pictures all together, and thus showing where and to whom they were essentially belonging. Everyone in this country knows who it's about. They know it was black on white that showed who they were and what they were. If they're gonna resent us for reminding them that they were doing it, well, that's their thing, our problem certainly isn't. If they cut us down and cut us, because we show photos where they're all standing together, and they're all running at the Serbian presidency together, like they were doing, according to the National Assembly, according to RTS, well, that's their thing, and just their problem, but no one can forbid us to show these photographs of them that they themselves boasted about, to look at what kind of society they chose themselves. As no one can forbid us to have the right to say who again, the self-proclaimed media, you boasted that among criminals you had the best associates. You yourself, no one imputed anything to you, if you boasted of it yourself, then don't transfer it to us. It's a picture of you, an opportunity you've made yourself. They say the same thing, we can't, and we don't have the right to talk about the crimes of the former regime, because, imagine, now that construction, the former regime isn't in this room, because it's not in this room, and I guess it's preventing our right to freedom of speech from political opinion. Our right to use what the Constitution guarantees us, and this Constitution says that the MP has the right to express his opinion, to have the right to vote, and no one can deny it. To show images like this, where you can see this face, it's about Dragan Gilas, the same one that those who defend us all alive, tell us and show us. They say you can't say his name, so he, for God's sake, is not in this room. And the network, literally, a network of different white-world destinations, where, again, others have found, is determined by independent journalists, found by investigative journalists, accounts, accounts that this Dragan Gilas is hiding, accounts that this Dragan Gilas deny, argues do not exist, and where these journalists have found that all millions, all alone millions, are, whether the dollars, whether the euro, are different currencies in question. Now they say we can't because he's not here to comment on this. None of them, of course, ask the same Dragan Gilas, or that of his Borko Stefanovic, or that of Vuk Jeremic, although they were fighting now, I don't know if it's theirs, or not theirs, but they, you were right about it today, they know best who they are and what they are and when they say different things to each other these days, they're all right. They're right, they know best what they're like and when they say they're like this or they're like that, they should be trusted. But no one asks them why they don't take Alexander Wolfie out of their mouths in places where he isn't. If Dragan Gilas is holding a press conference, the story of Alexander Vukic himself. Whether he goes to his own party, or a private company that only falsely presents itself as a party, and again tells of Alexander Vukic all the lies, the lies, the lies, and Alexander Vukic is not there. Is wherever they appear or when they break into the Assembly here or when they break through the front door of the RTS. They only deal with Alexander the Wolf, with their family members, none of them, of those people who attack on the justice of God, are there. And nothing that bothers anyone, which isn't very physical in this room, Dragan Gilas, so just like what's left of his sopranos, it's not our problem and it's not something we're either guilty or worthy of. The people decided not to be here in this room, and they wanted to, and we know they wanted to. Now because they're not here, we can't show this. Tens, literally dozens of accounts with millions of dollars and dollars and whatever you want from the U.S., through Mauritius, all the way down to Hong Kong. Well, when you see how thickly this is drawn and wrinkled, it's as if they've been trying all over the world to fill in properly, to spread out well, to make the best of it. There's a total of here, you've been counted by investigative journalists, over 68 million dollars. Over 68 million dollars, to hide the better, to get the best of it, to camouflage. And now we have someone to forbid us to talk about this, to show this to the people. I don't know how. But the bottom line is that this is the most disturbing thing you'd like to do, and that you'd like to sort of forbid us to talk about these things and to show these things. It's just going to be harder, because everybody knows when you show these things, that it's true, that it's not easy to deny them in some way, but they don't deny it, but they avoid talking about it and even threatening journalists who write about it and politicians who talk about it. They're threatening lawsuits, and they're threatening the gods and the beatings, and the prisons, the jobless, they're threatening the lives of many people who are dealing with these issues, which Dragan Gilas himself, which is what his Marine Mauricias, those two in Hong Kong and everyone else. Because their main problem is that this truth is heard and known. Because their main problem is that the people won't forget what they did and how they stole and robbed, and all this money, that we don't lie and pretend to be ignorant, all this money was stolen from this people. No one who enters political functions, as was the case with Dragan Gilas, can have none of this. Well, then for many years he's been performing the most responsible political functions in this country. Well, at the moment when the people sent him away, all of a sudden he had all this, he didn't have when he started to deal with politics, and then when the people drove him away, he suddenly had all this. When did he grab him and pick him up? Well, only in the meantime, so, while he was in political office. Is it legal for someone who is in office as mayor or minister in the government and even for what the director of Boris Tadic's National Office invented for him alone to earn 68m dollars? Can it be done to be pure and fair? Everyone knows what that answer is, because if it were possible, it would have happened to someone else. Well, I guess you'd be another minister or mayor in some country in an environment or wherever you want in a world that didn't have 68 million dollars, then you'd be a minister or mayor for a while. Well, there is. But it doesn't happen anywhere. Because everyone knows it can't be done if it's legal. But when it's stolen, then, you see, it can. Their biggest problem is that the people won't forget it and that we're trying, modestly, not to forget it. They still have a big and terrible problem with hearing the good things that about Serbia as a country essentially different from this poor and miserable one that was at the time of the tycoon and the thief, that today is essentially different, it bothers them every time you hear it from this hall or from whoever you want places, that this country has something to boast about today, something good and valuable. The example works, the corridor, like this Moravsky, is today in this country reality. It bothers them when Alexander Vukic himself comes to talk about these papers, to show them, to announce, in three years from today, we'll have it. And they shall not mention any of them, nor Gilas, nor Jeremiah, nor Thaddice. Alexander Vukic doesn't usually do that. He doesn't have to mention anyone. It's enough to talk about what we essentially do well and worth doing today in Serbia, so that people in that message recognize the outlines and these people you don't have to say the name to, in the sense that they didn't. If the Moravsky Corridor had done some Gilas or Tadic, we would have had him long ago. You wouldn't be doing it today, Alexander Wolf. Everyone knows, just because we're doing this corridor today, it certainly means that it wasn't done by those who had more than a decade to deal with it, but they didn't care. It wasn't their priority, it wasn't their focus. Their focus was, apparently, this, tens of millions of people's money, so that it would be torn apart on all sides of the world, to get the more wet, to hide the better. Because if he wasn't hiding, it wouldn't have been arranged like this, but it would have been nice in one place, it would have been known exactly where and no one would have bothered to lie and deny anything there, but he would have said – there he is, there he is, there he is, and there he is, free to count, for all we know that he is indisputable. But as far as this is concerned, it's obvious what it's about. It bothers them, of course, and when we talk about the reality today not only of the 112 kilometers of the Moravia Corridor that will connect both Corridor 10 and Corridor 11, and that both of them, and that 10 and 11 are realized right now, at the time of Alexander Vukic, because when we say people know it, they certainly didn't do it, either Corridor 10, or Corridor 11, or Gilas, or Jeremic, or Tadic, or the other tycoons and thieves, because if they did, we wouldn't end them now, for God's sake! It bothers them when we talk about everything else that Serbia is doing today. It also concerns these important infrastructures and the Fruskogorski Corridor, its over 45km, therefore, the direction from Novi Sad, which goes towards Ruma, but also the other which continues from Ruma to go further towards Šapac and further towards Loznica, and those almost 80 with those 45, and again more than 100 km and in this other case. When you say those things and show them and when it does it personally, you don't have to mention any other names to people anymore. Because people think for themselves -- well, yes, we do today, because today Serbia can, because today there is someone to think about and worry about, because today there is someone to ensure that these things are real, that they can be financed, that we do them, from our resources, that we have provided domestically and that we have earned. Because today we take care of our country. And there wasn't a tycoon and a thief who, when you look at how much money it is by the white world destinations, so certainly more different roads, highways, factories, hospitals, kindergartens, health homes, whatever you want, took away from the citizens of this country. Subtracted to insert pockets into their eternally unsuspecting pockets. And all the other highways, and fast traffic and all the things Serbia today. That you forbid us to mention it, I really don't know how? Don't you think it's infancy for you to perform tomorrow with a sentence – you can't say, it's now the highway move that connects New Belgrade directly to the Milos Veliki highway. Why? Well, like, Gilas isn't in the O.R. Because there is no Surcin or New Belgrade, there is no home of the National Assembly there. You can't say anything about the Moravia Corridor. Why? Well, because it doesn't go through this hall, so that's why we can't. It's gonna be hard to do that. We're proud of the fact that we have these things today, and it's important that people know that we just have them thanks to Alexander Vukic, whose policy has provided these things. Essentially proud, as well as all other things that are valuable and important. When we talk about the vaccination that's being conducted in this country, you can't hide it from anyone anymore. That's what the whole world sees today. Today, an economist, a famous economist, came out with the title – Serbia ahead of the vaccination, the Vucic strategy paid off. And they say Serbia is among the best in the world to carry out the vaccination. And they say that by the total number of doses given at the top of Europe and free vaccines in this country are given to both Bosnians and Macedonians and Montenegrins and everyone else. You can't hide that from anyone anymore. This is what the world sees and notices and acknowledges, as you hear. And they say you can sign up in this country for whatever vaccine you want - both Russian and Chinese and Western, all that are available. And they say that unlike others in Europe, there were no more difficult lock-ups in Serbia, giving recognition to the way we fight this great monster, that in this sense we are indeed the leader of the region. And not just in that. If you mind these things and don't let them be heard, then why insist on people who are close to you, who you consider your political allies, people like different von Kramon, who say – the success of vaccination in Serbia, Belgrade, says, is not a positive story for her and the EU must not neglect geopolitical implications because because of the successful vaccination in Serbia will be popular people for whom they do not like to be popular, Aleksandar Vukic, but also our great friends from the world, when they say that they have a high rate of vaccination in Serbia is a politically dangerous story. So these are messages that you think should be given to them, and that's what you want to deny us the right to answer these words? If that's what you expect from us, you've also made a huge mistake. The fundamental difference between us and you is seen among other things and we have courage, which we have confidence to say that we are proud of the fact that we have made such results in our country, and when it comes to highways, infrastructures, schools, hospitals, but also when it comes to vaccination, we are proud of the fact that we are a leader in the region but also something wider in these things, which we are proud of the fact that we provide it with a successful policy that you personally designed Alexander Vukic and led by Aleksandar Vukic and who says - about ourselves, our people and our country to take care of. Who out of the world will resent and be angry, so sorry, can't be more important to us than the interests of our people, than the needs of our children and their right to the future. Have we ever calculated these things? Nor would we speak boldly in this room of all those topics that bother you and which hurt you, nor would we always be ready to remind that the thief from this country is permanently expelled, that the robbers and the destroyers of Serbia, such as Dilas, Tadic, Jeremic and other tycoon and the thief will never return to the head of this country again, nor would we be able to make a firm promise, which we do every time, so here and now, that we will permanently work on the construction of the one Serbia that will each time be incomparably better and uncomparably successful than the one you have told us to never, but never, ever, absolutely, resembles a poor and miserable state that you have completely transformed into your own private enterprise, into your "y company" so that you would destroy it and tear it apart. It's a past that can never happen again in this country. And if someone's gonna take care of it, be sure, that's what Alexander Vukic and the people who represent his policy will do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-01-0.u4940	Thank you. National MP Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-01-0.u4941	Mr. Dacic, if you could just tell me how much time I have left?
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-01-0.u4942	You have seven minutes as a parliamentary group, and if you want a time authorized another five-and-a-half minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-01-0.u4943	I thank you, Mr. President. The agenda we are talking about today is a good opportunity to look at some parts of the European Parliament's report, i.e. the European Parliament resolution of March 25th of this year, which concerns the judiciary in the Republic of Serbia and the state of human rights and freedoms, the issue of pandemic, vaccination, the status of certain NGOs and one very important question, to whom, it seems, we have not paid enough attention, and it concerns the opening of secret files, i.e. the files of the former SFRY Security Service, so here I will try for these few minutes to address some of these issues. The European Parliament resolution reiterates in several places the phrases that the rule of law in Serbia led by Aleksandr Vukic puts pressure on the judiciary and that the courts in the Republic of Serbia are making rulings according to the rule of law. That it's not true they say two examples exactly from 2021. Namely, the first basic court in Belgrade ruled that Serbia's president from the Serbian Progressive Party hurt the honour and reputation of Bosko Obradovic because on TV "Pink" on February 13th and 16th 2019, he called him a thief and fascist and obliged Aleksandar Vukic to pay 200,000 dinars to Bosko Obradovic, therefore, who is not a thief and is not a fascist. Also, in 2021, just days after this verdict was reached, the same court, therefore, adopted the first basic court in Belgrade, the appeal request by Bosko Obradovic against Goran Vesic, and issued a verdict punishing Vesic with 300,000 dinars for breach of honour and reputation of the president of the Serbian Movement Dveri, whom he repeatedly named fascist. So, the same year when the court sentences Alexander Vukic and Goran Vesic, a part of European parliamentarians say that the same Aleksandar Vukic is pressuring the judiciary and that the rulings in Serbia are being passed according to his dictatorship. Then, in one part of the report, i.e. the European Parliament resolution mentions cases of attacks on individuals, allegedly independent portals and NGOs, and is losing sight of the fact that Veljko Belivuk, called Veli Velja trouble, the father of a young man who was kidnapped and who later turned out to be killed, said to address the independent media network "Krik" for more information on the subject. Furthermore, it is said that we sitting in this parliament use an offensive language, to intimidate, to use hate speech against members of the parliamentary opposition who otherwise boycotted parliamentary elections, so that this part of the resolution is notsens by itself, independent intellectuals of NGOs, journalists, prominent individuals and so on. In doing so, this same parliamentary opposition that does not exist, these same NGOs, these same independent intellectuals, journalists, etc. We sitting in this House call ourselves sandwichers, bots, idiots, scum, cartilage, we're like this, we're pig junta and so on. It's all right. So that's allowed. When you tell SNS MPs that kind of thing, it's allowed, and I guess that means it's normal. Then get to point 49. The European Parliament resolution expresses concern – says the structural discrimination the Roma face with regard to their citizenship, health care, education, employment, etc., and urges Serbia to improve and simplify the institutional structure involved in Roma integration through a clear division of the responsibility of co-ordination between national and local authorities and so on. This is in full discretion with what Judge Majic, a favorite of certain Western embassies, did in 2019, and my colleagues, who participated in the decision-making of the Council of Appeal in Belgrade, under the number of KZI 392/2019 since 10 June 2019. The verdict was by Judge Majic, along with his colleagues, freed the offender of the child's promise, and otherwise the promise resulted in a pregnancy. He's been cleared of his guilt by reason of being judged by this court, i.e. Judges Majic, favorites of the Western embassies, favorites of the European Parliament, quote: "The average member of the Roma population, similar subjective characteristics as blamed in the circumstances of the event in question does not know that the behaviour described is prohibited", follows: "The accused, 22 years old and damaged by 13 years, are members of the Roma national minority, and the actual event is appreciated," it says in the ruling "in the context of the sociological, cultural characteristics of the said ethnic community regarding the pattern of marital and family relations, which, among other things, relate to early entry into sexual relations and early establishment of the community of life. "Imagine the cynicism that is equal to Hitler's, Goebbels and Pavelic, says: "The emotional and social maturity of the girl," and it is a 13-year-old child, and Judge Majic says like this: "The emotional and social maturity of the girl was consistent with the calendar age from which the court concludes that she has almost reached 14 years of age, which is the legislator", I don't know just what law it says, "determined as an average" beware, average, "an age in which most individuals reach physical and mental maturity for entering sexual relations. "A man who gives us lectures on human rights every day, about being dictators, not respecting the court, is a man who ruled that it is normal for you to engage in sexual relations with a girl who is 13 years old. (Milenko Jovanovic: If she is a Roma woman.) ) Of course, if she's a Roma woman, because she says it's common in Roma. Well, it's discrimination against Roma, but this discrimination between Roma is not what we do from the Serbian Progressive Party, we're proud because we have MPs who are members of the Roma community, but that's what these loved ones do, this Majic, who is also the leader of the NGO. I am now asking these Europarliamentaries who have brought this Resolution to which European state, EU member judges of the Court of Appeal or any court can have their own NGO, CEPRIS, as has Majic? It doesn't exist anywhere in the world, it doesn't exist anywhere in the European Union, but it exists in Serbia, and then when you say it here in the National Assembly, then it turns out that you're spreading hate speech, that you're insulting, that you're calling for lynch and so on. No, we're just stating the facts and asking the question where does it still exist? If that's allowed in Serbia, then why is it banned in Germany? Why is it forbidden in Italy? Why is it forbidden in Spain? Why is it forbidden in France? How can he not there, and here he can? You can't have sex with a 13-year-old kid there because you'd get a dragon prison sentence. In Serbia they say -- it's normal, even if she's a Roma girl, then you can rape her. It's fascism. It's nothing but fascism. It's racism. I'm an independent judge, and if you mention me in the National Assembly, you're jeopardizing the independence of the judiciary. No, I don't. We do not endanger the independence of the judiciary, but we attack and attack all examples of fascism, all examples of racism and all examples of discrimination based on language, race, gender, age, especially when it comes to children, both Roma and Serbian, both Albanian and any other. Then you have one piece in the European Parliament resolution that expresses concern that... Now, watch this formulation, that's what President Vukic said, says -- we don't have enough resources, we don't have the equipment, we don't have enough vaccines, which is total nonsense, because we have the most vaccine of all European countries. Our citizens can choose whether they want to vaccinate in American, European, Russian or Chinese. There is no such thing in any EU country. There is one part where the European Parliament is said to be concerned about the disinformation that encourages, beware, from the Kremlin, and distributed by Sputnik Serbia, and related to misinformation related to the Kovida-19 pandemic. That's absolutely not true. All misinformation related to the Kovida-19 pandemic comes from Dragan Gilas and his media and so on. NGOs, which he founded and which he supports. Now I'm going to give you a drastic example and I'm asking the competent judicial institutions in Serbia to respond to this, because this is a school example of the spread of panic, misinformation and abuse of the union for political purposes. So on March 1st, 2021, a union of employees of the police published some kind of declaration to the people. Otherwise, the union under the direct control of Dragan Gilas and in that declaration to the people, the Police Union says – the only legitimate assembly and government is the temporary assembly of the people of Serbia, which was formed on 16 June 2020 and the national government, which was formed on 17 June 2020, and then it is said, among other things, that you see who is spreading disinformation: "There is no obligation to wear masks and to receive any vaccines under the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The union leadership, which is under the influence of Gilas, "is available with information and evidence that most of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia have suffered and died due to constant air poisoning, as well as alleged mosquito spraying, not the Kovid-19 virus. It is not about any pandemic of the Kovid-19 virus, but rather about the biological war against humanity and the people of Serbia is being waged in Serbia by constantly spraying poisons from the air, as well as by allegedly spraying mosquitoes, and for this reason we have died. Due to the advanced poisoning of the illegal government," according to the government of Ana Brnabic, "has banned toxicological analysis so as not to reveal that heavy metals, as well as chlorine, sarin, ricin and others, are present in the organism allegedly suffering from Kovida-19. They're actually the real cause of poisoning and cause a chemical pneumonia. The union leadership, respecting the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, has made a decision not to receive any vaccines, because no vaccine has been investigated enough and there is no guarantee that it will not cause harmful consequences after receiving, and for this reason we are getting to know all citizens of the Republic of Serbia that they have no constitutional obligation to receive any vaccine, nor can anyone force them to." So, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the one who spreads misinformation about the Kovida-19 pandemic, is Dragan Gilas, are his media and are his false unions of the police of Serbia. Mr. Dacic, I'm going to end up with a subject that I hope will be interesting to you, too, regarding this famous opening of the file. That's point 100. Resolutions of the European Parliament. At that point, 100. The European Parliament reiterates its call to the authorities in Serbia to continue their efforts to eliminate the legacy of former communist secret services, by making their file open to the public, as a step towards Serbia's democratisation, urging Serbia to intensify the process of succession and implementation of obligations related to the division of the former Yugoslavia's joint archives, and in this regard reiterates that full access to the entire archive structure, particularly to the materials of former Yugoslav secret services, UDBA and the secret services of the Yugoslav People's Army, KOS is essential. I call on the president of the Republic and the president of his party, Aleksandr Vukic, to consider accepting this initiative by the European Parliament. For what? We Serbs, or most Serbian citizens, have no reason to fear the opening of UDBA's secret files and the secret files of KOS. Why? If those files were opened, you'd see two things. The first thing is that many who today represent themselves as advocates of democracy, human rights and freedoms, European values, Serbia's entry into the EU are in fact in their own time and how they co-operated with both UDBA and KOS. Furthermore, many of the founders of NGOs in Serbia are direct descendants of people such as Milos Minić, Hamdija Pozderac, Cvjetin Mijatovic, so people who were in the highest leadership and socialist, or communist Yugoslavia, and none of them have anything to do with the Serbian Progressive Party, but also how they have ties with Gilas and so on. the pro-European and pro-democracy opposition that they absolutely support through this resolution. Opening these files is important for another reason, in order to break this illusion about how Serbia destroyed the former Yugoslavia and that Serbia wanted war on the premises of the former Yugoslavia, because if you opened those files and looked at what it says, you could learn some very important facts. After the Brion Pleum in 1966, almost complete management of the Yugoslav People's Army, over the Yugoslav People's Army's Security Department, the so-called team. KOS... His name wasn't KOS, his name was the Security Authority of the Yugoslav People's Army. These Croats today scare their citizens, so they say KOS, KOS, there are COS agents everywhere. It was called the Security Administration of the Yugoslav People's Army and the National Security Service of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, in fact, the largest part, after the Brionic Pleum, was run by Slovenians and Croats. We can list the names of Ivan Steve Kraljaci. You have the Miskovic brothers. It's unrecorded. Look out, in the 1960s, you have two born Croat brothers, one was Federal Secretary for Home Affairs Milan Miskovic, and the other was Head of Security of the Yugoslav People's Army, General Ivan Miskovic, called Brk. Well, then you have Stanette Dolanca. Isn't that right, Mr. Dacic? By order of Stanet Dolanca, a well-known Croatian immigrant, Stjepan Djurkovic, was killed in Germany by his head being cut off in the garage of the house where he lived, and then UDBA agents, who committed the crime, had to Stanet Dolanc, not some Serb, terrible Rankovic or some other, but Stanet Dolanc, to bring a photo showing the decapitated head of Stejpan Djurkovic as proof that the task had been carried out. I call on the President of the Republic of Aleksandr Vukic to think, he doesn't have to do it, he doesn't have to listen to me, but in his place, I would think about this European Parliamentarian appeal, because if these files were opened, we could read a lot of pages about various NGOs, the pro-European opposition, those who advocate democratic values, those who allegedly destroyed Milosevic, and now they're tearing down Vukic, who accuse us of being dictators, that we're against the EU, etc. If these files were opened, you would see how many names of current politicians, former politicians, their sons, daughters, grandsons today run political parties, NGOs, the media, all of which are one against Vukic, against the Serbian government, against the SNS, but unfortunately, the biggest tragedy is also against the state of Serbia. Mr. Wolfie, think again. There is also one good thing about this report, that is, the European Parliament resolution. We have nothing to hide, but those who fight against you pray to God, I don't think those files ever open. Thank you, Mr. Dacic, for allowing me to speak over time.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-01-0.u4944	Thank you. Since there are no more reported, I would only end up adding that I agree with what Mr. Martinovic said. I asked the same thing right after October 5th to open these files, but those who came to power after October 5th were always, out of fear of it, always rejecting all these demands, so I am absolutely in agreement, and so can these committees that deal with these issues to consider. On the other hand, I also asked Elvira for the Committee on European Integration to consider this report, and we will deal with it next week. Since you mentioned some press conferences today, somewhere I saw someone say, and not from us who are in power, but from opposition circles, apropo that Gilas's performance about the day after he allegedly fell, and the best reaction was, even by those who don't like this power, that it would be better to prepare for the day after the asteroids fell to the ground, because that's more likely than this first option. Anyway, it's up to us to do our job and please don't mind those stories at all about what the MPs are going to say. We have been chosen by the people. We can talk about whatever we want. Our jurisdiction is all the topics Serbia faces today. I would like to thank everyone and to say that we continue, as we agreed, on Tuesday 6 April with a debate on the proposal for a bill to confirm the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the maintenance and reconstruction of the interstate bridges between the Republic of Serbia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, and on Wednesday we would have a debate on the amendments to the Law on the census, households and housing and afterwards the vote, and on Thursday a new session on the election of the President of the Supreme Cassation Court. I'm sorry, they're warning me I have to go formal. On the basis of Article 98. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude a single search into the motion for a decision. Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fifth Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2021. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find that the session is attended by 113 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., I ask Members to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units. Thank you. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, it is found that, at this point in the hall, 145 MPs are present, i.e. that there are at least 84 MPs present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? The word is Samir Tandir. Here you go.
