ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-07-0.u11251	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the 11th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2021. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the sitting is attended by 98 MPs. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the adoption of the minutes and the establishment of the agenda exists if a majority of the total number of MPs are present at the sitting. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., I ask the MPs to insert their cards into the parliamentary units. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 134 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly within the meaning of Article 88(5). Rules of Procedure. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? The word has a folk MP, Jahja Fehratovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-07-0.u11252	Thank you, Your Honor. My question today was addressed to the highest representatives of the executive and legislative authority in the Republic of Serbia. It refers to the fight against organised crime. The determination of this state and this government is an unwavering fight against organised crime, and this has been proven in many cases. However, it has not been implemented consistently and eventually in all parts of the Republic of Serbia. What does that mean? On Thursday, December 2, 2021, I was speaking on the topic of fighting organised crime in this tide. Right after that, I received direct, brutal threats from organized crime leaders, drug cartels, security threats to me and my family. I also reported it to the police in Novi Pazar, who responded effectively. However, given that it was a person directly involved in the liquidation of journalist Edin Hamidovic in Sjenica several months ago, when this journalist was brutally liquidated in front of a woman and six children, police in Novi Pazar reacted, but we had, unfortunately, at the first moment of the arrest of a police station in Sjenica, which tried to avoid bringing in a particular person, and after the intervention, brought him in. However, even after that arrest, the person was released, so that the same and even more brutal threats, directly to safety, would be directed immediately after that release. After the second application, it happened that the Prosecutor's Office of High Technology Crime decided that there was no crime at the time and that the person should not be brought in, or prevented from carrying out the crime in preparation and realization. I'll read you some of these threats, make sure you have or have no such relationship. In one of those comments, the person says – Now I made a statement in the MUP and everything I wrote for this dog, it refers to me, I confirmed, I was reported by a scum who would be free to bark and deny me. Don't worry about your safety physically, there's no God of salvation. Or they want it at a young dog's house. Now, if he's age, there's no saving him. So these are the words of the person who directly inspired the murder of journalist Edin Hamidovic in front of the woman and six children in Sjenica. These are the words of the person who organised the kidnapping, the unlawful deprivement of the freedom of the Director of the Technical and Agricultural School in Sjenica previously and which did not suit it. These are the words of persons who have repeatedly endured prison sentences for organised crime in EU countries. The face, following the murder of Edin Hamidovic, escaped along with its son, a murderer from the state of Serbia, and was sought by authorities. That face returned to Sjenica and continued to terrorise the public several days after the death of Mufti academicist Mufti Muamer Zukorlic. This person is today supported, unfortunately, by certain corrupt parts of the police and the prosecution, to act and terrorise the citizens of this country. As someone who believes in the institutions of this state, as someone who believes in a court, in justice, in what is the system of this state, I ask the most significant persons and bodies in the Republic of Serbia system to prevent this person from doing what it did several months ago. I'll tell you right now, there's no fear in us, there's nothing in us that could scare us. But what I'm also saying is that in our light-screen and tradition, it says: "You can't let a snake bite you twice from the same hole. “ The case of Edin Hamidovic will never happen again in Sandzak. It would be good for all of us to have this face removed as soon as possible. I will end up with the words of an epic poet who says, "Worrier, are you afraid of anyone, and he says, "God, not even a little sultan, but he binds the canoe of his gate." I say, God, I'm afraid of a lot of drug dealers and cano-doers of my own. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-07-0.u11253	Thank you. The word is Emesh Uri.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-07-0.u11254	Thank you. The Honored Chairman, the Honorable Vice-President, respected fellow Members of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, would ask my question in front of the SVM parliamentary group of Ministers Loncar and the Ministry of Health, and on the plans of the organisation of primary preventive health care in the health care service of workers and plans of the organisation of the service for dental, i.e. dental protection of the adult population. Namely, the regulation on the plan of a network of health care institutions is clearly laid down that health care centres also carry out the work of medicine in accordance with the law, especially if the same activity is not organised in another health institution in public property, which is very important, in the territory for which the home of health is established. The same regulation accurately describes the objectives of the work's medical service, the preservation of staff's health and in the safe, healthy environment. Then, determining the working ability to perform certain activities, they are so called. previous reviews, then early detection of health disorders related to work and working environment, these are periodic and other preventive checks, then detection of working environment factors that may adversely affect workers' health and the implementation of other preventive measures. In our country, around 700 specialists in medicine work are currently registered, but only about 150 performs the most important segment of this activity, which is preventive work, with many of these specialists already crossing the retirement line. If we compare this situation with EU countries, such as Finland, which is the country where preventive health care work is best developed, and the best organised health care of workers, we see that around three million workers in Finland have 2,300 specialists in medical work, almost 2,000 of them working on prevention. The irony of this situation is that when they asked Finland where the idea of a well-organised health care system for the working population was from, they cited just an example of a health care network from the former SFRY. Unfortunately, the 2010 decision by the Serbian Ministry of Health changed the scope and manner of work of medical specialists and abolished funding by the RFZO, and they were transferred mainly to work at the jobs of general medicine doctors, and the work of medicine was transferred and left to the free market, which was a major problem during the economic crisis, i.e. they could not simply be supported. Given that new jobs have been opening recently, new factories, it would be appropriate to seriously consider revitalising this service in health homes. It is very important for the Ministry of Health to make a strategy for this area, and to allow schools to be trained as a specialist in the protection of workers and, if possible, to re-introduce funding from the budget of all workers in the field of labour medicine whose number can be accurately determined by the standards in relation to the number of workers. In this way, the state would not lose direct insight and influence, ultimately and control of the health status of employees, as the most important elements of the economic development of a country. Another problem at primary health care level is the dental health care of the adult population, as is known to be free of charge for children up to 18 years of age, for students up to 26 years of age, for pregnant women and nursing women, then for our fellow citizens over 65 years of age. Contrary to dentist medicine specialists, there's a lot of work in our country. When we compare EU countries, or European countries, say, Switzerland, they have 51 dentists per 100,000 inhabitants, and we have almost twice 93 dentists per 100,000 inhabitants, with only a third of them working in health homes, and the rest working on the market, or private. In addition, we have five dental schools where each year almost 500 new dentists end up who are most likely to find work in this country hard to find. Despite this impressive number of dentists, however, a large number of our fellow citizens are credentials, with poor dental hygiene and bad teeth, and today it is widely known that many chronic diseases are quite stimulating due to tooth disease. The truth is that our country is well quoted as regards health tourism, dental tourism, because we have exceptional experts, we have a good history of dentistry, and we should perhaps consider returning some of the dentists to health homes and expanding the favourable option primarily for dental treatment, because today it's cheaper to take out a tooth than to heal. Since the Ministry of Health has responded extremely well to all the pandemic problems, it has well organized a homing of the infirmary, vaccination, construction of new birds of hospitals, information integration of health institutions e-Recepts, we in SVM have no doubt that it will be able to improve the mentioned two branches of medicine that are currently calling for change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-07-0.u11255	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Stefan Krkobic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-07-0.u11256	Thank you, Your Honor, Dacic. Dear Vice-Presidents, distinguished fellow MPs, strategies and development plans for almost all countries in the world, including the Republic of Serbia, have been primarily based on the sustainable development of those areas that have favourable natural and economic conditions in order to carry out economic activities and where the largest number of inhabitants and state territories live. However, we from the PUPS believe that it is necessary to pay particular attention to those regions or micro-territory environments that have strategic importance for the state of Serbia and that it is sometimes necessary to provide for development funds for those environments, although there is no always economic justification. Here we think of our country's mining areas, primarily in southern, southeastern Serbia, which express a high rate of depopulation, in which the average age of the local population is more than 50 or even 60 years of life. Serbia's last year's government in a significant investment cycle is the most significant infrastructure projects particularly in the area of traffic, including emphasising Serbia's cross-border highways and modern railway infrastructure, which are the basis for our development, but I would call on all fellow MPs to consider whether we may have left Serbia's mine areas unfairly. I would particularly stress the importance of these areas not only in economic but also in democratic and security terms. Regarding all that I mentioned today, my question to the Ministry of Agriculture and Water Management, the Ministry of Civil Engineering, Transport, Infrastructure is – did they provide for specific programmes or incentives for citizens of Serbia's mine areas and, if so, incentives, all in order for the population of these areas to decide to remain in their centuries-old hearths and to interest Serbian citizens living in overpopulated cities and other significantly urban areas of Serbia in these areas? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-07-0.u11257	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Snezana Paunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-07-0.u11258	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Serbia, in the Bosniak wave, a multiethnic environment, part of the northern part of Kosovo's Mitrovica, adopted several flags of Albania, as well as terrorist UCK. It is nothing new, except that it is seen as another provocation of Albin Kurti from the highest level to try to explain what is only known to him, to try on the other side to provoke the Serb community, to respond to the fact that he would create conditions for himself to re-establish with some special unit of ROSU, enter and commit terror over the Serb population all in order to make as few Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija. It's not my question, but it's important to look at these kind of provocations that have become the practice of Albin Kurti and his colleagues on a daily basis, my question is certainly different, and it refers to the southern part of Ibra, which refers to important projects. The state of Serbia, despite the provocations, has one undivided wish, which is that dialogue is indeed a solution. When you notice that this is how Albin Kurti reacts, then you realize that our ambitions are not the same and that he does not want to participate in the dialogue. On the other hand, we have that obligation that we are aware of, which is to take care of our people both north and south of Ibra. In fact, taking care of all the citizens of our southern Serbian province and that is very important. That this is how the 2022 budget for the year 2,700,000 has been allocated funds to create better conditions in Kosovo and Metohija. What's important to say because of the people who live there is that the nights south of Ibra are very long. There live children who have no elementary conditions for life, nor do they live for the 20th century, let alone the 21st. That's why the state recognized and made a decision on important projects to be implemented when we talk about territory south of Ibra. When I say that, then I mean first of all the planned construction of kindergartens in Gorazdevec, the planned construction of kindergartens in Strpc, the construction of the Clinical Centre in Gracanica, and I only say that because the figures contribute to this decision. So 45,000 Serbs live in central Kosovo territory. For them, building a clinical center is very important. It is important for them to have the full capacity of medical care at all times and the possibility that all the problems that, unfortunately, are being solved there. On the other hand, when we talk about a Smurf living in over 10,000 Serbs, we're talking about kindergarten, but another distance. In Strpc, the majority people are Serbian people, 30% are Albanians, whose children also deserve to have kindergarten. In this sense, it is very important that the state of Serbia as a responsible state has recognised the needs of its southern Serbian province as well as that those who call themselves a state without the capacity to do so do not see the absolute problems of the public because they are dealing with personal profits and because they are dealing with personal self-promotion, mostly based on hatred and mostly without any strategy and idea of what they should do for themselves or their neighbours. My question goes to the Director of the Office for Kosovo and Metohija, under the circumstances that we know a lot about all these projects. I'm just curious, if I'm not mistaken, and I'm not wrong, even with the budget rebalances, the finance minister said that the funds were allocated to a clinical center in Gracanica, so I'm just curious as far as they came with the realization of these very important, really, projects? Because it will make life easier for our fellow citizens living south of Ibra in Kosovo and Metohija. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-07-0.u11259	Thank you. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-07-0.u11260	Thank you, Vice President Orlic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to raise a few questions, several appeals and, of course, encouraging and encouraging messages to prosecutors and authorities and institutions responsible for fighting organised crime and corruption, given that our country is in a very delicate situation, in view of the geopolitical, therefore, international circumstances but also the circumstances of the internal political plan, therefore, the challenges that will follow us and expect us in the coming period, and related to the territorial integrity of our country, the protection of our vital national interests and what we can freely call a hybrid war against our country, and in particular against the president of our state, Alexander Vukic and his family against which an orchestrated and systematic campaign is being run, which is coordinated here on the inside of the tycoon-political transversal, which, of course, has very large and strong support from some foreign power centers. What I would particularly like to point out today is that today our pensioners, people who are users of social protection, that the state is paying 20 euros or about 2,400 dinars to help pensioners expect 10 targets in February of 20,000 dinars, that this year we end up, obviously with an economic growth of 7.5%, that the Serbian Progressive Party has defined at its meeting of 10 goals, 10 policy goals for Serbia's future, 10 goals that play a role in achieving the vision of SNS and President Alexander Vukic and on internal stability, in the matter of internal dialogue, in terms of strengthening our country's demographic characteristics and what is most important in these objectives of strengthening our country's independence and continuing to lead an independent policy established by President Aleksandar Vucic when he became prime minister in 2014. Also in these goals is the Green Agenda, and an unfettered fight against organised crime and corruption. We today in this hybrid war have a lot of internal political and tycoon actors who, in every way possible, are no longer hiding it, want to get to the authorities, want to reach state resources and not hide that they are not interested in democratic, parliamentary, presidential elections or elections at any level, but want to cause some bloodshed, causing through their aggression and through aggressive behaviour some artificial crisis, and as they say, wishing the Ukrainian scenario to eliminate Alexander Vukic and eliminate everything that Alexander Vukic and the Serbian Progressive Party have done in the past seven years. Of course, the involvement of foreign centres is also very important, and I'm going to try to elaborate today. You have yesterday's statement by Viola Von Kramon, her tweet, and a meeting with the bishop disseldorfian Grigoria, who is cold, wrote that the Serbian Orthodox Church does not exist, that there are only some dioceses that are autonomous and independent of the SPC, given the fact that both those on the internal plan and those on the external plan are bothered by this harmony between the SPC and the state, they are bothered that for the first time Alexander Vukic led to this and made an ambience that among the Serbs there is no division. That is why I want to point out that all those tycoon media, all those who want to destroy the power of the Serbian Progressive Party, all what we have done in these seven years are trying to challenge a completely artificial, as they say, division among the people, division between Serbian citizens. As we could see it two weeks ago and in Arena, and in Hala sports in New Belgrade, there is one decent one, there is a valuable Serbia who wants to work, which respects that political authority and political actors who are doing something for their country, who are building infrastructure in this country, which are opening jobs, which help this people and those who just want to get their hands on power. I would define that as a small bar, a cloudy bar full of organic crocodiles. In that small cloudy bar of ecological, so-called crocodiles are both Gilas, Jeremic, Solak, and all those who, when you look at the money streams and how they are funded, are clearly seen to be working against their country and that one goal is to bring this country down because many, unfortunately, here and on the internal stage, but many outside are troubled by strong Serbia, it bothers what we have done on the economic plan, it bothers Alexander Vucic to launch the Open Balkans initiative, seeking to strengthen this region through economic development, economic integration and finally to bring peoples in the Western Balkans through his own arrangements and agreements to come up with a solution to political issues, not by mixing foreign forces. Let me finish. In the end, we have a lot of challenges ahead of us about KIM. None of those so-called. The fighter for democracy and human rights has not said a word when Kurti declares that the primary goal of the temporary institutions at KIM is to unify the so-called. Kosovo with Albania. No one said a word when constitutional jurisdiction and the Dayton jurisdiction of Republika Srpska were lifted. It is all, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected citizens and citizens, part of the pressure on the Republic of Serbia and part of the politics and geopoliticals of those who want Serbia to be prelated again and manage Serbian resources and Serbia as a state in their own interest, not in the interests of the Serbian people, of course, of the Serbian state. That is why I appeal to all those institutions that are competent in one effective way, in one quick way to reach political inspirers of what defines the intentions of the drug lords, the drug cartels, all those who wanted to eliminate Alexander Vukic over the past few years, to find political inspirers of it and to discover and show all those who inspired it as foreign centres of power, and we here as a majority and as SNS will strongly continue to support our president and all that he does in order to strengthen and raise this country. Of course, we will stand up in defense of both his family and our party. We won't give up the fight, we won't give up the fight, we won't give up those who would just get their hands on the budget and fill their pockets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-07-0.u11261	Thank you. Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, answer for word, we continue to work. You were presented with the minutes of the Sixth Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2021 and the 7th Special Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 12th Assembly. As most of the total number of MPs attend today's session, I find that there is a quorum for the adoption of the minutes from those sessions. I would like to inform you that, by verifying the Committee on Administrative Affairs and the mandate-immunity issues, it has been established that none of the Members of the Parliaments has submitted them in writing an objection to those minutes and that is why we are moving to a decision. I am voting on the minutes of the sixth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2021, held on 9.10.16 and 17 November 2021. Finalising vote: 164, for – 144, did not vote – 20. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the sixth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2021. I am voting on the minutes of the 7th special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2021, held on 2 December 2021. I conclude the vote: 165 in total, for – 148, did not vote – 17. I find that the National Assembly adopted the Seventh Special Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 12th Assembly. In the context of this session, which was delivered, there was also a proposal for the agenda of the session. Before the sitting agenda is established, pursuant to Article 92(2) and Article 93. Rules of Procedure, it is necessary for the National Assembly to decide on proposals for the completion of the agenda and on a proposal for a merger of discussions. National MP Miodrag Lint, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed to supplement the agenda of the session – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Refugees Act. Would you like a word, Mr. Linta? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-07-0.u11262	Thank you, Chairman. For the eighth time, I ask that the agenda of the session be complemented by my proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Refugees Act. I would like to remind you that in 2012, the realisation of a regional housing programme aimed at resolving the housing issue of around 20,000 exiled families from today's Croatia and the Federation of BiH. I would like to remind you that the funds for the implementation of this programme have been provided by foreign donors, primarily by the EU and by a number of other countries and international organisations. The deal was for the regional housing programme to be completed in the next five years, so until 2017, and to resolve the housing issue of all exiled persons. Unfortunately, the program was implemented and implemented inadmissibly slowly. We have a scandalous statement from the Commissioner for Refugees and Migration that by 2022, more than 7,000 exiled families will be settled. So, about 12,000 exiled families will remain unsettled. This is absolutely unacceptable and I appeal, and I have sent four letters to Prime Minister Brbanic, that the government will decide to continue the regional housing programme, that the government should address the European Commission, ask for remaining donor funds and address the key issue of integration. We have a lot of problems in the realisation of the regional housing programme. I've been called by dozens of exiled families. In particular, I am setting an example of the realisation of the regular housing programme in Belgrade. 388 exiled families were selected, their apartments built in the area of Ovca 250 apartments and in the area of New Belgrade 133 apartments. Unfortunately, building a building in Dr Ivan Ribara in New Belgrade has not yet begun, as a million euros are missing. I appeal to the government of Serbia, appeal to the city of Belgrade to urgently provide the missing funds and to start building that building, that 133 exiled families would not be left without accommodation, although they were chosen to resolve their housing issue. We also have a number of other problems related to the purchase of homes of exiled families from the territory of Croatia and the Federation of BiH. For example, we have 530 families whose apartments were built by the Italian government, so-called. ... program. Here, for 13 years, I've been fighting with them to get the right to buy those apartments. I urge the government of the Republic of Serbia to finally resolve the issue and that these families get the right to buy their apartments under more favourable conditions. We have 50 exiled families living in the apartments of Dipos. They gave tens of thousands of euros and rent marks. I also urge the government to address the issue, so that these families can be afforded the right to buy those apartments. I'm done. We have hundreds of families living in apartments built through a social housing programme, to also allow them to be bought under favourable conditions. It's a lot of cases involving wartime wartime disableds and families of fallen fighters. So, I urge that today's session agenda be complemented by my proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Refugees Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-07-0.u11263	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: total – 164, for – 11, did not vote – 153. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Miodrag Linta, on the basis of Article 92, suggested that the session agenda be complemented by the item Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Rights of Fighters, Military Disabilities, Civil Disabilities of War and members of their families. Mr. Linta, you have your word again.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-07-0.u11264	Thank you. For the fifth time, I suggest that the agenda of the session be complemented by my proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Rights of Fighters, Military Disabilities, Civil Disabilities of War and members of their families. The existing law, unfortunately, discriminates against the country's fighters, as they were only recognised until 27 April 1992, so until the day that the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia ceased to exist. Unfortunately, even in practice, this provision is not respected because the Krajina fighters cannot accomplish their wartime. We have a scandalous Department of Defense regulation on the basis of which the defence centres are making decisions not to recognise even this period by 27 April 1992, with a shameful argument that territorial defence... Krajina, Western Slavonia, Slavonia, Baranja, West Srem and Republika Srpska Krajina were not part of the SFRY armed forces. It's an absolutely unacceptable explanation. It is well known that the SFRY armed forces consisted of two basic visions, from JNA and from territorial defence. With this bill, I seek the key thing, that all members of the Republika Srpska Army and police should be recognised as a war effort throughout the dual-term war. I quote four basic arguments. Namely, landscape officers and sub-officers have been recognised as a wartime wartime service and are asked a logical question - how is it possible that the country's sub-offices are recognised wartime and their fighters are not? Then who were they in charge of, when they have the right to acknowledge their wartime and their fighters are not admitted to it? Secondly, I would like to remind you that since 1993, the Croatian Parliament has brought amendments to the Pension Insurance Act, where all surviving Ustashas, natives, weapons, gendarmes, members of Pavelic's Body Association, have recognised the war effort throughout the dual-term war, during the existence of the NDH. Therefore, the Croatian Parliament has made an anti-civilisation scandalous decision to recognise a military internship for the committed genocide against Serbs members of the NDH armed forces. According to Zagreb's morning list, Croatia spends 50m euros annually on pensions to surviving Ustashas, natives and members of their families from its budget each year. Thirdly, in 2017, Croatia passed a law that gave all members of the Croatian Security Council in the BiH area a full equalisation with the rights of members of the Croatian army and asked no one when it passed that legal provision. Finally, in 1951, Germany passed a law that gave pensions to all members of the German Vermacht. So these are clear arguments that I believe should be adopted by my bill, that all members of the Republika Srpska Army and police should be recognised as a military internship throughout the dual-term war. It is not likely that the Krajina fighters are worse than the Nazis and the Ustashas that Croatia and Germany have admitted to wartime and gave pensions. I think it would be very important to open up a new time limit and to give all fighters the opportunity to apply for recognition of the properties of a wartime wartime invalid based on injury and on disease, or post-traumatic stress disorder, to recognise the property of a civilian disabled war for at least 12 civilian war people from the territory of Republika Srpska. Krajina fighters, I must repeat that because many of them call me, are disappointed, bitter, dissatisfied, feel disreputed, and therefore my appeal to finally correct a great injustice against the members of the army and the police of the Republika Srpska Krajina and that, I repeat, they are granted a military internship for the entire time of the dual-term war. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-07-0.u11265	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: a total of -164, for -9, did not vote - 155 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Bojan Torbica suggested that the session agenda be complemented - a proposal for a decision to educate the commission to investigate and determine the number of victims of NATO's 1999 aggression pact. The word has a People's MP, Bojan Bagica.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-07-0.u11266	Dear fellow Members of the People, ladies and gentlemen, friends and comrades, I invite you to support our proposal to include in today's session the decision to educate the Commission on the investigation and to determine the number of victims of NATO's 1999 aggression, because if we do not do what our job is, how can we be angry when someone else humiliates our victims? How can we be angry when, to the truth of will, a small part of the people of Sarajevo's Serbian nationality killed in the Kazana cave on the slopes of Trebevic after three decades of failure gets a memorial plate, but not in his own language and not in his own letter and not everyone killed but about every tenth of the victims? I assume that Sarajevo Mayor Benjamin Karic, raising this call-mark, was aware that after the persecution of Sarajevo Serbs and crimes committed over these people more in Sarajevo, and there is almost no one who could read the memorial plate written on Cyrillic, so why bother to have names and names of innocent victims on that terrible site written in their native language? That's right, let's humiliate them even to the dead, as if they didn't suffer enough for their lives. They are poor and poor, and more than that, all those who have been digging through the sites for decades and mourning the bones of only victims of their people, demeaning other people's victims, as the Hague tribunal itself has been demeaning them, telling us the fact that if they had collected all the sentences imposed, they would have received the result that Serbs were sentenced to about 1,200 years in prison and six prison sentences for life, while Croats, Bosniaks and one Albanian were sentenced to about 360 years in prison, while Croats and Bosniaks were convicted of killing each other because of crimes against Serbs, of course, so to speak, no one has ever been punished. Now someone expects anyone normal to believe in the correctness of a court ruling for which murder, abuse, rape and persecution of members of the Serb people is not a crime or at least not a crime that deserves punishment. But let's see who deserves punishment. It is clear to everyone in the world, starting with the President of the Judicial Council, Judge Niambe, that Ratko Mladic is not personally responsible for any direct murder, nor has he personally committed any murder, unlike Naser Oric, who has never been convicted of crimes against Serbs, as it is clear to all that Ratko Mladic is a criminal first of all because he is a Serb and because he defended the Serbian people. Because, by any chance, if he wasn't a Serb and killed Serbs like the Achif Efendi did, he'd be a hero and he'd deserve a memorial plate. We're well explained by our fellow MP last time, who I hope this time won't praise the alleged heroism of 13. The SS Hanjar Mountain Division over the naked Serb people who were committed in so much scope that during the time, I suppose, the Handar Division's defence tasks were only in the period of six months, during 1944, in the area of Brcko, Bijeljina, Zvornik, Ugljevik, Šeković, Vlasenice, Bosnian Shamac, Tuzla, Lukavac and Kladnje, killed more than 2,000 innocent civilians, with about 1,000 innocent civilians in the area of Šida, Sremska Rače and Vinkovic by the same formation being killed by about 1,000 civilians, is it necessary to stress - innocent? They are just as innocent as the victims of Naser Oric and Achif Efendija. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-07-0.u11267	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: a total of -162, for -13, did not vote - 149 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Dr Aleksandar Martinovic, pursuant to Article 92(2), Articles 157, 1st and 170, and in accordance with Article 157(2). The Rules of Procedure proposed that: 1. joint principled search be carried out on: Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Public Service Employees Act; Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Public Service Payments of Employees in Public Administration and other Organisations established by the Republic of Serbia, Autonomous Province or Local Self-Government Units; Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Payments of Officials of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Mongolia on Commercial and Economic Co-operation; 2nd Joint Principle and Single Search on: Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Patents; Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Mongolia on Trade and Economic Cooperation; Proposal for a Law on the grant of the Republic of Serbia in favour of Banca Intes AD Belgrade and Raiffeisen Banka. Does the promoter want a word? No, I don't. I thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: total – 162, for – 150, did not vote 12. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. Since we have agreed on proposals for supplementing the agenda and on a proposal to bring the debate together, pursuant to Article 93(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, I put the draft agenda in general. I conclude the vote: total – 162, for – 152, did not vote 10. I find that the National Assembly established the agenda of the 11th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2021, in general. Dn e v n i r e d 1. Proposal for a Law amending the Public Service Employees Act, which was submitted by the Government; 2. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Public Sector Payments System, submitted by the Government; 3. Proposal for a law amending the Law on salaries of employees of public agencies and other organisations established by the Republic of Serbia, an autonomous province or units of local self-government, which was submitted by the Government; 4. Proposal for a law amending the Law on the salaries of officials and deputies in the bodies of the Autonomous Province and the Unit of Local Self-Government, which was submitted by the Government; 5. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the patent law, which was submitted by the Government; 6. Proposal for a law confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Mongolia on trade and economic co-operation, which was submitted by the Government; 7. A bill on granting a guarantee from the Republic of Serbia in favour of Banco Intesa AD Belgrade and Raiffeisen Banka. Belgrade, under the responsibility of the Public Enterprise, Novi Sad, on the basis of a loan contract to boost the transport capacity of pipelines in the Republic of Serbia, which the government submitted. We are going to work on the established agenda of the session. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that they have been invited to attend: Marija Obradović, Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government; Maja Macužić Puzić, State Secretary; Ivana Saviæić, Assistant Minister; Gordana Pocanin, Senior Advisor at the Ministry. I welcome the representatives of the government. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. According to Article 157(2), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a common principle search. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? Yeah. ) The word has Minister Marija Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-07-0.u11268	Dear Presidents, honourable Members of Parliament and MPs, you today have a set of laws that have been proposed to amend the public sector wage law: Amendment of the Law on the Public Sector Payments System, Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Payments of Employees and Deputys in Authorities of the Autonomous Province and Units of Local Self-Government, Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Public Service Employees Act, Proposal for an Amendment to the Law on the Payments of Employees of Public Agencys and Other Organisations established by the Republic of Serbia, an Autonomous Province or a unit of local self-government. The proposed amendments to those laws set a new deadline for the start of the application of system and specific laws governing salaries, salaries and other remuneration of public sector employees. The reform of the pay system is formally placed in the power of two ministries: the Ministry of State Administration and the Local Self-Government, proposed by the law today, and the Ministry of Finance, which is responsible for the financial effects of the system of determining and calculating salaries and earnings financed from the budget of the Republic of Serbia, the Autonomous Province and the unit of local self-government and the funds of the mandatory social security organisations, which is also the proposing of the Budget Act, which lays down the basis for the calculation of salaries. The co-operation of our ministries, the MDULS and the finance ministry, in this regard, is continued, daily, necessary for all our proposals to be financially and fiscally sustainable. Although we were defined in the previous year to begin implementing the 2022 wage reform, since January of next year, sometimes even the best intentions cannot be implemented in action due to circumstances that are often beyond our influence. The complex epidemiological situation caused by the Covid-19 virus pandemic around the world has not been subdued this year, and all our activities were, above all, aimed at support packages for citizens, businesses and health care. Therefore, the overall functioning of the administration was committed to favouring these activities that protect the lives and health of citizens. I think the inspection services, whose coordination is in the power of the ministry, whose head I am, the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government, have made their maximum contribution to show their expected effect. Applications for vaccination to citizens and their response show a significant contribution to the fight against the crown, which we as individuals show responsibility to ourselves, to other citizens, to society in general. On the other hand, the Ministry of Finance, with a proposal for all measures to help citizens and budget planning, has focused all its capacities on achieving two basic objectives: strengthening the economy and raising citizens' living standards. Therefore, even though we are proposing to postpone the reform, the growth of public sector employees' salaries is secured for the next year by 7% and 8% for employed healthcare workers in all parts of the public sector and all defence employees, as well as an increase of 9% for employees who receive minimum earnings. Significant financial resources are provided to eliminate the effects of the pandemic, as a form of support for citizens and businesses. It is not bad to repeat that in the previous period, we have provided pensioners with 4,000 dinar aid in April 2020, all citizens with 100 euros in June 2020, then another 60 euros for all citizens, twice for 30 euros, and another 20 euros for pensioners, while 20,000 dinars will be paid in February next year. The economy has been supported in the face of a crisis caused by the pandemic in the form of three aid packages. The total value of all aid packages to citizens and businesses is 8 billion euros. In this regard, I would like to say that implementing a public sector wage reform produces certain, you all know, financial effects per budget. Our knowledge from other countries that implemented these reforms shows, firstly, that they were long-term, long-term, because they are extremely complex and must be accepted by people who will feel it through their salaries and secondly, these reforms have always required a certain amount of funding for its implementation that is provided and planned in the budget. Unfortunately, this year we were not able to implement the necessary intensive co-operation of all key participants in the reform that implies inclusion in the process for all, for representative trade unions, professional and other associations, institutions and public sector employees who have the right, and we are obliged to hear their opinion and to consider it in such a large and comprehensive reform. The coordination of this process involves a significant undertaking under regular circumstances. The reform of this type must be accepted and accepted and must be supported by the citizens to whom it applies. Also, it is unrealistic to expect that the reform of this scale would be fully fiscally neutral, because if it were based on estimates, which we have worked with the Ministry of Finance, based on laws adopted so far, it would lead to a significant proportion of public sector employees being required to contain salaries at the founding level of a certain number of years, some even up to five years, or slowed down their growth and, given the current wage relations, this wage retention would refer to more complex, more complex jobs in the public sector, and at this point we do not really have the luxury as a state to disown and demote the most professional staff. On the other hand, to implement the reform by enabling wage growth for all public sector employees, especially in the existing pandemic conditions, and when it is necessary to provide additional funds for the smooth functioning of public services, it would not be socially acceptable or fiscally sustainable. The state has shown its responsibility and concern for citizens through the construction of covid hospitals, which was a key and urgent activity to preserve the health system and the health of our citizens. That is why, especially in the pandemic conditions, when it is necessary for citizens to have as much certainty as possible about their incomes and when we want them to know that they can rely on their own country, we did not want to go into fiscal neutral reform, but to shift the resources available to the greatest extent possible, as a measure of support available to all citizens of this country. However, although we are proposing today to postpone the application of these laws, the complexity of this reform does not endure the fact that we are not engaged in it and that we stop activities that have been going on for several years. These numerous activities have been carried out this year and will take place in the coming years as a preparation for reform. During the whole year, we have been working together with all state authorities on further arrangements for a system that should be a good basis for reform. The most important activity on which it is constantly working and which is the first point of reform is the catalog of jobs. The job catalogue is the basis for estimating all public services, local self-government and state bodies. The organisation of public sector jobs, presented through jobs and their changes due to digitisation, the introduction of new forms or methods of work, condition that we analyse them in detail and promote them. We have completed the procedure to improve catalogues that we plan to innovate next year, which will be the basis for all public service employers to coordinate their personnel structure and needs for qualifications required for these jobs. We've linked the catalogue of jobs adopted by the government to acts on the systematization of public services. The next step we need to take is to link jobs from catalogues to coefficients that now pay public service salaries. We've already started working on that in certain areas, again, in direct collaboration with the rest of the ministries, because we don't have a unique wage accounting information system, which most of the analysis I've done. I expect that by the end of next year we will be able to capture and coordinate the coefficients with the public service catalogue with the largest number of employees such as education and health care. Also, reforming this volume requires complex analyses, not only in the establishment of catalogues and evaluations of all public sector businesses, but also significant financial analyses of reform steps and their impact on the budget of which the finance ministry is most burdened. For the predictability of the consequences of all these steps, we must have reliable data on the basis of which we are making decisions, we as Government, or you as Parliament, when adopting laws relating to this reform. We will not have such reliability until we have established a comprehensive information system containing accurate and precise data on jobs, the pay elements of employees and other labour costs of the public sector, on which we will be able to provide projections of the changes that the reform will bring. It is also a step in reform to link this information system to a job catalogue that is previously directly linked to existing coefficients. This year, we tried to obtain reliable assessments of the effects of the reform based on existing information and aggregated and individual data, together with the Ministry of Finance and other resolution ministries. But when there is no single centralised system, with data on the number of employees, monthly salary payments, additions and other expenditures, on the exact jobs that over 400,000 employees work on, then the question is whether it is responsible that as a government we propose changes and we guarantee that the reform will be fiscally sustainable. Therefore, such an information system is a prerequisite for this reform. For this reason, the Ministry of Finance has been actively working to establish a new information system to ensure accurate planning, management and control of budget implementation for public sector workers' labour costs. The new system will distinguish the system of automatic data input controls that will provide accurate and quality data to produce all necessary analysis. The system is planned to be established in the phases from 2020 to early 2024. The final phase of establishing a system will cover units of local self-government with indirect users, i.e. pre-school institutions, cultural institutions, sports and tourism. From the establishment of the platform to the possibility of using it in full capacity, it is necessary to pass the time to fully train users and to collect the necessary data. Therefore, the proposal to postpone the reform of the wage system until 2025 is caused by the need to conduct accurate and reliable analyses, the effects of reforming the wage system based on data obtained from the new information system. Secondly, we hope that stabilising the country's epidemiological situation will free up resources, which are financially, which are humane for other needs, above all for this reform process. The Ministry of State Administration and Local Self-Government and the Ministry of Finance met his representatives during the latest IMF mission with a proposal to postpone the reform due to all the circumstances that I have presented today and we have come across their understanding. The understanding that this struggle for economics and the fight for growth took place in different ways during this year. We have also come to the understanding of the IMF that we remain committed to the continued reform of the wage system as a strategic definition of the government. In the next period, we will continue to work actively on all preparatory activities to begin with the application of the new wage system from 2025, hopefully in society and in the world that fought Kovid and all its consequences. Thank you for listening this carefully to this opening presentation, and I will be available with my associates for all the necessary details during today and possibly the next day that indeed, first of all, to the MPs who need to decide whether to postpone this to 2025, and I have tried to explain in detail the reasons why this should be postponed to 2025. So, first of all, to explain to you, and then to the citizens of Serbia, which is why this is a necessary step and at the same time not giving up on this strategic goal of carrying out wage reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-07-0.u11269	Thank you. Do any of the board representatives want a word? Reporters? Yeah. The word has been made by the People's Messenger Dejan Kesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-07-0.u11270	The Honored Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, the Minister of Associates, Honored Citizens of Serbia, the Committee on Justice, State and Local Self-Government discussed at its session the proposed laws addressed to the National Assembly by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and, after considering it, referred it to the decision-making centre. Today, we have before us draft laws amending the Law on Public Service Employees, Public Sector Salaries, Public Agency Employees' Salaries, as well as the salaries of officials and deputies in the bodies of autonomous provinces and units of local self-government. What is certainly a common denominator for all four proposed laws is the setting of a new deadline for the application of these laws, i.e. the application of these laws for the start of 2025 and 2026 respectively. This is really necessary in order to meet all the necessary conditions, resulting in a clear implementation of legal solutions, from the slightest disturbance in the existing system. Certainly a very important topic is the subject of public administration, and it forms part of a large system, i.e. a state of administration that performs extremely responsible tasks in order for the state to fulfill all its law-trusted tasks. What was necessary to implement in order for the public administration to respond to all existing and emerging situations is certainly a reform of the public administration with which we started in 2013. With only a rational approach to this problem, we have today managed to make public administration a modern, efficient system that can answer even the most demanding problems. All the reforms we also implemented from 2012 to 2013 were comprehensive and complex and not only implemented reforms in the areas of public administration, but also in the areas of economy, economy, finance and construction and all these reforms gave positive results. When we talk about public administration reforms, some of these measures that have managed to make public administration a modern and efficient system is also limiting the number of public sector employees, then digitising public administration, and certainly what is most important is that we have created a modern service from the public administration for citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Certainly, a public administration reform covering over 400,000 employees requires that we carry out a clear analysis of the data so that we can bring the most optimal measures based on these data. But this also includes the definition of a single and centralised system and is scheduled to be established in the period from 2020 to 2024 in several phases. What I must remind the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, that both the whole of Europe and the whole world, including the Republic of Serbia in 2020, met with the pandemic of the Coronary Virus. At that time, we decided as a state to build a new hospice of the hospital, to raise the functionality of the health system to the highest level, to get medicines, to get respirators and other medical means to keep the citizens of the Republic of Serbia safe and safe. Certainly, although the pandemic of the corona of the virus has caused some negative consequences, both in terms of the economy and in relation to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the state has activated there with three packages to help total eight billion euros, and we have managed to put the best possible way beyond all the negative consequences of the pandemic of the corona virus. Nevertheless, we also in the budget for the coming year predicted a 7% growth in public sector wages, and 8%, respectively, and predicted an increase in minimum earnings to 35,000 dinars, but what is certainly most important is that we predicted that, according to the Swiss formula, pension growth in the following year, by 5.5%. Although we had on one side a pandemic of the coronary virus that required huge costs, although we had made it possible to raise wages and pensions evenly in the coming years, we also left public debt below the Mastricht level and according to budget projections for next year, the public debt of the Republic of Serbia will be 55% of our GDP instead of 58 so far. Certainly extending the deadline for implementing structural reforms will allow for the highest degree of inclusiveness in order to achieve the best results and to encourage participation and trade unions, then professional and other associations, institutions and employees in the public sector who have the right to express their opinions, to present their proposals in order to find the most optimal solutions in terms of these structural reforms. I believe that these bill proposals will contribute to the continuation of the public administration reform process, so that in the coming years the public and state administration can respond to all the requirements that contribute to continuing the path we set even in 2012, which is certainly stronger, more modern and stronger Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-07-0.u11271	I thank Mr. Kesar. The next is MP Samir Tandir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-07-0.u11272	Thank you. The honourable chairman, colleagues and fellow MPs, the honourable minister, respected representatives of the ministry before I refer to today's laws on which we will debate now in plenary, I would like to refer to my colleague Jahja Fehratovic's discussion to remind the public that the MP, Dr Jahja Fehratovic, has been threatened, too, that Prof. Admir Muratovic, has been threatened, and that is something to be said here in parliament. I expect the authorities of the state, the police department, to respond to the prosecution. Why? A man who has been characterized by the competent state authorities and these countries and EU countries as a dangerous criminal who was convicted of various crimes and among others who participated in the kidnapping of the head of the school in Sjenica and the murder of Rachmetli Edin Hamidovic in August this year returned to the country, apparently that after the death of the ricket Mufti Mufti Muamer Zukorlic, certain criminals in Sandzak feel comfortable and that is something we cannot allow. So criminals have to be in jail. They must be arrested and that person named Izet Latovic returned to the country and began threatening. What I expect from Minister Alexander Vulin is to review the work of the Sjenica Police Station and that Bojan Trnčić, Chief of Police, must be removed because he gives logistics and any other support to organised criminal groups, deals with greening and the competent in this country know. So he has to be removed to deal with crime and corruption in that part of our country. We fully support the uncompromising fight against crime and corruption of the government of the Republic of Serbia, but it must also be current in Sjenica, as is the case here in Belgrade. Also a few days ago, we had a mob fight on the streets of New Market and something we shouldn't allow. Every criminal activity, every violation of order and peace has to be sanctioned so that individuals don't think they're above the state, that they're above the law. A colleague, vice-president of the National Assembly Stefan Krkobibic, spoke this morning about an initiative to increase support for rural areas. The community I come to, Prepolje, is devastated, undeveloped. Sandzak, part of the country I come from, are mostly devastated, undeveloped municipalities, and I absolutely support this initiative because it is essentially our initiative and everything that academic Muamer Zukorlic has done and all the agreements we have signed are very proud of these agreements because in these agreements they will never see a struggle for personal interest, whether for him or for our party. It is always a struggle for the people, a struggle for all citizens and citizens, a fight for both Bosniak and Serb people, a policy of reconciliation, a policy of good neighbourly relations between the Republic of Serbia and BiH. I am absolutely proud of everything we have done and I want to say that we will continue on the road, and many have been concerned about what will happen with the Justice and Reconciliation Party, the Justice and Reconciliation Party is the strongest Bosniak party in the Republic of Serbia, and we will continue the path that has been followed by the ricket president, Muamer Zukorlic. Today we are more determined and unique than ever to endure on that path. I have repeatedly said that other parties show their agreements because we are proud of our agreements. Some have shown it, and I think it's better, and they're not because when you look at some of their agreements, you'll see the function of one, the second, the third, the party first, the second, the third. Our agreements are priority projects, pipelines, highways, infrastructure, science and technology park, university, Islamic Community, railways, return of vacuum property. We are proud that this government of the Republic of Serbia has set out to comply with the Law on Churches and Religious Communities and the return of property to the Islamic community, so that we have the most beautiful building in Novi Pazar, the Faculty of Islamic Studies, which individuals in Novi Pazar wanted to build in the casino. It was not allowed by the government of the Republic of Serbia. This was the battle of the ricket of Mufti Zukorlic and we are proud of it, among other things, and for this reason we support the Government of the Republic of Serbia and we are proud of that position. As far as the laws we're talking about today, and he's talking about public sector wages, public service wages, agency salaries and salaries in the autonomous province, seeking a new deadline and postponing the reform until 2025 and 2026, I think it's fully established. Why? Because for two years, all of humanity, and therefore our country is facing the greatest challenge since World War II, which is the global pandemic of the coronary virus. I would also like to give recognition to the President of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic, and to the Government of the Republic of Serbia and to this Parliament, but primarily to all citizens because we have truly sustained this pandemic, we have preserved the lives of our citizens, which is most important, but we have also preserved our economy. It would not have worked if we had not had a strong leadership and strong leadership, primarily decorated in the president of the Republic of Serbia. Many economies are kneeling, successful EU countries have been collapsed by the health system. Not to list scenes from Italy, Spain, from other "progress" countries, but countries from the EU family. We have made new Kovid hospitals, we have first obtained respirators, the largest number of vaccines from both the east and west we have obtained and actively assisted neighbouring countries, which I am particularly proud of and I want to thank you for the donation primarily of BiH, the country where the gros of Bosniaks lives. So, as a country, we didn't run one autistic policy, we were already running a reconciliation policy, and that's something I'm proud of and voted for with both hands in this House. What's very important is that we saved jobs. In the last year, 60,000 new jobs were opened. It's a huge success. We've had an economic growth of 7.5% this year. Last year's minimal decline was 0.9%, such a fall, under allegations, to wish for every EU country, which has had a much larger fall. Growth projected for the next 2022 is 4.5%. A few days ago, we adopted the budget of the Republic of Serbia, which I am proud of, because it is a developmental, social responsibility, infrastructure. I especially want to point out that we've adopted a 5.5% pension increase. We as the Justice and Reconciliation Party, the strongest Bosniak party in the Republic of Serbia, are indeed particularly political towards this most vulnerable group of our citizens, these are pensioners. I would especially like to point out that 20 euros is being paid today for pensioners, for the socially endangered and for the people who are staying in criminal correctional institutions, and from tomorrow on, there is a payment of assistance for all citizens and citizens. It may seem symbolic to someone here in Belgrade or in this room, but trust me, for the people of Prepolje, Preboj, Novi Varoshi, that 20 euros means that our parents, our pensioners, our grandfathers and our nans will be able to buy some basic life intentions or at least buy their grandchildren a birthday present or for the end of the school year. What makes me particularly happy is a one-time aid of 20,000 dinars to be paid in January and early February of next year. I think the pensioners really, like all citizens and citizens, put this fight with the Kovid pandemic really heroically. I want to remind myself of the restrictions they had, especially the beginning of the pandemic in motion and that they must be pensioners, which is a group of my parents and our parents, are among the most disciplined of our citizens. As for the increase in wages in the public sector, I want to take advantage of your presence. I think the public administration is the backbone of our system and is very often underestimated. We want a functioning state, we want a worldwide European administration. However, we need to see how many of our fellow citizens, our friends, our associates, and the congregation services and local self - government pay. I want to give recognition to the government of the Republic of Serbia which has found a way to raise wages in the public sector by 7%. That's something that's good, but I mean, I think even in the coming years, we have to insist on it, because really these people are holding our system. We cannot allow the best managers from our local self-government, who run public enterprises or run certain sectors within local self-government, I don't know, for urbanism, budget and finance, because of better working conditions to go to private companies, and those from private companies are heading west. We have a situation, and I've spoken here many times, but I want to say because of you, that we have a situation that has been banned from employment that had to happen, but we are in a situation where in smaller local self-government people who retire don't school enough people who can take over their duties when it comes to running local self-government. He can't go to the budget and finance department to work for someone who's just graduated from economic college, it's very important to have a practice of work. So I ask that we take special care of this when it comes to small municipalities, because in Belgrade everyone comes and we have a really good competition here. It's very hard to find, I don't know, I've been talking about the public defender's problem. You know who has a passed judicial exam, the Faculty of Law, he'll sooner be a lawyer or he'll work as a judge or prosecutor, and very rarely a small number of them will be a lawyer, defending property worth several million or ten million euros, and that he has a salary that must certainly be bigger. As far as these trends are concerned, they are global and managers from Western European companies going to China to the Far East, I don't know, Abu Dhabi, Dubai, Qatar, Saudi Arabia. Of course, people go after their profits and those who will offer them a better perspective and development. But this is something that we would have to make sure that we don't lose these people in public administration, in the state administration, which is the backbone of our system and that we simply have one bad selection that only those who can't fight in the private sector will come to the state administration. I want, too, when I talk about wages, to especially highlight the increase in health and social services wages. Health care professionals, I think absolutely no one will argue with it, are heroes in the fight against the Kovid virus, and I especially want to point out people who worked and worked in the general hospital and in Prepolje and in Novi Pazar, the Institute of Oncology and Radiology of Serbia, the Banjica Institute. These are the people who have endured the greatest burden of the pandemic and thanks to their work, day and night, surely that the pandemic did not feel as severe as it felt in other countries. The SPP-USS parliamentary group in the voting day will support your proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-07-0.u11273	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dr Milorad Mijatovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-07-0.u11274	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister with associates, we are talking today about a set of laws on public service employees' salaries, in the public sector, in public agencies and other organisations established by the Republic of Serbia in local self-government units and units of the autonomous province. This law I must confess, we were expecting. By the way, the amendments to the law have been extorted. When we talked about the 2022 budget, we saw that there would be no change in this domain for a simple reason because no funds were provided for it. You, Madam Minister, in your opening statement, said that a comprehensive public sector wage reform would require significant material resources. Because of all the events that we have, and we've started talking about salaries and paying classes, when we started talking somewhere in 2014, in 2015, analysis was made. The first projection was that we would adopt them in 2017. You know, it's very complex, it's a very complex problem, it requires a lot of study, a lot of analysis to give the right answers to all the questions. Why is that? Namely, it's nothing new. I have to point out that for almost tens of years, we system of wages in our country have basically been malfunctioning. In fact, we have different sectors of different foundations, we have different coefficients, every government has been looking for a way to give priority to a particular branch of government, and that's why it changed the coefficients, and we've come to one forest and base and coefficient, and it's hard to work. All those who wanted to do it, they ran away from it. However, the ruling majority is ready to go into reform procedures, it has done so in a number of areas. Not only are highways, fast tracks, not enough new hospitals and new schools, institutions, but we also need to make reforms in this area. Why? Public administration, the public sector for the state of Serbia at this stage of development, is very important, very important. We cannot take a step further unless we have quality education, quality health care and quality public administration. That's why we insist, and I'm the one who's always in the debates insisting on changing in this area this situation, making a more modern, more orderly system, and that's not just why we want to know what pay is. It is important and important, but it is very important that adequate rewards be given to those jobs that will mean a lot to a modern, European state, modern European Serbia, and those places really need to be rewarded and found the right assessment of what we need and how we need them. So the public doesn't realize that we have a lot of people employed in the state administration, in the public administration, etc., all the parameters we have say – no, the state of Serbia does not have enough employees. In fact, there is an average of 100 inhabitants – seven, we have less than seven, and for a country of this degree of development somewhere it should be seven to eight to 100 employees. The Social Democratic Party of Serbia has always advocated an orderly system, within the framework of available funds. In fact, what is not earned cannot be spent and the standard of all employees must be realistic, in what depends on all economic parameters. I've been saying there's a lot of talk about this, and I'm certainly stressing that the SDPS parliamentary group will support these laws. I think the arguments you made yourself are very important, very important. I don't want to talk about the pandemic, the pandemic is still going on, I'm going to use, as I always use this situation, to tell the citizens of Serbia, the pandemic is going on, please inject yourself. Vaccination, vaccination, vaccination. I was at an international gathering in Spain, and I have to tell you that everyone in the streets, in public spaces, wears masks. And I would also point out that 90% of the people in Spain have been vaccinated, and we've reached 57%, and we've had four, now five vaccines, and so I'm asking the citizens to take this opportunity to vaccinate, because that's going to mean a lot. Everything we do, if we don't beat the pandemic, it's going to mean less economic growth, it's going to mean disease, it's going to mean extra costs. Some estimates go in such a way that so far it's only been spent on medications, on hospital days of 75m euros, which is really an extremely large sum. It will go on if we don't beat the pandemic, and this country has provided for each of its citizens both beds and respirators and vaccines, that means the possibility of treatment. Now, that's why I'm stressing that if the state allows it, we have to do something for the state. Vaccinate. I have received three vaccines and I must stress that I will receive each of the following if I are asked to. One more thing, you know, when we talk about paying classes, we can't all expect that there will be raises in the public sector. He won't. Someone's gonna have less, someone more, but we need to fix the system. You know, our country in 2021 for salaries in the entire public sector, where over 450,000, I read somewhere, even 510,000 stands out 10.2% of GDP. It's a little more than our economic system could stand, but the justification is precisely these increases we've had for health care, which are justified and which I've always supported that healthcare workers should be compensated for their sacrifice, also to the police, the military, because they have indeed had and have at this point an extraordinary engagement and it should be rewarded. In 2022, that percentage will be 10.1% of GDP somewhere. We need to get closer to 9%, it's a sustainable system, and when we get to 9% of GDP, then we have security in the state, the security that we can never get into a situation where we have material resources, that we're coming and the situation that we can't pay our salaries and pensions. I'm one of those guys who always says there should be rules and rules. I stood up for the Swiss pensioner formula. She's going, it's good, pensions are down somewhere to about 11% of GDP that's good, we have control over them. You know, the Swiss pensioner formula in the last two, three years gave good results. It won't always be like that. Sometimes it'll be a little bit worse, but we have complete control of everything that's given for pensions. No more retirement delays, even as you can see in three months this year we had that the Pension Fund was not withdrawing funds from the budget, which means because of the increase in the number of employees we could pay out pensions from employee contributions. I expect that we will now introduce the rule and pay for the simple reason why it is very important, very important that we have sustainable finances. This country gives us both great funding for pensions and salaries and that sustainability of Serbia is very important and very important to us. I have to say another reason why these laws are being extended, or that they go later in 2025. You know, we've come to the point that since 2014, 2015 we've gone into financial consolidation. This financial consolidation where salaries in the public sector have been frozen for a time, then slowly defrosted and thus we see how these increases that we can now from real resources, I stress, real resources, and that is the only proper sustainable wage increase, and that is 7% that goes for all employees, and 8% of healthcare and some other services. It's on average about 7.3. I must point out that this shift that has been extorted and justified, it carries with it something else, that this period is used to have full synchronization, consent to work between the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Public Administration. Why? You know, it's a joint job, complex, difficult. I don't expect us to have answers to all the questions in 2025, it's a complex problem, but we're going to take a first step, first steps, and this big step to make this system work out and reform it. Public sector, public administrations are very important to us, very important, as I have always pointed out. I stress, we must have one rule in editing this system, the same salary for the same job. That's hard, but we have to apply that rule for a simple reason to know that not one who drives a car in the congregation, one who drives a car in a municipality or in a public enterprise, that there is a big pay gap between them. So the same salary for the same job. I keep stressing, we need a single information system set up. In 2019, I think the Ministry of Finance went into reform with a single information system. We need to know exactly how many employees we have in the public sector, what their salaries are, what are the coefficients, what is there, what we have, what we give, because that's very important to us. Like I used to say, when we talk about public property, we often didn't know what state was. We need to know exactly what the state is, what public property is, how many employees it is, and I stress the public administration everywhere in the world is paid, but there are much more paid for by those who work in the private sector. You know, working in the public sector means job security, so a salary that doesn't always have to be the biggest, but a secure salary, and that's what we have to keep in mind, and we're gonna stand up for it. I expect you to have this time that you have, in 2022, in 2023 and in 2024, there will be years where there will be a lot of work to get to the start that is the beginning of a major and significant reform. We've been banned from employment. That was justified at some point, we didn't have enough resources, we were doing financial consolidation, but now we have to do something to hire new people, educated people, people who will give answers in this information era. You know, we're making Serbia the 21st century, then there's sure to be a lot of changes, and right now the public administration and all public services have to give adequate answers to what we do and do. I would like and wish that we always have a visible and clear share of wages in percentages of GDP. We're going to weigh and we're going to aim at that percentage of nine, because that's a sustainable percentage. It's going to be an important, important moment, because that's when we solved some problems. The problems are solved by having a sustainable wage system. It can't be a surprise that the budget can't finance it. So, with one smart policy, financial policy, fiscal policy, we come into a situation to do what needs to be done. You know, we also have some parts of our public administration, public services that also require root reforms, which are important for the state. I don't want to talk about the IRS, I don't want to talk about inspections, socials, that's something we need to significantly improve, do much more. In 2022, the application of social cards begins in March, and adequate answers must be given. The Social Democratic Party of Serbia parliamentary group will support changes and additions to this set of laws. I pointed out at the beginning, we find them justified. We get a chance to take significant steps to improve this system in the next three years and finally go into service. I do not expect immediate solutions, I expect that in the future we will build up a lot, but we must take the first step, because the first step also means the path to solving this very important reform problem. Knowing the capacities of our ministries, the capacities of our public administration, I think we can finish it eventually. This will mean a modern, orderly Serbia, one Serbia that will be a European country and will answer all important questions. Because if we have so many foreign direct investments, we can't have an administration that will give you an answer in a year. It must be quick, efficient, true, and we have shown, here, the fact that new elements of "The Data System" opened yesterday in Kragujevac, which is very important, we are going to an information era and that is why these answers are important to us. Thank you for listening. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-07-0.u11275	Thank you. The next MP is Vojislav Vujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-07-0.u11276	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Minister with associates, I will rely on what Mr. Mijatovic said. There are two things I must agree with him. The first where he said that they insisted as a parliamentary group when it comes to local self-government, that it should be legal first and foremost. I will agree with the Single Serbia Parliamentary Group always insists that everything be by law. The only thing I can add, and yet about this topic and what you represent here today, is that we in Unique Serbia always advocate that the budget of local self-government is spent by citizens. The second thing Professor mentioned, and I'm going to commend that, of course, to the state that's headed in that direction, is that pensions are calculated according to the Swiss method. Why do I say that? Why does Switzerland matter to me? When I listened to you in your opening statement, I, like all my colleagues, understood why there was a delay until 2025. I think it's more than clear to everyone. That's why I won't waste my time reading the titles of all four laws, because all four laws are treated the same way. What matters to you is that the Single Serbia Parliamentary Group will support all the laws that are on the agenda today. Why did I say earlier that what the professor mentioned in Switzerland was interesting to me? Because when I did some research and did some local self-government and watched what needs to be done today on the agenda, I came across a research done by the Swiss government along with our government, and we all know that the Swiss are as accurate as clockwork and that the research they're doing must be good research. What's important for this research, and it concerns the satisfaction of citizens of the quality of life in the local community and the services of local self-government, is what you need most to be interested in and I'm sure you're familiar with this research, and I'm going to single out only part of the surveys that are very nice and detailed here and to say why this is a relevant research. Because it was a sample of over 11,000 citizens and because it was made in over 50 municipalities and cities. What is most important to you as a minister and for what I can certainly praise the Ministry, is that citizens have confidence in the work of local self-government, and in a large percentage expressed confidence in the work of local self-government. What has always been revered for years as a negative phenomenon, it was corruption. In this study that was conducted in 2019, and why I take 2019, because after the crown started and the contact of local officials or even civil servants with citizens was reduced to a minimum because of epidemiological measures, I would like to say the following. On the direct question of whether they were using connections, and we all know what connections mean, 74% of the respondents did not use any connections, and they neatly ended everything they wanted to do. Furthermore, 22% of respondents say they relied on relatives and friends, and only 4% say they relied on officials or people who deal with politics. So, compared to some previous years, this is a revolutionary thing for us in Serbia, for countries where everyone connects that for everyone you have to have a relationship. Here, this is evidence, and I'm sure a large number of citizens in contact with local self-government have had exactly this experience. Minister, I'm sure it's a privilege to work in the public sector. But here are some other things, since I see this drawing attention to this research, and it was related to Aryl, Babushnica, Bajina Basta, Jagodina, Književci, Kragujevac, Kragujevci, Kraljeva, etc., and all the way to my Vranjska Banja, has provided answers to very important questions. Besides this, which was very important to me, because Serbia was always valid, i.e. In previous years, in some long time ago, for a corrupt society, information that it is no longer so good news, but other good news, interesting news, on the question of what citizens think about agriculture, believe it or not, whether there are a lot of urban environments here that have nothing to do with agriculture directly, citizens expressed their desire in such a survey that municipalities and cities should focus much more on agriculture itself, on the separation and assistance of agricultural producers and on empowering young people to engage in agriculture. Most of them say they see great relief, especially for the state and for these local self-governments, if this is how the funds are allocated. What is even more interesting to me and has attracted my attention, it is the active participation of citizens in the work of local self-government. You know what, when it comes to the referendum, when it comes to public hearings, public debates, the introduction of self-indulgence, no matter how many of them, not you, but the ministry at all, the law has made it necessary for all of this to be public and public and the cities to do so publicly. So, public hearings, public hearings are available and any citizen who wishes to visit can attend and take active part in them. When it comes to the referendum, 89% of the people in the survey say, "No, I didn't hear it, I didn't hear it, but I didn't take part in it, and that's only 2%," he said, "I took part in the preparations." When it comes to public listening, 86% says - no participation, 12% says - that I heard, but did not participate, and yet only 2% participated. The same applies to public debates and the same applies to the introduction of self-dependence. So they don't have the right to be angry if they don't want to participate actively in any decision-making. When we talk about the budgets of local self-government, the budget is made every year, and even the rebalancing when it is brought, it is publicly available to everyone. I'm disappointed how little citizens are interested in participating. That's why I never justify any criticism for someone who wasn't involved in any work. Then it's called criticism. If you want to make a contribution, if you want to do something, get involved in a public debate and in a place where we need to do it, you have to state your opinion. I said it was a privilege to work in the public sector. What I find interesting, which is the fact that the current prime minister when she was in place, in your position, means the minister of local self-government, for the first time, a number of civil servants has been presented. It was then in 2014 that for the first time the data came out in the public sector, i.e. There are 478,683 employees in the State Administration. What's devastating, which by 2013 we didn't even have a record, no record of how many people it was. Since 2014 there has been an orderly record, and therefore it is easy to deal with these data now and that citizens know what it is they are paying for. When I say they pay, because all those who work in state administrations are funded, right out of citizens' money. What's for sure is that since the Second Set War, there's always been one part of the people who entered the state administration and local self-government just a matter of membership cards. So, since World War II, that's the rule. That number has been shrinking over time and as we approach this modern history I can't say that such a phenomenon doesn't exist, but I'm sure it's reduced to a minimum. I also have to commend the holy people who work in the state administrations. I had some personal experience from 2008 to 2012, when I was vice president of Vranjačka Banja Municipality. That's when I had the chance to meet up with, what young people like to say, with that old school, and then I saw what that old man's actually been doing at the state administration was. These are people who had a serious experience behind them, people who were aware of the places where they were located and who were honored to work in the government and who were thus sure to serve the state. It should be an incentive and an invitation to young people that they too have to act like one. So anyone who comes to work at the state administration has to make sure he's got a lot of trust. Is it from whoever recommended him or by the citizens and that he must give his maximum in the work. A good civil servant favors the state and the system, so that's what a colleague Tandir just said, and that's how it works. These are people who have to be psychologists and economists and lawyers, they have to have an answer to every question, because first of all, they meet with citizens, and we all know it's the hardest thing to do with people. It's a nice thing, but it's also responsible and heavy. When I say and when I think about the local administration and when I say that they are in constant contact with citizens, what is constantly potential by the president of my party, Dragan Markovic Palma, and that is what we all from the Unique Serbia, everyone who works in local self-government and in state authorities must know that they primarily serve citizens. It's their basic job. They must protect the law, but they must be aware that they serve citizens, every citizen of the Republic of Serbia is obliged, literally so to say, to serve, to benefit every civil servant. What we in JS always advocate, I said, and at the beginning of this presentation, is that Dragan Markovic Palma keeps repeating and we need to somehow understand in the right way is that the budget of local self-government must be spent by citizens, because citizens fill that budget and have a lot of right to spend it. Every leader has to understand that. I take as an example the president of my party, Dragan Markovic, because he has won the local elections in his town for 17 years. Look out, 17 years old. Let's go back ten, 12, 14 years, that's 17 years, how much the authorities have changed, what's going on, and he's still getting citizens' trust, and that's only for one simple reason, because the budget has just focused on the citizens and is one of those presidents, mayors or whatever you want, who knows most of the residents of his city. What does that mean? That every official, every local politician must have a phone available and must be free to receive a call from every citizen. That's what honors citizens in elections always know how to pay back. What I'm going to ask you, Minister, and I'm sure you'll understand, first of all, because you've been an MP here, I've always followed your discussions and I know what your thoughts are when we talk about workers, about those people that we're talking about today's law. We had a major recession, that recession wasn't an easy step. Alexander Vukic recognized it as the only way to save the state from bankruptcy and he did it. We all helped as much as we could. We who are here in this room, first of all by passing the law, and this recession has produced great results. Because of this recession today, we can talk about an increase in salary of 7.7% at a time when everyone is squirming around and thinking about how to get involved from this accident called the crown. The recession allowed pensions to increase by 5.5% and so on. You yourself have listed at the beginning of your presentation all of the donations and assistance given by the Republic. I don't dare start counting because there are so many of them that I'm sure I'd forget something, and I don't have it written in front of me. One thing I think we've done wrong. Here, I'm telling you, even though we as MPs have the least to do with it, and yet it's the result of this recession and I'm not saying that it wasn't supposed to be done at the time, it's a reduction in people working in local self-government to 150 dinars. So we're only talking about people, about workers, about the level of people that work just makes them use that diary that's 150 dinars. I'm sure the abuse was, it was a discussion and in this room here, abuse was and abuses should be punished, they should publicly bear the consequences of those who, in that way, wanted to harm the state but, for all those people that this law has been going to treat since 2025. I'm sure you have influence and that together we can come up with a solution to equalize those diaries with the other people in the state bodies, because they're the only ones who have suffered, and today they're in harm's way. You know, a driver in a public enterprise or a driver in the municipal administration does the same job. Here, I take them as the most banal example. People who are always on the road, with 150 dinars, he can't make it through that day, believe me. So please, I'm sure all my colleagues agree, because I see that everyone here is confirmed by their heads, and we have to try to make it right. When it comes to eGovernment and digitisation, I also praise you in the discussions that were on another agenda and you and Anna Brnabić, who launched the introduction of eGovernment and Mr. Branko Ružić in general, and today you are doing the job. That's a good thing, citizens support it. These changes are not always acceptable to everyone, because every change requires some additional experience, some additional knowledge and people have resistance to it. But that, and this research I was talking about at the beginning shows that it gives good results, first of all, that citizens are saving money, saving their time, and it's much faster to do administrative work. What good is it that you need to draw one conclusion from that one system, from that administration, or from that digitization at all? I'm going back to Dragan Markovic Palm, who says -- people, we make all payment classes, we can never pay all people the same, because people with the same job description give themselves different jobs in doing that job. You have someone who can stay three hours longer or do four objects within eight hours of working hours. There must be a mechanism to reward these people. I think that right through this digitization, through eGovernment, and you, first of all, I mean the mayors of municipal and city administrations, will have records of who did and how much he did. It would be good if we as citizens had the opportunity and the right to come up with such information, that we simply knew who the people in the local self-government are who give their maximum and who they are, what would be the simplest thing to say, who catch the curves? There are, I'm sure. You know, for 500,000 people it's, by nature stuff, and when you talk about school, about the military and any other job, proportions are the same. There are always those who catch the curve and there are always those who give their maximum. Let's make sure that those who give maximum rewards in some way, and before this 2025 comes and before we implement this. Once again, the Single Serbia parliamentary group will support all four laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-07-0.u11277	I thank Mr. Vujic. The next is MP Hadji Milorad Stosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-07-0.u11278	Thank you. The esteemed chairman, the distinguished minister with co-workers, ladies and gentlemen of the people, the respected citizens of Serbia, on the agenda of today's session are four legislative proposals that contain an identical solution and represent one continent. At the very beginning, I would point out that the parliamentary group of the United Pensioners of Serbia's PUPS "Tri P" in the voting day will support these proposals and vote for it. All four legislative proposals on the agenda of today's session, i.e. amendments and additions to the Law on Public Service Employees, the Law on Public Sector Payments, the Law on Salaries of Public Agency Employees and other Organisations established by the Republic of Serbia, the AP and the Local Self-Government Units and the Law on the Payments of Officials and Deputys in the Authorities of the AP and the Local Self-Government Units, contain identical solutions and represent one continent. This solution comes down to the fact that in all these four laws, the start of applying the system-based tax arrangements, the remuneration of earnings and other remuneration of public sector employees, the state, province and local authorities and the creation of precise systematisation of human resources and payment classes is delayed from the planned start of 2022 to 2025. There's not much to say about the changes and the addition of the law. They only apply to one or two members in each law. Clearly, this was one extorted, but on the other hand, the only rational and possible move at this point. According to the latest data, some 602,000 of our citizens were employed in the public sector, out of which 83,000 in public state-owned enterprises, 60,000 in public-owned local enterprises and 132,000 in the state and regional administration, 27 thousand in the administration of cities and municipalities, 153,000 in health and social work and 145 thousand in education and culture. If these numbers are reflected in the context of a total figure of 2.287,000 employees, we can conclude that just over a quarter of our citizens are employed in these institutions, bodies and institutions, which, according to public funds users of the Treasury Office of the Republic Ministry of Finance, have a total of over tens of thousands. These data themselves are sufficient to reflect how complex the public sector is in itself and that any changes can be difficult to make, even at some time intervals that are measured once or two years, because each body or institution must find its place in the state and economic system, and then, within each of them, make a system of jobs, and within that systematization, place each individual employee, with its qualifications, knowledge and skills. As far as this was concerned in the previous period of each specific beneficiary of the budget, we are hardly able to objectively assess, due to this much dissension of the public sector. But I would like to stress that according to official statistics, the number of public sector employees has been reduced over the past few years, by about 20,000 people in total, and that this trend of gradual reduction has been seen in recent years, although the ban on permanent employment has been lifted. In parallel with a general increase in overall employment, this has helped to reduce public spending for these purposes gradually in terms of both budget and GDP, and even to be better in this regard than in certain Central and Eastern European countries that are EU members, and we will agree that this is one of the main objectives of each reform. Of course, it would be even better if the whole process of reforming the public sector's income system and introducing paying classes were to succeed in bringing the end completely, that these plans and job registers were made public, so that all of us as ordinary citizens had a clear insight into the structure of each body and institution and their number of employees, and themselves employed better defining jobs as a set of rights and obligations and better protecting our position and their earnings. We are all aware of how much an epidemic of the crown has changed in the last two years all of us, and thus the states as a whole. Unfortunately, ongoing and urgent health care issues have become a priority everywhere. Making long-term plans under such circumstances has become very ungrateful. I will remind you that in 2020 and 2021 we adopted here two rebalancings of each previous voted budget and, unfortunately, we had to significantly increase the budget deficit in the first wave in order to finance all these unforeseeable expenditures with reduced revenues. In such a socio-economic environment, where the high degree of reliability still cannot predict that the situation will continue to develop in terms of the epidemic, I think that if all these somehow envisaged human plans and systematicization were to end, they might quickly become deplaced and out of some new life reality that could happen to us. It is therefore justified to leave intensive work on these activities for some, hopefully, better and more stable times to come. On the other hand, I believe that there is no other way to go to the other extreme, which is that this is why we give up public sector reform, that nothing is done on these issues, so that in a few years we can get back into the situation that we are indefinitely delaying the full application of this package of laws. This is our commitment on the way to the European Union, and we have long known that both the International Monetary Fund and other global financial institutions have always insisted on public spending in credit arrangements, as much as possible. Three years isn't such a small period of time. Personally, me and other PUPS MPs' groups "Tri P" hope that all state officials and body and institution managers will make their contribution to bringing the process to an end by then. In that sense, our PUPS MP group "Tri P" will support the adoption of this package of amendments and additions in the voting day. Also, the PUPS parliamentary group "Tri P" will support other issues and legal solutions from this session in the voting day. Dear friends, distinguished citizens of Serbia, respected minister with associates, I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-07-0.u11279	Thank you. The next is distinguished counterpart Snezana Paunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-07-0.u11280	Thank you, Vice President. I'm sorry about this slight break-up. Dear Minister Obradovic and his associates, welcome. Dear colleagues, citizens of Serbia, today we have an important set of laws ahead of us. That's what my colleagues were talking about, I'm probably not going to say anything new, but on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, I'm going to refer to the proposed law. We have before us a set of laws changing deadlines for applying the new public sector wage system. The application is delayed until 2025, that's what you said in the opening statement. These proposals, which are before us, are postponed that time limit for the application of the provisions of the Public Sector Payments System Act as a systematic law and in the work relating to the new model of salary accounting. In accordance with this, deadlines in the Employment of Public Services Act, the Law on the Salaries of Officials and Deputys in the Authorities of the AP and the Units of Local Self-Government and the Law on the Salaries of Public Agencys and Other Organisations, whose founder is the Republic of Serbia, AP or local self-government units. To remind you, it is a matter of moving to a system of billing of salaries and other receipts and remuneration of employees in the province and local administration in public services and agencies whose, above all, is the founder of the Republic, or the AP or local self-government according to the model of payment classes. It is, therefore, the transition to payment classes and paying groups in all sectors of the public government. When the system law is passed, we have defined for the application of payment classes and pay groups, starting with the need for all public sector salaries to be accounted for by applying the same model, which means that for the same type of business at all levels and in all parts of the public sector, an identical salary is received. For now, the payment class model is used to account for employees' salaries in the republican administration, which has been governed by the Law on the salaries of civil servants and tenants, which has been in place since 2007. During the adoption of this system law and the accompanying laws on salaries of employees and certain parts of the public sector five years ago, an analysis of the applicability of this law, as well as an analysis of the impact on budgetary stability and the position of employees were based on economic indicators for 2015. We will all agree that today is a completely different economic, fiscal and development environment in Serbia, of course, in favour of this time. Today, the results and analyses of the application of the payment class model would look completely different for many objective reasons that we have ahead of us. It is important to say that even when it started to reform that wage system, it was known that it would neither be an easy job nor a simple one because of the large starting pay gaps for the same work and education. These differences are visible somewhere, especially when comparing different sectors, but also different levels of government. That's enough of that illogicality. We can even, it seems, feel free to say that some differences are inappropriate, some of which may be inadmissible or certainly inadmissible. Another reason is the complexity of a public administration system that counts over 450,000 employees, if I have the exact information, and everyone is financed from public revenue. Therefore, employees of the public administration form education, from preschool to higher, then police, military, health, social and childcare, justice, culture, different public services, directorates, administrations, public agencies, as well as civil servants and deputies working in all branches of government. Then there are also employees of the local and regional administration and it is clear that it is a large system that really needs to be coordinated, made it functional, sustainable, efficient and innovative. The responsibility of the state in this segment is great because the state is essentially, except that it is their employer, who also legally regulates this system, but is also funding it. There's, I think, the complexity of this problem. It is clear from previous years that it is not easy to even all of this out if it comes from current levels of pay in education or health care, however, police, military, salaries in local self-government, rural or republican administration. To be understood, there are also technical barriers to integrated access, i.e. the public sector wage accounting system that is now being used cannot fully support the new model, so, besides this fact, I would say. The changeover to payment classes implies certain electronic performances, i.e. the existence of a single information system that allows all pay data to be included and their comparableity, as well as data from the job catalogues. This will avoid the situation that salaries for the same jobs at lower levels of government are sometimes significantly higher than salaries for the same jobs at the republican level. It is also a serious question of how to reward employees in individual sectors and how, on the other hand, to avoid this regulation and to reward the good results of work, how to ensure progress in the state administration, which is a large and in itself an inert system and, what is important for each regulated rule of law, how to stimulate young, professional and inventive personnel to work and stay in public administration. The salary, in addition to career development, is certainly one of the most important motives for working in the state administration and on that, it seems to me, we all have a very clear awareness together. It is precisely because of the need for systematic and comprehensive consideration of these problems of applying the payment class model that has been delayed so far and with the last delay, which was carried out at the end of 2020, that the introduction of the new payment system should be completed by the end of 2021. However, a key obstacle, it seems to me, to do this big job and meet this new legal deadline, is certainly the pandemic Kovida 19, which has left both this year and this process, simply, aside. The priority certainly was to save the lives and health of our citizens from this vicious and, I think, even now unknown diseases with which, unfortunately, the whole world is facing Serbia today. The end of the pandemic remains uncertain, as news of some new soybeans is coming daily, requiring further great attention from society to completely, I think, new health conditions. In addition, a new systemic analysis of the perspective of the pay grade should also cover the fact that during the previous year, just at the time of the birds, there was an increase in wages in the public sector, with particularly rewarded healthcare workers who took the greatest burden in opposing the herd. These increases, which were not linear, also require the formulation of new starting bases, i.e. an analysis of key settings in system law relating to payment classes. In this regard, a new analysis of the impact of the new payment model on all budgetary opportunities will also be necessary. So, as a reason for yet another shift in the period of application of the new wage model, we see the complexity of the public administration system, which requires further and more detailed analysis of all adopted public sector pay laws. Further consideration should be given to all aspects of sustainability of the proposed solutions in the light of all major changes in society, which have been discussed and, above all, in the fiscal and macroeconomic policies of the state in the last two years. The process of economic and fiscal consolidation and better economic indicators compared to the base year in which the public sector wage system law was adopted, i.e. in 2016, provided conditions for public sector wage growth. So we were moving from the gradual defreezing of salaries that were also reduced in the previous period to reduce public sector spending and thus allowed society to come out of that stagnation and access to more serious development reforms. This model of economic development showed its good results, so Serbia already had a real GDP growth of over 4% in 2019, so 4.2% if I'm not mistaken. In that year, Serbia also had the largest inflow of foreign direct investment and also in 2020, despite the covids, Serbia showed the flexibility of the economic system and managed to preserve both the economy and its citizens through different measures. Salaries above all have been increased to health care and wage growth has also been affected by the increase in the minimum labour price, which, on the other hand, has made wage imbalances more difficult and has made it difficult to establish a new payment system. In any event, all these adjustments, i.e. the increase in public sector wages in this and previous year, will also affect the development of new starting grounds for equalising salaries and applying the payment system. Otherwise, the public sector wage model is based on the pay classes of practices of a large number of countries. Our goal was to just introduce such payment standards and be closer to these new approaches. One of the more developed countries applying this system is, for example, and Austria, even BiH applies this model, if I have good information What I would point out is that in Serbia it is necessary in a unique way to edit a complete system of salaries, which would include public officials' salaries, i.e. elected and appointed persons. We talked about this and in the past term we from the SPS parliamentary group, in previous synergy my distinguished colleague Misa Petronijevic spoke very closely about it. And what would essentially be best to regulate the salaries of all public-funded employees, from top state officials to employees of officials and tenants in the simplest jobs, by one law. This would also eliminate certain illogicalities in the existing pay system, in which there are certain discrepancies, and as much as it is not popular, I will say that it is not logical that the President of the State, for example, has less salary than public agency officials, Commissioner for Information of Public Matter, Protector of Citizens, Judge of the Constitutional Court, and even of some mayors. It is not only the highest function in the country, which I have simply cited for the sake of it, but rather the need to define the basic principles which imply that wages must be consistent with the degree of responsibility for the exercise of public office, i.e. official or furniture work. What should also be seen again is the system of progress in the official system. Why do I say that? Because expertise, responsibility and commitment to the state administration is a condition for any reform of society. It is the administration that implements reforms in line with established public policies. She's also the creator of change and reform ideas. Also, if you do not have good experts in state services, then you cannot count on strengthening the rule of law, nor on the state being a citizen service being able to meet the needs of its citizens, which is absolutely binding. Public services, whether at the state level, whether at the level of local self-government, were a mirror of the state, and we talked about it countless times, and you, Minister, were in your presentations, and from the minister's position said so, but also during the time you sat with us in this room. The first meeting of citizens with the state is unequivocally the very state administration. In this sense, in the last ten years, a lot has been done, modernisation and digitisation, which is exactly what my colleague Voja Vujic has been talking about, the introduction of a single administrative post and electronic communications, the establishment of a central register of populations, then, electronic business, electronic invoicery and other aspects of public business promotion contribute, certainly, more effectively to the work of administration and more effective exercise of citizens' rights before authorities. In this sector, our progress in previous years has been positively assessed even by the European Commission. Progress in the performance of all public administration and public services is also due to public sector employees. And to mention again the merits of the health sector in the fight against the covids and merits of the education sector, which was very quickly adapted to the circumstances caused by the pandemic of the covids and succeeded with great efforts, indeed, of educators, to maintain the system in office. It's a great commitment, it's a great work, it's big denials, and we have to have awareness about it and treat it, except with respect, and with the responsibility of day we reward all these people. It is important that the entire public sector, from hospitals, schools, police stations, courts, to the local self-government tent or the service of the National Assembly, are primarily professional, dedicated, but also well-paid officials. The progress of society lies on the creators of reform documents, strategies, laws, and that is exactly the system of public administration. And we must never underestimate his role. The above is to conclude that an adequate mechanism for applying the new model of salary accounting has not yet been found and that an additional deadline, which you, the minister, have proposed, is needed. We believe you've made an excellent assessment that this job can't be done in a year. Actually, to be perfectly honest with you on the subject, maybe he can, but I guess upside down and not as rationally as he requires. So, there's no room left here to run like the ruling majority and make political profit, but that's not the intention and that's not the ultimate goal, especially given that next year, except that it's both referendum and electoral, it can be and I'm afraid it'll be additionally burdened by Kovidom-19, I believe that the deadline that we're looking for, or 2025, is optimal, and that we'll no longer need to extend it, and that the willingness to apply that model in 2025 will be complete. The SPS parliamentary group will certainly support the draft public sector wage laws in the voting day and do everything that is up to us, and that it can be done to simply reach the 2025 pay grade, in that quality way that we, as the ruling majority, have done everything and in the period behind us. Simply, there is no need to come into politics for quick political points, which do not provide long-term Serbian citizens with any stability. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-07-0.u11281	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger George Dabic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-07-0.u11282	Thank you. Dear Members of the People, ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Minister of Associates, the Law on the salaries of officials, deputies and all other public sector employees is a subject that has been present on the public stage for several years. It's an important set of laws that need to be passed, but this is not a matter that breaks across the knee, to a shortcut, as some think, since 400,000 people who are employed in the public sector, so they are directly concerned by what we are about to adopt here. These coefficients and basics, of course, affect not only them, but also the receipts, when we add together cumulatively and families whose members they are, therefore, this law indirectly refers to over two million citizens of Serbia. Therefore, in order to precisely determine what needs to be changed here and how to align the coefficients and the basics, we need to have a clear picture of how much money we give out of the public sector's salary budget. It is certainly necessary to do so primarily because we today have a situation that the state has for years been co-opting with the problem of hiring highly educated people into some of the most sensitive parts of the public sector, I say, in both health care and inspection services, in investment and projects management. We have a problem with hiring a highly educated staff because they are under-stimulated by the wages that currently exist in the public sector. There's an even bigger problem with, say, local self-government. How do you get a graduate lawyer with a legal exam to interfere with working for a salary of 60,000 dinars as head of the municipal administration? If he goes to law school, he can make up to five, six times as many. We also have a problem in general to stimulate people to work for these salaries, and to work honestly and securely again, and not to enter into a vicious cycle of corruption, in which Serbia was, we know the situation itself here before 2012. So this is a matter that needs to be carefully evaluated and not break over its knees. What is important is that in 2014 the government put this issue on the agenda for the first time. We'll remind you, no one's talked about it before, and we've had this problem for decades, but it hasn't been discussed. So in 2014, SNS and then Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic put the issue on the agenda. That's what this is all about. Today, however, we have a situation that the Ministry of Finance has entered a large process called the "Iskra" project, where we will establish a new system of profit records. We are working on the project in co-operation with the IMF and the plan is to implement it in phases until 2024. We only then, when the Ministry of Finance can tell us exactly how much money comes from the budget, every penny where it goes to public sector employees' salaries, we'll be able to figure out how to balance the coefficients with each other, because it's not normal for a driver in a public company to have a higher salary than the president of the municipality. It is not normal for people who do the same job to receive different salaries when it comes to the public sector. I say, that is on the agenda, in 2024 this system of the Ministry of Finance "Iskra" will be completed, which will explain to us in detail where everything and how money is spent on public sector salaries. Then in 2025, this law will be able to be implemented. That is why we are delaying the application of the law, because we want to determine exactly what we need to know that we could implement such a large set of laws concerning more than 400,000 employees in the public sector. What employees should be interested in in the public sector and what we have to tell them is that from January 1st, there is an increase in wages, 8% in health care, the military, the social services, and all the others will be an increase of 7% and that is important news for all citizens of Serbia. The important news is also for our pensioners that, according to the Swiss formula, their pensions will be increased by 5.6% in the coming years and, of course, they will continue to be given one-offs. In February, every pensioner will receive 20,000 dinars. The state today has money and today the state can help its citizens in this way. We can raise salaries in the public sector and help the private sector. The state has money today because it's run by home policy, responsible policy, and we raise both salaries and pensions from real income, we don't take credit, we don't borrow, as did members of the former regime when they took expensive loans to serve liquid liquidity, simply so they can pay salaries and pensions. Today we have a percent growth rate of 7.5%, and that's something we can proudly say. So this year we end the year with 7.5% of GDP growth. That's not the most skeptical thing... We remember what the situation was last year at this time, when we talked about it, and the IMF predicted that there would be about 5% growth, these on-call critics from the Fiscal Council said that growth would be about 4%, and we see that we were right, which we predicted that growth would go beyond 6% anyway. It is now shown that Serbia, when added together last year and this and next year for which we plan to grow by 4.5%, will cumulatively have the highest growth of all countries in Europe. In this way we show that Serbs do not have to win only in sport and in the field of economy we can achieve envious results. It is important that the citizens of Serbia know because everyone when they were tightening the belt, the whole of Europe when it was tightening the belt, we had enough money to provide for everything that was needed at that time. To remind the citizens of Serbia: first we got vaccines, first we had respirators, first we built two coves of hospitals. Only China was faster than we were about that, and that's how we showed that we're here for the citizens. Of course, we also thought of our economy, eight billion euros in total Serbia, 18% of GDP, helped our economy, and in this way we served minimals in several aid packages, minimum earning from a privateer for six months. So these are the results that any state can proudly stand behind. We are fortunate to have continued to invest in everything that is important in infrastructure projects. So, not only did we tighten the belt and fight to save jobs, we had enough money, enough projects to continue infrastructure work throughout Serbia. When we talk about it, we know that right now, while here in this tide of the National Assembly we're talking about these laws, machines are working on 10 corridors, 10 highways are working at this point. To be counted, Serbian citizens, these are: the Fruskogorski Corridor, Ruma-Shabac-Loznica, Kuzmin-Sremska Raca, Preljina-Požega, Moravski Corridor, Surcin-Novi Belgrade, a bypass around Belgrade -- sector B, Pozarevac-Gradište-Golubac, Nis-Pločnik, a bypass around Kragujevac. Can you also name a country in Europe today that can be proud of building 10 corridors at the moment, 10 highways. At a time when everyone's tightening their belts, when they're fighting for their bare survival, we're building on still investing. To whom today is strong Serbia, respected citizens of Serbia? Does it suit anyone in the region when they see Serbia obtaining the most expensive weapons? Does it suit anyone when they see Serbia rise from the ashes that the former regime and false Democrats have introduced it to? So no one is interested in today's development of our country. Of course, Serbia does not sit with its hands cut today. This is the most disturbing for them from abroad that Serbia is showing that it can fight for itself, work, build and raise our country. We're not waiting for someone to give us a dictatorship, a warrant from any embassy, so let's do something, like they used to do. That's why we're witnessing an unspeakable campaign. I feel free to say that a hybrid war is being waged against our country, and this is the most coming from those centres that want to get Serbia back under control, as it was by 2021. We are aware that the opposition currently in Serbia, the tycoon, decorated in Dragan Dilas, Vuk Jeremic and Boris Tadic, has absolutely no chance of coming to power. It's clear to their employers. Therefore, they are now putting into operation that second part of their operation, so-called. The NGO sector and, I will remind the citizens of Serbia, when we say the NGO, we usually think of Natasa Kandic, there is Stasa Zajovic, "women in black", that anti-Serbian part of the NGO sector, but now they join them so-called. ecological movements. It's no accident that you had that whole lie and slander campaign about a month ago. We remember how they shot at the wall, on General Ratko Mladic's mural, throwing eggs at him. It was all an overture to what they were up to. Therefore, instability in our country needs to be put in place, Serbia's progress needs to be halted. We remember how they were chasing a mural. The mural has been restored and we are not ashamed of our heroes, unlike those poor people who have been paid to work against their own country. When that didn't work out, they failed to destabilise the state on the subject, then they turned to the second part of the NGO sector, some organization "Go-changes", a certain Sava Manojlovic who is directly financed from the Rockefeller Foundation, and here we talked about it. They've received $25,000 on April 29th this year to do what they're doing, and that's what citizens should be told clearly. So, the opposition, the barren, the way it is today, can't possibly in any way produce a result that can get close to Alexander Vukic. They are now driving the NGO sector and will thus try to challenge further instability in our country. What's important is that we simply say that what they're doing and this rampage across the streets in our country is amazing. So imagine a situation where an NGO invites people to protest two laws. Is that the law of expropriation and referendum? If they were some other laws, they would, of course, take that as a cause. So it's important to take the people out on the street, it's important to block Serbia. Unfortunately, we have a situation here that citizens of our country are shamelessly deluded in a way that tells them something that is completely, as I say, a subject that we will all easily agree on. He says, "Who's for a healthy environment should be on the streets?" Are you saying that anyone in our country is in favor of a dirty environment? Can anyone even think that we, who live here, whose children live here, stand for a dirty environment, for polluted air? Of course we don't stand for it. You know what's interesting here? One thing is, you know, stories about how someone invests money and how they should deal with the environment, and the other is reality. We are investing 600m euros today, the state is investing today, in all that is needed for the green agenda. The state is working today to move wild dumps. In my neighborhood, we have a wild dump that was down at Prepolje, which was removed after 50 years of carelessness, it's done today, and a regional dump. So, there's a real transfer of cells between Prelje and Priboj. The regional dump in Uzic has also been rescheduled. Today, the state deals with environmentalism at every turn by actually giving money and investing in what is necessary, and not by being told that they should do something, and they had an opportunity, they were in power and they did nothing while they were in power, while they were just watching them fill their pockets. What's important for Serbian citizens is that they know that SNS and Alexander Vukic, besides that... I'm saying, we're dealing with environmental protection, we're working on concrete things. The Ministry of Environment and Ecology, Irena Vujovic, is really doing a great job on the environment. So we're not talking about things that we might do, but they're actually happening today. We are investing 600m euros in environmental and environmental protection today. What's the big deal? Also, as I was preparing my speech, an EU certificate arrived to open a cluster of four on the green agenda. So will the tycoon media be allowed to announce, to praise their country sometimes? Look, we're not as bad as you say. The European Union opens cluster four. It is obvious that good things happen in Serbia when it comes to protecting the environment. However, the topic on which it is most attacked and I see that it is publicly placed, as something it really insists on, is "Rio Tinto". However, there is absolutely an incredible thing that representatives of the former regime are calling for protests from people whose time has brought "Rio Tinto" to Serbia. The president had a press conference the other day, and he needs to keep talking about it so people don't go wrong. "Rio Tinto" came and the first contract signed on 8 June 2004. Then they were given the right to investigate. They then signed the second document on January 17th 2005, and when representatives of the former regime, Boris Tadic was in power, the president, gave them the opportunity to expand the exploitation area. The third contract on 26 September 2005 and allows them to conduct geological research. Then, on 4 January 2007, the fourth contract with Rio Tinto. So, all the time, there are yellow thieves in the former regime who allegedly drive Rio Tinto out of Serbia and allow the area to expand into nine more investigative fields. You have 28 August 2008 and an additional extension, Cvetkovic's Government. Then, in 2009 and 2011, 16 more fields of investigation were allowed to be used and 18 January 2012, a key document, adopted by the Rio Tinto Strategy, which comes first when it comes to lithium research. So, these people who directly brought Rio Tinto to Serbia today call without any shame Alexander Vukic, a SNS who did not sign, watch out, not one single document with Rio Tint. So Serbian citizens must know that they are in a brutal way deceived when it comes to this issue. Do not trust those who hide behind various NGOs who are trying to destabilise their country, who directly brought Rio Tinto to Serbia. So in 2017, you have a statement by Dragan Gilas that says it's a good thing for Serbia, that it should work on it. So, until just three or four years ago, they said it was affirmative and good for our country. And today the same tells you that Rio Tinto is not good for Serbia. They tell you, and of course, to say once again, Alexander Vukic, the SNS, of course, that nothing will do that is against our people's interests and that's what insists here that we will do something other than the people "below the grain", as they are used to doing. That's what they tell you, I say, the people who took the money. Be careful, they took the money directly from Rio Tint, such as this expert Marko Blagojevic, who was otherwise tried for malfeasances with King Alexander's Bulvar during his time as head of the Belgrade City Office, while Gilas was mayor. This man who took 717 thousand euros today, sold Rio Tinta, you have a contract and he's running protests for you in Loznica today. Well, people, don't let them deceive you, we're just saying, I believe that among the citizens who are protesting there are people who are really worried about the environment, but look at the results. This government has done nothing to harm the citizens of Serbia. As far as this subject is concerned about Rio Tinto, we said, anything that can be part of the deal will go to the people for a referendum, after we wait for certain certificates we need to see feasibility studies, environmental impact assessments. After that we will go before the people and the people will say if they are for it, of course, that we will allow, if the people are not for it, we have said that we will do nothing against the interests of the people and that is what citizens should know. Don't be deceived by people who, I say, took money, the fat money from Rio Tint, sold their land, who are going out on the street today to recover what they sold. So, I'm saying, this is a topic that we really should all be unique about. Serbia is doing well, our country is on track, there are big investments, big infrastructure is scheduled for next year. In 2022, there will be years of continued investment in everything that is needed both highways and factories and everything that the state is doing so far, so we need to be aware that the state, of course, wants to slow down the various power centers that would bring it back under the tycoon's lap, as was the case until 2012. We answer them, of course, that they will not be allowed. Serbian citizens will still have the right, only they, to decide in the elections who will lead our country because we are tired of being dictated by them and to tell us that and who will manage our country, that the ministers determine us from foreign embassies and that the proposals for the government's agenda come from, we know where they came from by 2012, so from foreign centres of power. Serbia is running an independent, sovereign policy today. President Aleksandar Vukic was also, I say, whenever a difficult situation was, like, the other day, when thousands of people were blocked in traffic because a certain group decided to block Serbia, to block life in our country, the president was with the people and where the people, directly concerned by all of this about certain issues that exist in public when it comes to Loznica, Rio Tint and those investments, which I say, were negotiated long before SNS arrived in power. So, the president was directly, he showed that he was there and that we will always be there for our citizens who give us this much trust in the elections we will do nothing, I repeat once again, we will not do anything beyond what interests are, above all, citizens of the Republic of Serbia and our country. And we also order once again to the representatives of the former regime and the ringleaders of the protests, not to the people, the people who are manipulated may have the right, and that they are not sufficiently informed about these topics, we are MPs and ministers and members of the government, all of us should explain to the people what this is about. That's our part. The people may be manipulated, I don't need to treat people in any ugly way who might really believe that they're getting ready, and I don't know what kind of investment that's going to jeopardize any environment, we need to talk about it and give the answers rightly. But, these protest ringleaders, we're telling the tycoon opposition, you can't win, you'll only have the chance to beat us in the election, and if you succeed in defeating us in the elections you'll come to power, on the street you'll never come to power, that's our SNS message. If we count ourselves on the street, it won't do you any good for anyone, much less for you. Thank you. Long live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-07-0.u11283	Thank you, Mr. Dabic. We now move on to the list of MPs according to the application for a word. First on the list, colleague Misala Pramenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-07-0.u11284	Thank you, Your Honor. The Honorable Minister with Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the question of all four laws concerning the arrangements of the pay system is with a proposal to postpone until 2025 and we believe that this is a logical move since all preparations in the field of promotion of this sector will not be stopped, but they have their continuity, so it is not bad to set a deadline and do their best to make all the commitments they have until that deadline meet. That may be a better solution than giving a shorter deadline and then breaking it down, etc. The public sector wage system is also important. We welcome the announced salary increases from the domain of public administration, health care, etc. However, I would like to take advantage of the opportunity to point to a phenomenon which, unfortunately, has been happening with us in Sandzak lately very often and which is becoming some kind of bad practice, which is referring to threats to citizens. This time it is our fellow MP, Dr Jahja Fehratovic. He received direct threats from a person proven to be the inspiration of the brutal murder of journalists and humanists, Edin Hamidovic, in August of the month in Sjenica this year, who was killed in front of his wife and six minor children. It happens that this same person, encouraged by certain structures, unfortunately individual both in the judiciary and in the prosecution, parts of the police, is again directing, targeting and putting a target on honest and honest people. If the status and treatment of MPs who have guaranteed immunity is like this, what do you expect and what can the citizens of the Senate and the surrounding cities expect? So the policy of criminal structures is actually to intimidate the people, to intimidate the citizens, and thus directly harm the state and state bodies. The government of the Republic of Serbia has openly said and actively demonstrated that it wants to deal with organised crime, but this must happen in the territory of the entire country and must prove even more determined. Corrupt officials, employees both in the judiciary, in the prosecution, in the police structures are cancers that eat both the state authorities and this society, and it must be put to rest, because criminals are the last scum and the last layer of this society that cannot possibly surface, because thanks to their dishonest actions at the bottom of the society itself, they should be behind bars first. Soon we hope that the treatment of such persons will be adequate and will actually be placed in the place that belongs to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-07-0.u11285	Thank you, colleague Pramenkovic. The next MP is Vladan Glisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-07-0.u11286	The opposition public resents you for this increase in wages and pensions entering the pre-election cycle and in some way representing a regimeal pre-election generosity. Is that so or is that an increase based on economic parameters that will not burden our budget and our economic development will show a period after the elections and we will see whether there will be economic consequences to this pre-election generosity. The second thing that is being resented by the opposition public is that this delay in setting up public sector employees' accounts was due to come into effect this year in 2022, which is just coming to us, but is moving by 2025. The problem is that it's actually giving another period of SNS that it can manipulate wages, that it can in such a way that a large corps of people who make up public sector employees, which is 450 thousand people, keeps them under control and somehow draws them to vote in the elections for them. Of course, these are things that we're going to have a hard time checking until you're out of power, but what's obvious is that, as the distinguished colleagues before me have said, it's been shown from the analysis that in recent years around 20,000 jobs have been less in the public sector than they have been before. But that's the way it is when you just look at employees all the time. It is known that, in essence, through over-realisation in the public sector, the regime's parties control people who are employed there. These are labour contracts, occasional and temporary contracts, those are with V.D.'s management staff. states where these people are never sure whether their contracts will be extended or whether the status of the people who took over the leadership positions will be extended. To be honest, it's this famous pain of party employment that's been going on for a long time. We had it in communism, but then they were all members of one party, and yet somehow progressed on the basis of some career skills and expertise and work since entering the renewed multi-party there is no party who, when she was in power, did not use that privilege of party employment for people who have somehow proven themselves in the party and obliged them to continue working for the parties. The Serbian Progressive Party doesn't do anything that others didn't do when they were in power, but since the most massive party in our multi-party is it's a lot to see, people know it. It's pointless to say, that's what everyone does when they're in opposition, they say about what I say, and when they come to power, they use that system and they keep hiring their party buddies. What needs to be done is not to yell at those who are currently in power, but to propose system solutions that will prevent further party employment and the situation that through this party employment tomorrow through salary management, wage accounting management, you are in fact in some way affecting the continued commitment of these people to one political party. The national network and those who support our ideas advocate that legal restrictions on the party engagement of those employed in the public administration are extended in the same way as in the judiciary and security structures. The moment we put those who are employed in public structures under the law should not be in party actions, party engagements and such situations, we will prevent any future political party from misusing the possibility of affecting public sector employees. Another thing that is very important, and these topics about the protests and Rio Tint and some other corporations that appear to be problematic and predatory in Serbia in the matter of our ecosystem and our resources, is the idea that after 30 years of talking about the weak state, that we need the state to be just someone who regulates the game on the market, and that everything should be left to the private sector, so we have come to the situation that all governments in October 5th here have left to the private sector of various activities and notaries and forced executions and banking sectors, and in the end, we are now in the fight that through the constitutional and defence movement in the referendum have not voted out the privatisation of the judiciary, at last the entire world community has realized that the ideal of a weak state, and the strong market is meaningless, that it serves only to multinational corporations of the Western system that they destroy the people and their resources, and their only the ability to be able to defend themselves, is safe for the people to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to remain. This kind of reparation that we need cannot be done if the public sector reduces the number of employees especially in the areas of inspection work and we return that famous story to that that 300 mining companies in Serbia who share and control only five mining inspectors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-07-0.u11287	Thank you. Replica, George Dabic, I presume.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-07-0.u11288	Thank you. Dear Mr. Glissic, that we wanted party employment is total nonsense. Imagine who wants party employment to pass the Law on the ban on employment in the public sector as soon as it comes to power. As soon as we came to power, we passed a law limiting just party employment. Therefore, 40,000 people are less because we have made such a single measure responsible, honest and domestic so as not to overload our country's budget and when we went out to the green branch, when we came into a situation that we could raise salaries and pensions, we started from real sources to raise salaries and pensions. I'm sure you're pushing for fair and household policy too, so don't go into that tycoon politician mantra telling you that something's worse today than it was when it's obvious that when we came to power, we could have moved on to the old stalker model and made party companies here, to hire who we can catch up with. So we made one responsible and honest household measure, but which was and how unpopular at that time and how unpopular. We consciously went to the heart of our rating to do a good thing for the citizens of Serbia, and that is what the people in the elections recognized immediately. We won over 45% already in 2014. Despite all these measures, despite the promise to cut wages and pensions, citizens have backed our policy. So generally when you're talking about party employment, you have to keep in mind that rarely any state in Europe would bring such measures when you're already saying that we've had such ambitions, of course we wouldn't adopt a law that limits us to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-07-0.u11289	Thank you. Replica, Vladan Glisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-07-0.u11290	Of course. You've found the state in a very poor economic state and you've had to take some steps to make sure it doesn't collapse, and I'm not the one who's willing to criticize everything you've done because there are things that can of course be praised and should be commended because there's no criticism that's serious if he's not ready to see what's positive about what he's criticizing. However, the problem of party employment is a systemic problem. It's not a problem for any party in power. This is a problem that we have left above all with the wrong party model, and it is something that is very necessary to discuss and you can notice that everyone who criticises you for many things from opposition parties never asks the question of the party model because whether you have a party on 700 000 members or 500 members of a party model in which one man is incomparable, and progressing beyond that he gives a kind of support to people who are progressing is not good because it encourages negative selection, and then this negative selection leads to the slow party interest in society being placed above national interest. So we need to change the party model in Serbia and we need to finally start talking. It's dangerous what now happens in protests that people think that without political parties they can deal with politics, that they can deal with outside institutions. It is not good and it is not necessary because political parties are part of the way people can deal with politics because it is not impossible to change direct democracy in one developed system and state as any modern state, but in order to restore trust in the parties, in order to be able to restore trust in the party model, we, above all, have to work on the other party model, which we are political class and we are dealing with politics, and there is again the greatest responsibility of the SNS because you have a historic chance to change some things because of your massiveness, should work on the other party model, to go to parties with the collegiate bodies, to staff parties, and not to mass parties, and not to parties that are disrupting institutions in which they operate because of their mass. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-07-0.u11291	Thank you. The next MP is Mr. Nebojsa Bakarec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-07-0.u11292	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Ms. Secretary with Associates, of course I'll talk about the Law on Salaries, but also about the State and some other important things. When I mention simply these public sector wage laws, it is a state sector, I simply cannot mention that 10 years ago have significantly increased salaries, and I will mention that pensions have been significantly increased and the pension fund has been saved. Otherwise, to remind you, the average salary is now 600 euros, which has never been in Serbia at all in history. President Vukic has reduced, otherwise with regard to reminding, unemployment from 25 to 10%. President Vukic has reduced the number of unemployed by 420 thousand over the past 10 years. President Vukic increased the average earnings by 50% compared to 2012. Let us ask ourselves, who pays the salaries of public servants, who employs citizens in public services and employs them by the state. So what kind of state is this, but I'll just look back at one before I explain what state this is and what state this isn't when I mention who hires citizens in public services, of course it's a state, I'll look back at the problem we just heard about alleged party employment. Since the SNS has been in power for almost 10 years, party employment is not that it does not exist, but it has been reduced to the least possible, and today we can certainly say that there is no partocrat, but above all in Serbia there is a mertocrat. It's the rule of the fittest and the best. As far as the objections we hear today about some imaginary party employment are concerned by a man whom I was a member of the Democratic Party of Serbia, who employed him 20 years ago in party employment as the director of the state-owned company Rudo. So, then party employment was good, and today when it's practically gone – it's bad. I think they're double standards. Now, what kind of state is this? This is a country that gets recognition from around the world for its economic successes, which co-operates with the EU and the United States. This is a democratic state where human and minority rights are respected. This is a country praised by the West. If this country were, say, North Korea, it couldn't co-operate with the West and get commendation from the West. Of course, he's getting credit from both the East and the North and the South, but he couldn't get credit from the West. I mention all of this because the self-proclaimed head of the opposition's extreme work, tycoon Gilas, visited on his N1, 2.12 television this year, where he said that Serbia simply sounds amazing but I will also quote it, he said Serbia is a fascist and Nazi state. I quote tycoon Gilas: “This is an unfascism, even a Nazi regime that works in this way. ” And I'll talk about it later. This hallucination was transmitted by all the jilas-cholak media and many of them, dozens, twenty of them, I mean tycoon Gilas has been given great attention to these media, to these hallucinations. Otherwise, in this interview, Gilas' favorite theme, since the pre-election campaign began to pump his narcissistic ego about how he, Gilas, would imagine, would win the 2022 elections. I mean, literally, I have his interviews from three and a half years ago and how pathetic and transparent that he was talking there just witnessed his interviews three and a half years ago where he literally describes his alleged victory in 2018. I would like to remind you that in the 2018 Belgrade elections, Gilas broke as a rattle and his coalition, almost identical to this one now won only 19% in their strongest standoff -- Belgrade. In his hallucinations, Gilas was commenting on the leader's question that he was in power while Rio Tinto was brought into Serbia, I quote, Gilas said he did not bring it and that he had nothing to do with Rio Tinto. Look out, he lied. Next, Gilas says, "With the opening of the lithium mine, there is nothing to do with any previous government to the government of Aleksandr Vukic." So, everything I've said, everything Gilas has said is a lie. First of all, let's remember, in 2007 Gilas was the Minister of National Investment Plan and part of the plan was also a tenfold greater digging of lithium than what we are now talking about in the area of Loznica, but also in the vicinity of many other cities, and that was exactly the company Rio Tinto, which was brought to Serbia by Djindjic's government there somewhere in 2003. Secondly, the government, part of which was Minister Gilas and the next government of Mirko Cvetkovic at the time of Tadic's most severe regime and Gilas signed a series of contracts with Rio Tinto. Thirdly, Dragan Gilas, a few years ago, a year ago, in an interview with the weekly newspaper, praised the excavation of lithium and the company Rio Tinto when he said – here, it was confirmed that Loznica had discovered the second largest site of lithium in the world and the largest in Europe, let's talk about concessions on these mines, is that not a chance for Serbia, Gilas said, it will employ thousands and thousands of people, he will, and will make a brand of our country, he will, but that's what he said. He says – imagine that in every mobile phone or car you have a part that says "Made in Serbia", these are the topics that we needed today, which he said four years ago and today... The hypocrites, suddenly we don't need that. So it sounds amazing, four years ago, a man boasted at all his mouth the excavation of lithium. That what I'm saying is true is confirmed the other day by former Serbian President Boris Tadic, who is also 2. 12th said to the newspaper "Today": "Rio Tinto came to Serbia during Kostunica's government, and the first negotiations began at the time of Djindjic... “ In fact, Rio Tinto came at the time of Djindjic’s government and continued to be there for all these 18 years. Tadic said further: "Of course we did not interrupt this research project, I mean my government, not during my term, and it has huge potential for Serbia." At least that's fair, he's not as hypocritical and two-faced as Gilas. In these words, Boris Tadic buried all the lies of Dragan Dilas and false environmentalists, and all those who in ignorance supported the violence of false environmentalists, in the care of what they said was air, water, food and health, reminding me of the 2009 and 2010 scandal, when the company "Femili Sport" destroyed part of the monumental complex, the 1915 "Brains of Belgrade" monument. The media shyly mentioned the scandal, for example the "Blic" newspaper on May 21st 2011, brought the text titled "Tenic Courses Cover the Monuments of Belgrade", and "Politicals" observed in the text on October 22, 2013, – the site of the monument "Brains of Belgrade" was usurped, extending tennis courts to only three metres from Belgrade's "Branans" monuments, the environment of the building was damaged. I quote still – part of the space Major Dragutin Gavrilovic led the most important battle for the capital's defence. It says "Politics" further – the residents of that part of Dorcol, who have already pointed to the usurpation of the historical complex in several n avres. I am proud to say that I wrote on this subject two years ago the text published by the website "Informer" and "Vidovdana". We're proud of our history, and we often drill into the breasts of heroics, and everyone likes to call on the light of history, they claim to be great patriots and continuations of bright traditions. In the event of the humiliation of Serbian heroes from First World Labour and their monuments from 2009 to 2012, none of the authorities responded. Something's wrong with that. I will remind you, on the 1915 "Brains of Belgrade" monument, there are the famous words of Major Dragutin Gavrilovic: "At exactly three hours, the enemy has to break up with your strong stormers, blown up by your bombs and bayonets. The face of Belgrade, our capitals must be sacred. Soldiers! Heroes! The Supreme Command has erased our regiment from its many states, our regiment has been sacrificed to the king and country. You no longer have to worry about your lives that no longer exist. So go to glory! A living king! Long live Belgrade! “ Then someone usurps that monument that this is on. I'll also remind you of the next sad facts. Dragutin Gavrilovic, a hero, a 15-year-old major, later the colonel, was badly wounded in the heroic defence of Belgrade, and most of the soldiers of the Second and Third Battalion of the 10th Regiment and the Sremic Squad died. Few people know that after World War I, Gavrilovic taught military administration at the Military Academy in Belgrade. General Dusan Simovic, Dragutin Gavrilovic, offered the rank of general and the post of army and navy minister on March 27th 1941, however, Gavrilovic refused to do so on the grounds that he was a soldier. Gavrilovic was captured in Sarajevo after the April war capitulation and taken to a concentration camp near Nuremberg. He survived captivity and returned in 1945 seriously ill. By the new communist authorities he was designated a man of the former regime of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia and died, listen to this, in his apartment in Slavia on July 19, 1945, in an extreme misery, humiliated by the communist regime. He was buried in a mutilated uniform by Colonel of the Yugoslav Royal Army in the tomb of his cousins in the New Cemetery. And such a hero someone is humiliating, destroying the monumental complex of monuments that was erected in 1988 by these heroes I mentioned. In this interview, Gilas additionally hallucinates at the end of the interview and says, on April 3rd, listen to this: "Belgrades will celebrate the fall of fascism". Gilas says, "Alexander Vukic has no chance of winning the second round and has not yet announced that he will be a candidate for president." Here a man can only smile with a ugliness. So someone should inform Gilas that President Vukic won a landslide in the first round of elections in 2017, receiving 55% of the votes. Now Wolf's rating is much bigger. Now it's time to deal with this Gilas lie about Serbia being fascist. Let me just remind you of two brief facts. Djilas announced that Marinikac Jovanoz Hivcu Tepic will be the bearer of his list, which means that the first point of Gilas' election programme is the Marinika programme, that Serbia and the Serb people are genocide. Let us remember that a few weeks ago, Gilas visited Washington, when all of the Serbs from Kosovo were called criminals. And, Serbia, of course, is not fascist, but as in every country in the world, unfortunately, there is a fascism virus in Serbia. And if a fascist had little in Serbia, that attack was also a shameful one last July at the Serbian Parliament, when about 500 fascists attacked the Serbian Parliament in an attempt to cause a coup. The fact that the attack was staged and supported by Dragan Gilas, who has the nerve to talk to us about some kind of fascism in Serbia. In addition, Dragan Gilas tycoon is known for allegedly being fair, and all vice versa, earned 619 million on three countries' functions for ten years. It is also known that he had driven tens of thousands of Roma out of the country about 2010 and leveled their houses with the ground, and then he had these same Roma in containers that he had placed in the forests on the periphery of Belgrade and that was Gilas' inclusion of Roma in containers. How much Gilas, indeed, hallucinates on fascism testifying to the following. On February 2, 2021, he went so far in hallucinations that he said -- Western Europe and America have been directly supporting Alexander Vukic for nine years now in a project to introduce a neo-fascist system in Serbia. Let me repeat Gilasa next. First, I have no state fascism in Serbia except that fascist methods are used precisely by Gilas and his extremists, but it is an extreme minority. Secondly, it would not be logical for 27 EU countries, plus Great Britain, plus the United States, plus Canada to support fascism in Serbia, even if it exists. If there were state fascism in Serbia, European institutions and the United States and foreign ambassadors would inevitably react, etc. Where does Gilas see fascism in Serbia? In "Belgrade on Water", in the future metro, near the monument Stefan Nemanja, near the monument Borislav Pekic, hundreds of kilometers of newly built highways, on an average salary of 600 euros, in new covid hospitals, in vaccine factories? Is anyone persecuting Serbia or killing Jews, Roma, migrants, minority members or members of the opposition? Oh, no. Serbia is being praised from all over the world for its relations with all of them. Does anyone in Serbia pass laws that take away property from Jews, Roma and other minority members or migrants? Well, no, of course not. And so far, in the past ten years, the European Community has recovered almost all the property that was taken from them after World War II. Does anyone ban political parties and opposition and gatherings? No, I don't. There's chaos, we see walking, protesting, all unreported gatherings. No one's stopping them. Does anyone forbid the media? Well, of course not. Most media in Serbia are against Vucic and against SNS. Is any civil law at risk in Serbia? No, except for President Vukic's rights and his family's rights and the rights of members of the sympathisers and SNS voters? Does anyone in Serbia pursue people based on racial, religious, national, sexual, political and other belongings? Well, no, not at all, except that the Gilasovites are persecuting members of the Wolf family. So, where does Gilas see fascism in Serbia? Only in your hallucinations. Never in any fascist country would it be possible for the government to lead the women and make up half the women. This would never be possible, as it would not be possible in any fascist country to lead the government by women who are declared LGBT persons. In what fascist country was it ever possible for a dozen gendarmes to unpunish the leader's brother, the president's brother and brother of the capital mayor and the two members of the special military units who protected them? In which fascist country can the media, like "N1", "New", "directly", "Today", in "Nin", "Time", etc., work normally? In what fascist country do journalists teach the president? What fascist country has ever received the highest recognitions from abroad? In what fascist country could opposition be unpunished by two major television journalists? In what fascist country can you impunity and freely insult and humiliate the officials of the ruling party? In what fascist country do free elections always take place every two years? Please, it is scandalous that Gilas is talking about fascism in Serbia when we know that in the protest of Gilas in 2018, a huge hanger was carried through the Terrace, and did not the German fascists and Ljotics just hang and rape through the Terrace, Belgrade and Serbia during the occupation? It is scenic that Djilas speaks of fascism in Serbia when we know that one of the leaders of his current coalition, Zeljko Veselinovic, called for the rape of Prime Minister Ana Brnabic, on 20 September 2018. It is scenic that Gilas is talking about fascism and crime when one of his closest associates from Kursumlia, Milutin Bakic, was arrested last year for smuggling 66kg of marijuana when Milan Dabovic, former brother-in-law Dragan Djilas, was arrested for smuggling 2.4kg of cocaine, when he, Gilas, was coldly beating his former father-in-law to defend his daughter, when Gilas's vice president, Marinika hired his friend, dealer and arms dealer to move a journalist out of Pančevo. Finally, to paraphrasise the great poet Vladislav Petkovic Dis, who wrote about Gilas – he stole all the temples and the citadels, mocked all the virtues and honesty, humiliated all the graves and lives, dirtyed both the moat and the baptism, stole all the temples and the citadels. Why is Gilas so lying? He is jealous and frustrated that President Vukic is raising Serbia, building Serbia, injecting Serbia, protecting Serbia, treating Serbia, treating the past in the present for the future. Long live Serbia! Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-07-0.u11293	Thank you. Honorable Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that today we will be working after 6 p.m. due to the need for the National Assembly to pass laws on the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Mr. Glisic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-07-0.u11294	The esteemed predecessor made a mistake. He was referring to the Rudo Prothetics Office, which is part of the state health care industry, but in addition, there is an orthopedic company called Rudo, which is a business entity that has nothing to do with the public sector, so there can be no party employment, and especially since the leadership that then invited me to be the director of the legal sector belonged to political options that are quite the opposite of the DOS and which were not part of the DSS. Otherwise, it's no wonder the esteemed predecessor didn't see it and he didn't know it, because it always belonged to those heights of DOS government and DSS authorities at the time. This would be called some part of the party's court, but it is strange that people living in the court parts of the party sometimes, even today, have the need to be sharpened in their performance. It's not about me, it's about all the other opposition representatives who often call it here and often performs in a way that usually people in court don't have a need, but it's part of a battle at a very lower level. My situation with the DSS at the time, which he couldn't have known, because he was in the court part of the DSS, was my first conflict with that party and abandoning that party for the reasons that people in Arangelovac, since I was always tied to the Shumadi and that end, and not to Vrachar as a respected gentleman, were doing something that he is doing now, and this was polished by the character and work and bust of Vojislav Kostunica. Vojislav Kostunica is a man I value politically, but I have never had an illusion about his faults and his mistakes. I think that successes and what he's done is good, much bigger than these mistakes, and that's why I appreciate and respect him. But then at the DSS, like today, why I'm fighting the SNS, is that I don't like people who make their careers out of court parts by attacking others and kissing the party leader. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-07-0.u11295	Replica, Mr. Nebojsa Bakarec.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-07-0.u11296	You know, I've never been a monarch, I tell you right now, this man is a monarchist, he was a monarchist. Otherwise, as far as these court parts are concerned, at least I was faithful to the DSS for 23 years, while he was changing one seven parties, changing parties more often than socks. It was the DSS first, then Dver, after Dvor was at that Parovic's, he cooperated, after that psycho from Topola, after that he was at Mr. Sapic's, after which he was, they say, a Prophet, now he has a folk network, braids, laces and more. So I didn't do it. And if he was employed then, here he confirmed, just what he's saying -- party employment wasn't hired by DOS, it was the ones on the other hand, which I doubt. You were the director, don't give up and don't spit on Vojislav Kostunica, it's the plate you ate from once. I'll never do that, unlike you. And whether ye were in the court, well, ye were in the court, behold, ye changed seven palaces.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-07-0.u11297	We'll end up here in a circle of replicas, so this doesn't turn into your personal conversation and communication. We are moving on to the next MP, Vice-President of the Assembly, Marija Jevdzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-07-0.u11298	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear Minister with Associates, fellow MPs, about last year we discussed a set of laws that proposed changes in the field of labour relations of public service employees, and none of us then had any idea that we would have to discuss and postpone the application of these laws again. The reason and then, as now, was a complex epidemiological situation in which our country is located, but not just our country, but the whole world. As we could see and hear in your address, Minister, you said that sometimes the greatest wishes and great will to regulate the public sector are powerless in front of a life dictated by the pandemic, and we witness every day how much the whole world suffers and how many global processes have been slowed down in the previous two years. This has otherwise led to an additional burden on the capacity and physical constraints of the public sector, but also to the difficult functioning of the public sector subsystem in which these reforms should be implemented. As a result, it is impossible to carry out activities by all participants in the reform and to establish an effective mechanism to move to a new public sector wage system, foreseen for the start of 2022. While we wait for the proposed changes to be applied, I would draw your attention to a part of the employees of public sports institutions dealing with maintenance of sports infrastructure, which is around 2,000 and their coefficient hasn't changed since 2002, although the regulation has been changed 44 times since then. All other public services have periodically increased coefficients, except for physical culture institutions. I think that we should consider a part of the Regulation relating to employees of public sports institutions, because as a country that invests a lot in sport, as a country that has top athletes, as a country that has built many modern sports facilities in the past few years, which is precisely people who are behind these facilities and who make sure that such facilities are preserved and to be, and to the satisfaction of our athletes, but also our citizens, I think that in the last 18-20 years, they have been forgotten when the Public Institute Coefficients Regulation was being edited. For the sake of clear information, we have heard from both you and other colleagues, that the public sector, or reforms that will cover the public sector, concerns around 400,000 employees, this requires the existence of reliable data that will enable specific necessary analyses of the financial and fiscal effects of reforms to be carried out, but that can be achieved, or cannot be achieved until we have established a single and centralised system in which accurate and accurate data are found. Otherwise, the salary reform process is a complex and extensive job and many countries have been conducting it and preparing it for more than 10 years, so that previous delays, as well as this delay, are because we want as a state, and of course you as a resolution ministry, so that these laws are better done and that tomorrow the better they are implemented in society. The public administration reform itself is one of the government's key priorities and one of the three key conditions for Serbia's EU accession. In the previous period, and in Mr Ruzic's period, much has been done to improve the work of municipal and city administrations through a project of efficient administration and has been done to develop and expand a unique administrative place that is much easier for citizens to exercise their rights and to come up with the information they need, that they do not have to go around more different institutions to finish their affairs with the administration, but can do so in one place, within the shortest possible time, to exercise their rights, protect their interests and that, perhaps most importantly, they save their time and money. Why is this important to local self-government? Because all the answers are united in one place and it contributes to seeing what else can be improved to increase the efficiency, transparency and economics of the work of the city administration, because it is a desire for all of us to have public administration as well as for the benefit of citizens. Since 2018, when this project came to life, so far more than 14 single administrative posts have been opened in Serbia, and as a citizen who comes from the Kingdom, I know that the city of Kraljevo has a ready-made project to hand over to the Ministry and I hope that in the coming year, the citizens of the Kings will be able to see all the advantages of the single management post. The city of Kraljevo, which has been up-to-date in recent years, I think it deserves to have one of these projects. I set the law at its core refers to human resources and therefore I want to commend and pass the Law on the establishment of a National Academy of Public Administration. It's a major promotion for the human resources management system. This institution uses all officials to acquire new knowledge and master all processes involving the modernisation of local self-government. This achieves the quality of the work of civil servants, and yet it is for the benefit of the citizens, because, as I said, we want the public administration to be modern, modernised, efficient. Serbian citizens deserve to have just such a public administration. We've seen over the past year and a half how important it is to have a digitalized administration. When the work of all institutions was blocked, when we all went online, the work of the public administration didn't stop. We have shown here how many states, but your ministry has also been prepared to respond to all the challenges and situations that have occurred during the pandemic and have faced all citizens, including the work of all ministries and governments themselves. It's for all praise. The Single Serbia Parliamentary Group believes that the future work should continue to develop efficiency and professional state, or local self-government, investment in human resources, as it aims to ensure that citizens who provide services, as well as employees who provide these services, are satisfied, because it is the only way we can talk about the public administration that is in service and to the fullest extent of all citizens. I think the Ministry's goal, as well as the state's, is to equip the state and local self-government authorities with more modern techniques. We saw, yesterday a modern "Data Center" opened in Kragujevac, which should contribute to the smooth and reliable operation of electronic administration services, the safe storage of data from registers, as well as the development of future services. In this way, the work of the public administration will be improved, which will speed up procedures and simplify the lives of every citizen. It will accommodate the first state-run platform for artificial intelligence, which will be available both to the state and local self-government, as well as to universities and scientific and technological parks. I think the state recognized that in today's modern age, in the 21st century more valuable than money is data. The opening of such a centre has become a country with the most modern data bank. A unique Serbia, as a socially responsible party, which has many times shown that the life of an ordinary citizen is a priority, that Serbia's even development is one of the postulates of our programme, in hopes that perhaps a reform of the public system will end before 2025, in the day to vote, will support any proposed amendments to the proposed laws on today's agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-07-0.u11299	Thank you. Next is counterpart Daniela Veljovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-07-0.u11300	Thank you. The Honorable Minister with his associates, colleagues and fellow MPs, the essence of the four draft amendments to the laws we are discussing today, and concerning amendments to the Law on Public Service Employees, changes to the public sector wage system, agencies and other organisations set up by the Republic, an autonomous province, a unit of local self-government, is a shift in time for the establishment of a single public sector wage accounting system for 2025. As stated in the light of the draft law, in order to establish a system law governing wages in all parts of the public sector, a comprehensive financial analysis, which was not possible in the preceding period, is necessary because of the obsolescence and limited possibilities of the existing wage accounting information system. The central information system to be set up and planned by the Ministry of Finance since 2019 should be the source of numerous data, and above all to exercise a strict control over the implementation of the public sector's budget for the accounting of earnings, the control of public sector employment costs. The information system will contain data on more than 450,000 public sector employees, their salaries, their presence at work, as well as a large number of operational and budgetary data from the Republic of Serbia, i.e. the essence of all these changes, is that the introduction of the pay classes is delayed for 2025. As a representative of the social democratic option, I consider it of great importance that a comprehensive and comprehensive reform of the public sector take place, which will primarily lead to relaxation and public spending and budgets, but also raise the efficiency of a business that must not entail permanent credit debt in consumption. Of course, that reform must be implemented through mandatory social dialogue between the government and representative trade unions, through exchanges of views and arguments to bring attitudes into line. As stated in the financial strategy for the period from 2022 to 2024, the measures that have contributed to pandemic mitigation remain in focus on creating economic policy, but new sources of growth are also needed, so innovation and research are also focused. Priority will be given to infrastructure and capital projects, but also to pay and pension policy. The Bill on the Budgetary System, which has recently been voted, envisions a salary increase of around 500,000 people, employed by beneficiaries of budget funds, employees of the Ministry of Defence, health institutions, social protection institutions, and this increase will begin with the December 2021 salary, which is the measure that we MPs of the SDPS have supported by respecting the current economic opportunities and needs of workers. All previously elected fiscal laws aim to ensure the stability of public finances and sustainability, which I also welcome, as well as a given package of measures that will freeze prices of five basic foods by the government for 60 days, which in moments of uncertainty on the world economic scene is a responsible social policy. Although the Ministry of Finance Strategy for the period until 2024 provides for reform both in the area of employment, human resources management and the system of wages in the state sector, today's draft laws move that deadline to 2025, which is why I must admit I am sorry. I understand the problem that needs to be addressed to record all direct and indirect budget users, their receipts, employment and earnings ratios, but I feel it is necessary to introduce a system order in public enterprises, agencies, and therefore in the payment system, which will certainly help control budget spending. Citing the revised version of the Strategy, which states that given the effects of the pandemic, the structure of employees and levels of public sector employment should begin in 2025. Taking into account the up until now-voted fiscal papers that are truly positive, I believe that in 2025 it will be a truly decisive year in which reform steps will begin, and in order to improve the entire public sector and end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-07-0.u11301	Thank you. The next is MP of the people Plasimir Stević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-07-0.u11302	Dear Vice-President, the Honorable Minister of Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, today is on the agenda of a number of public sector pay system laws, and it is about amending the laws extending once more the deadlines for applying the new public sector wage model, which is the model of the pay grade. The adoption of roof law in the public sector pay system, the law governing salaries of employees in AP bodies, local self-government, public services, salaries of police and military officials, to the law governing salaries in public agencies and other organisations established by the Republic, the province or local self-government. At the time of the previous government and Minister Ruzic, who led the Ministry of State Administration and Local Self-Government, a complete legal framework for public administration reform was created, and thus reforming the wage system in this sector by a new model of payment classes. This payment model is now applied to the salaries of civil servants and tenants, since 2007, and its implementation remains in the rest of the public sector. The translation of salaries in the public sector into a completely different model is not easy because of the complexity of the public administration sector which is a diverse and complex system, because it covers a large number of bodies and services, a large number of jobs and responsibilities, a large number of occupations, a large number of public authorities, in rural, municipal bodies, public services, education, health, culture, physical culture, children's and social protection. There's the judiciary, the police, the army, the security services. Each of these parts of the public sector plays a role and a place in society and provides an integrated and development path for society. The complexity of the public administration system, and thus the complexity of the transition procedure in a new way, obviously requires much more time to apply the new model, where a multidisciplinary approach is necessary, or cannot be the job of only one ministry, because each governmental portfolio knows how services operate within that portfolio. This time, the introduction of payment classes as a payment principle in all specific parts of the public administration is delayed for another four years, i.e. until 2025. There are several reasons for this shift. One of them is a bastard who has shifted the state's activities to the protection of the health of the population and the resolution of the consequences that our business has suffered because of the herds, so that the planned activities at the introduction of payment classes could not be completed in good time. The legislator then cites the need to carry out new analyses of the applicability and expected effects of the new payment system in line with changes in the economic and financial sectors resulting from the adoption of these laws. Therefore, further examination is necessary to reflect, in these circumstances, on both macroeconomic stability and on the budget and on the social situation of employees, as stated in the reasoning of the laws that are ahead of us. In the previous and this year, salaries in the public sector and in different percentages have been increased, so additional mechanisms will certainly be needed to level wages. This opportunity should draw attention to the importance of the role of the sector for every legal and democratically-oriented state. Society cannot advance if there is no good public administration, because public administration in all its segments is not the only administrator of certain procedures, it is also the creative factor of development. The public administration is also a picture of the legal arrangement of society, as it is preceded by legal rights of citizens. It is the administration that implements the laws and its personnel and technical equipment that depends on the functioning of the rule of law, which is why it is important for the state to have a professional, efficient, responsible, depolitised and non-corruption administration. We can say that the public sector is also conducting social reforms, and therefore it must be reformed, adequately arranged, efficient, professional and functional with as little cost per citizen as possible, and with the better service it provides. For example, we can count the good effects of tax policy with good tax administration. Good administration of social policy if we have motivated and conscious experts in social work centres. We can be safe if we have professionals in the police and the military, but employees in the public sector must be motivated for their work, because the material motivation of a employed civil servant depends on the results of progress in every segment of society. Public sector reform is a process, we can say the continuous process because innovation of knowledge and efficiency of the administration is a constant requirement and needs. All countries are looking for the best or optimal management model, with always a significant question of rewarding public sector employees so that such a public sector can achieve key country development goals. Today, Serbia is on track to provide citizens with an efficient administration, and the public administration with a better position. These are the starting elements of the general public sector reform launched several years ago, which were also contained in the current Public Administration Development Strategy for the period 2015 to 2020. The most important objectives are defined here, and these are, above all, better management organisations, developing a modern and professional service system, improving the system of local self-government, digitising and developing electronic administration, but also finding a fairer model of wages in this sector, because we need to be realistic, a lot of young and professional personnel leaving public rights, precisely because of unstimulative salaries. It is not good if public administration is not ready for faster reforms due to the outflow of quality personnel. The full legal framework for the reform of this sector and the establishment of a modern, transparent, efficient and responsible public administration that approached citizens in the period from 2016 to 2020. When it comes to the modernisation of administration, i.e. digitisation, we can say that significant progress has already been made in previous years that citizens can already feel in the process of exercising different rights before state authorities and services. As a strategically important result, I would mention the formation of a Central Population Register, i.e. a single electronic database of all population data containing data on citizens from 13 different and unrelated registers. This is a major advance in the way citizens can come up with different documents and papers without waiting in different lines at all levels of government, and this has been contributed by this project, the Single Administrative Place, which has improved the work of the administration at local level. I would return to the question of the public sector pay system, which is certainly not easy to establish. It is important for the model to be fairer, to provide a more favourable socio-economic position for all employees in order to motivate them to do their job even more dedicatedly, so that the administration wants young higher education and professional staff to work. I agree with the fact that the application of the payment class model in all parts of the public sector is subject to additional economic and social analysis in order to take into account the impact of the application of this model on all professions, on all management jobs, but above all, on the necessary budget resources for its application. This fact and, in the words of the legislator, amending the laws that are before us is the most important reason for the rescheduling of the application of the Law on the Payment System in the work relating to the introduction of payment classes as a model of public sector salary accounting at all levels of government. In that sense, the Socialist Party of Serbia parliamentary group will support the delay of deadlines for applying a new public administration salary model. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-07-0.u11303	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic. The time remaining of your parliamentary group is two minutes and 20 seconds. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-07-0.u11304	I thank you, Your Honor, the President. Dear Minister, honourable fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, I am Milija Miletic. I come from Svrlig, it is the most beautiful municipality in Serbia, located near the town of Nis, which is the most beautiful city in Serbia. Otherwise, I was elected here from the list "Alexander Vukic-For Our Children" and represent the United Peasants' Party. As so far, I will support the proposals of these laws where, on a proposal from our Minister Obradovic, who I believe is doing his job the best he can, he suggested. We will now extend the deadline for the adoption of certain laws which were due in 2022. Otherwise, all that matters, the most important thing is to live better, to help our people. We're doing it now, it's our country, our government. Once again, I will support the bill. I'll leave the rest of my time to a colleague who'll talk after me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-07-0.u11305	She has one minute and 20 seconds left. In accordance with Article 87. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly set a break of one hour. We continue work at 15.00 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-07-0.u11306	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. The word has been made by MP Milimir Vujadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-07-0.u11307	Thank you, Vice President Orlic. Here, today, the representatives of the government are in this respectable home with legal proposals that are ahead of us, seven points, I think, and are mostly concerned with the benefits that a common man, a worker in Serbia, may have. When I say that, I guess you realize that I speak under the supposed signs, because there are ordinary and unusual people in this country. We're all completely equal in front of God and in front of people. While we, together with the representatives of the government, are talking about these legislative proposals, considering what might be even better, which would push any man in Serbia, including Serbia itself, forward and to some success, on the other hand, you must bear in mind that success will not easily forgive those who do not think well of this country. To talk today about what the government has sent to this respectable home, not to look back at events that are current in Serbia's last days, would be incomplete, not to say irresponsibly, because what we are doing here today and the Government, primarily the president at the head of policies that are being conducted today in Serbia, is closely linked to what is happening on the streets. All the good that he does and the policy that the president leads doesn't forgive in the streets by those who don't think well of the state and the people. In view of these very events in Serbia, it becomes crystal clear that the goal is to stop Serbia, but to stop our people in the Balkans and these two things are closely connected, because without successful and strong Serbia, there is neither successful nor strong our people in the Balkans, wherever they live today. Namely, those who today are trying to undermine Serbia's reputation and harm Serbia and our people are in some centres of power that are beyond the borders of the Serbian state, but the biggest tragedy in all this is not only that, but the fact that the most faithful allies in this business have here in Belgrade today, at the centre of Serbian statehood, in which every man, whether living within the borders of this country or in the region, is watching. Every man in the region is looking at events in Belgrade, Serbia today. Therefore, respected colleagues, to conclude that this is all and how it is connected, starting with these laws, to events that are happening in Serbia and to the consequences that our people in the region have. Here are some arguments. While in Serbia you have people who are leading some kind of destructive campaigns on everything that is good in Serbia, all the enthusiasm and media support of such events comes from media centres in Sarajevo, Zagreb, Pristina, and in Podgorica as well. What is striking is the support of public figures from Croatia and their insufferable desire to join the demolition campaign in Serbia. The last in a series is Darko Rundek from Zagreb, who expressed his desire to join these things in Belgrade. Let's see who are the people who are leading these devastating raids in Serbia today. Marinika Tepic, a woman of a long-standing political worker, who has had one strange need to show and say she is not a member of the Serb people in her entire political performance for the past few years. We don't even know why it was necessary, but we've all been witnesses in the past, and so have I. I have heard in my ears several times her emphasising the fact that she is not someone who belongs to the order of the Serb people. Of course, it doesn't make her any less important or superior. She also had a need, and it was documented and remains forever in this respected home, that she had a desire and intention to declare that Serb people, to whom it does not belong, genocide. As I come from Vojvodina, from the northern Serbian province, one of the leaders of these destructive raids in Vojvodina, the most significant in Novi Sad, is some Brian Brkovic, a man from Cetinja, grandson of Jevrem Brkovic, one of the most visible Montenegrin fascists and one of the most visible opponents of Serbian identity in Montenegro. When you look at all this, you ask a question, dear colleagues, and you and I think every citizen in this country -- do we, can one of our closest relatives go to Cetinje and go on some kind of demolition campaigns and direct attacks on the state of Montenegro. The question is, can you go to Cetinje at all, not to do things like that? Today, he is the main leader and protagonist of past events in Serbia, when it comes to her north, precisely that Brian Brkovic, a man from Cetinja, grandson of Jevrem Brkovic. Just when you think it's over, it's not. The Serbian Orthodox Church was not spared either. The attacks against her are in charge of Mladjan Djordjevic, for attacks on the Serbian Orthodox Church and on Patriarch Porfiri as her leading man, and Mladjan Djordjevic is, behold, the godfather of Dragan Gilas. However, it is not necessary to lose sight of and what is the fact that support for such policies is given by individual politicians from the work of the International Community and the EU, such as Viola von Kramon, who is also one of the lobbyists for Kosovo and Metohija, one of the lobbyists for the abolition of Republika Srpska and one of those politicians from the International Community that aims to stifle Serbia's identity in Montenegro in its political functioning. If you look at all this, I think things are getting crystal clear. It's not about the last few days or any environmental protest. No, the goal is to bring down the president of the state of Aleksandar Vukic, to create instability in Serbia, and then, by doing so, easier to finish these jobs that I was talking about at the beginning, easier to end with self-proclaimed independence of Kosovo and Metohija, easier to end with the abolition of Republika Srpska and much easier to end with the asphyxiation of Serbia's identity in Montenegro, and ultimately, to abolish both Serbia and the SPC. And it became unhindered. You saw yesterday that the same Viola von Kramon denied the identity of SPC entirely. In a public address, she said that the SPC does not exist at all and that episcopies, i.e. dioceses in Germany, are completely autonomous. And it doesn't even hurt her, it's no wonder when it comes to Viola von Kramon, we expected it somewhere, and similar to her, it's no wonder that this part of the politicians I spoke about in Serbia, but it's a wonder when the Episcopal of Grigorija Duric, when the bishop there is for enemies of the Church and state, there are people who are fighting for Serbia and the Serb people in the Balkans, and such European politicians' findings are persistently silent. This is what hurts both Serbia and the Serbian people today. Somehow, these days she entered the final stage of 1915 "Mojkovačka Opera", about which many songs were sung, so one verse from that epic song that describes Mojkovačka battle, read - But they cheated angryly, all of it could be vice versa. Well, they were wronged, and this time they were wronged by both Viola and Marinika and Brian Brkovic from Cetinja and Mladjan Djordjevic and Djilas and self-proclaimed and self-proclaimed environmentalists, they were wrong. Neither will the people in Serbia allow what they want nor will the Serbian president and SNS succumb to the political pressures coming from the street. We'll give them a chance soon enough. It's going to be a very quick April of the month. It's the only way to achieve their political goals. And the people see everything very well. Why did I tell you all this? Well, in order to certainly show that link between the legal proposals that are before us today and the connection between what the government is doing and, behold, the representatives who are here with us today, and the link between what the president is doing, the link between the success that Serbia and the Serbian people are facing today and what is happening on the streets of Serbia in the past days. That's exactly why this whole story. As long as you follow these policies that are implemented and led by today's president, do not doubt that you will also have support for this law in this respected home, but also for some other legal proposals that are and bring benefits to every citizen of ours, which you have spoken of at the opening presentation. So much for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-07-0.u11308	Thank you. The word is Dr. Vesna Ivković.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-07-0.u11309	The Honored Chairman, the Honorable Minister with Associates, Honorable Fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, Honored Citizens of the Republic of Serbia, Amendments to the Law on Public Sector Payments, Amendments to the Law on Employees' Salaries of Officials and Deputys in the Authorities of the Province and the Unit of Local Self-Government, Amendments to the Law on Public Service Employees' Payments, Amendments to the Public Agency's Law lays down a new deadline for the start of the application of the System Classes, namely, and a special law establishing salaries, wages and other incomes in all parts of the public sector, according to the payment class model. My esteemed colleague and deputy head of the SPS parliamentary group, Snezana Paunovic, cited which all these employees belong to the public sector, and I will not repeat myself. Speaking of public sector wages, I have to remind citizens of state aid to the economy, health workers, pensioners and other citizens. All this enabled the flexibility of the economic system of the Republic of Serbia. Given the stability of the economic system, it is possible for the 2022 budget to plan a 7% increase in public sector wages, healthcare, the military and social service employees by 8%, as well as an increase in pensions. As I come from the health sector that has suffered the greatest burden of this pandemic, I would like to commend the increase in wages in the same. Is that enough? No, it's not, but it's a lot, a lot more than it was before. I would also take advantage of the opportunity and ask the Government if it is thought that employees in the health sector are also allowed to buy apartments under favourable conditions, as well as to be given official status? I'll get back to the law. The state is the biggest employer, and that is why this set of laws that we are discussing today is very important. Also, if we want the highest quality personnel and professional people in the state, province and local administration, making people in the right places, then we need a fair way to evaluate their work. The reason for the adoption of the law amending the Law on the Public Sector Payments System is the need to set a new deadline for the application of the system law, and hence the specific laws governing salaries, remuneration and other receipts in all parts of the public sector. The system law was adopted in 2015. As fiscal policy change has occurred over the past six years and through the fiscal and economic consolidation process, conditions have been created for public sector wage growth, as well as rewarding for labour results. This is an additional reason to carry out additional analyses, and according to the reasoning, one reason for slower reform of the payment system. One of the technological reasons is the existing wage accounting information system, which, due to limited performance, has no capacity to implement a comprehensive financial analysis of the applicability of the new wage accounting model. The installation of the central information system for public sector profit accounting will allow the calculation of earnings through the system with automatic data processing with precise planning, management and control of budget implementation for public sector employees. Uniting of all data will provide a better quality basis for the projection of a new payment system, i.e. by the payment class model for all parts of the public sector. This information system will contain data on salaries and pay elements of over 450,000 public sector employees, accounting data on their presence at work and earnings, as well as a large number of operational budget data from the Republic of Serbia. The full implementation of the public sector wage accounting system is planned to be implemented by 2024 and is therefore proposed to delay the entry into force of the law and wage reform until 2025 in order to regulate the law thoroughly, comprehensively and responsibly. This law will give you a list, more specifically a catalogue of all jobs in the public sector, their evaluation and allocation of the same basic salary for each post of the same value. In this way, order will be introduced to the public administration so that it does not happen, with respect for every job, that in some public services, coffee shops or drivers have a higher salary than doctors. This would correct a long-standing injustice in carrying out the same or similar jobs that are followed by a huge pay gap. This would mean that one legal act regulates the reception of all civil servants and deputies, cleaning women, directors of public agencies, court, executive and legislative authorities, as well as all other employees in this sector. In short, business would be in the so-called so-called. the catalogue of the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government to monitor the coefficients for all employees at all levels of government at all times. For example, officials working on the same jobs in any part of the public sector and at all levels of government would have the same starting salary. The law stipulates that all salaries are accounted for by multiplying the single base with the coefficient for a particular pay grade in which all public sector jobs are allocated. Let me get this straight. Since the Republic of Serbia has become an economically stable country, the time has come for us to devote ourselves to a more socially fair system of public sector wage distribution that needs to be professional, functional and capable of carrying out development and other sectoral policies. As the SPS is a socially responsible party in the voting day, we will support this set of laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-07-0.u11310	Thank you. The word is Dr. Amela Lukač Zoranic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-07-0.u11311	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister Obradovic, distinguished fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, respected co-workers of the Ministry and respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, before I refer to the proposal for a set of laws on public sector employees, I would like to refer to what my colleague, Dr Jahja Fehratovic, pointed out in his question this morning and ask another question that concerns our country, all the governing bodies in our country. I want to make it clear that there is no relationship between the margin and the centre in a way that marginalized cities, in this case, are in Sandzak. They are on the side, in essence, in relation to the very centre of the state and that the attitude towards criminals and people who threaten stability, not only of the state, but of all citizens in the Republic of Serbia, especially in this case of the MP, my colleague, Dr Jahje Fehratovic, to be processed and to ensure that human rights are protected as well as that the rights of every individual in our country are fully respected. What I want the state to show is that there are no citizens of the second order, that the rule of law is the pillar of our state and that justice itself is unquestionable. So I would ask the authorities not to be late in the procession, not to have another case happen again, an unfavorable event, as was the case of the murder of journalist Edin Hamidovic, who was brutally killed this summer in the middle of the street in the centre of the town of Sjenica. I will now look back on what Minister Obradovic said in her opening presentation, which is that the catalogue of jobs where work will be actively done, i.e. connecting jobs and catalogues is very important. We will have a clear insight into the number of public sector employees, as well as their incomes. So that's of particular importance, especially in smaller self-government, as one of the colleagues has talked about it, where we'll know exactly how many jobs we're going to need people to do their jobs. Also, when it comes to linking the information system with the public sector job catalogue with data on the number of employees, the implementation of the central information system for profit calculation is necessary in this digitalised world, because in this way we will have, as I said, an absolutely clear insight into the implementation of the overall public administration reform process that began in 2013. It was due to be completed by 2022, but since the reform of the pay system is strategic activity and will apply from 2025, we support the fact of sustainability in pay and all payments. I would point out in the end that the Public Sector Payments System Act is clear. The basis established by the Socio-Economic Council must be the same throughout the public sector. The current situation is such that some sectors are underpaid, while others are underpaid, as is the case with health care. As a result, we support the increase in wages in the health sector and we think it is very important that the overall payment system is sustainable and that the salary increase is implemented at the moment when the state is able to pay all the profits and that growth is recorded in one adequate way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-07-0.u11312	Thank you. The word has Dusan Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-07-0.u11313	Ladies and gentlemen, from the presentation of Minister Obradovic, it is obvious that delaying the start of a new method of accounting for public sector employees is inevitable, as a result of objective circumstances. We today, or tomorrow in the voting day, should declare the laws that the government is proposing. I will talk today about some anomalies in the public sector employment policy, and I will also refer to this latest attempt by the DOS opposition to win power across the street in Serbia. At the time when a decision on the ban on employment in the public sector was made was justified, it produced good results. First of all, the state saved significant funds, and the second one was stopped by an avalanche of party employment that began in October 2000, following a coup by DS and other DOS parties. In that avalanche, several tens of thousands of new civil servants were employed at the fictional workplace. However, the Serbian government's own ban on employment itself has some inadequacy to limit the number of employees. These shortcomings were to be removed. But it hasn't been done in eight years. Practically, the government of the Republic of Serbia's regulation on, so to speak, the ban on employment has been rewarded by those municipalities that were undomestically treated by national money, according to the Republic of Serbia, and those municipalities that were operating domestically, who were saving people's money and who had no extra employees. There's a lot of examples, and I'm only gonna give you three examples. At the time of the ban, Nis had 2,500 employees more than needed. So, in the city administration, the municipal administration, in public enterprises and institutions. First they hired socialists, followed by representatives of DS, DSS, G17, the URS, LDP, the Civil League, etc. Another example is the town of Leskovac, who at the time of the ban had 400 employees more than is justified. In the past eight years have the city of Nis, Leskovac or any other city, any other municipality that has had surplus employees, suffered any consequences? They didn't suffer any consequences. On the contrary, all this time they benefit from their irresponsible policy – they have extra employees, one workers, the employees retire, one go to better jobs, but they don't cobble with the lack of employees all this time. On the other hand, we have municipalities that had a shortage of employees at the time of the ban. One of those municipalities is the community I come from, the Great Plan. At the time of the entry into force of this ban, I think it was 2013, we, thanks to household behavior, had 30 employees less than we were allowed to do. And all these years, all these eight years, we've been cooking with a shortage of employees. Folkly speaking, we're patching ourselves up. At this point, the municipality has one porter. He's both our porter and our night watchman and our COD. We've got two cleaners. In the Department of Social Affairs, we miss at least 30 high-skilled officials. In a municipality that has 40,000 inhabitants, we have one municipal inspector, and seven, eight years ago we had six. The municipalities responsible for the budget are, in some ways, punished by provisions relating to the number of workers, employees who can be admitted at a certain working time, to a certain extent. Article 1(2) The 2013 Regulation on the procedure for obtaining new employment consent says – the total number of employees at a specified time cannot be more than 10% of the total number of employees in the user for an indefinite period of time. What does that mean? This means that municipalities that had extra employees are allowed to have the same rights as those that had fewer employees. What does it mean in practice? In practice, this means that the municipality that had, say, 300 employees, of which 70 extra, 70 party activists of the Democratic Party, G 17, the Democratic Party of Serbia, etc., that municipality was given the right to employ another 30 employees for a certain time and practically have 100 employees more than it needs and the municipality, for example, as the Great Plan, which had 100 employees was given the right to receive another 10 workers, 10 employees for a certain time and that we have 20 more employees less than we need. The same is true when it comes to public sector wage coefficients. According to the 2008 Serbian government regulation, the appointed and appointed persons in municipalities have a coefficient of nine at the time of the DS rule. The same people in the cities have a 13.5 coefficient, in Belgrade there are as many as 18. A senior municipality associate has an 8.20 coefficient in cities of 12.30 in Belgrade, 16.40. So a senior associate in the cities 50%, not exactly 50% but approximately as much pay as a senior associate in the municipalities, and doing practically the same or similar work. Someone says I heard that explanation, they say, in cities there's a bigger amount of work. It is the size of the job but the number of perpetrators is higher. The work of a municipal inspector in Smederev, who has no city council is the same as the municipal inspector in the Great Plan, he receives a drastically higher salary. The job of a cleaning lady in the Great Plan is the same as that of a cleaning lady in Kragujevac, Subotica, Leskovec and she receives a far lower salary. A lawyer at the Centre for Social Labour in the Great Plan receives a salary of about 60,000 dinars. His colleague, personally known at the Centre for Social Labour in Old Town, Belgrade, receives more than 100,000 dinars. The pay gap in the economy between the interior, between city centres and Belgrade, is also drastic. As a result, we have a situation where Serbia is emptying out, that we have dozens and hundreds of villages with very few inhabitants. So if we want to save Serbia, that parts of Serbia are not empty, then this public sector pay policy must change. It must be harmonised so that a parent in Crno Trava, Surdulica or Baja Basta has the same salary as a parent in Subotica, a mother in Vrakar or mother in Zemun. According to official data for September 2021, the average salary in Serbia is 65,000 dinars. The average net profit in the public sector is 72.235 dinars and this is the data for every commendation. These are data that the current leadership of Serbia can be praised for, the president of the Republic and the Serbian government. However, thanks to these caucus coefficients, in the Municipality of the Great Plan, which has 100 undefined employees, only three officials have a higher salary than the republican average. The average salary, net earnings of 97 plus three, means 100 employees in the Municipality of Great Plan is 47,635 dinars, 24,600 dinars less than the republican average, in percentages it is 34%. Serbia's minimum salary in November was 32,371 dinar, as many as 27 employees in the municipal administration in the Great Plana cannot get rid of that salary, so they must be paid to receive a minimum wage. That's 27% of the employees. I think it's inadmissible and I think no Serbian government has passed this exam in the last 50 years, it's unfortunate. It was a difficult situation at a time when this country was ruled by DS and DOS parties, so there was no money. It's that we change things for the better, but it's not domestic for the state to reward those municipalities that don't save public money and punish those municipalities that operate domestically. Now let me say a few words about setting up blockades across Serbia. Anyone who thinks for themselves is clear that it is a classic example of violence and terrorism of the minority over most. No one has the right to restrict freedom of movement for Serbian citizens. I am convinced that most Serbian citizens in these blockades, in these protests, participate in pure souls, in the belief that they are doing one useful thing, to fight for a healthier nature of Serbia, to fight for a healthier environment and to fight for some Serbian and state interests. However, I am also convinced that the ringleaders of these protests, the inspirers of these protests, have something else in mind. They aim to challenge conflict in Serbia, create a critical mass and try to figure out which way to make a review on October 5th. Everyone has a right to dream. He has the right and the opposition to dream. I will now remind the citizens of Serbia and your respected colleagues of some consequences on October 5th. When I thought about this, I tried to think of a good thing that October 5th brought to Serbia. I really couldn't remember any of them. The Serbian Parliament is on fire. That day I was in front of the Serbian Parliament as a journalist of "Serbian Liberation". Do you know where the fire broke out? Very interesting? In the room where the election material was located. Serbia thus became the first country after Nazi Germany to burn parliament. Parliament burned down those who destroyed Milosevic accusing him of being a fascist, that he was Hitler and that he was a dictator. The same charges are now heard at the expense of Alexander Vukic. As you know, television is on fire. It was won by the Old Town police station. The cops are disarmed, some of them are torn in their underwear. From the police station, 400 were robbed, wrongly said, carried out, so, organized, 400 pieces of weapons were carried out, including rifles. The weapon was distributed to members of the Zemun Clan and other associates of the Dossovian opposition in carrying out the coup and that weapon over the next few years in Serbia, more than 50 murders were committed. A robbery privatisation has been carried out in which more than 400,000 people from their jobs, at these pay jobs, are not God-knows-what, but better than none. So 400,000 people were thrown out of their jobs on the street. The Yugoslav army is almost destroyed. All senior officers who have commanded Serbia's heroic defence against the aggression of NATO pact terrorists and Cypriot terrorists have been retired. Among other things, 400 tanks and 2000 anti-aircraft systems have been melted in the "Smederevo" and thousands and thousands of tons of other weapons. They went all the way to destroying the Yugoslav Army that they had disbanded two of the best elite units, 63 paratroopers and 72 special brigades of the Yugoslav Army. In the end, all presidents, practically all presidents in Serbia, Republika Srpska, in Republika Srpska, were extradited to The Hague tribunal, and the crown of the humiliation of Serbia, the humiliation of the Serb people, was the extradition of Slobodan Milosevic to The Hague tribunal at Vidovdan's largest national holiday. So, ladies and gentlemen, what is happening on the streets of Belgrade, in the streets of other Serbian cities is nothing more than a classic attempt to perform so-called. The orange revolution. In recent years, such attempts have been made several times, multiple times we've had an attack on the presidency building, multiple times we've had an attempt at breaking into a state-run television building, breaking into the Serbian Parliament building. The unfortunate people choose their power on the street, choose each other by conflict, and also by moving their weapons. The way it looks, we saw it in Serbia on October 5th. We could see for ourselves the examples of Ukraine, in the case of Lebanon, in the case of Libya, in the case of Algeria, in the case of Yemen and a series of other Arab countries. Happy and smart people choose their power in the elections, with a pen in their hands, wake up in the morning, go to polling stations, vote, circle for the one whose policies support and welcome the election results in the evening. The elections in Serbia are scheduled, will be scheduled, announced for April 3rd. All opposition has announced they will participate in the election. There are 100 days left until the election. The question is, why can't they be patient, why can't they wait 100 days to see the people's court? There's only one logical and normal answer. They do not want to wait for elections in this state because they know they have nothing to look for in the elections, because they know that Serbian citizens will again vote again for SNS and Aleksandr Vukic. Regardless of all our shortcomings, and there are few, regardless of all our mistakes, and there are few, regardless of all the affairs of which we are actors, and there are few, and some of them do not serve our honor, the fact that no one can challenge is that Serbia, under the leadership of SNS and Alexander Vukic, has experienced a strong economic and national progress and recovery. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-07-0.u11314	Thank you. Minister Marija Obradovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-07-0.u11315	Mr. Maric, I've reported that I'm responding to several examples that you've cited regarding employee earnings in the Republic of Serbia, because you haven't taken advantage of some of the happiest examples, so I wanted to say yes to comment. On the other hand, I am now encouraged by this last sentence of yours, where you wonder why they can't wait for the April elections to come to power through the institutions, so you said there was an affair, so there was a flaw, so there was everything. I believe you spoke out of your heart. I wouldn't say that if there were so many affairs, we're not all perfect in the ruling majority, certainly not. I have to tell you that your impression that there was an affair and there was a flaw and there were failures, I would support it with another addendum, I believe it's your personal feeling, but there are people in Serbia who think alike to you. That's why I've now come forward to say that you've also succumbed to the impression of media, different portals, television, all kinds of media, all the channels of media through which I would say, through which one public poisoning is carried out, jargonically speaking. Everything done well on our part, the ruling majority, is somehow lost in the distance, and the smallest crumb that is irregular or can be negatively evaluated is seen through a microscope and increased by millions of times. I don't justify anyone among us who's done something that's wrong, and who should be responsible for all the bad moves, but I just want to step up all the good we've done, because somehow it's being ignored. And here you are now confirming that you really agree with me, because I don't want that sentence of yours to stay out of the way. You really, my impression, were honest when you talked about and the profits, but I have to tell you that a few of the examples weren't quite right and you've been making half the corrections yourself, let's just say the value of the coefficient if it's twice as high, doesn't mean that someone has twice as much money. I must tell you that there really is a big difference between receiving in municipalities, in cities, in the city of Belgrade as a third category, so there really are these differences, and that is why we have long thought about wage reform and started to seriously prepare wage reform, and that is the only way that all employees in the Republic of Serbia, in the public sector, are satisfied. It's a very difficult, very complicated, long-term process, very complex, which requires serious preparation and has been working on it for years. When people speak lightly and say, yes, the reform has been discussed long ago, Minister Kori Udovicki said, so Ana Brnabic, then Branko Ruzic, and now the current minister. You don't need to talk about it lightly. A lot of serious documents, a lot of hard documents have been prepared, a lot of financial analysis has been done, but during this year, circumstances have forced us to raise certain profits. So the starting position and the basics according to which we've been doing the calculation and doing the frameworks of the entire wage reform system are not usable today. Honestly, one of the first changes in the law since I became minister in October 2020 was precisely the change of this law where we moved from 2021 to 2022. I did not do this voluntarily, it was done in agreement with the government of the Republic of Serbia, in consultation with the president of the state. So we talked about what our plans were for the next year and then we sincerely and devotedly believed that in January 2022 we would be able to join the salary reform. In December 2020, we still couldn't assume, like no one else in the world, so you're not the infirmity of the Serbian government, no one in the world could assume that a covid would develop within these borders, that this kind of life in the world would be lost, that this amount of money, this amount of money would be spent and invested in a health system, in new hospitals, in respirators, in medicines, further strengthening the health system. Because we left everything else aside, Serbia's citizens' health comes first. All the investments that speak so far, investments by the Serbian government and all the efforts that both the government and President Aleksandar Vukic are saying that this is our priority. But if you're serious, if you're parenting towards your country and the citizens you really have parental care for, when I say parental care, I mean the most serious, most committed concern for something that you care about most. Now, if you have such a serious state attitude, then you have to balance between what life has imposed on you as a priority, which is the health of citizens and the sustainability of the health system and on the other hand that same economy that we cannot ignore, because this economy of maintaining the economy and that stability will actually allow us to have this priority and remain a priority. If we listen to suggestions like total locking, like some other proposals that have asked us to completely rule out one part of the economy, because it requires protection, we had to balance the doors on a daily basis by making decisions on whether it was wise to close something, on what time-limit, whether to close a single part of the economy, economy or not. We've been thinking very seriously every day, and that's why I'm sure we may not have been loud enough in front of the Crisis Headquarters explaining what's going on every day. But somehow, since we're in big and serious decisions every day, you're thinking that the public might know, but obviously we were wrong at the Crisis Headquarters that we didn't daily record all our meetings and consultations on the medical and political part of the Crisis Headquarters. No decision has been taken by chance, serious consideration, Prime Minister Brnabic, daily in consultations with the medical work of the crisis staff. Many opposing views have been and have not been as easy as the prime minister of Serbia and certainly as the president of the state, Aleksandar Vukic, who eventually has a roofing role in managing this epidemic, by fighting the epidemic, to make decisions. But that's where I talk about that parental responsibility, when you know it's something painful but you have to do it for those for whom you have a responsibility. This seriousness and commitment to the state's work gives long-term results, which is why we are bearing such good and positive results and in the economy and rarely high economic evaluations we also get from the international community, how we behave and how we run our society, in the first place of the economy, during this difficult period of combating birds. On the other hand, I mentioned that this reform will solve that big problem that has been discussed for years, that you will be paid for the same job. That's the point. Because many of the people who listen to today's wage reform may have forgotten that basic principle -- for the same job, I have the same salary in each part of Serbia. And that would be the justice we're talking about. I told you we were planning a pay reform framework from a few years ago, when the salaries were different. In the meantime, life has made us especially health care professionals to raise profits, to thank them for everything they've done and to give them a kind of motive to continue in these difficult moments. That's why the entire health care system has completely strayed from that starting base where we've been planning on reforming the wage system. Health care is just one of the areas where I tell you that we've moved from the starting point and it's completely disrupted that calculation that we were working on at the beginning, which doesn't mean we stopped this process. I also mention the job catalogue - an extremely serious and detailed document on which the entire government of the Republic of Serbia worked, all the authorities. That's why it shouldn't be so easy to put aside. If someone didn't think that from December last year until this December that I, along with my associates, had done nothing. Extremely serious and dedicated work. Someone said that it was very important to place a particular emphasis on work and to be especially visible in profit. That's what you should especially appreciate. I'm the first in the state administration and local self-government situation that I don't have the opportunity to reward my employees enough. In the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government, there is no one leaving work at half four, because everyone stays longer, because there is not enough of us to do a very complex job of controlling the management organisation of the state administration and local self-government in Serbia. In addition to their personal relationship where I hope they notice every day how much I appreciate their commitment and the feelings that all those people who work in the ministries feel like they're doing important government work, it's hard for us to get through this amount of national income when you work in the state administration to thank these people. They have a higher purpose, a higher motive. And that's what you can never get those people back, except for that feeling, and that they know that in the middle where they work, it's worth it, that it's the atmosphere in which it's appreciated. These are the things we have to appreciate in society. And you mentioned different types of employment, so someone mentioned party employment today, whether it was, is now, what will be in the future. When someone asks me to help out with employment, and when I say that there are vacancy seats in the state administration or local self-government, it's hard for a lawyer with experience to come to work for 45,000 dinars. It's hard. Because today, young people won't even be in a cafe, where special education isn't required, they won't be doing bar jobs for that profit of 45 grand. I'm absolutely aware, like you, I'm just saying, maybe there were a few of the most fortunate examples in your presentation, that we have to invest a lot more in civil servants right now, in tenants. It's not just about making money, it's about doing some work. Ministers in the government of the Republic of Serbia have between 100,000 and 120,000 earnings, indicatively, there may be two or three who earn more. I am sure that in the private sector they are now laughing at what is the height of the minister's salary in the government of the Republic of Serbia. But, you know how, I'm not in this place, not a single member of the government, to have a high salary, but to do a very serious and dedicated job in which I hope to work in that direction, be proud, like all those who helped me to do this job better. So we have today opened one important topic, how important it is for us to reform the pay system, how long it takes for all of us to support this story, how patient we should be at this time adapting and, in the next period, by 2025, everything is really ready and that in January 2025, we start with the application of this new way, the reform of the pay system, the accounting. But in the meantime, we won't stand. We will continue to work and prepare additional documents and a new information system that is due in 2024 already able to collect data from the field. Because in order for you to carry out that reform, you have to have real indicators from the field, that we really know if this payment system reform won't punish whoever at this point for the same job, one man is receiving 45,000 in one city and in another 55,000, whether I'm going to stop this one with 55 grand for the same job to wait four years for this guy with 45 grand to arrive, and that's not allowed, and that would be according to the current accounts. We have to keep an eye on every detail, and we'll only be able to keep an eye on the details when this information system, which the Ministry of Finance is now introducing, gives us real and detailed indicators from the field. This kind of explanation can actually help people understand that it's not about the failure of the state apparatus. It's something that upsets me terribly when we talk about government employees, because that's, let me say, jargonic, spitting on thousands, hundreds of thousands of people working in the public sector. And it's not easy and it's not just about profit, but it's often about the difficult working conditions in which these people make superhuman efforts to actually maintain the functioning of local self-government and in the bodies of the autonomous province and state bodies, so, the entire system of state administration and local self-government. Thank you for listening to me this carefully. I'll get back to you later, and there will be, I believe, opportunities to discuss the protests you mentioned. Today we've been witnesses, maybe you've sent one to the media, I can't tell you the press conference. I'll tell you, it was a jukebox wish where the protest organisers that were going on Saturday, and they're threatening to make our lives worse, they'd probably be happier to see some bloody head, hear about some victim. That's not gonna happen, because we're aware of the provocation. We're serious, we're responsible, we're prepared more than they think of all the provocations. So, I did a little follow-up on how many people followed that press conference. You can see it in the media now. You know, when someone announces in advance that they have a press conference and it advertises on the Internet, portals and everything, and then only two journalists come to him and exactly 40 people on the YouTube channel followed. Well, it's inconclusive, Savo, it can do much better, at least given how much space you have in the opposition Gilas media. It can do a lot better. So I want to show you the power of the media. Something's going on, he's tracking 40 people on the YouTube channel. Well, I'm the only one who can call my friends and sisters, so there'll be more than 40 of them. So 40 people on YouTube channel and two journalists, journalist N1 and journalist of an unknown portal, are not so much of a public figure. So it's enough to have a N1 reporter come to you and buzz it through all the portals, all the media. Now, look at the media how much you're going to hear about that press conference of Savina, and then you'll see what the power of the media is and how powerful is the power of N1 and these journalists. So it's not true that we crashed into some small media station, a small media house. They're seriously harassing because there's a lot of money invested in them, because you know what the power of the media is, because you know what it means when you hit something and you want to talk ugly about President Vukic and his work results and you falsely promise someone you're going to take down Alexander Vukic. Well, then there's no price. But all of this needs citizens every day... I'll talk about it later. When they say – no one answered their demands for the referendum law, it is only one in a series of lies they have said today. We have discussed the referendum law in detail here in Parliament, and we will continue to do so. I just feel sorry for the people who are in the protests, a small number of people who really believe in fighting, in the environmental struggle, and have grounds for both the ecological struggle and for the more serious work in Serbia, and therefore, according to our investments, through the Ministry of Environmental Protection, that we are aware of the risks that await us and that we are aware that we should react, but I am sorry for that number of people. They've been led astray. I see they jumped on what Alexander Vukic today said that something less than 4,200 people were actually at these protests in Belgrade. I don't know how much there was, honest environmentalist, and how much to make you laugh now, I don't know if the public heard it, they say Protestants are popularly referred to as "environmental Chetniks". I don’t know how many “ecological Chetniks ” were in the field, and how many honest environmentalists and people who are fighting for the ecological environment. Tomorrow I'd also go out with them to fight for some basic postulates, if there's a need for that, and these "ecological Chetniks," so we'll fight happily, see who gets more people to convince the importance of their ideas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-07-0.u11316	The next reported is Professor Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-07-0.u11317	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, Dr Orlic, the Honorable Minister with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, are before us very important laws that my colleagues and colleagues have very well analyzed every single detail, especially our introduction, representative of our parliamentary group, Mr Dabic Djordje. Let me, however, point out a few sentences, which is that public sector and public administration reform is very important and that large steps have been made in the reforms so far and by 2025 other problems in the public administration, i.e. in the public sector, will be eliminated. The public sector and public administration must be professional, trained and decent citizens of the Republic of Serbia. It is these laws that will allow the public sector, i.e. public administration to be modern, modern, capable of responding to the modernisation process, the accelerated process of modernisation of the Republic of Serbia by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the largest number of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and as you know, the engine and symbol of the modernisation of the Republic of Serbia is our President Aleksandar Vukic. Ladies and gentlemen and distinguished citizens, allow me to say a few sentences about these demonstrations and blockades. These demonstrations and roadblocks have been prepared for several years. I'm undermining, they've been prepared for a few years. Who prepared them? They were prepared by Dragan Djilas, a people called "Diki Mafia", Marinika Tepic, a political electric rabbit of Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic, a representative of the international gang of thieves and frauds, Nebojsa Zelenović, Bozo Prelevic, in a people called "blubber", has otherwise been a liar, proven since 2000. Together with the work of NGOs and foreign centres, they prepared more than three years of this demonstration. What was their goal? Their goal was to withdraw their MPs from the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the boycott of the election, and then use the street and bloodbath to remove Alexander Vukic from power, because elections cannot do so. Dear citizens, you remember well, these people did the same thing on October 5th, and they're not hiding it. So I don't talk from my head, I'll quote them. Dragan Gilas had already come back from an overseas country on 2 December 2018, and guess which one, he called the Alliance for Serbia and outlined a plan for the collapse of the institutions of the system and Alexander Vukic. Gilas then said, quotes: "If we throw out the dialogue", pay attention, "from the Assembly, then as a society we have a problem". Be careful, “The congregation is where the talk is. If we stop it, all the media, they'll explode somewhere. Who needs a parliament, come to your senses," finished the quote. Dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, here I see "The Giki Mafia" has admitted that he has kicked out of the Assembly of His MPs as a place of dialogue, stopped the media because he owns a large part of the media, not only in Serbia, but also in the environment, and she expects Aleksandar Vukic and SNS to explode and not take care of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Dear citizens, pay attention, his colleague, Professor Janko Veselinovic, in the people known as "Janko Stanocrat" on September 11, 2019, you see, right away a year later, I quote: "we are going to boycott, after the boycott of the elections to ask for the launch of new ones, and a direct turn of the military and police to the side of the protesters and opponents of the regime, finished quote. Sir, Janko Veselinović, Professor Dr., did you say that or not? You see, it was planned to abandon MPs from the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, then boycott elections, then demonstrations, then bloodshed. Well, it's no wonder Nebojsa Zelenovic is looking a few meters away, beating up a street passerby. These people, respected citizens, you remember well, did the same thing in 200 years. It's not just me or you don't just remember you, respected citizens, that's confirmed by the chief of staff Bill Clinton, Leon Pennett. He says that then DOS and NGOs and civil organisations, as it is today, received 40m euros to get involved in Serbia's 2000 elections. Was it true, Mr. Gilasu, then what you said in 2018 and what you're doing on the street today? Dear citizens pay attention, John Schiffer, a CIA officer, the head of Serbia's cell, said, quote -- the operation in Serbia in 2000 was a successful case of election interference. It's a finished quote. I'm going to quote this one more time. So, John Schiffer, a CIA officer, the head of Serbia's cell later said, I quote -- the operation in Serbia in 2000 was a successful case of interference in the elections. It's a finished quote. Dear citizens, these people, Mr. Tadic, Mr. Djilas, Mr. Jeremic, Mr. Veljo Ilic, Mr. Bozo Prelevic, Mr. Tadic, Mr. Zelenovic created, I tell them this, created paramilitary formations, and paramilitary formations to bring down power, the institutions of the system in Serbia in 2000. That's not just me saying. You know who else says that? And Veljo Ilic. Don't be shocked, respected citizens, Veljo Ilic said on 9 October 2000, I quote -- we founded a team of young professionals, paramilitary units of the Yugoslav Army and young police officers, and we co-ordinated this with the most exclusive units of the Police Department in Belgrade. We were joined by martial arts experts and professional boxers, and we even had police in a civilian who worked with neighbouring citizens. It's a finished quote. Do you know where he gave the interview? The New York Times, October 9, 2009. Is that what they're trying to do today? God damn it, they're trying today. Prof. Dr. Dusan Teodorovic, in the people called the earthquake, an academic. Why? Because he shakes his head all the time when President Vukic, of hatred, has been an advocate of the blockades for years. On July 28th, 2021, the Bajni academic said, pay attention to respected citizens, quotes – blockades of everything, boycott of the election, boycott of production, boycott of companies advertised in Pink, Happy, boycott of cafes, boycotts and street protests can free Serbia from the occupation regime. It's a finished quote. Wise academic, did you say that or didn't you? This academic called the earthquake, he was also against the government and opposition's talks on election conditions, the moral gromad of academics constantly advocates violence. Not to forget, respected citizens, that's when the bombing of our country fled to the country that bombed us and came back two years later and saved the tour, but it's not cheek. Look at the wonders, a great academic supported violence against Nevena Djuric as a national MP at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Not only that, the great academic advocates domestic violence, believe it or not, so he recommended to parents on 28 October 2021, quote – parents beat children on time. It's a finished quote. Look at the wonders, this academic Teodorovic is the chairman of the education and education committee in SANU. Mr. Academia, children don't fight, children are raised. If you have at least a few morals, and I believe you have, and professional professor ethics, because of the academic, pedagogical public, resign to the president of the Education and Education Committee, and you have never listened to pedagogy, or didactics, or any method in your life. Every day, he curses Alexander Vukic, as you have seen, to the most terrestrial curses that exist in mankind's history. Never in history, respected Serbian citizens, has been attacked by ugly names by a ruler such as Alexander Vukic, who also has the greatest support of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. What was this academic, Bozo Prelevic, Dragan Gilas and the so-called two-round elite? I'll just partially tell you now. Don't be shocked, all of this is Vesna Pesic and academic citizens talking about the president, I quote: "The president's a peck, the president's an idiot, picosti, a loser, a fuck-up, a mule, a jibber", which means a receiver, a "dimster" meaning ignorant, a "complexed idiot, a total idiot, a fool, a pain in the ass, a jerk, a villain, a fascist, a fool, a butcher, a mad engineer". Can you imagine who said that? Vuk Jeremic, leader of an international gang of thieves and frauds. Speaking of which, what the French woman has been doing to him for 20 years at his Centre for Sustainable Development lobbying for an independent Kosovo, led by Natasa Kandic abroad and representing her as normal Serbia. Let's move on, they call it Franco, Mussolini, Hitler, Angela Merkel's excrement, asshole, psychopath, faggot. And all I'm going to quote right now is a wise academic, Gilas and his associates: malicious, malice, rude, devious, insolent, dishonest, immoral, arrogant, preconceived, ossion, perfidious, faceless, obscenity, shameless, brazen, unworthy, unworthy, calculating, corrupt, unscrupulous and unconscious. He could list for days and years, respected citizens of Serbia. Why are they doing this? So they can break Alexander Wolfie psychologically, so they attack his daily family, his parents. Never in history has any family of any ruler been attacked more than his. Dear citizens, we must use all the energy positive to work even better, even harder, to build factories and what the president is doing and to follow and beat energy, because that is the only way Serbia will move forward. Look at the miracles, Gilasov and Jeremic, Dr Vesna Pesic, so she sought violence, even the murder of Aleksandr Vukic. I quote what she said on January 19th 2020: "If Brnabićka resigns to know a lifelong Vukic is being prepared. There's no boycott here. Just a pipe to the head." It's a finished quote. Who advocates street bloodshed? You've never heard anyone from the Serbian Progressive Party say this kind of vomit to the opposition. Djilasova and Jermic's perjanica, Prof. Dr. Vesna Rakić Vednelic, supported the violence and cursing of the mother of Aleksandr Vukic by Marko Vidojković, in a people called blabbering, says the people – that's the one who's talking, let him go. He said, quote: "P... you son of a bitch, you stupid one." It's a finished quote. Look at the wonders, Prof. Dr. Vesna Rakić Vednelic said – Vidojković curses colourful, picturesque and gracefully. Bon appétit. That woman's violence is her favorite. She drew Hitler's mustaches, ladies and gentlemen, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Is that appropriate to one of the professors? She recently re-insulted the president, and it does so every day, Alexander Vukic and our MP Vladimir Djukanovic, top lawyers and extraordinary politicians, and rarely valuable people when she said -- recently came to me with a copy of the list of trainees' lawyers, volunteers at Belgrade's Bar Association, where Aleksandar Vukic, a graduate lawyer from Belgrade, wrote under regular number 33, at an internship with lawyer Vladimir Djukanovic. It's a finished quote. Can you believe, respected citizens, that this is what the professor and Vladimir Djukanovic and Alexander Vukic say? This, honourable MPs, wanted to humiliate Alexander Vukic and Vladimir Djukanovic, and humiliated herself as a lawyer, in the first place as a professor. Ma'am, you should be happy that both Djukanovic and Aleksandar Vukic are better lawyers than you are, if you're a professor, and I believe you are, although you're being chased by a law school profession. He is a professor with regard to diploma, and dignity, let the citizens of the Republic of Serbia evaluate. Dear Professor, I'm a lucky man that my former students have outdone me in every way. That's why I've been fighting the whole working century and I'm going to fight for the rest of my life, and that's what you should be, if you're a real pedagogue. Respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, Dragan Gilas, the great pest of Serbia, the 619m-euro duke, is not interested in Serbia's development at all, as you can see, and the development of Belgrade. That's not what I'm saying, respected Belgrade citizens, specifically to you, says former US Ambassador to Belgrade Cameron Manter, who said in 2009, "Gilas told me that his plan for Belgrade's development is only marketing, not real." Is that right, Mr. Gilas, that's what you said? That's why, respected Belgrade citizens, at Gilas while he was mayor of Belgrade, while he was the minister and director of that office all was just marketing, just a few things. Dear Belgraders, for Gilas, "Belgrade on Water" was only marketing, and for Alexander Vukic, as you can see, reality. So for Gilas, the Belgrade Metro was just marketing, and for Alexander Vukic, respected Belgraders, only reality. So for Dragan Gilas the reconstruction of the Republic Square in Belgrade was marketing, and for Alexander Vukic the reality. So for Gilas the construction of the Museum of Contemporary Art in Belgrade was the marketing of 12 full years, and for Alexander Vukic the reality. So for Dragan Gilas, respected Belgraders, 13 years of construction of the National Museum was just marketing, and for Alexander Vukic, as you can see, reality. So for Dragan Gilas, building a fast track in Belgrade – Novi Sad was only marketing, and for Aleksandra Vukic, the complete reality. So for Dragan Gilas the construction of the modern House of Health in Borca was just marketing, and for Aleksandra Vukic the reality. So for Dragan Gilas the construction of the Clinical Hospital Centre in Belgrade was just marketing for years, and for Aleksandra Vukic the complete reality. So for Dragan Gilas the reconstruction of the homes of the health of Palilul, Grock, Chukarica and others, not to mention, there was only marketing in Belgrade, and for Alexander Vukica the reality. So for Dragan Gilas the construction of "Indus Dedinje 2" was just marketing, and as you can see for Alexander Vukic, the reality. So for Gilas, the revitalisation of Željzara Smederevo was just marketing, they even suggested that it be closed, and workers sent home to this home of the National Assembly, and for Aleksandra Vukića a complete reality. Finally, respected MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, while Dragan Gilas destroys the institutions of the system and is not interested in the elections, until Alexander Vukic daily leads the policy of peace, our country's security policy, the health policy of all our citizens, the policy of accelerated economic development, all due to the future of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-07-0.u11318	Thank you. Next up is MP Dejan Kesser. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-07-0.u11319	Dear President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, Minister of Justice, Honored Citizens of Serbia, as I have already said today when I was speaking to the National Assembly and citizens of the Republic of Serbia as rapporteur of the Committee on Justice, we have before us the proposals for legislation under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government aimed at setting a new deadline for the application of them, and for the beginning of 20025, i.e. 2026. When we talk about the proposed laws, it is really necessary to implement it in order to meet all the necessary conditions and to implement the necessary legal solutions with as little interference as possible in the already existing system. One of the most important conditions when we talk about these bill proposals is the creation of a single and centralised system in which the data relating to both jobs, in public and state administration, will be contained and data relating to the pay elements of employees, as well as other costs will be contained. This unique centralised system is planned to be established in phases, between 2020 and 2024, but what is much more important is to provide for costs for the Republic of Serbia's budget relating to the allocation of salaries for public or state sector employees. But unlike the period before 2012, when the Republic of Serbia could boast of winning medals in certain individual and team sports, we changed the Republic of Serbia completely for this period of almost ten years. By 2012, we could boast that we are second in Europe, but in the background, when we talk about GDP, and today we can praise that we are the country that is first in Europe towards cumulative economic growth for 2020 and 2021, and that growth for this year, and that is exactly one of the most important things when we talk about wages and pensions, will be 7.5% and that is what we expect, but we will certainly continue in the next year according to the projections of the budget that we adopted here in the National Assembly for 2022. But all of this would not have been if in 2012, we hadn't thought rationally about how to make our economic system sustainable and how to provide citizens with higher salaries and pensions. What we never have to hide and what we can be proud of is that during the 2020 Coronal pandemic, we acted rationally and responsibly. In 2020, the state managed to identify all the negative effects that would bring the pandemic of the coronary virus both in the area of the economy and when we talk about the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and then the state came very rationally. She said that these negative effects of the pandemic of the coronary virus must be taken over in part and thus helped through three packages to help the total of eight billion euros, but what specifically set us apart from the countries in the region was a one-time cash aid of 100 euros to our full-time citizens. Although we were very rational in 2020, we decided that instead of certain structural reforms that should have started then, we were building a new hospital cove. We've built a whole new three hoofs of hospitals in less than four months. We have decided that the functionality of our health system is at the highest level and that healthcare system has worked better in many segments than health systems across Europe. We decided to get the most expensive drugs, we decided to get respirators and other medical supplies, with only one goal, which is to keep our citizens safe and safe. But in addition to all these costs that we had in addition to all these investments, and I will remind you, too, that by 2012 we had only half the clinical center, and that today we have a new Clinical Center in Nis, that we are bringing to an end the reconstruction of the Clinical Centre of Serbia and that we are reconstructing the Clinical Centre of Vojvodina. But despite all these things, structural, which we have managed to make the Republic of Serbia more modern and powerful, we have found space and in these most difficult times to spare the necessary funds to raise wages and pensions. These increases were also in 2021, and to the satisfaction of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, it will continue in 2022. We'll raise public sector wages by 7% and 8%, respectively. We've increased the minimum profit. We have reduced the untaxable share of profits, but we will also increase pensions by 5.5% to our oldest citizens, who have managed to carry out the burden of fiscal consolidation, which began in 2012, so that our economic system will strengthen and that we can today praise that we have a 7.5% growth. But by 2012, we had people at the head of the state who were exclusively concerned about their interests, and after 2012, we have those people who care exclusively about the interests of the Republic of Serbia at the head of the country. What is a big difference when we look at certain countries in our environment, but also in Europe, is that someone is obviously not responding strong, not responding strong, stable, independent Serbia, Serbia that makes its own decisions. And it is this desire that Serbia must form governments in foreign embassies, that others draw up governments for them in certain restaurants and cafes throughout Belgrade, has also led to these waves of protests that have been happening in Serbia for the past two weeks. The leaders of these protests, which I have spoken in several previous sessions, are the so-called representatives of environmental parties, and I do not say for free the so-called representatives of environmental parties, because they appeared almost two years ago and who said they exclusively represented the Green Agenda, the protection of the environment, the healthier country, the water, the air, and in fact they represented branches of political parties and not of any political parties, but of those political parties who advocated coming to power without choice, without the will of citizens, and perhaps with the help of certain foreign factors to put them into power. When we talk about these green movements, it is not hidden, the leaders of these parties are also Dobrica Veselinović, the most famous volunteer on the Balkan territory. There is also Sava Manojlovic and his movement "Kreni - Change", which received assistance from a 25,000-euro NGO from Rockefeller in June 2021. I fully agree with those thesis, which is what President Aleksandar Vukic said several times, that it is obvious that in these protests these green movements want to take over political leadership over Dragan Djilas, Marinika Tepic, but what is important, don't do it on the streets and don't do it over the coat of arms of the people. What we could see in the past two weeks is a harsh violation of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the law. The restriction of freedom of movement can only be implemented in accordance with the Constitution and the law and in certain specific situations, but individuals cannot do so, nor can certain movements and certain political parties do so. It is obvious that there is a desire for certain political officials to take over certain competences from the Constitution and the law and that they are blocking someone's freedom of movement. And it happened throughout the Republic of Serbia, but it also happened on the highway, on an international road. And who needs it? I'm really asking today -- who needs to make cheap political points to block the highway, block the traffic, to bring out certain political pamphlets and certain political messages? They tell you that their only problem here is that we MPs have passed the Expropriation Act without them reading it, that their problem is the referendum law, and the Venice Commission has told us that the law is good. To them the problem is "Rio Tinto", but they won't tell you that Rio Tinto came to Serbia in 2004. And as my colleague Djordje Dabic said in today's presentation, a series of documents were signed from 2004 to 2012. The only consensus existed between the state of the Republic of Serbia and Rio Tinta was one memorandum from 2012, but where in the second position of the memorandum it was said there were no mutual obligations between the two parties. We are told by people whose Minister Oliver Dulic led the Ministry of Ecology and who cleaned up the budget of the Republic of Serbia instead of cleaning up dumps. They tell us today that we are not in favour of the environment, and the Ministry of Environment has done it for a period of over a year more than the last 10 years. Prime Minister Brnabic here, reading the exposés, said one of the top three priorities is environmental protection. We're doing it today. We've planted, or the Ministry of RES planted over 150,000 seedlings. We're doing new wastewater purifiers. We're doing everything we need to do in accordance with the Green Agenda. But evidence that we are working very responsibly and that we are working for the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia shows today's news that EU countries have agreed to open the Cluster 4, which concerns the Green Agenda and sustainable development. The decision will be taken after the Intergovernmental Conference, which will take place in Brussels on 14 December. These clusters will open negotiating chapters on transport policy, energy, trans-European network, environment and climate change. But you won't hear it on the media like N1, Nova S, directly. You will not hear, because this would open the topic – what did you do until 2012 when we talk about protecting the environment? Then you see the protests, you attend to watch from home protests, where people close the highway and the traffic, people take their children out of the car to cross the Pančeva Bridge, and then during those protests, you will have Dragan Djilas, Marinika Tepic and Dejan Bulatovic, who openly threatened that everyone will chase their promoter after the fall of power. Why, when we talk about any legal proposal, what lies do you make? That's why President Aleksandar Vukic, unlike all the former presidents, went to the Loznica and despite all the blockades, took a car to talk to his people. But when we watched that transmission, we didn't really see that the citizens of Loznica, or the Upper Weeks, were so worried. People have certain legitimate concerns. But you know why they're worried? Because they constantly read about how Rio Tinto is the biggest problem every day. But the same Dragan Djillsa, Marinika Tepic and Dejan Bulatovic will not tell you that during the rule of DS "Rio Tinto" has entered Serbia. What I also want to say is that today President Aleksandar Vukic visited the "Belgrade on Water" site and said it was one of the biggest projects. When we leave, we can see what's been done in the space of the former Sava amphitheater. But that's what they rebelled against, and that's what they said, and they said that out of "Beograda on water" will be just a model, and we've built several buildings today, the biggest park in this part of Europe, the largest building in this part of Europe will be. We are doing everything to improve Serbia, to make Serbia more modern and developed. What I must also say is to ask the question – why are there pressures on the streets? Pressure is done exclusively on the streets because they don't have a political programme, because they have no political idea. Today their conference has the same Sava Manojlovic. You know what he resented about the referendum law? He resented that if you submit in the future to the People's Initiative, you must single out 11,000 euros to verify these signatures at the notaries. That didn't bother Savi Manojlovic when he put up with the folk initiatives here at the National Assembly for Realitative Programs, and what is disputed to verify? What's the matter with you and your signatures? This provides a higher level of legal certainty for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia because if you want to submit a national initiative, you go to the notaries, the notary finds that you have approached, that your personal data is no problem. The second problem is because unless the referendum succeeds, it is delayed by a year. That's what you say. You're saying that you haven't opened a single negotiating chapter, you're talking about which of your majority here in the National Assembly led to a policy being represented towards the EU, you haven't opened a single negotiating chapter, and then we ask the question – what is the ultimate goal? The final goal is to slow Serbia down, bring down Alexander Vukic, but bring him down without a choice. What makes us different is the very gathering in Arena, and when President Aleksandar Vucic said that SNS policy is to unite Serbia, to unite the citizens of the Republic of Serbia because at this point we are small and we do not have the luxury of creating internal conflicts. These 10 programme principles are very important for Serbia's progress, which is Serbia's independence, Serbia's demographic recovery, the zero rate towards organised crime and corruption, and what is most important is the development of political dialogue in society. We want to talk, and whenever we talked, we showed a high degree of construction. There is no such openness and constructiveity by them. I'll just take one more minute so my colleagues can take part in the debate. When you talk about the green goals you want to achieve through these protests, it is a lie of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia because you have, after the protest, during yesterday's day of Mr Zelenovic, who shared the citizens of Sapca in the first and second order. He went ahead of the presidency and made political demands, which is to pass a law in the Assembly banning Rio Tinto and others to change, namely to resolve all REM members. There's this key link right there. These same requirements were submitted by those in the first inter-party dialogue to replace all REM members. This is important to them in order for them to set up their own people and continue with everything they've done since 2012 when they created the multicoma empire. I ask the citizens of the Republic of Serbia that, since they announced protests for the coming week, they remain abstentions and, as President Aleksandar Vukic said, we must not allow terror of minorities above most, that we must remain abstention and remain calm, that the authorities are doing their jobs. I, as well as my parliamentary group, will support these laws in the voting day because these laws are just giving a momentum to a better, stronger and more modern Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-07-0.u11320	Thank you. The word has Mrs. Secretary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-07-0.u11321	Thank you. Mr. Kesar, the clagvort about the Law on Referendum, you have indeed responded so concisely to several lies that were presented at that press conference, first of all Savo Manojlović with the help of her colleague Katarina Golubovic, and I will now only three points so that we do not bother the public much, you have explained it in detail, and I now explain it like this. As someone who proposes the Law on Referendum, I can tell you that these are three things they resent – signatures, censorship and no public debate. Everything else is getting into the details and there's really no reason to find someone on the street. Let's see the first paragraph, there's no public debate, they say, which means, as you said, they didn't read the law, they didn't follow everything as the law was being prepared, but also how well they could follow it all. There's no public debate. I will tell you that in October and November 2019, when the referendum law was first written, a serious public debate, including three round tables in Belgrade, Novi Sad and Nis. Then, in this assembly, the Ministry of State Administration and the local self-government, when reviewing the Law on Referendum, which was already in place before the Government earlier in 2019, we returned it, now completed it, and in 2021 another public debate. So, from July 8th to July 29th this year. Now, honestly, I have to tell you that I didn't know that gentlemen would be at sea then. You know, when you write a serious document for the state you don't care about vacations, you send comments to the law. One more thing, it's not like they were at sea and it's not like Katarina Golubovic said we couldn't get people to answer. If that Law of Referendum was the ninth hole in your play, you couldn't collect it. Here, like this, 21 associations and 34 natural persons submitted comments, objections, during a public debate at the referendum law. A good part of these remarks can't all, a good part of those remarks can't, because some of them weren't even in line with the Constitution and some of them didn't really have a purpose and people didn't know the circumstances well, but the good part was consistent, discussed. They know that, too, and they know what's been implemented in this referendum bill. That's why you've had enough with the lies. As you said, so many lies are made. They're not interested in it, nor are the journalists who tell these lies further and wider and lead the people astray. So, the first item that wasn't public hearing doesn't stand. The second thing, the signatures, and you said they didn't have a problem with 40 dinars per man 40 dinars, and I don't know why they multiply it by 30,000 and talk about 10,150 euros, how much money it takes. Who wants 10,000 in a crowd? You won't give 10,000 euros and get 30,000 signatures. You don't sell it a kilo, I sell it to you, you sell it to me. People individually, their signatures, IDs, 40 dinars. It's a good idea, and I want to get behind it. This is the essence of the signature collection and what you said – verification, authenticity of the signature. That's the problem with Savi Manojlovic and those around them. There are no people who, by name, will have a document drawn out to guarantee, to stand behind their idea. Was it 4,000 people, like Wolfie said, at the protest? The question is who was all of those 4,000 people and how many real environmentalists, as I said earlier. Four thousand people, take out their ID and sign it. You won't give 40 dinars to check that it's you, okay, here, electronically, sign up on the e-Government portal and have Savo Manojlović organize you, he's an educated guy, free of charge, via the e-Government portal. So, there's no problem with the signature, unless you have anyone to sign, if you want to buy a kilo, I'll buy you 10,000 euros, you give me 30,000 signatures. So where does that come from? Maybe somewhere in a forest, but not in Serbia. In Serbia, the 21st century we have procedures, rules, through institutions there is a well-established procedure so that we can all look ourselves in the eye rather than 40 people following you on YouTube, and you're telling me that you can take thousands out into the streets. Take them out! It's just that it doesn't seem to be such a policy. It's so nice when you have an N1, so you say whatever you want. When you look people in the eyes, it's not like that. The third thing, first of all, is there's no public debate, there were, the signatures, no problem 40 dinars, no censorship. Does the Constitution say 2006 – there is no mandatory majority, the referendum succeeds if most of the people out there voted? The point is that the referendum will succeed if most of the voters vote for it, rather than most of the voters enrolled. That's what the 2006 Constitution says. How come they don't remember talking about how it's wrong? How does this same Savo Manojlovic from that same association for legality and constitutionality not remember that these documents are not in line with this Constitution and with what's his firm's name? He didn't think of that. As the payment went down, I call it a concern at the deposit, as soon as the payment is made, you become concerned about some social problem. Well, he lays down the payment and starts worrying and he goes out into the field, so somehow the constitutionality and legality packed up in the environmentals and they went out into the streets. You should look these people in the eye and it would be best if he were so sure of all this, that he really went to the elections and said, "Here, all these people want to stand behind me, I will be their voice to the people in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia." So it's pretty much known that in April elections, let's start collecting, well, here's one opposition column, the Sava will lead the second, Zelenovic will lead the third. Zelenovic said he won't go with the Sava, he has other requirements and other ultimatums, so for now we have three, maybe four, five. As welcome as they are, this is democracy and we need to have a wide range of political programmes and offers to see what people think, who they guarantee is stability, security, further economic development and prosperity of the state. I don't think there's a lot of political programs that don't promise that, but they can also show the results of what they've done in the past 10 years. It is not a small period and it is a time of many challenges, not only in Serbia and the region, but also in the world, and Vucic seems to have succeeded better than anyone, at least in Europe to push through these difficult challenges and keep Serbia far ahead of all.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-07-0.u11322	Thank you. Next is counterpart Milica Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-07-0.u11323	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Minister and members of the government, distinguished fellow MPs and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, on today's agenda is a set of very important laws relating to public sector employees. The proposed amendments governing salaries of public sector employees set a new deadline for application. The new deadline refers to the year 2025 when it is estimated that all necessary conditions will be met in order to access this application. Today, there is a sector in Serbia called "Multicom". They are those who call themselves elite and think that no law applies to them. These are registered in various tax havens, therefore, do not pay taxes in Serbia. It's those who own their own media that spit on all those who don't think like them. So they're all, and everyone else is nothing. It is those who go to tell Serbian citizens that they live badly today and come out of jeeps that cost about 150,000 euros. These are the ones who say that the Serb people are genocide, to which every foreigner and every foreign country is more than Serbia. They were in power until 2012, except they're giving themselves other names today, but they're still being raised by money. So, Gilas, Solak, Marinika and the others. They would again be in power today, to add the budget to the "Multicom" of the people's money, as they have always done, to convince the people somehow that everything they've done until 2012 -- never mind, all the closed factories, the ruined economy, the military, all that -- never mind. Today, as environmentalists, they're going to rub people's eyes and streets, because elections can't, they're going to come back to power. On Saturday, the streets of Serbia saw them manipulate the people. It could be seen that because of their uncontrollable desire for authority, fathers and mothers carry their children in their arms to the doctor, because they couldn't cross blocked streets, but they care. And that's exactly what they brought Rio Tinto and they're the ones who issued all the permits. I believe that as time passes, their intention will become clearer. Since Alexander Vukic is at the head of our country, he has invested more than ever, and we have to invest in ecology but we must not let those who lie to us who are their political failure, their lack of a political programme, and they hide a huge desire for authority to worry about the environment, and they have proven that they care neither about the environment in which we live nor about the lives of citizens. Serbia today demonstrates its resolve and behaves responsibly and I know it will not allow any company's interests to be ahead of the public interest and the interests of every host in our country. As I said, Serbia today shows its determination to preserve nature for future generations, but also to create conditions for natural wealth to be used for the benefit of our people and our Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-07-0.u11324	Thank you. The word has a People's Messenger doc. Dr. Ilija Živić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-07-0.u11325	The honourable minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, respected citizens, the delay in the start of these reforms that we are talking about today is really justified, as we have heard from most speakers and from the minister herself, above all because of the situation we had with the coronary virus. However, it should be noted, when we talk about the coronary virus and the pandemic that Serbia has gone through this crisis and is still going extremely well. First of all, thanks to President Vukic's leadership. When he added to this the President's initiative for the open Balkans, as well as excellent policy towards neighbours, in the sense that we offered and donated a large amount of vaccines to show a broad hand, we can freely say that Serbia is, with the economic growth that has not been recorded in the history of these crises indeed in this part of Europe, and certainly the political leader of the region. As such, our country wants to move forward with reforms as soon as possible, however, so that these reforms we are talking about today and we want to postpone for 2025, in order for them to be properly implemented, we need to talk with trade unions, professional associations, employee representatives and all other stakeholders, in order to implement these reforms that are extremely significant, are implemented in one democratic way. That is why I agree that these reforms should be postponed until 2025. Since these days are the current so-called. ecological protests, I would just like to tell the citizens that they need to know that by reforming public administration, more precisely by introducing digitalisation, the Republic of Serbia directly saved 28,000 trees and 10,000 kilowatts of energy, which directly affected green energy. I'd like to refer to the law we're going to talk about tomorrow so I don't return my word again tomorrow and deny my colleagues the time. This is the loan necessary for the expansion of the gas network in Zlatibor and the surrounding area. I would like to stress that this is an extremely important development investment that will benefit citizens and the economy of the gas area, but also the whole of Serbia. In the Zlatibor region, as well as in the settlements to which the gas will reach, there are many households with older citizens who will be spared the purchase, storage of wood or coal and the constant laying. It'll be enough to push the button and for the same amount of money to heat not just one room, but the entire home. The expansion of gas infrastructure will also contribute to the arrival of new investors in Zlatibor and the environment, which will boost tourism economic capacity. In addition, the expansion of the gas network will also have a favourable impact on demographics, as it raises the standard of living and directly affects the reduction of the number of people who want to leave the village. Of course, the expansion of the gas network also has a huge importance for ecology, as it practically shuts down boilers that pollute the air, but also reduces the cutting of trees by directly improving the quality of air. In this way, we as a responsible authority take measures that contribute to the environment, unlike Marinika and Gilas, which block cities and create tension in society with the desire to drop Serbian blood, and all by referring to ecology. Their duality is also reflected in the fact that Marinika and Gilas are now driving in trucks worth more than 100,000 euros and several thousand cubic metres, which release huge amounts of exhaust gas. How worried Gilas is about the rights of ordinary citizens we can see how worried he was about the average consumers in the city of Belgrade. We remember the situation with the trade chains when Gilas was mayor, when other chains in Belgrade were prevented, but there was only one. Also during Dragan Gilas, it was almost impossible to get a building permit at any attractive location, and literally impossible to get a building permit for a block of residential buildings and all that until his media partner Miskovic sold out all the apartments in Belville. So not to make up anything, it's just enough to look at the statistics department's data that speaks for itself. When Gilas was mayor, several times fewer building permits were issued than today when the SNS is run by Belgrade. In 2010, only 6,512 building permits were issued for the entire territory of Serbia and in 2020, 22,625. So, during the SNS government in Serbia, 16,000 building permits were issued more or almost four times more than during the rule of Dragan Gilas. If we take into account the average of one-third of all building permits issued in Belgrade, we come to the conclusion that today in Belgrade, as many building permits have been issued in Gilas' time throughout Serbia. How privileged Miskovic is the fact that the legal successor of the "C Market", "Deleze" committed itself several days ago, i.e. to decompose 3,343 small shareholders because they won the court and proved that the value of the action was significantly higher than the one by which Miskovic paid them in privatisation. I have here a notice from the CEO of the company "Deleze" Jean Wall Docker, sorry, sir, if I did not read his name correctly, which informs shareholders that every shareholder of the "C Market" who filed an action and a solution of the Court of Commerce in Belgrade in 2018 and 2020 will receive an additional 48,581 dinar. So Gilas' partner Miskovic damaged every small shareholder by exactly 400 euros. The total amount to be paid is 48,000 dinars per share, plus 31,000 dinars for interest, so 80,000 dinars each will receive. For so much, Miskovic, a former partner of Gilas, damaged citizens, small shareholders of the "C Market". Since I studied the economy, I can tell you that based on this data you can easily get a figure of over 100m euros for which the state is damaged in this business. That is another reason why Gilas would again want to come to power, to re-emerge his tycoon, to give his partner monopoly or political contacts so that together tycoons and foreign ambassadors to the pub form the Serbian government. Fortunately, the citizens of those times are long gone. The government is won only in the elections, and the Government in the National Assembly, by the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Also, I would like to say that a few days ago with my fellow MPs, Viktor Jeftic and Luke Kebar, we shared a tour of the work at the beginning of the construction of the subway that President Aleksandar Vukic visited. It is precisely a confirmation of what is currently happening in this Serbia. We, when we promised to build a subway, started this building of the subway, unlike Gilas, who promised multiple times in his political career as a metro, when he was mayor. However, it served him only to cloud the view of the citizens so that they would not see his speculative actions that made him the richest politician. There is no politician in the world who has increased his wealth by 619m euros. All politicians, when they came to power, reported a lack of income, even Donald Trump when he became President of the United States and when his mandate ended, reported a loss of several billion dollars. Only Dragan Gilas was able to get rich during his term. I call on citizens not to fall for the invitations of Marinika and Gilas to block the city, to tear down cities, to block roads. Because the citizens of Serbia, Marinika and Dragan Gilas have materially provided themselves, and any damage caused by the blockades, due to the collapse and ignition, will be paid by us, all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Finally, full support for President Aleksandar Vukic for fighting in better Serbia. Bon appétit.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-07-0.u11326	Thank you. Next up is counterpart Ljiljana Malusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-07-0.u11327	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister with Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, today we are talking about a bill amending the Public Sector Payments System Act, and we need to talk about this. In the public sector there are 450 thousand people, and here, the government of the Republic of Serbia has passed this law and all the laws since 2012, and I think there are over 900, maybe a lot more. That's how it works. As far as this law is concerned, deadlines are important here. The deadlines will be respected. This is one system law with application until 2025. It's going to be 2024, and why am I saying this? Because it's very important that we have one system law to settle wages and not just pay, but pay compensation, as well as other receipts, because before us no one had the strength to do so. Here, we'll do that. What surprised me these days didn't surprise me, but I was just in shock, because a handful of people, I mean the opposition ones, that's all. people who consider themselves environmentalists and who want to be clean air in Serbia, that their children live normally, of course I join such things, but not that flattering approach of Gilas and his clicks, not that half-tronic attitude towards the state, not some blatant political protest, closing bridges, closing roads. In the name of what? Why? How? The government gets nervous, the turbulence starts, and then the election goes, and there's nothing to offer. They don't have a program, they don't have a plan. We did everything they wanted, from reducing their censorship from five to three percent, and remember when the elections were held, they had a three percent censorship, and when the elections were up to five. Here, we please them now, we lower the censorship to three percent, we give them whatever they want, and they block us. Why are they blocking? You saw those unloved pictures of a mother carrying a child, children crying, you saw someone who couldn't bury their own, because a handful of people blocked the road. Why the road? Why are they going to such abnormal things, abnormal for this country? Why? There's a way, a better way, to go to the election. They say they'll all go to the election. I would very much like this parliament to be a charred again, not to be 200 SNS MPs. Why are there 200 SNS deputies? Because we have the results of the work. Here we talk about wages, let's remember 2012 and salary. The salary was 326 euros, today 600 euros. Unemployment was 26%, 10% today. If there were no pigs, this monster that came upon us, not just our country, but the whole world, would be 8.5%. For a few more years, the European rate would be 5% of the unemployed. We've raised our salaries, we've raised our pensions, it's done, it's built. They call the president a fascist. Shame on them. Do any of them know what a fascist is? His kids are being chased. They want to rape children. They bulldozed the prime minister, harassed the entire parliament here. You, the quasi elite, when they say they're elite, it's not good for me, because they call us bots, bastards, toothless, like that. In this House, no one sits under the faculty, masters, doctors, young profiled people, well-trained, who never said they were fascists. Shame on them. For one president who builds, works, who is respectable in the world, who has overcome the country's frameworks to say he is fascist. They don't even know what a fascist is. What to say for the one who stole 619m euros. What about the guy who has 35 apartments, what do we call him? What to say for one who has a lot of bills around the world. That's not what I said. That's what the Anti-Corruption Agency said. What to say about someone who says we're fascists, that the President is fascist, and they say we should be hanged in the middle of the Terrace. That sweet opposition, I can't wait for the election, they're nervous, they don't have a program, they don't have a plan, but that's why the streets, the barricades, they can't come from place to place just because, well, they're gonna get it. But I'll take my turn. It's a shame what they're doing. They lose a little bit of what they have. It's better to be decent people, you know where the protests are going, right here in front of the Assembly, let them go to the mouth. Who knows, maybe they get together who knows how many people. I really want them to come here to have a real political debate, and not like this, this isn't the way. We're not bots and we're not bastards and we eat sandwiches. Yeah, we're eating. You say your party is made of toothless. Of course, you robbed half of Serbia, so they don't have people to eat. You know why they vote for us? Here, in 2017 when the presidential elections were 55% we had more. In 2020, we had 60%. Now we're probably going to be 65, 70%. You know why? Because we have the results of the work, because only President Vukic opened over 250 factories and hired over 250,000 people. People see hope, they see salvation in SNS. We're giving them a job. People aren't hungry anymore. Remember your time. Doctors of science were looking for food in containers. Shame on you! And we're bots, bastards and sandwiches. I'm proud of it if anyone says I'm a sandwich boy. Why not, what's wrong with the sandwich? But I don't steal, I don't lie, I don't have butter on my head, I don't have 35 apartments, I didn't steal money, and I never will, I'm not that raised. I don't beat anybody. We've had all kinds of experiences here, fights. Mr. Marjan barely stayed alive without his fellow officers coming to his aid. They bullied the president of the parliamentary group, beat Maja Gojkovic, spit on us, brought in a cabbage stone to shoot us, to rip our jackets, to push us. We've been through a lot here since that so-called. Come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, They're far from the elite. We're people who work, we work, we work. It's building a subway. It's built "Belgrade on Water", which they said would never exist. There may be 25 buildings under construction. What does that mean? It means we don't lie, we keep our promises, we keep everything we promised. The Serbian state's debt used to be 78% of GDP, today less than 57%. One more thing that is very important and should be pointed out is that all aid measures amounted to, all aid and support packages, both for citizens and businesses, eight billion euros. Now, that's what the Republic of Serbia gave. It was given by this gentleman, Mr. President Vukic, who has respect all over the world, from China, Great Britain, to Russia. So he crossed Serbia's borders, and you say we're not doing anything. About how we do it will be seen in the elections, and now that people are pretty misinformed, that is, they don't have the right information about Rio Tint, I need a word about Rio Tint, because I just can't understand that someone's manipulating so much. That someone who signed with Rio Tint in 2004, the contract, they didn't go out and they didn't talk about ecology, they didn't think about talking about environmentalism then, and now under the password of environmentalists, every honour of environmentalists, I have nothing against it, this click around Gilas and these whisperers, the martyrs, who are harassing us, and they say that we're not, should put their finger on the head, to make a nice commitment to the program and the work. And now I'm going to take a cab, and let's just remember what Rio Tinto is, first of all. One of the largest corporations in the world, which is English-Australia and which was present here, who came and signed the contract with the then prime minister, was Zoran Zivkovic in 2004. So, with Zoran Zivkovic. The same Gilas said that finding ore is a jadarite, which contains lithium and pine, is the best and most beautiful thing that could have happened to the Republic of Serbia, because we will make factories and hire people. Now he's saying it's poison, it's an ecological disaster. I can't connect, I don't understand what a man is thinking. How is it possible that in his time it is something that is prosperity for Serbia, and now it is not? But we're going in a row. Since there's been a major controversy over Rio Tinta, you should know that Rio Tinto is a large Australian-English corporation dealing with the exploitation of ore and metal. For the sake of the public, Rio Tinto was granted a licence to investigate lithium in 2004. Zoran Zivkovic was prime minister and member of the DS party. The referendum law and the Expropriation Act, which the opposition says have been passed because of Rio Tinta, have absolutely nothing to do with Rio Tint. The citizens of the Republic of Serbia should know that. The referendum law was adopted on the EU initiative and on the opening of the accession chapters, and the Expropriation Act changes the old 1995 law that has long been overcome. The most important change in the new law is to speed up the process of paying the market price and the possibility of payment for illegal facilities in which people live. Well, isn't it normal that we passed this law, because of infrastructure, because of ecology, because of speed? If we've been on the road for 10 years, you say they can't make a way. We can make our way, and we can see each other. It's done Corridor 10, it's done Corridor 11, it's done fast roads, it's done fast trains, it's done eight more highways, it's done in 10. People, it's never been done like that in Serbia. Let's move on. The basic motive for changing the law is the accelerated development for building infrastructure and ecology. "Rio Tinto" has already bought land from private owners, it is already known, people have been on TV, speaking publicly about selling their land to Rio Tintu, so the Expropriation Act has nothing to do with it. It's all a lie. The opposition deceives citizens of the Republic of Serbia and the citizens of the Republic of Serbia should know. So far, no paper has been received in connection with the study on environmental impact, so there is no word on the possibility of getting permission to exploit. That's the most important thing I ever wanted to say. Nothing is finished, that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia are not worried, which means that the digging permit is nowhere near the winnings, and the question is whether it will get it. This is actually all the fight against President Vukic, this is one political question, this is where Gilas and his click came in, which is sad. Instead of dealing with programs, they're going down. I could talk about this a lot more, but I'll talk about it tomorrow. I wish them all good luck and leave more SNS, President Vukic and what we are in peace and deal with your program if you think you can achieve anything in the election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-07-0.u11328	Thank you. The next is MP Viktor Jevtovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-07-0.u11329	Thank you, Chairman. I will talk about the draft law amending the Law on the Public Sector Payments System, salaries of officials, deputies, salaries in the authorities of the Autonomous province, units of local self-government, public service employees, as well as agencies and other organisations established by the Republic of Serbia. These amendments to the Law governing salaries in the public sector, without public undertakings, set a new deadline for their application. The start of application of the new system is set in 2025, when it is estimated that all the necessary conditions will be met for a new deadline that is related to the establishment and launch of a new information system for the accounting and payment of salaries introduced by the Ministry of Finance. The importance, comprehensiveness and complexity of wage reform covers more than 400,000 public sector employees. For this reason, all necessary analyses of financial and fiscal effects will be carried out, until a single centralised system, which contains accurate and precise data on jobs, pay elements of employees and other labour costs of the public sector, will be established, on the basis of which we will have adequate projections to bring about the reform. Since 2019, the finance ministry has been working to establish a new information system, which should ensure accurate planning, management and control of budget implementation for public sector workers' labour costs. This new system will provide accurate and quality information for all necessary analysis. The responsible state headed by Aleksandra Vukic and the Serbian government is taking care of the long-term effects of reform processes so that citizens and their standard of living, but also put the budget on the pedestal of modern European states. Reforms of this type will provide additional funding for salary costs, if the implementation of fiscal reform that Serbian citizens, regardless of the exposure to the epidemiological situation caused by Kovidom-19 that has affected the whole world and lasted nearly two years, has managed to provide citizens with a new hospital code, the perfect functioning of the health system, but also the space for 8% salary growth for health workers and 7% for public sector employees, I must also mention 9% for unemployed persons. All of this has been achieved through the maesteral policy of President Aleksandr Vukic, where through subsidies and assistance to all citizens, in the first place pensioners, we have provided assistance during this disastrous period, which has not succeeded much stronger and more economically powerful countries than we have. Once again, Serbia is the first in the region to make direct foreign investments and move ahead unsustainably. Especially look forward to the results in 2021, ranging from the projected 6% to 7.5% of GDP. Also, the latest IMF forecasts that changed Serbia's projections, where we reach Lithuania, and this GDP growth means that the average salary will be higher than 660 euros as of January 1st, and more than 770 euros in Belgrade, as well as that this year will be over with a GDP of more than 50 billion euros. That's why Alexander Vukic's policy is a thorn in the eye of everyone who wants to see Serbia humiliated and on their knees, because it's the only way they can manipulate the citizens of Serbia, but the unwavering resolve of Alexander Vukic will no longer allow the kneeling Serbia to manipulate the pawns of foreign masters exclusively and only for the sake of their own personal interests, of course led by Dragan Gilas and his mercenaries, who as a vampire ball led the state register to suck and owe the state until the last penny. With the responsible policy led by Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic, we do not deviate from the postulate – the people in the first place. This never changes, especially after recent events where the Falanges of Gilas and Solak mercenaries have announced that those who block, contrary to all law and constitution, highways, bridges and streets of Belgrade, but also some other cities of Serbia, have, according to their devasting policy, burned and destroyed before themselves, physically harassing citizens, supported by foreign sponsors, large money from their bank accounts and financials, such as Rockefeller's Fund, under the arm of a quasi-protector of green areas in a character from Austria-funded silent destroyer who, without permission to build a power plant during the night, became a man of environmental protection. If that wasn't sad, it would be funny, as would Zelenovic, a fraud, the destroyer of the town of Sapca, who made the city's register, as well as the citizens, easier by five million euros, according to Deri and the people already told him in the elections – no. A handful of hooligans, contrary to common sense, and consistently to their bosses who were long gone, beat up citizens, harassed honest people, other people's children, almost without an eye, left a bagger to whom they inflicted serious physical injuries, with the excuse that it was civil disobedience. Such days lead to Šolak's media hacks for police officers who, in accordance with the law, were only doing their job, protecting their lives primarily from the folly introduced by their boss Dragan Djilas and the famous worker "Multicoma", Marinika Tepic, who proudly paints and boasts to the beating black, an employee of the notorious drug dealer Nasser Keljmendi, whom the US DEA characterised as the largest regional drug lord and Ljubisa Buha, leader of the Surcin Group, one of the most dangerous criminal organisations in Serbia. They also have a famous Đilas kevapdzija, a newly-roasted environmentalist, Vladimir Vuletic, a brother of the slaughterer and murderers of the Belivuk clan, who places the bestial abominations at the expense of an innocent boy, but also of an entire family only because they proudly bear their last name, the name of the greatest reformer in Serbia's recent history. These are tycoon candidates for the basic devastion of Serbia, their Japanese and troubles, ideal coalition partners. I'm just wondering -- how would they spend their time on a highway closed in Germany or Austria? But the machine brain of Dragan Gilas now remembered to close the roads and demonstrate on those same paths, because now he has nothing to drive and to walk on. At the time of his, we could only see the arrogant rule of the roads as drawings on the front pages, and the money for the roads ended up in exotic destinations. Each mile after that, they see such ones as their own personal defeat. Such a degree of hatred and madness has not been seen so far, as we see today in people who falsely advocate democracy and represent themselves to great Europeans, and call for the spilling of other people's blood on the streets. They can't be any uglier, and in doing so, they accuse the state without a shred of shame, because they don't know for shame, that at least they've planted a tree for every poisonous sentence or blow or curse they've sent, because they don't have a political program. They might really believe that they're struggling for ecology, but there's not even a letter of environmentalism, there's only greed and hatred that feeds their sociopathic impulses, and the only green thing about them is the love of a green dollar. They best demonstrate it after every undeclared rally where there are piles of garbage and empty beer bottles left behind. And today they are announcing bloodshed and unrest, which has nothing to do with democracy and dissatisfaction, but it is pure hooliganism and folly, but these hohstapplers will never succeed in defeating Alexander Vukic's policy, a healthy and honest Serbia that goes lightningly forward, no matter how much we gather around that only goal they have, that Vukica is being brought down together. When a real statesman shows up in Serbia, you will recognize him once, all fools will team up against him, but there are more of us. And let them know that we will not allow the demons of the past to throw us back into the pit of the sun and the hopelessness we were in during their terror. That name was said by 45,000 citizens and around Arena at the SNS assembly who gave strong support to Alexander Vukic's policy, that will and resolve will never be able to win. The same is said by millions who vote for Vukic and his policy in the elections. The people see it clearly, and in the elections they'll be sent back to inform the past to roll in their mud where they belong. Thank you, and live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-07-0.u11330	Thank you, Mr. Yevtovic. Natasa Jovanovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-07-0.u11331	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister Obradovic, dear state secretary Macužic, I especially welcome you as our former co-worker, co-workers from the ministry, respected fellow MPs, SNS with coalition partners who share the opinion who and how this country should be led, has already gone into reform procedures and has done so in many areas. You will agree with me that these changes are necessary, but not just fast tracks, roads, hospitals, schools, but necessary to make reform wider, in society, as it is in public administration. Because quality public administration means satisfied citizens who are much faster and easier to solve their problems, because as the saying goes, they do not stumble over rocks, but stumble about stones. The citizen does not care what the law is called, but how he can apply it and solve his problem faster. It is a sector that is very important to Serbia. We can't move on until we have quality education and health care, but also quality public administration, because it's the backbone of our system, and it's very often underestimated, because if we want a functional state we want a modern European administration. The ban on employment that had to take place at one point, as well as reform in other areas, was indeed necessary and necessary to underline the line and to know what we have both by number and by frame. Especially is the problem with people of knowledge and experience who do not want to work in the administration because of small wages, and these people are really necessary for us to have the quality of services. That's why this reform has to give a high-quality worker good pay and working conditions, because every firm, of course, and public administration, is made up of people. To achieve all of this, we need a centralized system of data, about the number of employees, professional preparation, about monthly salaries and other expenditures, for over 400,000 employees, which is certainly a very large process. As a serious state and a government that fulfils all its obligations, we must be sure that this reform is both economically sustainable and that, finally, injustice is corrected. That is why the finance ministry, starting in 2019, is working to establish an information system for planning and managing and controlling public sector budgets, as the finance ministry is planning revenues, so it must plan expenditures. Therefore, the proposal for a payment system reform is postponed for 2025, and due to the completion of the necessary analysis and effects of wage reform based on data obtained from the new information system. All of this would be faster, of course, if it weren't for the world's pandemic which causes unplanned costs for vaccines, drugs, new hospitals, an increase in salaries to health workers who are certainly heroes in the fight against the herds, but they absolutely deserve it. The state provides assistance to the population as much as its options. For example, 5.5% of pensions have been increased, and today it starts paying each full-year citizen aside from those 60 euros plus 20 euros. So the reforms we have been implementing since 2012 are comprehensive and complex from areas and economies, businesses, finances and all of them have produced positive results. When Prime Minister Ana Brnabic read her exposés, the accent was indeed rightly placed on the digitisation of public administration, because this is the best way to attract economic growth, attract investment but also an efficient service to citizens of the Republic of Serbia. In this year we had an economic growth of 7.5% and a minimal decline was recorded last year at around 0.9%. This has been inaccessible to many richer European countries. Growth has been projected, for example for the next year of 4.5%, and our budget is both developmental and infrastructureal, on the other hand and socially responsible. To make a budget this balanced, we've already talked about it when we adopted it is really great. I would indeed like to acknowledge both our President Aleksandr Vukic and our Government, led by Prime Minister Ana Brnabic, who is constantly struggling with problems and pressures, both on the outside, on the inside, and on the inside, and on the stoic side of the pandemic, preserved the lives of our citizens, as well as our economy. All of this wouldn't be if we didn't have a strong leadership and leadership that the state of Serbia and its citizens were in the first place. I don't have the slightest dilemma that Serbian citizens will vote for in April. They'll vote for proven successful people who don't sit and wait for things to happen. They come out... things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-07-0.u11332	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-07-0.u11333	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, everyone's talking about salary growth this year. In 2012, the average salary was 328 euros. The year 2021. - 568 euros, if it hadn't been for the pandemic, would probably have been 600 euros, and I believe we've reached that. In fact, there are still some employers who pay some of the money to black, so I believe it's already at 600 euros right now. Number of employees in 2012 – 1,727,000 people. The number of employees in 2021 was 2.287,000 and up to 2.8 million in some neighborhoods. If we take this smaller number of 2,300,000, the 2012 salary fund was at a monthly level of 560m euros. So our employees received about 560m euros a month. At the annual level, it was 6.7 billion. So many citizens of the Republic of Serbia could spend money, or so much they could earn during the former regime's government. In 2021, the salary fund jumped to 1,200,000 million a month, or 640 million more a month, or a total of 14.4 billion at the end of the year, i.e. 7,7. almost 8 billion more than they could make in 2012. That's why I don't understand some rebellion against this government, given that it has provided work and bread for the unemployed, the number of employees has increased by 300 and some thousands and unemployment from 26% to 11%. Foreign reserves increased by 5.5 billion, gold reserves increased three times. Inflation was about two to three percent five times smaller. The course almost unremembered in Serbia remained the same for nine years. I don't know what the rebellion is about, here it is about protecting the environment. I admire my peasants, I don't treat them like green brushes, I treat them like "I'm a Chetnik," I have nothing to do with them, I treat them like road robbers, or "character peasants from the city". So it's nothing else. Probably what I'm assuming is a battle for the future of the automotive industry. It's not about any fields, nor do they care about fields. Most of them saw the fields going somewhere to tourist destinations to the sea and when they were in great need of coercion. Most of those protesters from Gazela and the highway saw the field as they were driven by that great necessity. They usually run a small one in the car or out of the car and then they throw these bottles into our water streams, and that's why they're against the little ones' hydrocenters because if someone puts streams through the pipe, and what are they throwing their waste into? So I don't believe that people like that, misrespecting the environment, suddenly cares about Serbian fields, and it's better... What was that like? It's better to suffer after the village than in the country. So, a very small number of them have seen these fields at all, but here I respect the great care of the town's character peasants. However, I fear it is a fight against increased employment in Serbia and that it is a struggle for the future of the automotive industry. I speak to the citizens of Serbia. Now imagine this automotive industry in Germany that suffers from a lack of parts, but not parts of the physically simplest, but very high-tech parts. The car industry in Germany gets it from China. Imagine now that the German industry has been stalled in the production of cars and imagine that there is an electric car factory in Serbia and that the Chinese and Serbs are doing it together, as it would have felt in the German car industry. So I tell the citizens that this is probably a battle for the future of the automotive industry where all the cars in the future, which would be made with the Chinese in Serbia because we have a reserve of lithium that we can put in batteries, batteries in cars. As many cars would produce for me in Serbia, the fewer cars would make, say, the German car industry. Now suddenly Viola von Kramon is worried about protecting the environment in Serbia. Suddenly she knows where certain Adriatic villages are. Suddenly the one with Zelenovic, I guess somewhere in the translation, she heard it in Serbian... As they say - Serbian orthodox church etc. She probably heard that he was a member of not some church, and she probably thought that through him it was Zelenovic and that means the green party and through Zelenovic decided to protect the environment from Sapac to Loznica. Mrs Viola von Kramon could have evoked a little history and remembered that no Serb soldier in Germany had killed a German civilian, that no Serb soldier had killed a German soldier in Germany, but it was often when she traveled from Green to Loznica, from Sapac to Loznica, could have evoked memories from wars, World War I, World War II, and that on every tree from Capac to Loznica there was no Serb hanging, but more Serbs were hanging as clusters along the road and could remember, let's say, the last war where a German soldier killed a Serb again in Kosovo. She could remember that they took care of our environmentals the moment they threw the poored uranium into the bombing of Serbia. At that moment, they protected the environment in Serbia, because they found, my God, that this poor uranium is healing and that it's no harm, that the maltenes are healing, and that's why I ask Viola von Kramon if it's so true, if this poor uranium is such a protective tool for protecting the environment and if it's so healing, so why waste money, what were they throwing at Serbs? Why didn't they throw that poor uranium at themselves? My intention is not to return that poor uranium to them in the same packaging, but, my God, if it's already medicinal, it should have been dumped on itself. What I was saying three or four years ago here, that no one could bring Serbia down from the outside if no one helped them from the inside, turned out to be true and those who were once a party to the former regime, their representatives, were sitting here I warned that I wasn't sure they were traitors. I'm not saying that right now, but they're certainly unfortunate and they should know that while everyone on the outside is now fighting Serbia, it's not nice for us to fight ourselves and between ourselves. My message to them is that what I would do if I were in Vucic's place, I would apply the European recipe, and I would rush it with tear gas, water cannons and so on, what I would do to all modern European countries and call Viola von Kramon to tell me that those in Germany, how they do it in England, how they do it in Slovenia, how they deal with the protection of their roads and how they apply it, by the prescription of Viola von Kramon, the measures they apply when they block the highway and each of those who have gathered, they enter the blockers, and from the blockers to the locator is a small difference just so you know. There are very little differences between the current blockers and the former locators that can be renewed, so I would apply that model, here, Emperor Dusan there says, law, topuz, power to enforce the law. Law and Article 133, Criminal Code, says: "Who is obstructing and preventing freedom of movement will be punished up to a year in prison" and therefore I ask the prosecution to apply the law and that the only ones who are authorized to prosecute it on behalf of the people and to prosecute perpetrators, or road robbers from Gazela, who are still proud of blocking international traffic and have to sanction laws, and in future my advice is that they become angry with the law force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-07-0.u11334	Thank you. Next is the People's Messenger Adam Shukalo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-07-0.u11335	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Hardisic, a respected and respected Minister Obradovic, distinguished fellow MPs and respected public who are monitoring this transmission on the Second Channel of Republika Srpska Radio-Television, I would like to say a few things about this set of laws that we are considering today and we have talked a lot about. I am not inclined to repeat everything that my esteemed colleagues have been saying, but first of all, I will refer to the opening statement held by the minister at the very beginning of today and how the media reported all of this and to say only a few things that, in my opinion, matter primarily in terms of not just today's set of laws that delay, to say, and to extend certain deadlines that are defined by certain legal norms, but above all in public administration reform. Public administration reform is a long-term process, complex, systematic and should be led very carefully, not just going in that direction to measure efficiency at some speed. Since we come from a society that was essentially bureaucratic, including the administration itself and the public administration that functioned in this form that unfortunately there were a lot of corruption and everything else and it is not easy for any minister of any kind, especially you, Mrs. Obradovic, to face such a complex challenge. I'm not saying that from any courtoasia, but by following the work of the ministry that you're running today, the fact that you've been found practically by the processes of normative that have been delayed for six, seven years, and it's not easy for you for that reason. On the other hand, this is a major challenge and it is your ministry that has launched certain initiatives, such as a single management post and all other things that are extremely important primarily in providing services to citizens and businesses. These are the results that are already visible in certain segments, even if they were in some sense a pilot project and everything else that is waiting for you. What I'm saying is that paying classes and everything else that is related to the increase in wages in the public administration can't be seen as an isolated process. We have a great process and as one of the principles and these governments is the digitalisation process in the Republic of Serbia and it must be consistent with every other reform and of course everything goes in the direction that we can finally establish the Institute and the principle of measurement of the results of each civil servant not only in the pay segment, but above all its contribution. Now that we're talking about wages here, we're talking about the right that a certain civil servant, a civil servant, was in local self-government, was in the state, made by law, but what's much more important in terms of a two-way relationship of law and obligations is its contribution. In order not to be watched in certain paying classes, so as not to enter into reform that will be reformed for the sake of reform, without implementing the key ones, let me say, things that expect citizens and businesses, and expect people who are employed in the public sector of the state administration, local self-government, etc., we must be systematic and give concrete results that will give us a useful value for a longer period of time and give concrete results that, above all, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, people who come from the economy will be more and more satisfied. In that sense, I have talked about it many times, and I will also mention what is extremely important to go in that direction and digitisation of the electronic administration and who will ultimately define it not only in personal terms, in terms of its rights, but in electronic terms, that it has its own account, that it has its own ID, that it has its own personal file, when you open up the number of each official, so that you see its references and how it is assessed, on the other hand, in whatever way its career progress, whatever we call it, has gone, and that through that kind of story that will once again be tied to the digital system in the Republic of Serbia, have the final measurement of results and each individual, so in this way we will be able to introduce one positive competitive, to say, fight within, to say, and to the very people who work in administrative, state, to say, and local self-government and to know that they are not all of course to be able to make the same contribution. However, what is worth pointing out and what is said more than once today is that, on the other hand, the state of Serbia, the leadership of Serbia, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Finance planned to increase salaries, I say, in the public administration by 7%. It says enough how much, given certain other things that need to monitor wage growth, plan and make those people who do, and that's a huge number of people, how much I got information that it's about 400,000 employees, watch what we're going to decide, how we're going to make certain decisions. But on the other hand, you can see that you're thinking about it, and these are increases that go on and on. To get to any increase, what's crucial to every country, to achieve peace and stability, that we don't have any tensions that we've had, unfortunately, over the past decades. This is a condition for reforms, for the state to be stable, for it to have stable authority, and for this reason, conditions can be met for certain reforms. On the other hand, I have to say that all the foreign investments and domestic ones that have led to this situation that we have a continuous increase in budgets, so that we can think about raising wages. If it hadn't been for peace, stability, economic reforms, if it hadn't been for political reforms, if there hadn't been great geostrategic decisions in terms of the external political agenda of the Republic of Serbia, we couldn't have this growth and development. By the way, it's related to salary growth. Therefore, it is extremely important today, given that elections are coming to us, to say that this is also the key for the future, meaning peace, stability, development, economic reform. This authority, which today is headed by Serbia, to gain even greater support, so that we can work on it in that sense, and that our concrete results are in that direction that we all have today, that all items that we have set out in the budget and, in order to help the economy or raise wages in any sector, go further and further and closer both to our objectives and standards that are set. Here, let me say, as a measure of value, both in the EU in terms of wages and everything else. I think we're going good that way. It is therefore extremely important that the pictures we could see for the weekend in the Republic of Serbia are not good pictures either on the external political plan, on the internal political plan, and that they cannot give a boost or a precondition for Serbia's development in this sense in which I spoke earlier. So I think that as important as the topic of environmentalism is, there are even more important topics. Of course, health, that healthy environment, healthy food, water, everything else, healthy lifestyle in general, are the preconditions for any and economic development and I have no dilemma in any sense, but in any case, I don't think anyone has the right to give himself that possibility of having a mortgage that he represents these topics. For me, it is not disputed any environmental organisations that organise any performance in the context of environmental protection, but I find it extremely controversial as a man who is a patriot that their overall system of values, when you go to the websites of these NGOs, is completely political, because they also have political views, they believe that there is a genocide in Srebrenica, that Serbia should in continuity apologize and that intervention, to say, a foreign international factor through various NGOs should be something that is normal in Serbia. We're not for that kind of story, and we don't think that what we could see right now for the weekend, which is a classic spin in some sense marketing and what is the classic form of the revolutionist who writes that guru, that we could see now for the weekend. However, it is not a real Serbia. Of all that, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, people who are interested in it cannot get anything, and Serbia can lose a lot of pictures that are sent in this regard. So, those who look forward to it, I think they're looking forward to some of their potential benefits in some of the choices that are coming now. We can't wait for them here at our Parliament club, to come to the National Assembly, and to fight which they are trying to lead on the street, to lead them here in Parliament, and to win for who knows which time we will win on April 3rd, and to beat them every time in some of the discussions that we will have in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and on the topic of ecology, and above all, the development of Serbia. So, live Serbia!
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-07-0.u11336	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered, before the conclusion of a joint principled search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? If not, I would like to thank the Minister and her team and all MPs for their contribution today. I hereby conclude a joint principled search. We'll continue the session tomorrow at 10:00. Thank you.
