ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-04-0.u3680	I thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, citizens of Serbia, I would like to ask a few questions about tourism, tourist destinations, hospitality, in particular, in southeastern Serbia where the centre of all of this is the Stara Planina, the top and what is most beautiful are good people and good service. I will also invite all citizens of Serbia and you here in the Assembly to visit the Old Mountain, the SP Resort Hotel and all, where now the director of the Old Mountain Goran Karadzic who was also director of the SP Resort and where there are now a large number of people who come there because of good climate, healthy air and most important of all are the good people who live there. The bottom line is that the hotel was built in the previous period, that it was a project of the state of Serbia, that it had fulfilled all of its expectations and my question, in particular, whether in the coming period, the faster it would be to build new objects, expand capacity and normally to be with the blessing of all of us here because the Old Mountain and municipalities that are concerned, where the road passes to the Old Mountain, is the municipality of Svrljig and the municipality of Bela Palanka, the town of Pirot, Kljažvac, Zaječar. These are all destinations through which you can come and try the specials that work there. When someone comes from Belgrade via the highway, Nis, via Svrlig to the Stara Planina, it would be good to stop by the Svrljig to try our specialties and it would be good to provide and identify the funds for investment and rural tourism, to host, because I think it is necessary to help the most those agricultural producers who live on that part of the road, to provide them with sufficient resources to strengthen their accommodation capacity, to sell their quality products and thus provide themselves with easier life, to ensure that they stay there and can create their families there and that through the programme the state of Serbia, more resources are allocated to each newborn child, to any unemployed fosterer who lives here and in such environments. One more thing that is important for all of us there is that power is strengthened and more buildings can be built there tomorrow, because I know the director talked about it, and I'm sure it will be done, but with the support of the Serbian state. One of the things that matters there is to solve the problem of wastewater. Another thing about catering – is there a possibility that these catering facilities, catering companies, where the founder of Serbia, and there are those here and in Belgrade, have them in Novi Sad, I think there are in Nis, these hotels owned by the state of Serbia have the same rights as private hotels, that they have the right to this minimum wage for every worker, that they have the right to grant for each bed? From what I hear, they don't have those rights. I think it would be good for state-owned businesses, as far as catering is concerned, to provide the same opportunities as private hotels, so that they can live and work normally and contribute to all of us, and such hotels, such catering businesses, are located in downtown Belgrade. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-04-0.u3681	Thank you. The word has a national emissary, Selma Kučević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-04-0.u3682	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will remind the public that during 2020, then, the Minister of Education illegally appointed the acting director of the Avdo Međedovic school in Novi Pazar. So, contrary to the express will of the staff, the school board, and also the opinions of the Bosniak National Council. Namely, it was a person who did not even participate in the competition, who was not even employed in this institution, but he, as he himself said in his public address, is a member of one of the political parties. Despite the fact that the school board, as well as the school board, supported most of the other candidate, the minister then disobeyed these important facts, ignored the electoral procedure and suspended the law, and made the appointment decision. The school's collective, as well as the employees, held protests in February 2020 in front of the school against this illegal decision, and it is important to note that the OS "Avdo Međedovic" was declared an institution of special importance for Bosniaks for the reason that complete teaching is performed in Bosnian. Due to this behaviour by the Minister of the time, which violated the right of the National Council to participate in the management of institutions of special importance, the National Council of Bosniaks addressed the Protector of Citizens, the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality and the Administrative Court with the aim of protecting the Constitution and the laws guaranteed by the Bosniaks for education in the native language. On the basis of the circumstances, the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality adopted an opinion establishing that the Ministry of Education carried out an act, namely an act of discrimination against Bosniaks and the Bosniak National Council, by appointing the acting director of the elementary school "Avdo Međedovic". The explanation also states that the Ministry of Education has been obliged to ask the Bosniak National Council for an opinion when it comes to a establishment of special importance for Bosniaks, thus reaffirming once again that the Ministry of Education blatantly discriminates against Bosniaks and the Bosniak national council by selective application of the provisions of the Constitution and law. However, it is not the end of insulting the dignity and contesting the identity of Bosniaks in the Republic of Serbia. The latest attempt to challenge the content of a very important and national identity of Bosniaks, which primarily refers to literature, history and language, comes from a member of the National Educational Council, while at the same time a member of the Serbian Philosophy Society. So, in the disputed letter of this member, the slowdown of one of the basic identity elements of the language continues, with the openness of the segregation of Bosniaks and the permanent violation of Bosniak rights. So, the academic community in Serbia should know that building its own cultural identity, denying someone else's, and believing in the existence of the superiority of a language, culture or nation are in fact the greatest delusions that can be guided by one society. So I ask the question of the Minister of Education, Mr. Ruzic -- how will he improve the relationship of this ministry to the Bosniaks of Sandzak, remove the consequences of the National Educational Council members, whose adverse performance I was talking about, and when was the debate on the report on the work of the Commissioner for the Protection of Equality and the Protector of Citizens? So, I am interested in what activities will also be undertaken in connection with the established discrimination between Bosniaks and the Bosniak National Council established by the ministry over the past year. I am also asking my question to the Prime Minister, and I am asking the Constitutional Court - what are they planning to do about these outflows of discrimination, nationalism, segregation of Bosniaks in a country where they are relevant factors? So, taking into account the "Freedom House" report on an increasingly significant drop in civil rights and political freedoms. The Bosniaks of Sandzak want to regain confidence in the institution and want to be free and equal citizens of this country, not citizens of other work, which will each time be targeted by arbitrary frustrations of individuals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-04-0.u3683	Thank you. National MP Samira Ćosovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-04-0.u3684	My question is addressed to the Commission for the granting of new employment consent and additional employment with public funds users, and it says - why does the Commission for the granting of consent for new employment and additional employment not give consent to the Museum in Prepolje for admission to work on an indefinite period of time of a graduate archaeologist and a graduate economist? In fact, several times the municipality of Prepolje, as the founder of the museum, asked the Commission to agree on the entry into the working relationship of those staffs that the museum with a complex collection are necessary for the normal operation of the museum's work. The Prepolje Museum was founded in 1990. He won a special prize from the 2012 European Museum Forum, presented in May 2013. This recognition has so far not won a single museum in the region. The museum is territorially responsible for the municipalities of Prepolje and Priboj. In the course of inspection by the Ministry of Culture and Information of the Republic of Serbia in Report No 07-00-343/2017-01, of 28 May 2018, it was found that in accordance with Article 3(3). The rule on closer conditions for the start of work and for the exercise of the activities of cultural goods protection institutions, the Prepolje Museum should have four professional associates, two of whom are missing at the moment, and above all a graduate archaeologist and curator of the documentary. Also, by retirementing a graduate economist for financial and accounting affairs two years ago, the museum does not have a permanent working relationship or a graduate economist, and it is necessary to regulate the working relationship on indefinite times and for this job, in order for financial operations to be performed regularly and in accordance with legal regulations. I note that there has been a problem in the museum for almost a decade besides these personnel problems, with the reduction of the number of workers, especially natural outflows, which is a serious difficult environment in the regular performance of this renowned institution of culture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-04-0.u3685	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Snezana Paunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-04-0.u3686	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear fellow MPs, primarily Serbian citizens, after visiting Mr. Lajcak and last night's talks, it is my great pleasure to hear an unequivocal national view that we will not agree to any pressure when it comes to our southern Serbian province. Why am I saying this in the introduction? Because a letter came to the address of the SPS parliamentary group from Mr. Petkovic Jovanovic, who was nine kilometers away from the municipality of the East. My question will be addressed to the KIM office, but first of all, like Mr. John himself, I have an ambition to draw attention to perhaps this kind of problem. So it's a village nine kilometers away from the municipality of the East, across the Wet Gora roads and their estates of water somewhere to Gazavoda. Ninety percent of the land is still owned by Serbs. For 20 years, however, none of them can go to their property except for UNMIK's escort, limited to about 30 minutes. According to Mr. Jovan, the only way to see Serbs once lived there was a local cemetery that was destroyed, but remains still exist. They made a great effort that 90% of this country, which was exploited for 21 years by nothing to testify that there once was a Serb, that it was Serbian day and day, all the houses were destroyed and according to Mr. Jovan, the tragic fate of this family, which was 40, escaped only by a miracle, because they managed to get out of the village a few minutes before the hordes of terrorists came into the village with the ambition that no one could get out of there alive. So, unfortunately, this isn't the only village in KIM that has this destiny. What is a problem for all of us is the fact that in relation to such problems, the EU has no position whatsoever, has not even considered the situation that all Serbian estates located in rural areas are exploited for 20 and a few years, used as their own, without any compensation from owners, above all because the properties are not sold, and secondly because none of them have the need to sell them. But under the circumstances that they do not have the courage and that they are not safe if they come down to their property, they cannot stop even one exploitation that has been going on 20 years ago and this could be measured even in euros in terms of damage done to Serbian citizens when it comes to such a relationship. So, under any right, and especially given the human rights that we often hear about from the representatives of Europe, these people would have to have the opportunity to use something that is theirs. Except they don't have that option, this was the only way to distract themselves. I totally understand why this guy's letter, I'll show it, the address of the SPS parliamentary group arrived. I sincerely hope and firmly believe that we will succeed as responsible state leadership, and I have no doubt that all these years we have done so, to impose this topic as much as Pristina feels it is only important that we receive some message from Washington that we must recognise independent Kosovo, no. It's important that you explain to us first why you haven't implemented any of the arrangements in the Brussels Agreement, and then why you're running away from talking on a subject like this, to call them technical details, but they're fate stories. I ask the Kosovo Office only that if it is possible, do we have an answer that the percentage of the country is usurped in this way and how many of our people who have been exiled with KIM or who live and now in KIM, without being able to go to certain locations that are risky, damaged over the past 20 years? Just as one piece of information, which we hope, in the conversations we are always ready to put on the table and eventually solve as a problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-04-0.u3687	National MP Vladimir Marinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-04-0.u3688	Thank you, Honorable President of the National Assembly, Mr. Dacic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have a few questions for the Minister of Justice and the Minister of the Interior. In fact, yesterday and during the previous days, almost all relevant world analysts wrote and spoke about what Serbia has done about the vaccination and the donation of vaccines to BiH, Montenegro, the Republic of Northern Macedonia, being the best move of soft power in the last 50 years. Also, we are witnessing what will happen in the coming months and in the next period, and as far as the pressures of course persist, which will certainly increase compared to President Vukic himself and our country in terms of KIM, which will now be much more coordinated and much more coherent, when both Brussels and Washington are concerned. In this context, I would like to ask a few questions concerning what is the central theme of our policy today and the central theme of our vital interests and everything we need here in Parliament to do as MPs and our fellow government officials, to defend Serbia and to defend our national interests. I'd like to say that even after these successful actions by the MUP and the BIA where drug cartel members have been arrested, where members of the mob have been arrested, contractors, those who belong to domestic political centres of power in order of course to eliminate those who are an obstacle to various goals. So, from domestic power centres, from foreign intelligence services, from foreign prices of power when it comes to their interests in the region and Serbia, which is President Vukic. I'm not ashamed to say it, and I want to say publicly that the worst scenario, which is the planning and attempted murder of President Vukic, has been avoided for maybe just a few days. I think that we in this Parliament and much more in public opinion in all relevant factors need to discuss this issue. Serious things happen in this country and I think that questions about culture and sport, entertainment are important, but it takes a lot more and stronger to focus on this topic and to work harder to defend our country and to defend ourselves from what has threatened us over the past few months, especially during the past few years. President Vukic is almost in a similar situation as Milan Stojadinovic in 1938. Milan Stojadinovic, then as Prime Minister, as someone who won the elections in the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, who won 80% of Serbian votes at that time in the common state, had huge challenges, huge threats and then, on the side and unfortunately, on the domestic political scene, then said that the essence of Serbia's policy is to retain old friends and create new friendships, and that those who left Serbia, Serbia and Serbia respectively, the Kingdom of Yugoslavia should avoid. We in this policy of avoiding these non-strays from abroad and domestic non-members should support President Vukic as much as possible. My question is both to the judicial authorities and to the Minister of Justice and the Minister of the Interior is that money flows are under urgent investigation. I think it's the most important thing in this whole conspiracy attempt and ultimately trying to eliminate the physical president, Vukic, to examine the property of everyone involved. We cannot ignore it, we must not underestimate the people and organisations that have tens and hundreds of millions of euros. The arrest of contractors, the fact that we may have in mind that those who were political cartridges of all this, are not talking about the fact that the capital that remained, the property that was acquired by illegal means and the coordination between the mafia, domestic power centres and foreign power centers, has remained intact. The mob had money, the mob had infrastructure, the mob had guns. The mafia had Chabu Jera, the mob was setting up and buying snipers for what was to happen, and I call on the Directorate to prevent money laundering, all relevant state institutions to immediately investigate money flows, to write under emergency the property of all those, we now have a legal basis in the Law on the Origin of Assets, to get into the process of confiscation of property, to get onto all the facilities, to take on all the property that was illegally acquired by the Serbian flag, when it was taken away for the worst part of the high-rise that had happened in Serbia in the past few months, with a warning that the worst had not passed and that the security services had to do much to protect the president and to protect this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-04-0.u3689	Thank you. Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, answer for word, we continue to work. Dear Members of Parliament, since we have carried out a search on the agenda points of the session, pursuant to Article 87(5). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby set Thursday on 4 March 2021, starting at 10.36 p.m. as the Day of Vote on the agendas of the First Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2021. Before we move to a decision on the agenda points, we need to determine the quorum. According to Article 88(5), The Rules of Procedure, a quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the voting day, exists if most of the total number of MPs are present at the National Assembly session. I ask the Members of Parliament to insert the cards into the MPs' units. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that at this time 160 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and therefore there are conditions for decision-making. We're moving on to a decision. Before moving to a decision, I remind you that on the basis of Article 105(3), paragraphs 4 and 6. The Constitution of Serbia, the National Assembly, decides on laws governing public borrowing and the conclusion and demand of international contracts, by a majority of the votes of all MPs. I put to the vote the draft law confirming the framework loan agreement LD 2034 (2020), between the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe and the Republic of Serbia for the project loan – Infrastructure in culture, in general. Please press the corresponding key. I am stopping the vote: 165 in total, for – 162, the three voted. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. The second item of the agenda, since the National Assembly has carried out a single search, and before moving to a decision, I remind you that according to Article 105 paragraph 2 point 13. The constitution of Serbia, the National Assembly, elects judges by majority of the votes of all MPs. I put to the vote the motion for a decision on the election of judges who are first elected to office as judges, in general. Please press the corresponding key. I am stopping the vote: a total of 167 for – 167 did not vote three. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by a majority of the votes of all MPs. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and decision on them, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby conclude the First Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2021. At the same time, I'd like to inform you that I scheduled the Second Session for Tuesday at 10:00. Thank you. (The session is closed at 10.40 hours. )
