ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-22-0.u11664	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the 14th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2021. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 92 MPs. In order to determine the number of present in the O.R., I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the MPs. I find that the application of the electronic system has established that 97 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that at least 84 MPs are present, and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. We're continuing our work. We are moving on to a joint principle and uniform search on the draft laws referred to in paragraphs 7 to 10 and from the 14th to the 16th agenda. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I inform you that they are invited to attend: Branko Ružić, First Vice-President of the Government, Minister of Education, Science and Technological Development; Siniša Mali, Minister of Finance; Angelka Atanasković, Minister of Industry; Tomislav Momirović, Minister of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure; Nikola Selaković, Minister of Foreign Affairs; Saša Stevanović and Slavica Savičić, State Secretary; Biljana Vuksanovic, State Secretary; Sonja Taljan, Assistant Minister; Dusan Vucković, Assistant Minister, Ognje Popović, Minister's Assistant; Milutin Đurović and Aleksandar Jović, Minister's Assistant; Vera Vukić, Minister's Assistant; Vladimir Marić, Director of the Institute for Intellectual His Intellectuals; Ana Trip, Minister of Finance, Minister of Finance of Finance of Public Affairs of the Republic of Slovenia. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 157(2) and Article 170(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint principled and unified search. Do the proposing representatives want a word at the very beginning? The word is made by Minister Sinisha Mali. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-22-0.u11665	Thank you very much. Dear President, honourable Members of the People, ladies and gentlemen, respected citizens of Serbia, you today have proposed several laws that are extremely important to us and I will brief you on all these laws and amendments of the same and then I will remain at your disposal if you have any questions, comments or criticism. What is particularly important, the first law that is before you today, is the proposal for a law on the capital market, an entirely new system law, which should contribute to the creation of a more transparent and safer capital market in our country, given that our country has, even in spite of the Kovid 19 pandemic, achieved high rates of growth in our economy. Our goal is, and we always fight for it, that and you know, that year after year our economy is growing as fast as possible. The rapid growth of our economy, of course, means higher wages and higher pensions, so a better standard of living, more money in the budget, more money and more investment in capital investments. It is the safest and only possible sustainable way of growing our economy. Then why is this Capital Market Act important? Namely, all our companies, even the state, to provide their funding must have a strong and stable capital market, with strong institutions guaranteeing investment security and on the other hand, to have an even greater number of instruments available in which they can finance their growth and development, therefore, to depend not only on bank loans, but also on the possibility that in the capital market, like in all more developed countries in the world, they can make and find money to buy equipment, to open new plants, to grow and develop, because growth and development of our economy is in fact growth and development of our economy as a whole. Four are very important things about this law that I want to mention. It implies strengthening institutions that regulate the capital market. I'm thinking a little too much here on the Securities Committee and the Central Securities Register. Secondly, this law creates preconditions or conditions to connect to Euroclear, which is the most important and largest system based on which actions or documents of value are traded or purchased when even the state is concerned. Number three, this law allows us both greater and wider diapazon instruments that will be available to our economy in order to provide additional sources of funding. I will also remind you that last year, at this time, we also adopted a new Law on Cryptocurrency, which also regulates this area and which is very important to us, because again, we cannot avoid the existence of a cryptocurrency and increasing popularity. In this way we provide, too, the possibility for our economy to provide the money it needs for development in many ways. Lastly, perhaps most importantly, therefore, this law is fully in line with MiFID II. These are the standards that investors require of us to meet in an even greater number to come into our country, to invest in securities of value when it comes to the state, in order to also invest directly in our economy. It is in line with EU normatives, and finally, this is, you know, one of the reform objectives that we have in agreement with the IMF, to further stimulate the growth of our economy. So this is a system law, a law that will contribute greatly to the development of our economy, the provision of additional sources of funding, and on this side I expect your support. If you have any questions, I will be and remain at my disposal. You also have before you a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on electronic invoices. Only one change is, therefore, a change in terms of deadlines. What this law defines, the obligation of a public entity, or a public sector entity, to receive and maintain an electronic invoice and to issue an electronic invoice to another public sector entity, therefore, that deadline shall be moved from 31 December to 1 January of the following year on 1 May of the following year. All other deadlines remain as defined in the previous law. So this is an extremely important law for us, an extremely important process. Imagine Serbia in early 2023, when this whole process is over, without paper invoices, everything will be electronic. On the one hand, it's very important because of the transparency, the public, the efficiency of the entire system, and on the other hand, that's exactly what our economy is looking for. We listen to businessmen, we listen to our business. The establishment of an e-facture system creates conditions for VAT vomiting to occur in the same day. If the entry and exit invoice are matched electronically, the tax administration shall return VAT to the economy, which shall also contribute to their liquidity and security. I say it's one of the most important demands of our economy. This is how we systemically solve this problem. I want to point to the fact and process of the so-called e-facture system. e-fiscalization, a new system currently being implemented and from 1 May of next year we will have a completely new system of fiscalization in application in our country. Here, at this point we keep our promise and keep it, of course, constantly -- we pay subsidies every week to all those who get new fiscal devices. More than 50,000 economic operators have already received subsidies from the Republic of Serbia's budget. We've already spent a billion dollars on that somewhere, but what matters to me is that this process is going slowly. At this point we have over 50, which software, which is fiscal devices, hardware, which are already available on the market to our economy and I am using this opportunity to point out and call on our businesses to apply for subsidies, to take advantage of what the state is giving 100 euros per location and 100 euros per fiscal device to anyone who is obliged to new fiscalization, and on the other hand, to do so as soon as possible, to make and provide a better and more transparent system. I don't have to tell you how much this means in the fight against the gray economy. This is one of the most important reasons for setting up e-factures and establishing a new fiscalization system. So we're fighting an illegal economy. The economy is very important to deal with illegal competition. We're fighting the gray economy, and on the other hand, we're editing and making a much more transparent and secure system. Also, for this law I remain available for questions if you have them. The third law that is before you today is the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Act establishing a second guarantee scheme. I'm just going to take the opportunity to point out a few figures that are very important to us. As you know, when the Kovida-19 pandemic started, the Republic of Serbia, the state, reacted quickly and efficiently, here at this point, with more than eight billion euros in total, to mitigate the negative consequences of Kovid - 19, one economic assistance programme last year, two programmes this year. Part of these programmes was also a guarantee scheme, and that guarantee scheme allowed the state to guarantee loans to banks to businesses, so we took advantage of the liquidity the banking sector had to provide, on the other hand, liquidity for our businesses and as a result you have a small drop in our economic activity last year. This year we will have a record growth of over 7.4-7.5 per cent, in these two years Serbia will have the highest economic growth of all countries in Europe. This is the result of the work of all Serbian citizens, but partly and partly the result of the guarantee schemes we have implemented. The first guarantee scheme, over 2.4 billion euros were granted, 37,994 loans with the guarantee of the Republic of Serbia. That number of companies got credit, got support through banks, with the guarantee of the Serbian state and that's what saved our economy, made it impossible to shut down production facilities and save jobs. We helped, if you remember, by paying minimum earnings, by moratorium to repay the loan, direct assistance, for example, for city hotels, but this guarantee scheme proved to be a real hit and provided this through the necessary liquidity to our economy. The amendments to this law are summed up in one sentence -- what we want to provide -- we want to provide those sectors, mostly here I mean travel transport, catering, tourist agencies and hotels in cities, so those sectors that are still the most vulnerable and most affected by the Kovida pandemic -- 19, to allow them to, if they have already returned the orderly loans they have taken, that they can take them back. It's a request just for companies in those sectors. By listening to them, we want to meet them. So this is great news for them and a great possibility that if they have already returned the money they have taken, that they may also have the right to take the money again under the same conditions. The next law that is before you is the law, i.e. the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Special Authorisations, in order to effectively protect intellectual property rights. So, this is the law in front of the Ministry of Industry, and this solution proposes to transfer responsibilities for the identification and existence of infringements of intellectual property rights, and in particular the rights to computer programs, software and databases as secondary activities of the tax administration to the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications, i.e. market inspection. Otherwise, this is a recommendation from the International Monetary Fund as part of a broader reform of the tax administration, so that this authority of the tax administration, by amending this law, will move on to the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications. You are also facing a very important Law today to confirm the loan agreement between the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe and the Republic of Serbia for the loan of university infrastructure. This is an extremely important law for us. One of our priorities is to work on strengthening the infrastructure, when it comes to education. We will use this money for the following projects, and for the construction of new buildings and existing buildings at seven universities, and this is a total of 10,600 square meters: Faculty of Music Arts - construction and equipment of new buildings for music and art dance, ballet; Faculty of Applied Arts - construction and equipment of new objects; Faculty of Fine Arts - reconstruction and equipment of five existing facilities and two completely new buildings; campus of technical universities - expansion of the Faculty of Electrical Engineering, construction of joint facilities of campuses, as well as the rehabilitation of existing buildings and equipment; colleges of geography and security - building and equipment of a completely new building; Faculty of Science - building and equipment of new buildings. So 13,000 university students in Belgrade will benefit from these projects. What we want to provide them are much, much better conditions for learning, for advancement, for training, for schooling. What we lack, as you have the opportunity to see, is labour, because we are already opening a large number of factories, a large number of jobs are opening up, and on the other hand we need to provide our young people with even better conditions for education. This particular project, therefore, is exactly what this law allows. We're extremely proud of what we've done to make a deal like this. The project is estimated at 155.2m euros. So we're going to invest that much in buildings and infrastructure when it comes to the university. In front of you today is also the proposal for a law on the confirmation of the Zajm which is related to the construction of the Iverak highway – Lajkovac, i.e. Valjevo – Lajkovac. This is a very important project for us. As you know, one of the pillars of our economic growth is investment in capital investments. Iverak – Likovac or Valjevo – Lijkovac is just one of the roads currently being built in Serbia. So we're building nine, or 10, which is fast traffic, which is highways. It's never invested in our road infrastructure again, in rail infrastructure. As you know, we've also started with projects to build sewers by our local self-government, wastewater treatment plants. So with this project, this loan, this law provided the money as long as it takes for the Iverak-Likovac highway to be completed. The agreement before you is worth 134.3m euros. So that's 85% of the total project. The remaining part of the investment is secured from the Republika Srpska budget. You are also facing today a bill confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Kingdom of Cambodia on visa waiver for holders of diplomatic and official passports. This law proposes confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Kingdom of Cambodia on the abolition of visas for holders of diplomatic and official passports. Citizens of both countries will be allowed to enter, cross territory, stay and leave the territory of the other side without a visa for up to 30 days. So, honourable MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, a few extremely important laws are in front of you today. If you vote the Capital Market Act, we will give additional incentive to the development of our financial market for development, of course, our economy. I think this loan for the construction of the university infrastructure is extremely, extremely important. It shows how committed we are to strengthening the capacity of our young people and strengthening our educational institutions. Not to mention the project of ending the Valjevo-Lajkovac highway. So these are all agreements, all of these are projects that are very important to us. We're approaching the end of the year, but as you can see, we're not stopping. So we'll never stop when it comes to reforms. We're going with electronic invoices, we're going with the e-fiscalization process. So we're building an extremely transparent process and fiscal space, let's say, when it comes to the business of our companies. On the other hand, when it comes to the budget, we don't stop. When capital investments are at stake, I said earlier, investing in university infrastructure and all that is necessary to speed up the growth rates of our economy and create preconditions and conditions for even faster growth in the years ahead. Thank you very much. I'll stay at my disposal for all questions, if you have them.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-22-0.u11666	Thank you, Mr. Minister. We're moving on to committee representatives. The first word is the chairman of the Committee on European Integration, Elvira Kovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-22-0.u11667	Thank you, Your Honor. The presidency, Mr. Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, as is known in order to strengthen investor confidence in the domestic market and attract foreign investors, has been amended by the Capital Market Act in 2016, if we look back only a few years. With these changes, therefore from 2016, further alignment has been made with EU regulations governing market abuses, as well as sanctioning these same abuses. In the context of the accession process of the Republic of Serbia and the two negotiating positions, the negotiating positions of the Republic of Serbia for Chapter 9 – financial services, as well as for Chapter 6 – the right of business societies, the Republic of Serbia, among other things, has taken the obligation to fully comply with the Capital Market Act both with EU directives and with European Community directives which, of course, regulate these topics, trade in securities. The final revision of the national so-called The NPI or the National Programme Plan for the adoption of EU legal flows, which is a detailed, multi-annual plan and programme for the harmonisation of domestic rules with EU rules. The deadline that the Republic of Serbia has taken on itself, so the deadline for full compliance with EU legal fluids in this field is now about to expire or the end of 2021. It must be noted that this proposal or the adoption of this Capital Market Act is also foreseen by the Capital Market Development Strategy for the period from 2021 to 2026. The strategy, of course, was brought by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. As we have heard in the presentation of the Honorable Mr. Minister, the provisions of the new Capital Market Act contribute to improving the efficiency of the domestic capital market, greater transparency, extremely significant legal certainty of market participants and, above all, domestic and foreign investors. It simplifies access to capital sources, primarily small and medium-sized enterprises, reduces systemic risk on the capital market. In particular, the new principles and rules on prospectuses to be drawn up, approved and published in the course of the public offer of HOV are important. In addition, a provision on the right to pledge on financial instruments is introduced, the investment company's obligation to carry out an assessment of the similarity of the client and the suitability of the investment service when providing investment council services. It shall also extend the obligations and powers of the Commission for HOV in reporting and monitoring. What is clear to all is that one of the basic objectives of this bill is to increase the participation of the capital market in the financial sector, which currently stands at only 10%. I mentioned two negotiating positions in the EU's accession process for Chapter 9 and Chapter 6. When we look at the latest reports of the European Commission, as we know in mid-October this year, we read a detailed part of the report relating to these two negotiating positions, it is clear that the European Commission's latest reports recognise that it was already in the making of this Capital Market Act before us and that the aim is to fully align with the Transparency Directive for listed societies. The report also says the HOV Commission is officially appointed a mechanism. On the other hand, the European Commission's report stresses that no planned adoption of amendments and additions to the Capital Market Act has been implemented, which would comply with this law with the Financial Instrument Market Directives and the Finality of Salating Directives in Payment Systems and SALD systems. It is also stressed that the latest amendments to the Capital Market Act, adopted at the end of last year, are, in particular, 17 December 2020, that it does not apply to the EU, to any harmonisation, but concerns rules in the single prospectus relating to the debtors' HOV. Therefore, as we have highlighted on the very Committee on European Integration, from the point of view of harmonisation, we certainly support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-22-0.u11668	I thank the Committee on European Integration. The word has the chairman of the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds, Dr. Aleksandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-22-0.u11669	Dear Chairman, honourable ministers, fellow Members of Parliament, on the Committee, we discussed these draft laws and agreements with great satisfaction because when we talk about the new Capital Market Act, then I will remind you that a few days ago we had the opportunity here to choose a new assembly of members of the Council of the Board of the Board of Staff and a new, or an old president and committee when we had sessions where they reported their work and, of course, our financial plan, we are aware that the Commission for the HOV that was in 2012 was no longer the same in the first place in 2021 because it had received many new powers. Secondly, the way it works in general in co-operation with its committees and users of their services is done in a completely modern way in which it is clearly in line with European standards. What my colleague, the President of the Committee on European Integrations, said, they have come to work with their work, regardless of what has come to the turn of the new Capital Market Act today, already applied certain European directives and processes, and in fact, in a natural way, that such a law, which the working group used to do in collaboration with all economic operators, with capital market users, with the NBS Commission, has made one such proposal, of course, in collaboration with the Ministry of Finance and as such, we have it on the agenda today. Let me remind you that the first law was passed in 2011 and after that suffered many changes, and obviously there was a need for this, but in fact the primary goal is to ensure greater confidence in investors to invest in the capital market when it comes to the Republic of Serbia, but therefore to raise the stock market to one higher level, the level that both representatives of the Commission and the users of the stock exchange were constantly talking about. the shallow stock exchange, i.e. there are no large transactions with aid which would in a certain way speed up that turnover of capital markets and establish a particular stock market in terms of securities of value. In the meantime, of course, you have proposed a new Digital Property Act. Of course, you are following new trends, and therefore the Securities Commission has received new competences in that part when we talk about the laws on audits, accounting laws. What are the objectives of this law to increase investor protection, to provide better quality market material, to reduce capital costs when it comes to accessing capital in general, to facilitate innovation incentives on the capital market. We had one law yesterday regarding innovation. More and more software companies, the company enters the sector when it comes to the banking system, when it comes to the flow of goods and services. In a completely new way, this capital and securities market also works. As you can see, Serbia is harmonising its provisions with European directives and chapters that I think no other country in the region is going at that speed. In recognition of this, the IMF, which approved the practical first phase, gave its conclusion in the report that Serbia is committed to implementing reforms that need to go even faster and the path it is being welcomed by the IMF. In addition to the high growth rates in next year, it is indeed recognised that what we are planning to continue with a growth of 4.5% and a reduced 3% deficit is also shown through these agreements that we have on the agenda today, especially when we talk about a Chinese bank, a loan of 134m and 300,000 euros. This is 85% of the Chinese bank's participation in various infrastructure projects, we heard from the minister, those 15% of course Serbia participates in various projects, especially for this part of the highway related to Iverak-Lajkovac, which is actually a link between the two highways. I think it's of great importance that we show that we combine both the east and the west and the north and the south in the corridors. That is why we say today that we are currently working 10 highways in Serbia. What was important to us as members of the Committee is that the terms of the loan are favourable and that what is most important is that four years of 15 years of grace period of this loan, that for not withdrawing funds is even a very small charge, i.e. a 0.5% rate, that a three-month payment is and that a mandatory policy of 9.5m euros has been issued. As for the agreement given by the Bank of the Council of Europe, I think it is of paramount importance when we talk about university infrastructure. Practically, the last 50 years have not been done this new thing, 95 million we invest in university infrastructure, six sub-projects, 90,600 squares will be built, reconstructed for 13,000 students, or for the use of over 100,000 students of six institutions of great importance. The education ministry should define 60m euros together with the finance ministry. What's important is that this loan of course has a five-year grace period for 20 years of payment to go into two tranches and from this year to 2026 we'll go into realisation. So, everyone is also covered by the university, the Music Academy, then, the Academy of Arts, the campus of technical sciences, we think that everything that the Ministry of Education and Science needs to show is so advanced that it's just past this health infrastructure, which we've mostly done during the pandemic now comes a time when we really need to define Serbia's rapid growth and development and innovation and apply to that and to the training of our staff and what we think is that you haven't bypassed any culture, or technical sciences, not even the Faculty of Science, or the Faculty of Chemistry, which shows that all areas when it comes to education are covered by this guarantee of credit. I think Serbia is really going a good way when you see today's draft agenda. That is why the Finance Committee calls on all MPs to vote in favour of these proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-22-0.u11670	Thank you and the Finance Committee. The President of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, Jelena Zaric Kovacevic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-22-0.u11671	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with Associates, Ladies and gentlemen People's MPs, today we have proposals on the agenda for laws that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives assessed are in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, from which I would first set out a proposal concerning measures of assistance and support for the economy due to the negative impact of the Kovid-19 pandemic. We are all aware of the fact that the Kovid-19 pandemic has had a bad impact on the European and world economy. Of course it's normal for the consequences to feel the same way with us. However, from session to session here in the National Assembly, we can see that the Serbian government is working intensively to mitigate the negative effects of the pandemic's influence, which, according to citizens as natural persons, is according to legal persons, that is, according to Serbia's economy in general. It should be recalled that in just four months we opened two new Kovid hospitals in Kraševec and Batajnica, and then another one in Novi Sad. People's health has been and will always be first. At the very beginning, we fought the market for a sufficient number of respirators, after which we threw the accent on the immunisation of the population and provided a number of different vaccines, from which citizens could choose and receive them for free, unlike many countries and in our environment and in Europe, which we helped with a number of doses of vaccines or in such a way that their citizens could come to our country and inoculate themselves absolutely free of charge. Now we can also talk about a drug that has arrived in Serbia against the coronary virus. A few days ago, we also heard from President Alexander Vukic, who presented the cure and said that he would arrive for 50,000 people first, and then he would arrive for everyone else who naturally needed this medicine. In addition, we see and hear today and from Cynthia's Little Minister of Finance that the state is also working to implement measures that will help our economy which the pandemic has had a negative impact on, and I believe that this proposal should be supported in any case. Another proposal that I wanted to point out today refers to the construction of the national road Loznica – Valjevo – Lazarec, which shows that despite the negative consequences of Kovid 19 we continue to in the year marked by the pandemic to complete the projects but also to start projects to build our country. We haven't stopped building roads, modernising railways, or projects in any action, because our country now has money, we have a secure state register, but of course we also have conditions to stand behind each of the projects started and to complete it within the scheduled time limit. President Aleksandar Vucic, at the opening of works on the construction of the Nis-Merdare highway in the length of 76.3 kilometers, said it would be a road built for the development of the Toplica and certainly part of the Nisav County, but also to establish better relations with Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija and closer relations with Albanians. At that time, he recalled, I would like to reiterate that this month will work on the construction of as many as ten highways, i.e. shares, which are the Frushkogorski Corridor, Ruma-Shabac-Loznica, Kuzmin-Sremska Raca, Preljina-Požega, Moravski Corridor, Surcin-Novi Belgrade, a bypass around Belgrade sector B, Požarevac-Golubac, Nis-Pločnik and a bypass around Kragujevac. Therefore, I believe that the laws that are before us today are good, I believe that they deserve support and I call on the end of my colleague and colleagues to support them in the day of the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-22-0.u11672	I would like to thank the chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law. The word is held by the chairman of the Committee on Economic Affairs, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy, MP Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-22-0.u11673	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Committee on Economy was of the opinion to propose to the National Assembly to adopt the draft law in principle, the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Special Authorities in order to effectively protect intellectual property rights. Usually when we say that such matter is regulated by some law, our citizens are not even aware of how important this activity is about this protection of intellectual property. Unfortunately, even those who participate in the so-called industries are not aware. creative ones who rest on intellectual property. For example, in the film industry, music, software, publishing books, and that the creative industry participates in the gross product of the Republic of Serbia with about 5%, which is just over two billion six, seven hundred million euros. I would just like to remind our citizens what it was in the past, because the job of the Republic of Serbia is to worry about the protection of every property, including intellectual property, just to remind you what it looked like, let's say, during the former regime. For example, those who wanted to watch the movie at the film "Zamfirov Zone" from Shotra were able to notice that there was always a security guard who looked after copies of the film and that one of the audiences or viewers did not make the film, so that they would later put it on some image bearer. This, of course, required the costs that film producers had, i.e. the owners of the film to protect their intellectual property, and at that time it was the job of the state to take care of it. So at least I'm surprised, why some of the operators of our film industry don't come back a little bit in that period when they had to pay their own security to keep copies of their intellectual property, their film and attack the SNS government that took over, that's what the state is doing. And it works very well. I must also commend the Ministry of Finance and the Tax Administration. Lately, participation in the black market for intellectual property has been reduced by about 10%, and each percentage that returns to legal flows provides about 1,000 new jobs. I understand why the Tax Administration insisted that this law be consistently implemented, however, through the resolution of all these problems introduced into the system of full protection of intellectual property, we have reached one level when it is no longer necessary for a strict body such as the Republic Tax Administration to implement this part of the law, and this has now been transferred to the Market Inspectorate, i.e. the Ministry of Trade and Tourism. I hope that our market inspection will continue to carry out this law just as successfully as the IRS did. We have confidence in our Market Inspectorate, I know that the staff in the inspection are fast-tracking and that younger people who are full of energy, full of knowledge, are hired to make a first contribution to the development of our society and Serbia as a whole. About how some have acted ungratefully towards the Republic of Serbia on the protection of intellectual property, I will speak in the debate in principle, and we will also ask some questions that may be very interesting to them. I am particularly interested in one other part, and if you have every right to work, to have the protection of the state, to make a profit, to tell us to the MPs and to the Serbian public, what do you lack in Serbian society to stop attacking both SNS and Serbian President Alexander Vukic without any arguments?
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-22-0.u11674	Thank you. Since we are no longer chairman of the board, we are moving to the authority of the representatives or presidents of the parliamentary groups. The first word has a national MP, Misala Pramenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-22-0.u11675	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Dear Ministers, representatives of the ministry, colleagues and fellow MPs, as we had the opportunity to hear from the minister in the opening presentation, we today have a set of extremely important laws from several, we can even say different areas. I will first refer to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Special Authorisations for the effective protection of intellectual property rights. If we look at the legislative regulation that is in force, or valid in the Republic of Serbia, we will see that in fact the subject of intellectual property protection is a spiritual immaterial creation which is a creation of man, and in this sense we can say that it includes literary, visual, musical works, different software programs, etc. In fact, intellectual property differs from material property in terms of protecting abstract concepts, i.e. products of human creativity. In that sense, intellectual property has its value, meaning and it is something owned, as well as material property. The legal regulation that protects it is extremely important, since we have a tendency to keep growing this species, we can freely say creations of human or creativity which is also profitable, and on the other hand, really useful. When it comes to property rights, as well as material property, it is necessary to request permission to use a specific product of a human being, as well as intellectual property, to request and obtain permission from the author of a particular piece. In addition to the need for a permit to be understood and it is necessary for the author of a particular creation to be signed in order to establish and preserve its copyright. The law divides intellectual property into two areas, which are copyright and related rights and another type is industrial property. Under the first jurisdiction of copyright and related rights, it means or are protected films, computer programs and games, music products, literary and scientific works, and when it comes to industrial property, then different stamps, patents, even geographical labels, etc. are protected. If I am not mistaken, the legislative regulation at the level of the Republic of Serbia protects this type of property with six legal solutions and several sublaws, which will certainly be further improved with these amendments and amendments, since we have said that it is a branch of action that is constantly in expansion and it requires an adequate reaction to the legislation itself. Just mentioned the copyright issue in a situation where it is necessary for the author to be consulted, approved and signed at the very least. If there is a violation of these rights, the author may sometimes claim his right in court, however, in the light of material compensation, or compensation. However, we will agree that this is not always an adequate substitute, because the author of a particular piece is more important to be recognizable by his creation and to be signed, than he will later receive the form of compensation. In that sense, there should be a lot more sensitivity in terms of use, like photography, different types of videos, etc., and very often today the media, the fact is, they can break this, let's say, moral code regarding respect for the right of the one who created a certain thing. In fact, as far as the amendments to this law are concerned, we note that, as we feel, from the Republic tax inspection, jurisdiction is transferred to market inspection, i.e. to the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications, and thus further needs the protection intensity of this kind of property to continue. In addition, the intellectual property programme is included in this legal solution by computer programs, which are present today and how it is present in terms of the IT sector branch, which is taking on more and more wave and further needs to be prevented as far as possible the issue of the grey economy, i.e. markets operating under illegal principles. When we talk about ideas themselves, patenting, signing and authorship in general, it may be interesting to mention the fact that ideas in fact and certain works, or products of human creativity or creation, were not signed until a more modern age, to say the earlier ideas were not signed, because on the other hand it was thought that no one would steal the idea. Today we see that the market is ruthless, and even in this field we need to regulate certain principles. The next legal solution you would like to address is the law on amendments and additions to the Law on electronic invoices. We've heard that a system of electronic invoices is being introduced and that the deadline shifts in a few months, but this is an extremely important principle where the training of public sector entities is predicted in terms of electronic invoices. A public list of electronic invoice systems is being introduced to speed up business processes for business operators and the public sector. We see, in terms of the possibility of VAT being recovered, that the electronic system of invoices will certainly allow for a number of reliefs, more expedient, more transparent and more efficient work, and in that sense, the fact that all those powerful papers will be avoided in terms of invoices and the possibility of losing that archive. We certainly support the reform of the public sector and this type of electronic invoice. The question of the Capital Market Act, another field which, as an intellectual property, is constantly in the process of expansion, change, slight increase or fall, where appropriate legal response should be made. We see that this legal solution actually offers certain stability, legal certainty to economic operators, both domestic and foreign, which will be on the capital market, on the other hand, is regulated by the single market and their legal position. The Capital Market Act was first passed in 2011, 10 years ago and since then has suffered several changes, and certainly this practice requires it to be very variable, let's say, with parameters. On the other hand, we have heard that this type of legislation is also a alignment with EU laws on stability. The fact is that in the last ten years, that is, for the last decade, the global economic crisis has affected the mild instability of the market, both globally and domestically, and here we have certain changes and therefore it is necessary to legally specify and regulate, give certain security and make the domestic market more attractive for both domestic and foreign investors. The issue of loans from the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe in terms of the development of university infrastructure is another issue that is extremely important. Investment or investment in education this time in higher education is something very important, which should be pursued, sought and certainly supported. We see that seven universities at the level of Belgrade, or colleges that are part of the University of Belgrade, are either fully adapted in certain segments or that buildings are done over and will undoubtedly affect the quality of work and improve the skills of the students themselves. What would be our suggestion is that this principle of university infrastructure development is passed on to other cities, university cities in the Republic of Serbia, such as Nis, Kragujevac, Novi Pazar, Novi Sad, etc. So in this direction it should work, because investment in education itself is something that brings results in the long term and what needs to be done and certainly is one of the strategic objectives. With regard to the proposal for a law confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Kingdom of Cambodia on visa waiver for holders of diplomatic and official passports, this is a kind of contract, or agreement that certainly represents strengthening co-operation between the two countries, is a bilateral agreement, as a significant step towards improving political relations. In addition, this agreement will make it easier for both countries to carry official and diplomatic passports for up to 30 days so that, without additional visas and additional bureaucracy, they can stay on the territory of both countries. So this agreement certainly merits attention and support. The issue of State support for infrastructure itself, i.e. the economy in terms of recovery as far as possible from the pandemic caused by the Kovid 19 virus, is something to continue to persist on and, if possible, the diapazone itself, or the spectrum of those covered by certain types of aid, to be extended. This time they are hosts, hotelers in the city area, other types of businessmen, car carriers, etc. We have repeatedly pointed out from the position of our MP club and our Justice and Reconciliation Party that different types of subsidies and aid to agricultural producers, producers of other business activities that may have been threatened and felt the consequences of the current pandemic. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-22-0.u11676	I would like to thank the authorised representative of the Parliamentary Group of the Justice and Reconciliation Party - the United Peasants' Party. The president of the SDPS parliamentary group, MP Branimir Jovanovic, now has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-22-0.u11677	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Ministers, respected representatives of ministries, colleagues and colleagues, the situation itself from 10 years ago and perhaps a little more when there was a collapse on all world stock exchanges, and when it spilled into smaller stock exchanges, as is the Belgrade Stock Exchange, tells us how important the Capital Market Act is. I expect this law in the future to create such an environment that will send a positive message and will be a positive signal to foreign investors and will restore confidence in this kind of property, that is, trade in this kind of property. The aim is to ensure, above all, that our legal system ensures safety for all market participants, that our market becomes more attractive for investors, that the conditions for access and business on the market are clearly prescribed and easily recognized by all those who want to operate. Also, this is how we align our laws with the legal framework of the European Union and the implementation of such legal norms that apply everywhere in Europe and are in force in developed countries of the world we will achieve that access to our market is made easier, that investors are doing better and more efficiently in the market. This, of course, will also motivate donors to broadcast securities of value and will make it easier for them to get faster and more efficient at the new financial resources needed for business. All this leads to greater transport and development of the capital market, and it is important for us to work on developing a competitive, productive, efficient capital market with a wide range of financial instruments and services. I will also remind myself that the Government of the Republic of Serbia recently adopted a Strategy for the Development of the Capital Market for the period from 2021 to 2026, and that strategy should create a good basis for using a wider range of financial instruments for the benefit of the economy, but also for the benefit of the population. The long-term goal is to reduce the dependence of small and medium-sized enterprises on bank financing, to reduce the dependence of such enterprises on state subsidies, to further work through new financial opportunities to accelerate economic growth, to invest more in the innovative industry and, of course, to contribute to the creation of new jobs. In fact, the proposal of the Law on electronic invoices refers only to the setting of new deadlines, the movement of deadlines relating to the start of application of certain obligations arising from the law. The electronic invoice law has already affected the increased visibility of transactions between public sector entities, as well as between private sector entities. The process of issuing invoices by electronic means, as well as paying is much faster, is cheaper, and the possibility of error is reduced to a minimum. By switching to electronic invoices, savings are achieved, above all when using postal services. Companies that issue a large number of invoices, such as wholesale companies must rely on the allocation of certain funds solely for this procedure, for this procedure. Electronic invoices in this way bring up to 60% of the savings to businesses. I'm going to point to a picturesque case, for example. If only the postal service costs 75 dinars, if a large company is issuing a monthly thousand invoices, we clearly come up with the fact that it's 75,000 dinars a month, if we talk about large companies, it's much more savings, we multiply by 12 months, we come up with a serious amount of money at an annual level that companies can move to other priority issues and thus improve their business. Another advantage of electronic invoices is savings in time. It directly affects the increase in efficiency in work, and this particularly concerns that part of the private sector for which it is very important to apply these methods in business. In addition to archiving and entering data, time is also spent on paying bills, especially if electronic banking is not used and we all know how long it takes to physically go to the bank to pay a certain account. From the angle of the recipient, the electronic invoice allows significant time savings, data are quickly entered, the payment process is facilitated, and the review of all invoices is simple. The fact is that this kind of exchange of invoices has not yet been fully accepted by us, has not been accepted in much more developed countries in the capacity in which it can be, but those who use electronic invoices and how they have so far come to know the advantages of this kind of business. Experience shows that the degree of adoption of the e-facture is relatively low and varies from country to country, somewhere from 8% in those countries that have recently adopted such a procedure in business to 40% in highly developed European countries. When we talk about the structure of the company, i.e. small and medium-sized enterprises, the number of e-factures exchanged is still not at a high level, but it encourages the fact that the adoption rate is on the rise, from year to year more companies and state institutions recognise the benefits of electronic invoices. In order to get a clearer picture, I will say that the number of e-factures exchanged only five years ago in the European Union was over 35 billion. Amendments and additions of the Special Authorisation Act to the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications, in order to effectively protect intellectual property rights, entail the transfer of jurisdiction from the Ministry of Finance, in particular from the Tax Administration, to the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications, specifically to market inspection. The characteristics of the time in which we live are daily innovations, new brands, different product looks, protected food products based on a particular origin, so that they are all created as a product of the human mind, a product of the human spirit and modern business is actually based on knowledge, creativity, marketing, new technologies, and it is important to protect inventions and innovations, i.e. to protect intellectual property. We need to define the best legal framework that will guarantee the protection of such a species that no product can be used for commercial purposes, nor can it be sold without the consent of its inventor. Legal regulation of this area is important for every country because the interest of every country in the time in which we live is to support creativity, or all those technologies, or all those products that are based precisely on creativity. At a time when ideas and data exchanges are being exchanged, it is important that we respond in due time, to coordinate regulations in order to arrange an area relating to the protection of intellectual property rights. The objective of regulating intellectual property rights should be to create an ambience in which authors protect their rights and to achieve adequate compensation. Unfortunately, the speed that creates and publishes content on the Internet often leads to damage to intellectual property rights. We therefore insist that these rights be unequivocally protected by law. Without the consent of the copyright holder, no one shall use any of its works, whether it be text, photo, audio or video, and anyone who assumes certain content must have the consent of the rightholder. It is also interesting that our creative industries produce about 7% of gross domestic products annually and employ over 100,000 people. The Social Democratic Party of Serbia, of course, will support changes and additions to such a law. We will also support, of course, the draft law establishing a framework loan agreement between the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe and the Republic of Serbia, which concerns the project loan – university infrastructure. This is how we continue to invest in education, specifically in higher education. I will remind you that a few months ago we only supported one project relating to the renovation of student accommodation for student homes in Belgrade and Nis. We continue with the same practice now. It is clear to all of us that we need more highly educated people, that education is an engine for the development of a society. The data is that about 40% of young people today are defined to enroll in college, and we need to motivate them in this way to make that number as high as possible, by improving the conditions of study. The data is that about 40% of young people today are defined to enroll in college, and we need to motivate them in this way, to make that number as high as possible, by improving the conditions of study. In this way we meet our obligation and enable and improve access to university education for all, and we SDPS always insist that education must be available to everyone on equal terms and to provide everyone with equal chances of schooling. Of course, such investments are of the highest importance for the future of our education, but also for the future of our country. Education investment is the only sure investment that comes back multiple in the future, but we don't need to stop there, what our task should be besides providing quality education for young people, to provide such conditions that after they finish colleges, that after schooling they have adequate jobs in Serbia, they apply their skills right in our country. We will also support the implementation of a project relating to the construction of a fast traffic station on the Iverak-Lajkovac route, this 18km section has multiple significance not only for the Kolubar County, but also for the whole of Serbia. This way we continue with the trend to improve traffic infrastructure. We all know very well how important the travel network is for the development of the state and that every penny invested in traffic infrastructure in the future is returned multiple times. In this way, we show another abstract, which is that we are very important in a balanced regional development, so these are all arguments that are in favour of supporting such draft laws. As I have already said, the SDPS will support, or MPs will vote in favour of any proposed amendments and additions to the laws on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-22-0.u11678	Thank you. Dear People's Messengers, before we continue to work, allow me to greet her in your name and yours. E, Prof. Dr. Mustafa Shentopam, president of the Grand National Assembly of the Republic of Turkey to her. E. Mr. Hami Asku, Ambassador of the Republic of Turkey to the Republic of Serbia, Enez Kaplan, Erkan Akcai, Ahmet Kilic, Mustafa Ezgin, Erl Kavundzhu, Pakize Multwaydemir, Ilhami Ozjamajgun and Hussein Shahin, MP and the Grand National Assembly of the Republic of Turkey, as well as other members of the delegation of the Great National Assembly of the Republic of Turkey, who are following a part of today's session from the Great Hall gallery, which is located in an official visit to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Please give them a round of applause. We're going back to work. The word is Vojislav Vujic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-22-0.u11679	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear finance ministers with associates, you will not allow me and I want to take advantage of the opportunity to welcome our dear friends from Turkey, because they are traditional friends of Dragan Markovic Palma, a large number of Turkish officials and our parliamentary groups. I'm glad they're here with us today. When we talk about the points on today's agenda, I would like to start by supplementing the Law on the definition of a second guarantee scheme, as an additional support measure for the economy due to the prolonged negative impact of the pandemic of covid disease. Why am I starting at this point in the agenda? Because she is the closest to us from JS, according to President Dragan Markovic Palm, we advocate that money is spent by citizens. Just as you said these eight billion aids were direct funds that went to both citizens and businesses. This is the most important reason why we support the Government of the Republic of Serbia and all decisions concerning the direct benefit of citizens. Today is the turn of the Law with electronic invoices, Kovid-19 has brought total confusion in many spheres of society and created situations where we all had to change some habits, both life habits and business habits. It affected both real life and the public life of public enterprises. This law that we're making today is one big newspaper in business, but as I said in the time in which we live, this becomes a need, above all. No one can tell exactly what's going to happen to the virus of the covid, or whether we're going to have similar problems in the future, but what's certain is that this way of e-commerce of electronic invoices in many ways makes it easier for the business and the public sector and the economy in the real sector. What's important for the state, which is that the state will certainly have a better insight into sales tax, and certainly for all those who send invoices everything will be much more comfortable and safer because the system through which the invoices are to be sent will give security to anyone who issues the same invoice. And so far, when there was an opportunity for the invoices to be sent via e-mail, no one could claim how safe it was, and as far as the new security system is concerned, it was guaranteed. We have a drastic cost reduction. So we won't have to pay expensive postal services. The state itself through the public sector, which perhaps in the largest number and sends these kind of invoices, will certainly make huge savings. What is important for real-sector users in the economy is that VAT will be much easier to return to them. What is most important is the change in this law, which is that the application will finally be from 1 May 2022. This is a major reform for the real sector and it is not easy to accept something that is new. There will probably be some resistance to the realisation and application of this law, but it's certain that over time when everyone gets an insight into how much we'll benefit all of this from having, that this resistance will disappear. I say, perhaps the best in this law to achieve great savings, after all, and paper. Today, Minister, for the agenda, we get serious materials, this is just one item of the agenda, there are over two and a half thousand pages and a serious amount of paper. I understand our Rules of Procedure that we have to get these materials, but certainly we from the National Assembly should try to modernise our way of doing business, and so we also make savings when it comes to large amounts of paper being spent, because it directly affects the environment. What do you do with those savings? You know, when someone finds a way to save, and a good example is to save the city of Jagodin, and you don't use all the benefits you can use, and one of those examples is, say, the municipal militia that every city has a right to. I come from the municipality, we don't even have a chance to use it, but Jagodina is one of the bigger cities that has the right to use the municipal militia. The city of Jagodina doesn't use it and it's a similar kind of savings that we're going to achieve right after the law I've been talking about. And now that this money is going to be spent, it is, of course, in a specific case in this law, you as Minister of Finance, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and when it comes to savings based on the municipal militia, that is the ratio of the city, the mayor, where savings are created. That's what we keep pointing out and praising that money should be spent by citizens. When it comes to Jagodina, one of the measures is to send primary and secondary school students on a seven-day vacation, 50% of primary school children saw the sea for the first time. That's why Ministers, every law that's on the agenda today, which concerns improving the living conditions of the JS parliamentary group supports. It is a very important law that we adopt today, i.e. the amendment and addition of the law adopted in 2011, for the first time, that is the Capital Market Act. There are great opportunities ahead of us ministers when it comes to the capital market. The Belgrade Stock Exchange is something that continues to develop. If we're real and we need to evaluate it at this point, you'll agree on a lot of factors. When it comes to our exchange of ministers, what we praise and support is your insistence on bringing things into order and trying to get close to the world markets. What's good about our stock market is that we made a connection this year, which is a connection with the Athens Stock Exchange, with the purchase of 12.4% of the Belgrade Stock Exchange, is more accessible to the world market and the citizens of investors in Serbia can easily place their capital and offer their ideas to make it easier to obtain funding. In the context of EU accession, two chapters are directly related to this law, this is Chapter 9 of financial services and Chapter 6 is the right of companies. The deadline for the implementation of the strategy adopted by the government was between 2021 and 2026. When it comes to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, we are absolutely fulfilling everything we are asked to do. Unfortunately, some new conditions are constantly emerging, but I am sure that this government will continue on this European path and that we will all be closer to the EU in a close time together. Many concepts, although very often used, are unfortunately not known to most businessmen in Serbia. I'm also talking to my colleagues when we start from ordinary actions, so we further analyzed everything that came to the factoring and then when we start talking about factoring people get confused, they're not even sure if it's something that's in their favor or something that needs to create a burden on them. When we talk about the capital market, this is one very important thing, and the ministers, a proposal from the Single Serbia parliamentary group to find some way that we can make our businesses, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, easier access, to direct them to both terminology and the opportunities that Serbia's capital market makes available to them. Specific factoring is something that will directly affect all manufacturers, whether it's a food product or any other one that can go into export. Our people are not sure how they can collect those claims for goods produced in Serbia and is just factoring one of the models that this problem can be solved. When we talk about our stock market, which must be the most direct link to the capital market, it's kind of the easiest thing for me to compare it to some big market, and there are those who are interested in selling something, to place something, and we're looking for those who are interested in buying something. The stability of one stock market or one economy at all, depends primarily on political stability, thank God in Serbia there is political stability and every other security and that is what makes it much easier for every investor to come to our market. When a large number of instruments are available on the capital market and I want to commend both executive and legislative authority when it comes to digital property. We were one of the first countries in the world to adopt one of these laws and transfer digital property to legal flows. Minister, here, for half a year now, how this law has been implemented, I'd like to get some information on what the effects are, whether there are any expected effects from the laws passed by this National Assembly. I repeat, this is one of the laws that very few countries have adopted. First, the countries had to recognize all the benefits of such a business and the direct benefits of our economy. I say that we in Unity Serbia support every step towards facilitating work in the domestic economy and bringing in foreign investors, which Dragan Markovic Palma would say – I am not a minister, but I can, I know and want to help. Today, we have a law on the agenda regarding students and specifically applies to 13,000 students. You have just counted which all universities are going to renovate and new capacities that we are going to create and the Parliamentary Group of Unity Serbia, which always says are the young law, certainly supports one of these laws. Today we also have a proposal to confirm the loan agreement relating to the construction of the national road Loznica-Valjevo-Lazarjevac and the Iverak-Lajkovac section. And, now, Ministers, we hardly have the ability to change that song, "It's going with Mile's Licking Strip," but Miles won't have to do it just by the track when these roads and the Mile highway are finished, he can move more comfortable along the highway. So as far as all the laws on the agenda today are concerned, the Single Serbia parliamentary group supports them in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-22-0.u11680	I thank the authorised representative of the Single Serbia parliamentary group. The word has a finance minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-22-0.u11681	Thank you very much. Dear People's MPs, some information you asked me to do. At this point, the three licensees for the crypto exchange office in processing, so the application for three licenses, and four token issuers, have also applied for licensing, and I expect in a few weeks and the first licenses to be issued, and that is very important to us. So this law that you were talking about, about crypto currencies, it's true, we were one of the first countries to regulate this one interesting and extremely growing, way of funding, and at this point, these are already concrete results, and this market is developing. I expect a growing share of these transactions compared to traditional payment transactions, which currently dominate. What is particularly important to me, it is news to all of you, so the Belgrade Stock Exchange, we are working very intensively on the growth and development strategy of the Belgrade Stock Exchange and I think it is the right instrument to support the development of our financial market in the future. We at this point and this is very important, we are working on developing a platform for trading digital tokens, which will be implemented by next year. When we talk about tokens, just now, it's one of the narrowest professional things, but it's the tokens that start businesses and trade ownership stakes in businesses, all that's going on in much more developed countries of the world, it's going to happen in our country, right across this stock market, so I expect this stock market to grow and grow from next year, because we're big plans and I'm not ready to talk about it in detail, because we're working on it, but I'm sure this capital market law will only contribute to further development and growth of the Belgrade Stock Exchange and to confirm its dominant participation and position throughout the region. When it comes to the region, given that neither the Belgrade Stock Exchange nor we can achieve the full effects of our development and growth alone, just to remind you of this Open Balkans initiative, a visionary initiative by President Vukic, and we came back from Tirana yesterday. So, at a meeting with our president, Albania's Prime Minister, Edi Rama, and Macedonian Prime Minister Zoran Zaev, we have signed five extremely important agreements, which allow free flow of people across borders, so recognition, mutual recognition of labour permits, quick issue of those, so that you will now have the opportunity to see our people, but also people from northern Macedonia, also from Albania to come and work without any interference, we are starting an additional labour market and you know for yourself, and I was just talking about the lack of labour force to open new factories and encourage further development of our economy, and the additional labour force is very important to us, and these are two agreements that the president himself signed yesterday and signed. Mr. Nedimovic signed a very important agreement concerning mutual recognition and harmonisation of phytosanitary and veterinary certificates, no more waiting at the borders when these certificates are concerned, that one side has one certificate, so that it is sampled, or that materials or products are sampled for certification in Albania are sampled, and that the same procedure is repeated in Serbia, or Northern Macedonia. So it's gone. One certificate, absolutely acceptable to the entire region, further acceleration of trade and traffic, these three countries, and finally what is very important, this agreement on the identification of authorised economic operators, and currently there are 29 of them in Serbia. So these are companies that have crossed, or already passed, customs controls and everything, so much faster they can cross borders, they can traffic goods. This will further contribute to the development of our region, together we are much stronger. Of course, the Serbian economy is the dominant economy in the region, so the greatest benefit of this should be ours, but the whole region benefits from it. According to the World Bank, if we implement all the measures, the measures relating to the opening of the market when it comes to the Western Balkans region can raise our common regional GDP by as much as 7%. The higher GDP, of course, means a better standard of living for Serbian citizens, higher wages, higher pensions, more money and in the capital investment budget, the opening of new factories, but it is also very important to bring the peoples of this region closer and not look back, but to open a new page together when it comes to the future. It's especially important for our youngsters to make their dreams come true here in the region without going to some faraway places to make it happen. So the development of the Belgrade Stock Exchange is highly linked to today's law which is before you, therefore, the Capital Market Act. We have big plans, especially for regional integration, especially for new instruments to develop, so to give our businesses, our economy an additional incentive to accelerate their growth and development, to speed up, of course, the creation of new plants, new jobs. This is basically our policy, and this is one responsible economic policy that we are implementing, and such an initiative as "Open Balkans" can only contribute further not only to the development of the region, but to the excessive development of our economy and raising the standard of living of citizens of Serbia. If you have any other questions about various financial instruments, especially the development of the stock exchange, I am at your disposal to answer, with such news being kept for the next year when we will have a clear strategy for the development of the Belgrade Stock Exchange just based on this Capital Market Act that we are discussing today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-22-0.u11682	I thank the Minister of Finance. The word has been given by the mandated representative of the parliamentary group of the Alliance of Dukes of Hungarians, MP Akos Ujhelji.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-22-0.u11683	Thank you. Dear Vice-President, the presidency, Mr. Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, the Parliamentary Group of the Alliance of the Duchy Hungarians will support the set of laws that lies ahead in the day of the vote. I, in my presentation as the authorised representative of the parliamentary group, will refer to the proposal for a law on the capital market and amending the Law on the definition of another guarantee scheme, because we believe that the adoption of the Capital Market Act improves the capital market in the Republic of Serbia and that the basis for the use of a wider spectrum of financial instruments for the benefit of the economy and extends the offer of securities of value in the regulated market, and the adoption of amendments to the Law on the establishment of another guarantee scheme continues to ensure the liquidity of economic operators and the process of easing the economic and financial consequences of the resulting pandemic Kovid 19. Dear People's MPs, the capital market in the Republic of Serbia is not a new concept, but has a long tradition based on the period of development of the country's first state and business institutions. In his "Mezimac" section, Dositej Obradović recognises trade as a work of the same importance for the organisation of a society with science and art. The first company in the territory of the Republic of Serbia was founded in 1869 under the name of the First Serbian Bank, with majority foreign capital. The Belgrade Stock Exchange was founded in 1895 and is one of the 10 oldest on the European market. A significant period for the Belgrade Stock Exchange was in 1888 when a new law was passed that regulates businesses and defines that it can be established in the form of stock companies that provide the necessary funds by broadcasting shares. This law has created conditions for re-launching stock trading in the context of an organised securities market. Respected MPs of developed capital markets can play a key role in financing economic growth, as well as in affecting financial stability and implementation of monetary policy. Frameworks promoting legal certainty and economic efficiency further encourage the ability of the capital market to serve the real economy. Justified and liquid capital markets contribute to economic growth. For example, in a study published in December 2019, the World Bank confirms that a strong correlation has been found between the capital market, economic growth and points to increased attention given to capital markets as mechanisms that can potentially help channel the economic sector's resources to develop key strategic sectors of business from business to infrastructure, housing, small and medium-sized enterprises, as well as in the fight against climate change. We believe that the adoption of this law improves the capital market in the Republic of Serbia and creates a basis for using a broader aspect of financial instruments in favour of the economy of the Republic of Serbia by reducing the dependence of small and medium-sized enterprises on bank financing and state subsidies, accelerated economic growth through new financial opportunities, increasing the number of jobs, as well as further support for innovation. International experience and academic literature show that the developed capital market is a basic component of the financial markets and should not be considered competitive banking financing, but should be treated as its addition and the possibility to provide businesses with better diversification of the sources of funding for their activities. In fact, capital market instruments are significantly better designed to finance risky innovative projects. Diversification of funding sources should contribute to reducing capital collection costs, especially in the case of small and medium-sized enterprises. Thanks to the good infrastructure of the capital market and the efficient chain of intermediate institutions working on it, the economy is able to better allocate risk and capital, which makes it potentially resistant to shocks. The recommendations for the development of the capital market in the Republic of Serbia compared to the developed economies of the world are very narrow, distribution of the financial assets of the household, low savings, low awareness of companies in the ability to finance business and research through the capital market and inadequate offer of domestic financial instruments to available small investors. Given that the Republic of Serbia has seen constant economic growth over the past few years, as well as foreign investment growth, and a well-founded and developed capital market can further boost the growth of business activities in the Republic of Serbia, as well as the standard of its citizens. The importance of the capital market for economic development of countries is also recognised by the European Union. The free movement of capital in the free movement of goods, services and workforce represents one of the key objectives of the same. Based on an analysis conducted by the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, advanced capital markets are more efficient in focusing their savings on the capital market than Serbia does. Data for 2019 say that in Serbia only 2.32% of total savings are directed to the capital market. Also, based on the analysis carried out, 58% of savings were found to be untapped, so the question arises – do these resources direct investments beyond Serbia's borders? It is clear that the Republic of Serbia could use these savings for internal reinvestment and thus contribute to the growth of the economy. The main objective should be to target 5% of the total savings on the capital market by 2023 and thus have a positive impact on the growth of the economy. The provisions of the Capital Market Act are governed by public offerings and secondary trading of financial instruments, regulated market, multilateral trading platforms in the Republic of Serbia, the provision of investment services and the provision of investment activities, including the issue of permits for the operation and regulation of investment firms and other participants in the capital market, the disclosure of financial and other data, as well as the reporting obligations of public companies issuers in accordance with this law, the prohibition of manipulative and other illegal actions and practices relating to the purchase or sale of financial instruments, as well as the exercise of voting rights in relation to securities issued by public companies, clearing, Salding and registration of transactions to financial instruments and organisations and the competences of the Central Register, the depository and clearing of securities from the values and regulatory and supervisory powers of the Commission for securities. During the previous period, the Capital Market Act has been amended several times, following requirements and changes in market conditions, as well as the needs of market participants. On the one hand, the global crisis in the previous decade has also affected the domestic capital market. The number of market participants, i.e. brokerage companies and authorised banks, as well as the number of transactions on the regulated market, has decreased significantly, and thus the traffic on the Belgrade Stock Exchange. The period of the global crisis that he felt and with us has left behind as a consequence of the ruined trust of investors willing to invest in this kind of property, which has affected that we have a modest not only offer of quality and developed material, but also the demand for financial instruments. The number of public companies whose securities of value are traded on the stock market has decreased, while a growing number of new companies have submitted requests for the approval of prospectuses for public offerings and market inclusion. In view of the above problems in practice, some of the amendments and additions to this law were designed to extend the offer of securities of value on the regulated market, to simplify access to capital sources, primarily small and medium-sized enterprises, and to facilitate access to foreign investors on the domestic market. Respected MPs, thanks to the new Capital Market Act, are allowed to carry out such financial operations, a gate is opened to such financial products that have not been or have been partially available on our market, i.e. on the market. For example, the sale of short, or shorting of shares, then the function of assets traded on the stock market and used to connect a group of assets to investors who are more likely to own a group, instead of buying each underlying charter of one-by-one value. Also, these financial instruments can be used to monitor other instruments on the financial market, such as indexes or goods. Possible occurrence of the so-called Green bonds, which by definition are innovative financial instruments that do not necessarily have to relate to capital collection, and yet can have a potentially positive impact on our capital market, is the idea of debt financing for projects in the field of ecology. The concept and use of green bonds is relatively new in finance. As far as digital assets are concerned, I believe that the introduction of a currency crypt into an organised capital market is important, more specifically the inclusion of a currency crypt on BELEKS. Dear People's MPs, Your Honor, when I talk about the Capital Market Act, I want to repeat what I've already said several times. In fact, in the 2022 Budget Law, you stated that you plan to provide the necessary funds to finance the deficit budgets with loans from domestic international commercial and multilateral financial institutions and foreign governments through the broadcasting of state charters. We all know that citizens of our country are currently able to buy state papers in a very complicated and expensive way. Our proposal is to simplify the purchase of government bonds through the Treasury with minimum costs and without compensation for keeping dedicated current accounts and without taxes to our citizens who are willing to finance public debt. Namely, if most of the public debt is in the hands of our citizens, then it provides a more stable financial market during extreme events, such as the pandemic, and also minimises the possibility of attacks by foreign speculators on the dinar. On the other hand, we think it's better to pay interest to our citizens who believe in our politics and buy state papers and who will spend it in the country than foreign speculators. Neighbouring countries are already practicing such ways of buying state-owned paper that monitor inflation and pay about 4% of interest on bonds indexed in euro. Dear People's MPs, honourable ministers, allow me to say a few words about how we see BELEX trading and what more attention should be paid to increasing investor confidence. Since it has happened several times in the previous period that the majority owners of the company have not paid dividends to small shareholders for years, only after the forced purchase of shares, or when they became 100% company owners, it is extremely important that we give greater authority to the Securities Commission in order to better defend the interests of small shareholders in order for small shareholders to get the dividend they deserve for holding certain papers. When it comes to the forced purchase of shares, I must also say that over the past period, small shareholders have repeatedly not received real prices during the forced purchase of shares by the majority owner, i.e. actions have been bought on the basis of the average commercial price which was quite lower than the book value of the shares. That is why, if our goal is, and certainly our common goal is to increase the liquidity of the Belgrade Stock Exchange and to allow small shareholders to return to the stock market, then we must not allow small shareholders to suffer such losses that do not result from poor visions, i.e. the wrong decisions of small shareholders, but because of the legal gap that large owners use and knock down the stock prices on the market. For this reason, we believe that the laws should be changed in the direction that when a majority shareholder decides to launch a forced buy-out action, then it pays the highest price for small shareholders who held the papers sometimes for more than a decade. In addition, the liquidity of the Belgrade Stock Exchange is affected by the fact that shareholders who have suffered capital loss, for example due to forced sale, have the right to beat capital loss with capital gains within five years of the formation of capital loss. We believe that the time interval of beating should be extended from five years to ten, because in that case we would encourage investors who would invest more funds in securities than value. Dear People's MPs, honourable ministers, our parliamentary group welcomes the proposal to amend the Law on the definition of a second guarantee scheme, as its superior priority goal is to mitigate the economic and financial consequences of the economy of the Republic of Serbia caused by the Covid 19 pandemic, caused by the SARS-CoV-2 virus. We believe it is extremely important that the change enables the maximum amount of credit to be increased to the most vulnerable sectors, whose business is largely at risk with measures to combat the epidemic, which are primarily sectors of passenger transport, catering, hotel and tourism. Thanks to the previous regulation and the law, the dinar share of payments has been significantly increased, resulting in the growth of dinar loans to the economy, i.e. by the fall of interest rates on dinar loans. Growth in credit activity has also contributed to low and stable inflation, as well as measures by the National Bank of Serbia to support the process of dinarisation. To sum up, as I have already pointed out at the very beginning of my address, the parliamentary group of the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians will support the proposed laws in the voting day, and because in recent years, thanks first to the donations of the Hungarian economy in Vojvodina, they have made huge investments and have thus parallelly raised investment loans and mortgaged their companies with domestic banks. This means that without these types of loans, most of the businesses mentioned would not obtain additional funds for liquidity and for the continuation of investments, especially with such good conditions that loans with a guaranteed scheme provide, and therefore would have a lot of financial difficulties. In the voting day, we will also support other draft laws on the agenda of the current session. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-22-0.u11684	Thank you, Mr. Ujhelji. The word is Minister Mali. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-22-0.u11685	Dear Mr. Ujhelji, thank you so much for your comments and suggestions. I also asked my associate to speak to you today, to see you in the next few days. This idea of making it easier for our citizens to invest in state records of value is a great idea. That is exactly what part of this strategy is, just before I talked about it, the development of our Belgrade Stock Exchange, that we simply have a much larger number of instruments, not just for our economy, but for our fellow citizens. I now publicly accept this idea of yours, and the other ideas that we should discuss once again and come up next year with a clear vision of the development of the Belgrade Stock Exchange, its role in further development of the capital market and incentivising the development of our economy in general. So, not to be a passive institution like today, but an active institution. Then together we will present these proposals to the citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-22-0.u11686	Thank you. The word has the deputy president of the SPS parliamentary group, Snezana Paunovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-22-0.u11687	Thank you, Vice President. Dear ministers and distinguished representatives of the ministry, colleagues and fellow MPs, an important set of financial and economic laws is in front of us today and I can't help but notice that if we measured the time you spent in the Assembly, the ministers would be longer than with certain MPs, but not because I want to commend you, but because I think that the Serbian Government has shown in fact how important it is in the difficult times as those who are behind us, and it doesn't seem to me that there will be any more relaxed ones in front, too, taking care primarily of the quality of life of citizens. The set of laws that are in front of us today applies exclusively to all of them. First, I'm going to look back on the new Capital Market Act. There's been a lot of talk about him, and you're in the opening statement and my distinguished colleagues, and I really think he's very important. By supporting this bill, we as a parliamentary group of the SPS want to support this objective seen and which is intended to achieve its adoption, which is to bring our legislation into line primarily with EU legislation, Serbia's commitment to intensify economic growth continues to improve its position of attractive and above all investment destinations, which includes the quality regulation of the capital market or securities markets. And in this sector, in this regard, we are going towards our main foreign policy goal, i.e. full membership in the EU. Of course, I cannot help but mention that last week the EU decided to open a cluster of four in negotiations with Serbia, which contains four negotiating chapters, namely Chapter 14 - Transport Policy, Chapter 15 - Energy, 21 - Trans-European networks and one of the most demanding chapters, Chapter 27 - related to the environment. All this shows and speaks in favour of Serbia being on track to implement society reforms. But to return to the capital market. A segment of the financial market traded primarily on a financial activity with a maturity of more than one year and it is vital for the development of each economy. We first passed one of these capital market laws in 2011. One such legal framework is characteristic of the initial stages primarily of the development of the capital market. From all you've said to conclude that by proposing this new law, in fact, it is the result of a stock market development strategy and it will be my pleasure to announce in the following year, as you announced, and we hear what the plans are and at what speed we will advance in this part. The Capital Market Act is a clear picture, first and foremost, of our country's commitment to developing the financial market and the need to introduce solutions that are in line with the EU's legal assets in this area. But the aim of harmonisation above all is, when it comes to the proposal for a law on the capital market, to achieve a higher degree of investor protection and legal certainty by introducing generally accepted European standards and measures on the domestic market. It is clear that the increase in investor protection rates is stimulating and that it will also affect the number of participants in the capital market. The motive for adopting a new law, you said yourself, is to develop this competitive and highly efficient, productive and transparent capital market, with a wide range of financial instruments and services, which will be comparable primarily to the leading regional and European financial markets. And that's what you were talking about. When it comes to the region, I have no doubt that we are ahead of a serious number of countries, but why not, that ambition is also going to the countries that are members of the EU. All foreign investors will now be able to invest in domestic securities of value and in the Serbian capital market and increase availability, above all, domestic securities of value and foreign investors reduce funding costs and provide better diversification of investors investing in domestic securities of value. In this way, the capital market is improving and developing somewhere. Another law that is very important, since the pandemic is Kovida - 19, unfortunately, our new reality and the need for support to preserve the stability of the financial and economic system is growing, I will certainly deal with the proposal for a law establishing a second guarantee scheme as an additional support measure for the economy due to the extended negative impact of the pandemic Kovid - 19. If I'm not mistaken, either for the rebalancing or for the budget proposal, we had the assumption that it would look that way, that there would be a need to intervene in 2022. It is no shame to say that Serbia has one of the best results in Europe's growth rates and, above all, thanks to the state's support measures for citizens and businesses. You said, or said one of your colleagues, that the total aid is about eight billion euros, which has been given so far, and that we have prevented this responsible economic policy from having some negative effects that have occurred in the countries in the environment or Europe, so that amendments and additions to this law provide for an exception to the possibility of guaranteeing Serbia for loans that may be granted to entrepreneurs, micro, small and medium-sized enterprises operating in the passenger transport, catering, tourist agencies and hotels in cities, only provided that they have previously and fully reconciled their obligations on loans approved under the first guarantee scheme. Of course, and there is no dilemma that, as a parliamentary group in the voting day, we will also support this law, because somewhere we think that these sectors, the transport sector, tourism, hospitality and hotel services have suffered the greatest consequences, and since they represent the most significant link in our economy, this would enable and encourage their recovery. When it comes to the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement on a project to build the national road Loznica - Valjevo - Lazarevic, on the part of Iverak - Lajkovac, I will probably speak less of it than my esteemed colleague, Đorđe Milicevic, who has countless times, I think, through the form of the parliamentary question, stressed the importance of this section. This important traffic station will connect Valjevo with the Milos Velika highway, and not only that, but it will also connect parts of Republika Srpska, or BiH with the highway "Milos Velika" and Corridor 10. It is a strategically important project for the city of Valjevo and all western Serbia, but also one of the priority projects of the Republic of Serbia in road transport, a project that is important for development, to connect several hundred thousand people and the economy of this region, whose natural and economic resources can be valorised if there is good and safe traffic communication, as well as other infrastructure conditions. And economic development means a better life for citizens and a higher standard of living somewhere. So it is indisputable that the realisation of infrastructure projects has a huge impact on the overall growth and development of the economy, because it employs different sectors of the economy, i.e. it opens and maintains jobs. The most important effect is certainly attracting potential investors, both domestic and foreign. I also find it extremely important that the contractor of the project comes from China, a country that is a traditional friend of Serbia. What is most important to us as a state is the fact that China has not recognised the self-proclaimed independence of the false state of Kosovo and that we are infinitely and unconditionally truly grateful. I am pleased that infrastructure is the most important area of co-operation between our two countries, but projects in the areas of mining, energy, building information and telecommunications facilities are equally important, cooperation in the field of environmental protection, culture, health, tourism. With the Republic of China, we have signed dozens of bilateral co-operation agreements. And to be completely open, Serbia has no intention, and this shows that it is disowning its traditional friends, however many around it would like it. I am also taking the opportunity to remind myself of Serbia's intensive infrastructure policy. Currently, as many as 1,300km of highways and fast roads are being designed and built, and in the past four years, from 2016 to 2020, 5,000km of roads have been made from local, regional, to national, which is of great importance for the country's overall progress and our positioning as a transit country connecting the north and south and west of Europe, above all, countries in the region. Again no less important law is the Law on electronic invoices. When we talk about this technological progress and digitisation, we cannot bypass an electronic invoice project that represents a significant shift in the conduct of financial, or trade transactions. It not only facilitates and speeds up the work of public administration authorities, but introduces electronic invoices in many ways reduces the costs of processing and keeping invoices, provides automatic payment of VAT, resulting in an immediate increase in VAT collection. More effective control and more effective fight against the gray economy and tax evasion are also provided. It's just some deadlines that are moving, but it's important to say how much that law actually contributed. Another bill of law that I would refer to from this search... I will certainly not deal with every law because, as the practice says in the past period, my colleagues from the SPS parliamentary group will speak after me. However, I will say just a few more words about the Law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Kingdom of Cambodia on visa waiver for holders of diplomatic and official passports. This friendship, friendship between Serbia, or then the SFRY and Cambodia, has been for 65 years and is based on the original principles of the Movement of Unclassified, which are the idea of freedom, independence and mutual respect, more specifically, it is a policy of peaceful co-existence. There is plenty of room for co-operation between our two countries, and the agreement we need to ratify today is signed in 2016. It was signed by the current speaker of parliament, and then by Foreign Minister Ivica Dacic. President Dacic also initiated the establishment of a parliamentary group of friendships with Cambodia. It should be pointed out that this is also due to great respect for the Kingdom of Cambodia. It is also based on the fact that they have also not recognised the self-proclaimed state of Kosovo, which I really want to thank them for. This Agreement opens the door for more intensive co-operation to mutual benefit and, I'm sure, to mutual satisfaction. From all I've said to conclude that in the voting day we'll certainly, as a parliamentary group of SPS, support a set of proposed laws from this search, and those details that I missed I'm sure I'll make up for the colleagues who will speak after me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-22-0.u11688	Thank you. Are any of the other authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups answering for a word? For our children, the MP Vuk Mircetic has the power of the parliamentary group, Aleksandar Vucic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-22-0.u11689	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President Orlic. Dear ministers with associates, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, are on today's agenda for important draft laws. Some are new, systematic, such as the proposal for a capital market law. Then, we have a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on electronic invoicery, a draft law amending and supplementing the Act establishing another guarantee scheme as a measure of additional support to the economy due to the extended negative impact of the pandemic of the coronary virus, a draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Specific Authorisations in order to effectively protect intellectual property rights, and a bill relating to university infrastructure, to traffic infrastructure and a proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Kingdom of Cambodia. For the last two years, for all of us and in general for the whole world, there have been more than a challenging and macroeconomic environment, and usually there are uncertainty and changes, but because of this pandemic of the coronary virus, uncertainty is now greater than ever. And when we talk about the pandemic of the Crown of the Virus, the crisis that has hit all the world's economies from World War II to this day, I think the Republic of Serbia has been very good at it. Why do I say that? Because at the very beginning of this pandemic, we realized that there were two fights ahead of us. On the one hand, we have a fight on the health plan, and on the other hand we have a fight on the economic plan and on the economic front. Within the health sector and these struggles, lives are saved, and on this second front we are fighting to save the economy and the economy. At the beginning of the pandemic, President Aleksandar Vucic saw the danger and importance and, thanks to the good relations he has with both the East and the West, we were able to provide a sufficient number of respirators among the first in Europe, but also vaccines as soon as they appeared. Given that we have had enough vaccines for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, it is important that I remind those countries that were in trouble then and did not have enough vaccines to help and, as president of the parliamentary group of friendships with Angola, I want to thank and to convey the gratitude of Angola because we donated 50,000 vaccines to them. Today we have four new birds of the hospital. We have five vaccines available. A week ago, the anti-coronal virus drug arrived in Serbia for 11,500 patients, and it will soon be 50,000. Of course, it's for the most vulnerable, because we realize that this is a struggle for people's lives, and people's lives just don't have a price. We are most grateful to those on the front line. They're our healthcare workers. In this situation, we have even increased the salary of the health sector several times. In addition, what is very important, we have not reduced the capital investment budget, nor have we neglected the fight on that second front, that struggle for the economy. What is certain and clear is that there is an extremely negative impact of the pandemic on all segments of the economy. I'll talk later on about tourism and in case, if we look at the impact of the pandemic on tourism at global level, I don't know how much you can see, this here is the level of the '90s and there's talk of the number of international arrivals of tourists. We see that in 2019 we reached the maximum and then the number of international tourists fell rapidly, I speak globally, in the world by 74%. Why do I say that? I'm saying this because it's important to realize that the pandemic of the coronary virus has achieved an extremely negative impact on the global level. It is an alarming information and is of great importance to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia that we have recognized this negative trend and that we have continued to help both citizens and the economy. So far, we have had, as Minister Mali said, three economic packages, measures to support businesses and citizens, and through these three packages we have helped both businesses and citizens of the Republic of Serbia totaling more than eight billion euros. This would not be possible if our fellow citizens did not understand the difficult financial consolidation measures implemented by the government of the Republic of Serbia headed by then Prime Minister Alexander Vukic. By yesterday, a weak and financially powerless Serbia, we remember what it was like in 2012, is helping both citizens and businesses directly today, and not only that. It is important to note that the pandemic of the virus's coronary has left extremely negative consequences on most of the economies in Europe and that during 2020, 2021, almost all countries recorded a dramatic rise in unemployment, while some EU members had over 20% unemployment. The former regime's representatives seemed to be looking forward to it, said Serbia was in ruins. However, through these three support packages and citizens of the economy, we have succeeded, not only to keep jobs, but also to create over 60,000 new jobs. Only Aleksandar Vukic has opened more than 250 factories so far or laid a cornerstone, and all of them, who have been saying that Serbia is ahead of the collapse and who somehow wanted it, so that now they all get together they can't even turn it around. What's the big deal? It is important to note that in a situation where unemployment grew everywhere, employment grew in Serbia, and that is what is for pride. It is also proud to see the historic result of the Republic of Serbia, as 2021 is the first year in the history of the Republic of Serbia in which our GDP will cross 52 billion euros. If we again compare with the period when the former regime's representatives ruled, with 2012, we must remind ourselves that at that time GDP was at an absolute amount, according to the data that I have, at 33.7m euros. So in less than 10 years we have managed to achieve, create 20 billion additional, or new values for citizens of the Republic of Serbia. This gives us the opportunity to talk today about the guarantee schemes of additional economic support. This gives us the opportunity to talk today about the guarantee schemes of additional economic support. We've had two guarantee schemes so far, as you know. So far, guarantee schemes and aid for businesses and citizens have achieved certain desired goals. Our credit activity hasn't died, that's what's very important. It is important to mention that the most vulnerable sector of the economy covered micro, small and medium-sized enterprises operating in the sectors of passenger, transport, catering, tourist agencies and city hotels, and this proposed measure now covers these sectors. In this way, the guarantee mechanism of the Republic of Serbia for loans approved by banks is an extremely efficient mechanism, as Minister Mali said this morning, to launch credit activities and preserve the liquidity of businesses. Why do I say that? Because it enables the smooth flow of domestic capital and the economy to continue to live and continue to develop. What is important is that the state has shown that the representatives of this government are there for their citizens and works and is supporting them to continue to function uninterrupted despite the pandemic that is going on. In the previous period, we also strongly advocated improving digitisation and innovating and speeding up the process of work. Accordingly, one of the acts we are talking about today concerns electronic invoices and economic operators in the VAT system will be able to count on a significant acceleration of VAT vomiting. Minister Mali said that one day, if the front and exit invoices were to be matched, they would be able to work on it. This means a larger return on capital, and it also means more investment for the Republic of Serbia, which means that the state can invest in infrastructure, can invest in capital structures, in roads, in hospitals, in infrastructure projects, whether they are traffic or university projects. Since we talked about education in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia yesterday, it is important to mention that one of the laws we are talking about here today is that it refers to university infrastructure. This is a particularly important topic for all young people, and above all for those young people who are students of the University of Belgrade. The proposal for a project that is now in front of us is improving on one side the capacity of university education, and the project includes six sub-projects, covering approximately 90,600 square meters. I will say, although the minister cited these colleges this morning, since I consider this to be of great importance, these are the Faculty of Music Art, the Faculty of Applied Arts, the Faculty of Fine Arts, the School of Engineering, the Faculty of Geography and Security and the Faculty of Biology. This is extremely important because over 13,000 students who are included, or who are studying at these universities, will see directly and have positive effects of building and modernising these capacities, or conditions for learning. At the same time, given that this project also involves the application of modern standards of sustainable construction we talked about and when we talked about some other laws here in the tide, it is important to mention that, in addition to reducing energy costs, the future maintenance costs will be significantly reduced. That's where we show, unlike the former regime's representatives, who only cared about saying something or opening it on their noses, that we're thinking strategically again and thinking about the future. Unlike them, when we talk about Belgrade, given that the previous bill applied to the University of Belgrade, representatives of the former regime can praise some of the things we have talked about countless times, but it is not burning to mention them once again. They can boast of that bridge on Ada, which they used to fulfill their personal interests in some way. They can boast that during the former government, or the authorities of Dragan Gilas, when there was the opening of the bridge on Ada, and we probably all remember that, somewhere before the beginning of 2012, they had to pay an additional 14.6m euros to speed up these works and to have something to boast about in the election campaign. We can remember, too, those Spanish trams. Each of these Spanish trams where people drive is overpaid 400,000 euros. We can think of many more things that former regime representatives did, what they paid more than they needed, but we on the other hand and what's important to point out, is that we understand the real need of our people, that our people have roads wherever they are. It has not been noted that by now someone like Serbia is now building 10 highways and 10 fast cars. Some didn't believe it, even laughed when we announced all of this, when the president drew relatively nearly on that one, we all remember, the nemo-maps of all these paths. When you look at all these roads, when you look at that nemo-map, you see that all of Serbia is devoured by roads and highways and fast roads, that it looks like capillaries that help us get to every part of the Republic of Serbia and that absolutely our citizens, no matter where they are, have the infrastructure, the traffic infrastructure they deserve. The subject course of the future state road we are talking about today is important for the development of the road network of the Republic of Serbia, but also for the international network of roads. I'm talking about the Iverak-Likovac stock. She's 18.3 kilometers long. It represents a cross-link in the travel network of the Republic of Serbia. It enables movement, because it is important, I will also read, from the Little Zvornik, so the western borders, across the Loznica, Osječina, Valjev, Lajkovec, Celija, Lazarec, Arangelovac, Topola, Rače, Svilinca, it is not a built-up part, Bora and Zaječar to the border in the east. We understand that a more high-quality transport connection and accessible urban parts with parts of the Republic of Serbia that are not so developed is of great importance because of the even development of the Republic of Serbia, which is one of the strategic objectives of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, to connect all of us, but not only in the Republic of Serbia, but also on a broader agenda in the region. I mentioned clear parameters and explained them, which show that Serbia is progressing, and we understand that Serbia will progress even more if the whole region progresses. As a result, the very important talks held in the previous days by President Aleksandar Vukic on how we progressed, how to connect, how to cooperate even faster and even more closely. For all people in the region, it is extremely important to do something different. We need to understand that there is no freedom in divisions and that there is no progress in disputes. We finally need to start looking at those segments that connect us, not everything that separates us. If we do the same thing a hundred times, then how can we expect another, or different result? In order to create conditions for a better future, it is necessary to understand first of all what it connects us to and to work on these things, to have freedom of movement of people, capital, money of services and data. What is very important is that President Aleksandar Vukic is a visionary who saw it and just yesterday, President Aleksandar Vukic led a delegation of the Republic of Serbia to Tirana that signed agreements under the Open Balkans initiative. In 2012, we fought with the countries with which we signed the initiative, so with Northern Macedonia and Albania in 2012, during the rule of the previous regime, who will have a lower salary in the region, and yesterday signed agreements concerning improving regional co-operation and the final result of these agreements should also be the free movement of goods, services and people with the aim of creating a single market environment and a common labour market. What does that mean in practice? President Aleksandar Vukic listed one factory that has its own, or one company that owns its own factory in Kruševec and northern Macedonia, and in the previous period if the Kruševac employees, the Kruševac employees, are to go to the same factory located in northern Macedonia, have to submit certain requirements, wait for certain permits. Now, after this agreement, such examples will no longer be available and will further facilitate the work of these companies. Albania's prime minister is being attacked by the "open Balkans" initiative aimed at creating a big Serbia. We even saw some protests in Tirana. They even threatened to cut off President Alexander Vukic's column, cause riots, and then someone would think that someone's "open Balkans" initiative was not in the interest. However, because of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, it is very important to note that there are also certain politicians who are mentally stuck in the past in the period when this policy was their only policy of conflict, not the policy of co-operation. However, we also have these recycled politicians of the past who support conflicts, support flammable messages, send them. However, there are also those politicians from the region who have seen all our economic results and said, they have seen Serbia win, so to speak – so we would not do the same. Whatever we're doing, our most important goal is just connecting people. The goal is not to lose ourselves in the discussions between the past and the future and to run out of the future that we all deserve. The point is that we can improve the future together and strengthen the region in an incomparably better way. On the other hand, if we show today that we are co-operating in the region, it will also affect the growth and development of the entire region not only of the Republic of Serbia, and we will show by these segments that the "open Balkans" initiative opens, that we are beginning to live what we should live in the EU tomorrow, that is, that we are ready to have both free movement and the flow of goods, services and that we have no borders. What is very important is that if the "open Balkans" initiative is working at full capacity, we and as a region, will have a greater inflow of investments and more young people will remain in the whole region, there will be more youth employees, and that is exactly the strategic goal pursued by the Republic of Serbia. The "Open Balkans" creates real opportunities and advantages for all countries, and if we end up reaching a customs union with Northern Macedonia and Albania, then we will be at such a level as to solve a large number of problems that we now have and we will all have incomparably higher incomes and inflows and we will be much more successful in attracting investment. For the very end, I'd like to say that in less than ten years, we have managed to change the way we conduct politics. We are no longer fighting for the lowest salary in the region as we used to, we are already fighting for a stronger region and the results are clear. There are changes visible. Citizens just feel better. The money has more than ever for various capital investments and important projects and, of course, the representatives of the former regime who want to come to power today, because you know how, during their power, or when the president of Serbia, then the Prime Minister began to be Prime Minister, the average salary was 330 euros. We are talking about the average of 610 euros from the beginning of next year and then Dragan Gilas comes out with a statement that the opposition has 56% of the support. You see, politics is based on the fact that you only fight for Belgrade when you are in power and when you can make a tender and when you can implement a project of which you have personal benefit, and then when you are not in power, then you are an opposition committee that never comes to the City Assembly sessions. Then you have the courage to state that you have twice as much support in the people as you said the previous time that was a month ago. However, according to the latest survey here for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, for the very end, it is important to show -- the SNS that the elections now would have won 57%, but you know how. The best research is the election. When citizens or voters come to the polls, when they go behind the screens, when they look at which policy option is most appropriate to them when they round up the number that answers them, when all votes are counted, that is the best indicator and that is the best research. The Legislative Group Aleksandar Vukic – For our children, in the voting day, will support all proposals on the agenda. The proposed laws will allow us to continue to make up for missed time and achieve all that we could not achieve during the regime of the previous government, because the continuation of the accelerated development and growth of the economy, the continuation of the construction of the largest infrastructure projects, the improvement of the standard of living of the Republic of Serbia, i.e. the increase in wages and pensions, and all that we advocate is of strategic importance and interest to the Republic of Serbia. A lot of people laughed at everything we talked about. A lot of people didn't believe it, but now these things are reality and now they believe it. I want to thank the people of the Republic of Serbia who, unlike them, recognize our results and who believe. Our results and support for the people commit us to continue to work even more in the coming period, to fight harder for our people, for the future of the Republic of Serbia, and as our parliamentary group says - for our children. Long live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-22-0.u11690	Thank you, Mr. Mircettic. We're moving on to the list of MPs to report for word. The first on the list is MP Samir Tandir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-22-0.u11691	Dear President, fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, a respected minister, respected representatives of the ministry, today we are talking about a very important set of laws and what I want to point out is that the MPs' Club of Justice and Reconciliation and the United Peasants' Party in the voting day will vote for these laws. What I particularly want to point out is the proposal for a capital market law. Very important system law. No company or party will invest in a market that is not regulated, which is unstable, which is insecure. This law will further instill confidence in the business community, both domestic and foreign investors and in the coming period should expect citizens and citizens to have concrete benefits from the adoption of this law because it will further improve the conditions and give additional security to the business community that their investments are stable, safe and that there is fertile soil here where they can make profits. As regards support for the amendment and addition of the Law on the establishment of another guarantee scheme as a measure of additional support to the economy, I would like to point out that we gave over eight billion euros to our economy, that the key task when we faced this global pandemic and the greatest challenge for humanity after the Second World War I think we acted responsibly, that these results show. We've saved the lives of citizens and citizens, but we've also saved jobs. Helping the economy is something that we will always support both the results and the economic growth that we are accomplishing, I think they should be proud of every citizen and citizen, and of course to our MPs because the Serbian Parliament has played a key role here by adopting the laws through which all these aid measures have been implemented. As for electronic invoices, unnecessary costs are eliminated, red tape is reduced and more efficient business is established. We absolutely support the university infrastructure loan. What I want to point out is that thanks to rickety academic Muamer Zukorlic Novi Pazar has become a university center. He founded the International University of Novi Pazar, which was the initial chapel for the opening of another state university in Novi Pazar, and it is a city that has two universities today. I expect that part of the money that we will vote for will end up in Novi Pazar and will invest among other things in improving the conditions for the students there, but among other things, what we expect is that New Pazar and Sandzak deserve to build a science and technology park. As for loans when it comes to infrastructure, it is something that the Justice and Reconciliation Party and our Parliament Club absolutely supports. Without good infrastructure, there is no development of economy, and we cannot fight to keep our young people in this country. What I would especially like to point out and thank the Ministry of Transport, is that my initiative, and after a series of speeches here in the Assembly, has been reconstructed two rinks, on the Master's Road of Prepolje – Brodarevo, towards the Montenegrin border. The value of the investment is over 250 million dinars, but what I expect is that we will invest more in local roads. There is no development of agriculture, there is no development of our village, while our villages and on Pestero (Prijepolje, Prijebo, Novi Pazar, Tutin) will not develop villages unless we connect our villages, villages, suburban settlements with good asphalt roads. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-22-0.u11692	I thank Mr. Tandir. The next is MP Vladan Glisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-22-0.u11693	Today we are discussing the Capital Market Act, we are discussing international contracts in which EU financial institutions lenders are, we are discussing economic support by our country in this Covid pandemic. All these laws can be viewed in one way and another, but they open certain topics that show seriously that the laws and legislation we adopt within our policy of the EU, create serious problems for our society, for our state and social development, and I will now try telegraphically to say, in these few minutes, how much time I have. First of all, when we talk about the capital market, we are actually talking about the conditions that should lead to improvements and security, the existence and behaviour of domestic and foreign investors on the capital market. However, we cannot take the impression that this is all based on the idea of "Open Balkans", an initiative which in itself is not controversial and that our state leadership, unlike the people sitting in Pristina, understands the concept of sovereignty in the way of the 21st century, the awareness that borders cannot be, as in the medieval fortress, but there must be a certain connection, communication and integration that enables those who are most capable, most vital, most active, to realize their interest and to act by affecting both the region and the development of their community. However, it is only in the first, that façade part of the agreement. What is problematic with the agreement is that at the moment it favours the Albanian nation, because it does not cover either the Republic of Serbia, Montenegro and does not allow Serbs to be connected in the way Albanians are connected in the "Open Balkans". The other thing, which is very problematic, which is not talked about, is that by connecting the workforce, we are all aware that no one from the Forest or very few people will go to Albania to work, while a lot of Albanians will come here to work and that's not a problem, it's quite okay, it happens with some other companies, corporations, with people who come from far more distant places in the world. The problem, however, is that there is an opportunity to settle their families in this agreement. Don't be naive and forget how the refugees, who were admitted to the SFRY, who were fleeing Albania, were the potential that made us this problem that we have on KIM. So we cannot be blind to this opening of one topic, which can cause us a big problem in the areas where the Serb people live. The second thing, which is also important for the idea of an open Balkans, is the question of a possible customs union. Does this mean that, like Serbia, which has privileges in the duty-free regime with the Russian Federation and the Eurasian Union, will this mean that these privileges are passed on to other countries that are now making up the Open Balkans initiative, i.e. Northern Macedonia and Albania, or are we going to lose those reference and opportunity? So that's not what we're talking about, and we need to be aware that it's much more in our interest because of our country's strategic interests, because the state is not only an economy, but also a defence of territory and thinking about the future, it's much more important and more important to relate to the Asian region, to Russia, to all those who will give us the possibility of development in the future, but to this space, where we are actually working for the interest of the Albanian people here. So, "Open Balkans" is a good idea, with a lot of mines that can blow us up. So we need to clear that up before we get into it. The second thing about the EU and its institutions, the basic issue being raised, of course this is about the loan, this is about the financing, the EU has shown that it is very hypocritical and is never consistent when it comes to the ability to make profits or to invest, so that it is profit-making from these investments. The EU, which now holds, we say that we have two thirds of economic co-operation, i.e. The development of our economy, two-thirds of the EU, and we see it as an advantage. However, in times to come and in which we expect blackmail pressures from the EU, and they have already sent emissaries, various, who are already mixing and sending signals about what they want to demand from our government, such a commitment to their economy is becoming a huge blackmailing potential for them. So we should also think about it, and at the same time we know that someone who represents a guarantee of the Brussels process, someone who allows Pristina to fail to meet its obligations in the Brussels Agreement for so long, someone who sends an imaginary man as a high representative in BiH, violating all the rules of international law, someone who in all his international contractual relations has never fulfilled what is in the interest of the Serbian people and the Serbian state, he has no credibility to be our associate and participant in any international contract, and that is the time to say it. So this all looks nice, but it can be very problematic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-22-0.u11694	Thank you. Replica, Wolf Mircetic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-22-0.u11695	I thank the chairman. First of all, I am pleased to see everyone here today talking about the Open Balkans initiative as something positive. This, of course, is positive and what is very important is that we now have three signatories, Serbia, Northern Macedonia and Albania in the Open Balkans initiative, but the call is absolutely open to all. What is important to mention is that the largest benefit will have exactly our economy, because it is the biggest and that was exactly one of the reasons for the protest of the people in Tirana, because some of their politicians consider the Open Balkans initiative to create a big Serbia. That's not true, this is not about any big Serbia, this is about creating a regional project, so we strengthen as a region, because if we as Serbia, if the region is stronger, if all the countries are stronger, we will have a stronger region, and we will also provide additional investment, additional finance, create new jobs, and as a region we will be even stronger. What is more important is that Serbia is clearly defined by European integration and there is no speech about us not co-operating with investments, as one of the previous speakers said. Simply, given our clear commitment to our European pathway, of course we will cooperate and cooperate absolutely with all the institutions of Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-22-0.u11696	Thank you. Replica, Vladan Glisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-22-0.u11697	I don't know what more people in the EU need to do to us to change policy -- the EU has no alternative. I respect that, to be final, I know that this flossula - the EU has no alternative, can't apply to this government, because it's a moderation with the willingness of this government to co-operate with both Russia and China, to open ties with other economic and geopolitical factors, but essentially, no matter how much we try to preserve national sovereignty and to find an alternative to the EU path, it all comes down to the fact that it's a lot of beautiful wishes, lots of beautiful passwords, but we are coming into a situation that we are finally going towards the EU and that's the problem. I think that the definition of our entire political class, and there is no difference between the former regime and the people who now make up the opposition, and you often call them out, because both of you advocate that our journey to the EU is unquestioned, and it is already so obvious that they will not accept us into the EU, that they will realize all their interests in this area, that at the same time the "Open Balkans" give us as some comforting reward for not receiving us in the EU, that they will look to Serbs to do the same thing that was done in the previous two Yugoslavias, only then was it done with the Croats, and now they are trying to do it with the Albanians. To lead us into a situation that always weak Serbia, a strong Yugoslavia, a weak Serbia, a peaceful Balkans in the sense that all the interests of European forces are being realized here and that the only people who had the potential to oppose, to demand that the Balkans belong to the Balkan people, is that the Serbian people are being in the grip of someone who will trip. It is true that our economy is the most potent, it is true that we as a people are creatively the most powerful in this area, of course I do not underestimate other peoples, and they have their advantages, but it is true that it is high time to ask a question as far as the EU is concerned, and I understand that whoever is in power cannot say so. I, as an opposition MP, radicalize that question. But what we can all accept, and what I remind you again, is the famous thought of lawyer Goran Petronivic – let us make all their laws conditional on membership in the European Union, to apply them the moment we enter the European Union, not to change our constitution based on the opinion of the Venice Commission which is otherwise not part of the European Union's apparatus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-22-0.u11698	Thank you. We're finishing up a circle of replicas with Mr. Vuk Mircetic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-22-0.u11699	Thank you, Chairman. It is very important to mention that Serbia's attitude is and that Serbia will absolutely not change its policy towards the European Union, according to European integration. You mentioned that this is, as you said, a comforting reward for Serbia. I can't agree with you, since only in the previous period is four clusters open. So the European Union also shows that it understands the progress of the Republic of Serbia and understands everything we do and simply, it is the initiative of President Aleksandr Vukic to create an initiative "Open Balkans", but not only that, but to continue co-operation with both the east and the west. Here, you looked, if you followed the media, the price of gas is at the highest possible level, globally, but in Serbia President Aleksandar Vukic, and because of everything he did in the previous period and because of the good co-operation we have with Russia and President Putin, we have the price of gas and the price of gas will not change. It is important to mention that because of our good co-operation with both the east and the west, Serbia today is able to boast that we have as much as five vaccines available. If we hadn't worked well with both the East and the West in the previous period, we wouldn't have those vaccines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-22-0.u11700	Thank you, Mr. Mircetitz. We're going back to the list. National MP Aleksandar Mirkovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-22-0.u11701	Thank you, Chairman. I would like to start by looking back at this round of discussions and replicas, if that's how we can define it, and of course I will agree with my colleague, Mr Vuk Mircetić, who essentially clarified all the objections we could hear here. But it is amazing to me that people living in our country can't understand that the Open Balkans initiative has the greatest benefit and our greatest interest, as the strongest economy and the biggest market, is in the interest of this project being brought to life as much as possible, but I agree with you that it is necessary to involve some other countries in the environment in order to make the single market even more attractive to investment, both from the east and the west, I absolutely agree with you. Also, what I want to point out is, you know, when you're leading a policy of state and when you're in a position where Alexander Vukic, by his independent policy and decision, can't refuse any investment just by taking the interest of Serbian citizens. We've been a country that's been down for a long time, a venula, ruined by 2012, and we've been on the verge of bankruptcy, and we don't have that luxury to choose now who's going to invest in our country. Anyone who respects the laws of our country, who adheres to the laws and regulations, is a desirable investor. I think that we must be unique about these things, because it is not good to send a message to foreign investors that when someone comes to power or when it comes to the change of government, someone is going to block those investors, sabotage or whatever else, as Dragan Gilas says, will drive them out of our country. So we are a country where even more jobs are needed, investment even more, because that way we can only strengthen our economy, but provide better tomorrow for all citizens. What I also want to point out, this policy where we have to give up something or someone has been given the past, and I think that politicians used it most often, to use for petty politics, which would at some point usually bring them a point more, or a voice more. I think that policy is very irresponsible, where we will send dangerous and poisonous political arrows to everyone for the sake of one's lucky ears, as the people say, just to satisfy some petty political interest. The SNS policy is very clear. We are on a European path, but we are also cooperating, we have friends both in the east and in the west, and what they would say, both in the north and in the south, because Serbia is finally in a position to be independent, to have only the citizens of Serbia and to decide what is good for them. So the best decision will be April 3rd when citizens will be able to clearly decide what kind of policy they want, but primarily what kind of Serbia they want in the coming period. As for the very set of laws that are in front of us today, I think Minister Sinisa Mali has laid down the essence and can't observe any law independently, they are all related to each other, but what is common to them is a better life for the citizens of Serbia. I can't begin or finish my exposure, and without looking at that this is all a consequence, and today what we have as a stable economy and as a development of our country is exactly the result of that financial consolidation that we had in 2014 and 2015 when we will all admit these painful reforms carried out by today's president, Aleksandar Vukic, led to today having a strong and stable economy. For the people who forgot, I'm going to remind you that our country was facing bankruptcy during that period, that we were financially literally thrown on our knees, and that the country then looked like a place, more precisely our finances, to the place where it came from, from that budget, from that register who arrived. Usually, that money ended up in private accounts and private companies' accounts, while the people at the time were out of work and barely putting an end to it. The fact that all this is true also shows the fact that thousands of factories were closed at that time, that as many as 500 thousand people remained on the street. Such times must never be repeated again and it is clear that the SNS policy is always in every place and every day we fight for a better tomorrow for Serbia's citizens. That we are on a good track and that we are well in achieving this plan shows the fact that the highest growth rate in Europe is one of the countries with the highest growth rate in Europe where this growth is measured by 7%. This clearly shows how much our economy is growing even though we, like all other countries in Europe, are facing this coronary crisis in the world. Also, what is very important to stress is that in 2020, when all economies literally broke down in Europe, Serbia remained stable, it remained strong and our economy recorded one of the smallest declines, so 0.9% across Europe. It was there that we could see how many of our measures were implemented at the time, but how much responsible policy leads to the strengthening of our economy even in this crisis 2020. In addition, it says that countries across Europe have increased unemployment, when I say they have increased, not knowingly, but the nature of the economy, so people have lost their jobs while continuing investments in our country, so we have opened more than 60,000 jobs that year. I will agree with some of the speakers who discussed it before me, no one will invest in a country where there is no strong and stable situation, but above all, no one will invest where the state does not stand behind every project as a guarantee of everything the state rules, but above all allows. That's why roads, railways, fast cars are something that we need to develop rapidly, to attract an even greater number of foreign investment that will employ citizens in our country, but also to guarantee a brighter future for all those generations to come. It is also very important to point out that in the first ten months of this year we had as much as three billion and 140m euros of foreign direct investment, something which, by perhaps five or six years ago, was unimaginable and something that has now become normal. You can also see that no name is being made, and unfortunately the media is reporting as objectively as possible, because it has become normal for President Aleksandar Vukic to open a factory somewhere or lay a cornerstone. As part of the SNS, I'm proud of it, because we've come to the point that it's normal for us to open factories on a weekly basis. You'll agree that it was unimaginable in an earlier period, but that we had a paradox where unfortunately it was normal for us to shut down our factories at the weekly level and have hundreds of thousands of people out of work. We have been able to live in a period of power of the DS regime or of those people who today represent themselves as some alternative, and are characterized in the names of Dragan Djilas, Boris Tadic, Vuk Jeremic and others. In parallel with this, our economy has developed and strengthened and, specifically, as regards wages and minimum earnings, for Serbian citizens, I just want to point out, and this is what counterpart Mircetic clearly pointed out, so in some period until 2012, 2013 the average salary was about 300, 330 euros, and we now have a tendency to be over 600 euros. It is just another guarantee that what Serbian President Aleksandar Vucic and SNS promised will be the programme "2025", you know how much wages at 900 euros were planned at the time and the average pension of what will be. But I'm just stressing this for the simple reason why I want Serbian citizens through these examples of how much SNS policy, and President Alexander Vukic, above all, means a promise made -- a promise fulfilled. We have a lot of examples like that. I think what we're discussing today is in favor of that. You know, when we talk about infrastructure, it was unimaginable until 2012 or 2013 to talk about 10 highways or 10 streets being renovated in Belgrade, and today we have a situation to build and build 10 highways, and that is something that in a very short case shows where Serbia is today and where Serbia was until 2012 or 2013. What's particularly interesting to me is what happened yesterday and what I see today is that certain media under the control of Dragan Gilas is the appearance of this man who is still a board member in the Belgrade City Assembly, who yesterday presented some frat information, I don't know where it came from, but it's worrying that in that case you can see how people are experiencing politics today, and they support Dragan Gilas or are his officials. In fact, yesterday we were able to adopt a budget that is historic, and I am only saying this for the simple reason that Dragan Gilas has persistently avoided responsibility for everything that the DS did until 2013. He's avoiding that responsibility by saying that he was just the mayor and that he couldn't affect anything. With concrete examples today, I would like to explain to the citizens of Serbia that what he did in Belgrade intends to do at Serbia's level only if he is given an opportunity. We heard that he was unhappy that the budget of the city of Belgrade was allocated, but I will only explain to the citizens that the budget of the city of Belgrade is one billion and 365m euros in the largest budget in the history of the city of Belgrade. While Dragan Gilas, leaving with the government, left us with a billion-dollar debt and 200m euros in debt. The data on how well the financing of the city of Belgrade is managed today, as well as the financing of the Republic of Serbia, also shows that the debt is reduced from these billions and 200m euros to only 280m euros. So, parallelly developing Belgrade and providing additional money for new projects, for new infrastructure projects and for the development of each part of the city of Belgrade, his debts are back successfully. The second item that particularly irritated citizens concerns kindergartens and concerns investment in our youngest citizens. The man says that no new kindergarten was built, although it was a catastrophic lie, all around 25 new kindergartens will be built in Belgrade by 2023, but the data that further explains how negligent the city of Belgrade was during that period is the fact that the city authority led by Dragan Gilas damaged 15,000 families by double-charging kindergartens. In this way, he damaged these families, and those families, of course, sued the city of Belgrade, and the city's government has returned nearly four billion dinars to you so far, somewhere around 34-35m euros, which translates into an additional 15 to 20 new kindergartens. The only question is, how far does that hypocrite Dragan Gilas go, when a man who was on the occasion, if we're going to look at this micronivo, or in the city of Belgrade, if he won't take responsibility for the entire Republic of Serbia and the DS regime, could have done something, and did everything contrary to the interests of the citizens of Belgrade. Also, especially that it has left a bitter taste for all of us is that it has also called this city government, but also the republican government that they do not have to boast of some results and new projects, and be careful now, while he was mayor, here he was during this very period during a New Year's Eve opened the Bridge on Ada. That bridge on Ada, and how much money was washed up, I think we talked more than once. I don't want to look back on it anymore, but I want the competent institutions to do their job and I won't spend much time on it, but I will only explain to the citizens of Serbia how Dragan Gilas imagines it. In fact, for the sake of personal promotion, and for the lack of any project to be raised, if it were open, successfully realised, hysterically and forcefully, it wanted to open that bridge on New Year's Eve, therefore, New Year's Eve to start opening a new bridge. The citizens of Belgrade, as well as the citizens of Serbia, also cost ninem euros to open the bridge. Nine million euros paid for his walk, he says, was nothing solemn, we were just walking. Ninem euros cost Dragan Gilas a picture on that bridge, along with that huge fireworks and opening it in the New Year's Eve, although he had no single permit, no single paper to let that bridge go into use. And to the very end, respected citizens of Belgrade, but first of all, these laws that are in front of us today are a guarantee that in the next period SNS and Alexander Vucic's policies is the only policy that guarantees that our country will develop and that every part of our country will receive the same treatment it deserves and that in the coming period we will be able to be proud of new roads, new railways, but also new investments that will employ our people and that will provide better tomorrow for all our citizens. That is why I would call on all MPs to, of course, support this set of laws, but also citizens, because I don't know if I'm going to be able to address myself another time in this year, I would like to call on the citizens of Serbia to see, on 3 April, when they go to the polls, these ballots are handled the way they are managed by the budget of their house, and that the ballot is viewed that way, because if they do so, I am confident that SNS policy, which is firstly run by President Aleksandar Vukic, will win once again, because citizens want first of all the results, fulfilled promises, but also the vision and everything that is guaranteed by SNS and Alexander Vucic. Until then, I want a lot of health and success for everyone and a lot of other good laws for all of us, for all of our children and generations to come. Thank you. Long live Serbia!
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-22-0.u11702	Thank you, Mr. Mirkovic. The next is distinguished colleague Jasmine Karanac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-22-0.u11703	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister Atanakovic, honored guests, colleagues and fellow MPs, we are facing today a set of important laws in the area of finance and economy. At the very beginning, I would like to point out that the parliamentary group of the Social Democratic Party of Serbia will support all these laws as it concerns support for businesses and citizens. In my presentation, I will refer to the draft law amending and supplementing the second guarantee scheme, such as support measures and economic assistance. The state of Serbia responded very quickly and responsibly at the beginning of the pandemic, deciding to help citizens and make it easier to overcome the effects of the coronary pandemic virus. The aid continued during the biggest health crisis and continues today. As early as April 2020, at the very beginning of the pandemic, we adopted the Law establishing a guarantee scheme, as a measure of support for the economy to mitigate the consequences caused by the covidum-19. This year, in April, we passed the Law on the establishment of a second guarantee scheme, as an additional support measure, when the Republic of Serbia committed itself to settle bank claims as a guarantee, created on the basis of approved liquidity financing loans and crafts assets to credit the economy due to the extended negative impact of the pandemic on the economy. The scheme behind which the state stands as a guarantee implies encouraging banks to support credit firms and to guarantee the state for part of these appropriations. The amendments and additions to the Law on a second guarantee scheme that are currently in front of the National Assembly are intended to exclude the possibility of guaranteeing the state of Serbia for loans that can be granted to entrepreneurs, micro, small and medium-sized enterprises operating in the sectors of passenger transport, catering, tourist agencies and the part of the hotel, and hotels located in cities, because they are much more affected by the crisis than hotels located in spas and mountains. The state here recognized sectors and actions that are directly related to epidemiological risks and particularly affected by the crisis, in which a relatively large number of people work. According to all indicators, the greatest impact of the crisis has been felt by employees in tourism, catering, as well as transporters and these sectors are still in need. In order to obtain a guarantee from the State, these companies must first and foremost settle the liabilities under loans granted under the first guarantee scheme and that is logical. Credits obtained in this way can be used to refinance and early repayments of non-income wars of existing liquidity loans and trade funds. The payment deadline is 60 months, and that's a good thing. This is an excellent state support mechanism, because the guarantees from the Republic of Serbia for loans approved by banks encourage and speed up credit activities, and enable businesses to preserve liquidity, to be solvent and to continue living and operating, so that they can finance their own growth and development in the near future. This is also important for the preservation of jobs. Here I would like to highlight another form of state aid to mitigate the consequences that the pandemic of the coronary virus has left on the sectors of tourism and hospitality, which are subsidies based on the use of vouchers for accommodation services in catering facilities. In the draft budget for 2022, the state identified the funds for 100,000 vouchers of 5,000 dinars. These days, the Minister of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications called on guests to apply for this type of subsidy. Finally, as another aspect of the host's view, which needs to be considered, the crisis staff should do an analysis of the impact of introducing a 20-hour covid pass in the catering facilities that has been in effect in Serbia since 8 November. I don't understand the importance of the vaccine here, but I have to point out that I'm absolutely in favour of vaccination, that I've received all three doses, but to return to the pin of the pass. In particular, it should be analysed here whether these two hours of differences between 20 and 22 hours from when a single pass was required to make a difference to the health security of citizens, since these two hours, of course, provided they do not endanger human health, would be of great benefit to the hosts, or to their sustainable business. The introduction of a pass code was certainly a good incentive measure which contributed to the vaccination of a larger number of people and the Crisis Staff should also analyse the results of these measures and proposals for further steps. All of this is important both for the health and health of the population and for the economic and economic activities of our country. In the voting day, the SDPS parliamentary group, as I said at the beginning, will support both this and the other laws that are on the agenda of today's session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-22-0.u11704	The word is Dr. Nina Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-22-0.u11705	I thank the chairman, the distinguished minister with his associates, respected fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the deputy head of the SPS parliamentary group spoke about almost all the laws on the agenda, and I will briefly refer to the proposal for a law on the protection of intellectual property. The time in which we live is characterized by an increase in the pace of change in all domains of life and work. As we know, the changes in the world that affect us greatly don't depend on us for the most part, and we can't stop them. Of course, all these changes bring with them and problems, regardless of whether we see them as a chance or a difficulty, because even the most challenging chance becomes a problem that we need to solve as soon as we ask ourselves a question about how to take advantage of the chance that has come to us, and that it is and remains only our property. The Republic of Serbia has great potential to line up EU countries when it comes to the protection of intellectual property. In parallel with our institutions and the adoption of new amendments and laws, we must also build people's awareness of the very importance of intellectual property because of this today and talk about the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Powers in order to effectively protect intellectual property rights, because most intellectual property laws are almost the same in all countries only differ in certain details. The Republic of Serbia is a country of relatively long tradition, legal protection of intellectual property, since it was one of 11 countries, founder of the Paris Convention for the Protection of Intellectual Property, back in 1883. Since we are a people who have given such greats as Vuk Karadzic, Ivo Andric, Nikola Tesla, Mihajlo Pupin and many others, we must not treat creative people as well as their works. As a basic reason for amending and supplementing the law, it is precisely the transfer of jurisdiction to determine the existence of an infringement of intellectual property rights, and in particular the right to computer programs, software and databases, as well as secondary activities of the tax administration. So it's just about transferring jurisdiction to the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications. Given that the existing application has not been updated since the start of the preparation, as well as a large number of software, the improvement of the existing application would take place after providing funds in the 2023 budget. Given that Minister Mali has already explained the changes and additions to the law, I will only remind myself that intellectual property is one civilizational fluid, created as a result of creative people such as writers, composers, inventors, creative workers who simply have to be superior to this work, but that the result of their work protects intellectual property norms. Today intellectual property has been developed into a wide complex area, an area of law on which the entire world industry rests. This whole system is just designed to stimulate creativity, research and development. In a process where innovation and ideas are transformed into reality, research and intellectual property development has a crucial importance. Each author has the right to enjoy the benefits of his work, to create innovation, or finally succeed, which means that everyone should have the absolute right to decide who, how and how he can use his intellectual property. As a kind of immaterial investment in business, intellectual property covers all our ideas, inventions, creations and business secrets that give priority to competition in the market. We are witnesses ourselves, and we often hear that breaking intellectual property is not just a crime without consequences, because we meet very often with counterfeiting and piracy that can violate our country's reputation as a rule of law. The adequate protection of intellectual property is a key prerequisite for our country's economic development, but evidence and commitment to the Republic of Serbia to join the EU. When we turn behind us, all we see is once an idea, and now it's a reality. The future offers us some new flows, and we're here to deal with them. Today they are highly advanced software aimed at faster and more efficient business. That is why it is our task to establish rules that must be respected for intellectual property areas. The government of the Republic of Serbia and all of us are working to clearly define the limits of allowed and safe conduct in this area. By adopting these amendments and by supplementing the law, we prove that the country is open to the introduction of high standards of intellectual property protection because Serbia has so far implemented a large number of international conventions in these areas. In the end, you will agree that the protection of intellectual property protects not only someone’s intellectual property but it is worth as much as it contributes to better standards and lives of people, or society as it does. With this, the SPS parliamentary group will support all draft laws in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-22-0.u11706	Thank you. Next on the list, MP Milija Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-22-0.u11707	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues, Serbian citizens, I am Milija Miletic, coming from Svrlig, which is the most beautiful municipality in Serbia located near the town of Nis, which is the most beautiful city in Serbia. By the way, here in the Assembly I represent the United Peasant Party, and I have been selected from the list Aleksandar Vukic – For our children, where together with our colleagues at all times we are ready to help everyone. For the assembly speaker, I have always brought up the problems of small communities of people living in the country and from the village, municipalities that are undeveloped, demographically threatened, municipalities located in southeastern Serbia. Otherwise, a set of these laws that are very important to our financial market, to the capital market, these are very important laws for us to speed up production, nature, employment and as little cost to our economic operators as possible. All these bill proposals on today's agenda are very important laws that will, in the coming years, allow our Serbia to go faster, stronger, more successful, where we will certainly have the possibility that within this pandemic that is really very difficult, where our country Serbia is really fighting very well thanks first to our President Alexander Vukic, who is working with his strength, working with his energy for all of us, helping us, going forward. We follow it, normally, and the competent health ministry which is very active, which puts an accent on vaccination with its actions, and there are all the other ministries, among which is the Ministry of Finance, which is very expedient, working, headed by our Synish Mali and the Ministry of Business, which are now shown to be working in this difficult situation in the best way, where we are now passing certain laws, which promotes the economy and employment and in this difficult situation, specifically for these small businesses, for these small business entities, where they can continue and in the coming period to use funds, favourable credits, grants that will be able to float out and preserve their jobs, to preserve jobs and thus ensure a better future, a safer future for all of us. I, as a man living in Srlig, who lives together with my residents, co-operate with other municipalities, where in such communities as Svrlig, Bela Palanka, Gajin Han, Kursumli, a large number of such municipalities in southeastern Serbia, a lot of new business entities have been opened. I expect that next year we will have the opportunity to come up with certain business entities that will open up new facilities, where the competent ministry you run will continue and help these people to work together with your ministry, and in collaboration with the Serbian Development Agency to get funds and employment in such environments, each job means the survival of that municipality and that environment, and I think this speaker always talks about it. I'm sure some of the things I've been saying are very important, and our people who run certain resolution ministries have heard that, once again, I, as a MP and president of the USS, will support all these bill proposals. I think these are laws that give better conditions for attraction and thank you again and I expect your arrival in the Municipality of Srlig, where we will all find opportunities together to employ another man and provide better conditions for other businessmen. Thank you again, and I thank you on behalf of my and all citizens in southeastern Serbia, because I know that our president works only for the benefit of this country and for all of us.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-22-0.u11708	I thank you, Madam Minister has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-22-0.u11709	With the introduction, Your Honor, when you said you were from the most beautiful city in Serbia, I assumed what would be the finale, so I promise you that I will come to Srlig, there is no need to repeat it again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-22-0.u11710	Thank you. The next is MP Zoran Bojanic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-22-0.u11711	I thank the Honorable Chairman, Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues, so what to say. This set of laws tells us that Serbia is on the right track, and that with this set of laws, we follow the direction set out in 2014, Serbia in 2025, meeting the agenda, the objectives of the 2025 agenda. There is little need to spread the story of the proposed laws, because Sinisa Mali, the minister said a lot, as well as counterpart Mirkovic, and I will explain it a little more plasticly. No one can stop Serbia on that road, they won't stop it, as they didn't stop it when we built Milos the Great's highway, with that old oak and the record story, with all kinds of machinations, like this one now, call Twitter the opposition. So, part of the opposition, I'm building up, which deals with itself, which is hopeless, which has no idea, has no solution, has one only, to get rich, to fill their pockets, and if they can destroy something they've been destroying for years, and that's one huge company in Telekom Serbia, which has finally stood on its right feet, and it's going the right way. They were trying to do a variety of machinations and preventing only one monopolies from surviving, and that was the SBB, then, not to talk about United Media Group, from unspeaking the telecommunications giant and failing to do so and thank God they didn't succeed. I think they're very nervous, precisely because they're running out of money, because being a monopoly on this big market means a lot, and Telekom Srbija, em is not a monopoly, and it's spreading despite Republika Srpska, Montenegro, we've opened our daughter firm and in the republic of Macedonia, and we're going to be regional leaders, which is a set goal. What puts me much more on these proposed laws, that's what I mentioned, the highway of Milos the Great. Every day I travel that way and I'm happy to see a lot of cars and trucks like that. What's he saying? He says we're not just traveling, not just transporting, but doing industry, doing our business, because as soon as something is produced, it can drive. I remember the time I met three cars, not on Milos the Great, but here from Batocina to Belgrade, on the highway to Belgrade - Nis. What's special, that's what binds us, except that we joined the Faculty of Machines and we were freshmen that same year, that's the Moravia Corridor, I went to work, or the Finance Committee had a session in Vranje and I can tell you that I am thrilled, not only as it is done by the King towards Cačka, but also from Triestenik to Kruševec, but to the Pojat there. So, day and night, 24 hours, it's snowing, it's raining, it's raining. What's my picture again, which says that the economy is working, that we're going in the right direction, that's when I was coming back from Vranj, I hit a time period somewhere between 15 and 16 hours between the Kruševac and the King. Believe me, I couldn't cross anyone anywhere because the car was in each other. What's he saying? So the people did not go to the King, to the Matarusk bath, to pass both the Trieste and the Vranjska bath. It says they all work from Kruševac to Kraljev, somewhere small drive, somewhere big, somewhere it's Petoletka, somewhere it's Leoni, somewhere it's that Cromberg and Schubert, in Kruševec, but it's working. Do you need more? You should. Someone just mentioned the EU. It is not the EU's goal, in itself, just what is worth in the EU, all of them postulates, which have been there for decades, which are respected, above all we must respect the state, respect the work and be all right, and the EU, whether we will be an EU member, we may not be. It's not the only goal. The goal is to be at the level of developed European countries, to escape from this constantly mentioned Balkan mud. We have always been Europe, and we have been the defender of Europe, of the most diverse conquerors and conquerors. I can't, and yet I'm going to mention the opposition, that one thing, one thing they can't erase, this era will be remembered as the era of Alexander Vukic, and all of this has been done since Alexander Vukic was in power, and since the SNS, with its coalition partners, will be remembered, will remain, no one can take away any bridges, no tunnels, no new factories, especially those who in 2000 shut down all that. You know perfectly what it was doing, down at our place, when I say, starting with Triestenik, Krushevac and the Kings, and who were metros, and what a heavy industry it was. They've managed to destroy everything, make sense of it, sell it, and now they're telling us some stories. People, you're doing Twitter, you're dealing with yourself, and this Serbia will go forward, Alexander Vukic will be at the head of Serbia for a long, very normal time, because one day the SNS will not be in power, everything is changing and everything is changing and changing in this world. But this way and this time no one will be able to stop. Since there are a lot of colleagues, and we have very little time, I could talk for another 15 minutes. I will thank you here, and I will take advantage of the moment, as used by my colleague Mirkovic, given that I will probably not speak until the end of the year, to wish, first of all, good health, work and progress, for everything else we will easily do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-22-0.u11712	Thank you, Mr. Bojanic. The People's Messenger Radovan Aregina has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-22-0.u11713	Thank you, Chairman. Dear fellow Members of the People, the Honorable Minister of Associates, I must say, Mileta always associates me. I come from the most beautiful municipality in Serbia, and that must be Kladovo's. That's how you pay attention, in front of the minister, to Kladov and the entire region of Timoko. Today, the draft law on amendments to the Law on electronic invoices is on the agenda. Namely, it is a very important and systematic law that we adopted in April of this year. This law is very important because it completely changes the way our economy functions, according to the digitisation and digital invoices that already exist in the countries of the European Union. Digitalization is present in almost all spheres of life and economy. The simplest way to digitise is the primary way of keeping documents in a form suitable for transferring and processing on a computer. The use of new technologies accelerates all processes and procedures, and contributes both transparency and greater legal certainty. In particular, when it comes to electronic invoices replacing classical invoices in paper form, they will contribute to a uniform VAT accounting control, which is very important for the state. The electronic invoice system will be completely free, and the essential result is to save time and money. This trend of digitisation will change largely the way in which we operate, as well as the economy itself. Otherwise, the law predicts the introduction of electronic invoices in the system gradually, which is always positive when all laws are passed, all newspapers are gradually introduced. By adopting this law, electronic invoices have become an obligation for all transactions that take place between public sector entities, between public and private sector entities, as well as for all private sector entities, other than private entities that are taxpayers of income tax on their own account and taxpayers of corporate income tax that are classified in the category of voluntary users of electronic invoices. What is also important to say is that the Law on electronic invoices is followed by one of the strategic objectives and the definition of this as well as the previous Government of the Republic of Serbia, which is total digitisation, and we have achieved a great deal on that path. You have to admit that. We established the Central Population Register in accordance with the Law on the Central Population Register, which aims to establish a single, centralised and reliable state database on the population of the Republic of Serbia in electronic form, then the Central Register of Mandatory Social Insurance, the Central Register of invoices, which was established by the Law on electronic invoices. The amendments and additions to the Law on electronic invoicery that we are talking about today concern, in particular, the movement and alignment of deadlines, because it is also necessary to harmonise the deadline within which certain provisions of the Law on time limits, the settlement of monetary obligations in commercial transactions, as well as the provisions of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on time limits, the settlement of monetary obligations in commercial transactions, ceases to apply. As authorised, my distinguished colleague, Snezana Paunovic, spoke about the Capital Market Act, and I would only add that we expect the market to develop with even bigger foreign investment coming. But also, at this point, we can also boast that Serbia broadcast the first green bond on 16 November this year for the sole financing of eco-acceptable projects. So Serbia became the only non-EU country in Europe, the only country in the Balkans to carry out green bond emissions. Today we also have an agreement between the Bank for Development of the Council of Europe and the Republic of Serbia on the project loan – University Infrastructure. I think this is very important for our future and the future of young generations to be educated professionally. For Serbia, co-operation with the Council of Europe Development Bank is extremely important, with projects in the fields of education, health, social protection, energy efficiency. A number of agreements and successful co-operation have been adopted so far, such as projects to build the Tirshova 2 University Children's Clinic in Belgrade, projects University Infrastructure and Student Apartment, which aim to improve access to university education in Serbia, as well as water supply and waste water treatment projects. The act on the Republic of Serbia's 2021 budget approved the borrowing of the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe to implement projects to improve university education of 95m euros, which is related to the loan project - university infrastructure. By confirming this Agreement, certain general but numerous individual objectives shall be achieved. The most important general goal would be to improve and strengthen the capacity of university education through capital investments, the university infrastructure of state universities in the Republic of Serbia. The most important specific objectives of the project are the construction, construction and equipment of state university facilities, including the construction of new buildings and reconstruction of existing facilities. The project covers six subprojects for buildings, an orientation area of about 90,600 square meters. Improving quality in education and learning conditions for more than 13,000 students, applying modern standards of sustainable construction and work of the University Centres of the Republic of Serbia, rehabilitating existing facilities to improve security and energy efficiency and rationalisation of operational costs. Bank loans finance works, equipment and certain services while the Republic of Serbia finance certain services, construction permits, administrative fees, municipal infrastructure and land, as well as other non-financial contributions. The University of Belgrade dates back to the beginning of the 19th century, since 1808, when Dositej Obradovic founded the Great School. Officially, the University was founded on 27 February 1905, which gave the first Serbian University autonomy, and when it consisted of three universities, the Faculty of Philosophy, Legal and Technical Sciences. The University of Belgrade has 31st colleges, organisational groups of colleges, socio-humanist sciences, medical sciences, natural mathematical sciences, and technical and technological sciences, eleven scientific institutes. University libraries and eight centres, students can find reading rooms, sports halls, gyms, clubs, shops, courts, porters, registers, warehouses, laundry, TV halls, info-kiosci. More than 85,000 students are now educated at Belgrade University, about 150 basic studies programmes, as well as more than 1,700 graduates. In the school 2020/2021 year, 241.605 students were enrolled at all higher education institutions and at all levels of studies in the Republic of Serbia. In the calendar year 2020, 41,331 students graduated in the Republic of Serbia at all higher education institutions and at all levels of studies. In 14 student homes in Belgrade, about 12,000 students were housed, whose education covers the Republic of Serbia's budget. So all of this data is about the definition of our country to improve university education and conditions of study at state universities. This infrastructure investment confirms the state's care for young people and their education, which is widely seen by Serbia's empowerment as a knowledge society, i.e. a society with a higher percentage of highly educated people whose skills should be embedded in the country's progress. This project loan also follows the objectives of the development, education and education strategy by 2030. The top goal is to provide quality education to achieve the full potential of each student in the educational process, i.e. every young and adult child in the Republic of Serbia. Improving the November standard through improving university infrastructure will certainly make it easier for young people to achieve the best results of their studies. We believe in young people, they are the future and therefore we know that investing in young people and their knowledge is the best investment of every society. The political relations of the Republic of Serbia and the Kingdom of Cambodia are very good with developed co-operation between the two countries. The proposal for this Agreement is signed in 2016 by then by Foreign Minister Ivica Dacic. What is also very important is that Cambodia has not recognised Kosovo's independence and we are very grateful to them for their principled attitude. We thank them for coming to the Jubilee Summit of the Unclassified Movements, which took place just over two months ago in Belgrade and where representatives of more than a hundred countries of the world gathered. The country's rational opening through visa waivers and general visa liberalisation with other countries of the world, as is the case with Cambodia today, and it refers specifically to holders of diplomatic and official passports, is very important for Serbia's international reputation and its political and economic interests. Sometimes, as citizens, we know to ask ourselves and mention some of the countries in terms of more than a joke, forgetting that each country has a unique voice in the UN, as well as each of the planetary great forces. Some of the countries we experience with the impression of half a century ago, but many of these countries have progressed to unrecognizableness compared to our memories of them, while we have had and solved our problems, dealing with ourselves more. In particular, Cambodia and the agreement we're talking about today have 16 million inhabitants. The Serbian Parliament, with President Ivica Dacic, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, President Vukic, has inverted the desertity of foreign policy, abandoned at one time when no one, but themselves and their own interests, have looked after most of the countries of the world and restored friendships with traditional friends. Someone calls it rehabilitating Tito's politics. I will say modestly - rehabilitating smart foreign policy, in the interests of the state and of all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Serbia. This is also recognized by the political leadership of the countries in the environment, mostly the successors of the policy of decommissioning the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, unfortunately with the wrong attitude towards Serbia's successes, instead of joining an open invitation to remove barriers between us, the closest, and together we come to the world in the interests of our citizens, all for the sake of peace, stability and general development. The SPS parliamentary group will vote in favour of this agreement and the proposed laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-22-0.u11714	I thank Mr. Aregina. The next is a distinguished colleague of Dr. Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-22-0.u11715	Dear President-in-Office, respected Minister Atanakovic, fellow MPs, I spoke today at the Finance Committee's report on how far Serbia has actually made progress by adopting many legislative solutions that have contributed to Serbia opening certain chapters, especially when it comes to financial services. When we talk about the fact that the Securities Committee is in charge of the work of the Serbian Parliament, we had a selection of a new assembly a few days ago, i.e. members of the Council and president of the Securities Commission. In the past work of the Serbian Parliament, we have chosen the Securities Commission, with the old president, who has served for the past five years, and in these five years, we have had the opportunity to hear through the reports how much the efforts were, in fact, not only the Securities Commission, but also the Finance Ministry and, ultimately, all the participants in the capital market, to come up with a new legislative solution that will be in line with the European directives, with chapters 6 and 9, which are very interesting when it comes to financial services and which will give complete confidence to investors who come here to function on the capital market. So this solution that we have today is actually one of the fruits of the hard work of all relevant entities in society, not to mention that the working group, not only of the Commission and the Ministry of Finance, but of the National Bank of Serbia, of all users in the capital market, of the economy, of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, has made such a proposal for a solution and a bill. The reasons why we are talking about this law here today are primarily to ensure the protection of all participants in the capital market, to ensure quality market material, as they say, because what you are dealing with really needs to have a certain weight and value, then to reduce costs when it comes to accessing the capital market and the part that concerns encouraging innovation. We're in the era today. The fourth industrial revolution, in the era of digitisation and everything that today, for example, is doing modern stock exchanges, should be done of course by the Belgrade Stock Exchange, in a new one. That is why we believe that this would attract many investors who may not be able to participate in other markets today. We adopted as a state and this new Digital Property Act a year ago, I will remind you, it was here in the National Assembly that was one of the new reform laws and therefore trading charters of value on the stock market will not be the only one, but will be tokens, which are practically parts of the flow and functioning and trade in crypto currencies. Tokens will be able and functionally to open new small and medium-sized enterprises and will be the subject and founding acts that will actually be able through the founding acts to be the property of the businesses themselves that are being opened and the new type of investment, ultimately, as well as the creation of new jobs. We had opportunities from the prime minister to hear a few days ago that practically exports, the one relating to the Republic of Serbia, almost, when we talk about the IT sector, crossed one and a half billion euros, which exceeded the practical amount when we talk about agricultural products. So, the era of digitisation is already here today and already represents a big step for tomorrow, and that is what makes us really happy and an indication of how far Serbia really goes in step with the developed economies of the world, not to mention when you look at macroeconomic indicators at the end of this year, that we will really be at the top when we talk about economic growth and the development of the year after the pandemic that literally is the economy of the most developed countries in the EU. This is what we are now from the economic crisis that took place last year, we are entering almost an energy crisis and Serbia is very good at dealing with. It also showed when it comes to the pandemic Kovid - 19, it also shows when it comes to the energy crisis. Today, Serbia has shown at a historic minimum that the world actually works somewhere on the market of a really big competition where Serbia finds its place somewhere and actually implements a policy of preservation of both state and national interests, as well as economic stability. That's very important. When we talk about the Capital Market Act, I think that's the most important thing, that we investors can really offer economic, security stability, and now we're talking about energy stability. Why? Because today your price of gas is on the world market at a historic maximum. It amounts to $2,120 per thousand cubic dollars, almost twice as much as a week and a half ago, when the German new government announced it would not use North Stream 2 for gas flow because it has certain problems with the Russian Federation and Gazprom, which will not simply register the company in Germany, which is used to functioning in a certain way. As a result, the Russian Federation has rerouted its capacities in a different way and therefore, because of such political decisions, you have a rise in energy prices on the world market. Let's not say that the capacity of nuclear power plants in France has stopped their work, and that's why you have a power price disturbance. So what was once 110 euros for the megawatt hour is already reaching 400 euros for the megawatt hour, which shows that the citizens of Germany and France will pay more electricity and the question is whether they will have the gas flow, whether they will be able to heat in the same way that Serbian citizens do because, today, we should say, they are paying the same price of electricity, the same price of gas as they paid a few months ago. So, the Republic of Serbia is economically stable enough to cover these economic shocks that, of course, all countries are experiencing in the region, in the EU and in the world, because of the energy crisis. This is the result of exactly the work of Alexander Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, who indeed tries every day to fight the challenges in an extremely economically sustainable way that should provide citizens with real stability in terms of energy, but also the stability of the economy in terms of life planning when it comes to salaries and pensions, when the 2025 programme is on the road to the growth of citizens' standards, that we will never give up on it. The proposal for a capital market law refers precisely to the fact that financial instruments are subject to regulation, that we legally give these financial instruments the way in which the capital market, currency, and dematerial financial instruments can also be certain elements. It is defined as a liability law when it comes to financial instruments. Now what is new is the introduction of a new principle of business functioning through the Central Charter Register of Values, that conditions for public offerings in terms of securities of value include trading on the regulated market. Then, the part relating to disclosure, the kind of complete transparency is introduced when it comes to the obligation to report to the publisher in general when it comes to public societies. The market organiser, a regulated market, is what the state must, and indeed has provided this law, that all those who need to do this, trading platforms, trading platforms in the Republic of Serbia, simply include complete innovations that are on the capital markets of all developed countries and Europe, given that we have also adopted those directives. So the way we regulate that market. Then, the conditions for data delivery. It's something new that's being introduced. So, first of all, that transparency. Introducing greater transparency reduces the practical part of the data that may have been part of some hidden capital market financing until yesterday. So it's something very positive, especially when it comes to investment societies. The law regulates and gives permits and performs activities in detail. The law provides a high degree of professionalisation, transparency at a trading venue, market intermediaries defining and doing the most important part that we think has not been so strictly defined so far, it is the protection of small investors through the Investor Protection Fund. Practically, the state here really protects equally large and small. You know that always the big ones have had more and more success on the stock exchanges when it comes to this and that part of the abuse on the market, all the mechanisms have been given through this law to simply protect investors from any kind of abuse. Finally, this law, in its transitional and final provisions, shows that it will be applied, fully applied for a year, but that it is important that within six months, the commission must adopt its sublegal acts and that it simply has to be harmonised, and that brokerage-leader companies and authorised banks will carry out their work under the old law until the new law comes in nine months, and that the full work of all participants on the capital market must be coordinated. So this law has shown, simply, that Serbia is already a member of the EU in many segments, although we are not formally. For this reason, I think that there is justifiable co-operation between EU companies over 67%, because EU member states and their companies actually want to co-operate with Serbia, because they already know the model and the principle on which they operate, and since our market has become increasingly interesting, because we are working with both east and west, it is simply an indicator of how far Serbia has really progressed in each segment. When you see these agreements that we ratify today and when you see what we've done with cooperation with Chinese partners, and when you see how much there is and how many areas, when it comes to infrastructure, it's done and how much we're actually connecting the corridors of E763 with E70, with certain parts of the road, Iverak – Lykovac of 18.3 kilometers, and when we say today that we have 10 highways that we're doing, we're actually showing how fast we're going in our growth and development. That's what investors recognize, and that's why they come the most. But we didn't just turn to infrastructure. We actually create these infrastructures with good foundations and economic foundations that we can develop, that's what they're called. non-profit segments in society, it's culture, it's health care, it's education, we invest in infrastructure. We invested in health infrastructure last year and we will invest these, but with this agreement with the Council of Europe Bank of 95m euros approved by the Bank of the Council of Europe and 60m million that the state of Serbia will invest through the Ministry of Education, 155m euros, we will fully reconstruct the six major institutions that are part of the University of Belgrade, provide for the new 13,000 students of capacity, and otherwise improve the work of 100,000 students of Belgrade University, who for the first time in 50 years will have new accommodation capacities, and of course, universities in which they will work on a new model of operation, as seen in developed EU countries, where our children from Serbia are also studying and we are now showing as a state that we can deal with the most developed universities and universities in countries where our children were studying by yesterday. It is important that many children who have studied in those universities return to Serbia and show their desire to work in their country and with their colleges completed, but also to continue education here in Serbia, because companies that have come here to work, along with universities here in Serbia, and Belgrade and New Sad and New Zealand and Kragujeva, simply have new jobs for completed students. Technical sciences have shown that they are the bearer of this development. Of course, socio-humanist sciences are dealing with this technical development and they are innovating their way of working. The 90,600 square meters, which will be reconstructed through the participation of this Council of Europe loan, in fact, shows one confidence in this institution, internationally, that indeed those funds that we will invest in this will give multiple benefits to Serbia's development. I think that's an indication that Serbia is going a good way. We also got that as a confession based on the IMF's latest report. That's what Serbia should be proud of. We may be entering new challenges when it comes to economics, when it comes to energy, but apparently the results show that we can deal with any kind of challenge. I think it is of great importance, that this is an indication that the policy of Alexander Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia is really a win-win combination, that Serbian citizens should not worry when major crises come, because what we share with the citizens of Serbia, and good and evil, again, I think in the sense that we are going forward and that every day we really think about the future of our children. That's why in the voting day, we're going to support these proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-22-0.u11716	Thank you. We end the first part of the session with this presentation. We continue at 15.00 hours, in accordance with Article 87. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-22-0.u11717	We're going back to work. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principle and uniform search, I ask if the Presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want to know if anyone has not used their right? No, I don't. I thank you. According to Article 98(4), Rules of Procedure, I conclude a joint principle and uniform search on the draft laws referred to in points 7 to 10 of the 14th and 16 of the agenda. We are moving on to a joint single search on the proposals for acts referred to in points 17 and 18 of the agenda. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to submit applications for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Articles 192, paragraphs 3 and 157. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint single search on the list of candidates for the Council of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media from 30 November and 14 December 2021. Does the reporter of the committee responsible, the Committee on Culture and Information, want a word? Yeah. ) The President of the Sandra Christmas Committee has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-22-0.u11718	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Orlic. The Committee on Culture and Information is a formal-legal and proposing these acts under the Law on Electronic Media. In short, for the sake of our viewers, the citizens who must be following you... Whenever the situation and problems are mentioned or even such a regular selection of REM members, it is always one topic that leads us to certain discussions and discussions, so just to make a small introduction that would explain and provide some basic data, such as the Law on Electronic Media, which was adopted in 2014 by the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media, which has nine members. Since last year, since December, we've chosen four members. We are really doing our best, and it is a practice that must continue and in future that in those deadlines prescribed by law, which are prescribed so that you cannot have a delay in the work of the REM Council, you choose on time, or you make a choice of REM members. In this case, we're choosing two members for the REM Council. A list of candidates for the REM Council includes two representatives representing associations whose aims are to achieve freedom of expression and protection of children. The second list also lists two candidates as universities accredited in the Republic of Serbia. So, given that it is very important for us to, as one of the main tasks of REM, improve the quality of the variety of electronic media services, preserve and protect the development of freedom of opinion, etc., it is extremely important that REM members are chosen within and in time. After all, we have committed ourselves to the law first of all, but in the context of the interparty dialogue that was led, although this was not one of the conditions, but we are certainly trying, given that REM's work has always been one of, let me say, the topic that we had most of the most intense discussions with so-called. The opposition. We are also working hard as a committee to respond in time and to choose the right candidates in accordance with the law. Before moving to a more detailed explanation, I would remind you only of the procedural things that the Committee has done as part of the election, or competition for two members of the REM Council. I think it is certainly one of the most important things that we must mention, given that the procedure in this case is not in this case, but in each other when you have a competition in the National Assembly, or when it is conducted under the auspices of individual committees, in this case the Committee on Culture and Information, it is my obligation to indicate and submit in the Committee's report the exact way in which we have reached the four candidates who will be today, or tomorrow in the voting day proposed to the MPs as an option to fill these places. As I said, since December of last year we elected four members of the REM Council. The Committee on Culture and Information has published as many as six public calls for candidates to elect a member of the REM Council, which is in favour of the fact of the effective and dedicated work of the Committee on which I have spoken, as well as respect for the legal rules and deadlines. At the 27th session of the Committee on Culture and Information, held on 26 October 2021, the Committee decided to launch a procedure to propose candidates for the selection of REM members who propose associations whose objectives are to achieve freedom of expression and protection of children. After the publication of a public call, as well as a procedure for selecting candidates for a member of the Council, at a session held on 30 November, we held a conversation with candidates who were quite exhausted, who practically served us in order to ensure that this job, which is of great importance, is especially in the next period that we mark as pre-election, electoral, in these places that we have people who sincerely want to advocate freedom of mind, freedom of speech, for an even, ultimately, which is most important to us, respect for all legal procedures governing public space and the work of electronic media. So, the candidates we spoke with were Radoje Kujovic and Zoran Mirovljevic, who proposed 23 associations. They explained their biography, and I honestly think that the task of the MPs will be difficult, given that we have two rich biographies of two men who deserve to be found equally in this Council. I suppose the MPs in the biography and what we have concluded, from the Committee's report, will be able to choose between four tomorrow only two. Also, I want to show you that we respected the same procedure in the second scheduled competition, with this not happening at the same time, in the same time frame, so that one session was held on November 17th, and on December 7th we held a conversation with the candidates. The candidates proposed the following universities: Megatrend University, University of Novi Sad and the University of Kragujevac, and proposed candidates for member of the Board of Regulators are Prof. Dr. Vesna Baltezarevic and Dr. Nemanja Tasic. So, December 14th, we had a conversation with them. Also, I note that we will have a big dilemma here, since we are talking and talking about two great professionals from the areas from which they come, whom to decide. I propose to the MPs and ask them to consider biography very seriously and to make a very important decision tomorrow, given that these are two areas from which these professional people come, but certainly some nuances in their résumés and work experience will decide on whom they will give confidence to continue to carry out their duties as a member of the REM Council. All that I've just said is that we're all behind this together, totally, really, for one dialogue. I can especially say that on behalf of the parliamentary group that I belong to "Alexander Vukic – To our children", the party to which I belong, the SNS, that dialogue is most important to us, that dialogue and this is the place where we have to and should talk about all common issues. However, there are others who think that the dialogue is being conducted on the street and others know that they are being noisy and they know that, and they have been doing it for some time, to protect citizens even on such issues as membership, that is, when you are proposed for part of the Council of Regulatory Body for Electronic Media. So, all today in public space has become the subject of one, I can say freely, the spin of the opposition that belongs to Dragan Đilas, Marinika Tepic, Vuk Jeremic and the other members of the former regime we know about and how well. For twelve years, we have had the opportunity to see what this means to be responsible, or I must be more precise -- not the responsibility in the exercise of power. So, we have the opportunity to listen to this question, I say, to the choice of candidates as something that is not objective, as something that we choose here by party membership, etc. I have to point out that none of these people have absolutely anything to do with SNS, not SPS, not JS, not SDS. So, absolutely people are professionals and professionals in their work and their work, and we equally look forward to them performing independently in the work of the Council of Regulatory Body for Electronic Media. I think that objectivity is what we need most in the future period, which we know will be interesting and how interesting it is for this particular body above all, I say, because we have before us the 3rd April elections, and we have seen that the ones I mentioned at the head with Dragan Gilas know and how to play, try to play the Electronic Media Act and hide their campaign activities behind some NGOs, etc. What is quite certain, and it seems to me that the most painful of the former opposition, or the tycoon regime that I have mentioned, is exactly what the results are, the results of SNS, the results of which Alexander Vukic at the head of this country are indeed in some previous period where we are and we are responsible for the exercise of power are, I think, never something that they will never be able to dream of. I guess they had a period in which they could just achieve any of these results. Unfortunately, they failed, unfortunately the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, nothing but to fill their personal pockets, to rob anything that would be in their hands and to devastate the Republic of Serbia completely. What we are doing today, what we are calling ourselves today, first of all President Alexander Vukic, is precisely responsibility, responsibility in the exercise of power, responsibility in being among people, to realize that you are here for them. And that responsibility led us precisely to this result, the results that were carried out by "The Factor Plus" and the question to which we received a very clear answer – who would you vote for if the parliamentary elections were held on Sunday? So, after researching "The Factor Plus" with 57% trust, you would get a list of SNS and Alexander Vukic, and that's not something that's news to us, not a surprise. We know very well that the mood of truly Serbian citizens is always directed and given to those who exercise power responsible, and we have proved it several times. In particular, not a few, but we are proving all these years, particularly proved by President Aleksandar Vukic at the most difficult times for the Republic of Serbia. You have seen that even the questions that concern the ecosystems, because there are the most intense feelings of all of us, because every one of us and how important it is to breathe clean air, that his children drink healthy water, eat healthy food, etc., so these are the personal feelings that every citizen in the Republic of Serbia has, and they don't share those feelings that have politicians, and someone else doesn't. So, this floral and narrative that's being attacked by the SNS, and it's said that we politicians probably have another, especially the SNS, the reserve state that we belong to, that we're going to go to, where roses, butter, and where oxygen is probably the only thing that doesn't worry. So we must say that everything that we have faced in the past, all the problems, all the troubles of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, is of interest to the SNS, President Alexander Vukic. Every time we proved that when it was the most difficult, when it was difficult, because of the economic crisis, thanks to Dragan Đilas, Marinika Tepic, Boris Tadic, Borko Stefanovic, Vuk Jeremic, who left this country completely devastated, detached factories, we proved that when we find ourselves in such a problem, those who are our allies, who are our partners, who are all of this, all of the results we have achieved, we have reached with the citizens together hand in hand. That's what we're going to do in the future. How are we going to conduct politics? That's the policy you saw President Aleksandar Vukic practically showed by going to Upper Weeks. So he went amongst people, ordinary citizens, and asked them what their problems were. That's how we're going to solve all the future problems we're going to face, because it's perfectly normal, especially in the post-cove era, to say, it's something that's waiting for us and it seems to me that we're not fully aware of how much the consequences are going to leave on every society, not just in Serbia, but the entire globe, from the economic sphere, to all other aspects of social life that the post-kid crisis will be affected. We deal with each other as well. We've been fighting fiscal consolidation. Then we asked the pensioners to trust us, then we made our partners out of them, then we managed to recover the country, but as we only know with the citizens, as we only know that we understand the citizens, to work for their benefit and for their needs. So very soon after that we met with other problems and not every problem was put under the carpet, but we spoke very clearly about what these problems were and asked precisely by the policy of responsibility of these citizens, we sought common solutions. That's what we'll do when those from the streets that use ecological protests practically for political purposes, because it's you, and you've seen both Dragan Gilas and Marinika Tepic on the street, when they're like so-called. "your citizens" were concerned about environmental science. And we saw, here I have to say, this time, my dear esteemed colleague who is chairing last night has made it very clear and revealed false environmentalists by not being able to, I have a problem remembering the man's name and last name because he's always representing himself as some "Gutavi, Shuta," but I simply can't remember his name every time because apparently a man uses only a nickname, I don't know what the problem is to hide his name and his last name. We just had a chance to see how Mr. Orlic with arguments, the truth, revealed absolutely every motive and every lie he had last night, quite nervously, it seems to me, that on RTS where he was ruling, is that we live in the era when we talk about this inter-party dialogue that was being conducted right here under the auspices of the National Assembly and with European officials, or Parliamentarians, when we talk about dialogue, when we talk about the possibilities of being literally from this part of the opposition expecting someone to drag them into the Assembly and put them here, probably across the way from us, as political opponents, so we're talking about everything but media darkness. Now, in that media darkness where a silent one who has absolutely no one's support, maybe even the one at home, has the right to speak at the Public Service, is lying about some environmental problems. We are aware that Serbia is certainly not free from environmental issues. We are also sure that on these issues, whatever they are, they are working, the same way we worked when we were trying to save the country from economic break-ins, in the same way with full responsibility they will also work on all environmental issues. This is what I say to you from this place responsibly, knowing how we left the Republic of Serbia, from what state, devastated, completely ruined, with more than 400,000 people left without their future, without the future of our children, we managed to make a truly one country for example in which only President Aleksandar Vukic was able to open over 200 factories. So I have now completed a meeting with Turkish counterparts from the Turkish parliament where another good news for Serbian citizens is in the light of another Turkish investment, which is arriving in Serbia. So there is a complete commitment of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, President Alexander Vukic and ours here, our role is not negligible in this House where we all work together to get what is most important to us, and that is the benefit of the citizens, and all those who wish to scavenge by their feelings, such as feeling and concern for the environment, we recommend that we fight equally with all the problems we inherited from their government, with which we have fought. And this is the situation, with environmental problems, which we certainly haven't inherited in the last 10 years, these are problems that no one has solved in decades. The Serbian Progressive Party is exactly the one, Alexander Vucic is the one who will stand on the line and this kind of problem. I remind you that Cluster 4 is open, which means that the Republic of Serbia, in the future, will have to comply with EU laws all its environmental regulations. It is another guarantee that in the future with environmental problems and issues, we will deal with the way Irena Vujovic fights the day-to-day. I remind you that it seems to me to be one of the first ministers to visit Serbia, along and across. From Potpečko Lake and beyond, you saw all the results delivered daily to Serbian citizens to prove it, showed that indeed concern for environmental protection is something that is the definition of permanent, SNS and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and we could see that after the main SNS board when you had the opportunity to see new principles of SNS in which environmental protection certainly enters one of the priorities. So, everything that we do today from this place, everything that the Republic of Serbia, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, everything that President Aleksandar Vukic is doing right now has only one interest, and it is a concern for the benefit of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and in the future we will continue at the same pace and continue to build Serbia and that the paradigm that used to be valid for Serbia, and that it is only successful in sport and that it is absolutely devastated country, in which there is practically an economic or any social future, that paradigm we have managed to change and Serbia is now famous, believe me, everywhere in the world, and also here come a lot of officials, we have the opportunity to hear it from the first hand, Serbia is recognised by economic success, Serbia is recognised by the president who takes care of citizens, and who struggles for this Serbia every day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-22-0.u11719	Thank you. Do the presidents, or authorised representatives of parliamentary groups, now want the word? Authorised representative of the MP's Justice and Reconciliation Party, United Peasant Party, Amela Lukac Zoranic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-22-0.u11720	Thank you. Dear Chairman, honourable Members of the People's Parliament, we today have very important points of the agenda, and we have had opportunities to hear from the rapporteurs how members of the REM Council are also proposed, i.e. on the biography of the personalities. Since it is very important to talk about this point, to talk about people who will be elected members of the Council, I believe that we also need to talk about what both the obligations and the responsibilities of REM itself are, and since the Law on Electronic Media is in line with international standards, our obligation to apply international standards is also in the functioning of REM. If it is stated that the provisions of the law are in accordance with the Constitution guaranteeing equal rights and that the principles set out in the law and in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia are respected in favour of the promotion of a democratic society, then the REM Council must respect the principles set out in the law and in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. Otherwise, talking about the rule of law will remain at the level of a story that is being convinced over and over again, without real implementation and the establishment of a society of equal opportunities in which the rule of law is expressed. Therefore, REM is an independent independent regulatory organisation tasked with effectively implementing established policy in the field of media services, improving the quality of the diversity of electronic media services, contributing to the preservation, protection and development of freedom of opinion and expression in a way appropriate to more democratic societies. The regulatory body for its work corresponds to the National Assembly. Given that the Council is the main decision-making body of REM, and that it consists of members of the ranks of respected experts, members of the Council are expected to carry out their duties, without selective application, rights and responsibilities, independently according to their own knowledge and conscience, in accordance with the Constitution, law and regulation. We have heard from the rapporteurs that members of the proposal are not members of any political organisation and are therefore expected to carry out their duties on their own and on their own knowledge and conscience. I also believe that REM should control the work of media service providers and express measures if it is established that the service provider does not carry out its work in accordance with the law. The electronic media regulatory body is there to protect the interests of media users, to encourage the preservation and protection of Serbian culture and language, as well as culture and language of national minorities, as provided for in Article 22. The Law on Electronic Media, and Article 1st point 19. What we had a chance to witness in the past is the fact that REM's lack of reaction when RTS refused to broadcast a programme with elements of Bosniak culture in Bosnian, which is an obvious example of discrimination against a national community by the Public Service, or RTS. Although Bosniaks as citizens of the Republic of Serbia are paying a public service fee neatly, which has challenged them the right to make significant information, as well as elements of national culture, in their native language, as well as regulated by the Law on Public Media Services, Article 7 of point 6 which reads, I quote: "Satisfying the needs of citizens for programming content that provides them with the preservation and expression of cultural identity both for the Serbian people and for the national minorities, making sure that national minorities follow certain programming continents in their mother tongue and letter," the end of the quote. It is inadmissible that the RTS Programme Council rejected the requirement that this media house establish a editorial in the Bosnian language, with the reason that it consulted the SANU Language Committee, and has reached a conclusion, I quote: "no linguistic, cultural and legal conditions are met that the Bosniak speech is considered a separate language", the end of the quote, which is entirely nonsens, as well as a violation of the Bosniak Constitution of guaranteed rights, Article 14. which regulates the protection of national minorities. The state guarantees protection to national minorities. Also a violation of Article 21. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which treats the prohibition of discrimination because any discrimination is prohibited directly or indirectly on any basis, and particularly on the basis of race, gender, nationality, social origin, birth, religion, political or other beliefs, property status, culture, language, age and mental or physical disability. Also Article 75. A constitution that guarantees rights to members of national minorities. Article 79 also guarantees the right to preserve speciality. The Republic of Serbia recognised the Bosnian language as the language of the Bosniak national community when it joined, or ratifying the European Charter of Regional and Minority Languages. So Serbia reported, and the Committee and the Council accepted a list of Bosnian languages. Denying the right to language is denying the right to identity, to the existence of a national community. How, then, talk about a democratic and multicultural society, and the achievement of all individual and collective rights. So, from the point of view of human and minority rights, it is unacceptable that RTS rejects the request of the Bosniak national community to broadcast programmes in Bosnian and to such things REM must indeed react. The REM Council must not allow the law to be broken as was the case in the earlier period. Today, or tomorrow, the National Assembly will elect members of the Council, and I believe that the Council will carry out its work knowingly and professionally. Also, unrare REM should place measures against all electronic media that place or cherish hate speech on anyone, according to political inexperiences, second and different, at the end – to anyone or anything, because hate speech always results in violence and discrimination. In addition, as a society that pays special attention to young people and seeks to take care of them, and that a large number of these young people are active consumers of electronic media, we must not allow vulgarities, curses, pronunciations to become, on any basis, a normal form of communication that these young people will adopt and apply in their further lives. This raises an equally, very important question – what do we expect from societies that will be built on these scaling values? Programmes rich in such content, such as various realitys or TV shows with such topics, do not contribute to raising the general cultural and educational level of citizens. Namely, media service is provided in a way that respects human rights, especially the dignity of a person. A man with no dignity is a man with no essence. Dignity makes him complete, with all his moral and cultural personalities. I sincerely believe that members of the Council of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media will carry out their work professionally and honorably, to the general satisfaction of all citizens of Serbia. Especially by carefully treating the content of suitable young ones, for what we sow today, we will certainly reap tomorrow. Otherwise, it is the obligation of the National Assembly to call on the responsibility of any individual who does not carry out his job in accordance with legal acts. Once again, I will tell you that I am very glad that we had the opportunity to hear just how many factories President Aleksandar Vukic has opened throughout Serbia. I hope that the new investments that we could also hear from the rapporteurs will also be directed to that part of the country where I come from, to the town of Novi Pazar and the surrounding cities, such as Sjenica, Tutina, Novi Varoshi, Prijelje and Prybo and some of these investments, may some of these factories be opened in that part of Serbia, because citizens are eager to do so. In this way we will show that we are actively caring for all citizens and that they are all equal to each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-22-0.u11721	Thank you. The word has the mandated representative of the SDPS parliamentary group Natasa Mihailovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-22-0.u11722	Thank you, Vice President. We have two candidates today, one of whom we will choose. They delivered exhaustive biographies and we spoke to them on the Committee on Culture and Information last week. They formally – legally meet all conditions to be elected members of the REM Council. Like so far, which of them will enter the Council will be decided by the majority in this house. It was a pleasure to talk to two candidates who spoke from different perspectives about REM and how, if they become members of the Council, they will contribute to the work of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media. One candidate referred to REM's work in terms of technical conditions, electronic media broadcasters in Serbia, and the candidate spoke of media literacy as a condition for the creation of a functional and democratic society, which is also extremely important and belongs to one of the huge competencies of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media. In the very near future, we are awaiting and amending a set of media laws among which amendments and additions to the Electronic Media Act have been planned for the first quarter of the following year, all in line with the Action Plan for the implementation of the media strategy. I'll talk about it later. Now I would like to refer briefly to the analysis of the objectives of the old media strategy that was in force until 2020. It is stated that ensuring the independence of the regulatory body has been formally declared, but that it is not in practice fully ensured. Partly due to the lack of regulation, partly due to inadequate application or lack of application of the existing regulatory framework, as is evident in the selection process of the REM Council members. The action plan had 13 scheduled tasks. To a large extent, these tasks have been fulfilled, but it has been shown that this action plan has not actually been an adequate means of meeting the objectives set. The independence of REM is a good part of the public, and we in the National Assembly have often been very keenly discussed, is not considered to be questionable. The lack of confidence in independence also has an indirect impact on the independence of the RTS Management Board chosen by REM, and remains on the trust and choice of RTS director elected by the Management Board. So there are no guarantees for the independence of editors from the managing authority, there are not enough mechanisms to establish the responsibility of public media services to the public. In order to improve the situation of REM, it is necessary to establish a series of mechanisms whose aim would be precisely to ensure functional, financial and organisational independence and to define precisely the status of the legal system, with a very clear definition that this body must carry out its tasks impartially and transparently. In order to exclude the possibility of any political abuse and political influence in the election of new members of the REM Council, we have in this session implemented all the envisaged procedures in time. In time, we adopted the financial plan and everything else provided for in the law, and it concerns the direct functioning and daily work of REM, including, of course, the most important implementation of the selection procedure for new members without delay. Although the REM's formal legal council could carry out its responsibilities and in incomplete composition, which was the case in the previous meeting, it is far more of course more responsible, more meaningful to respect its own procedures and laws and in time to fill the composition of the Council, which is the case today and is a reflection of the responsibility of the members of the Committee on Culture and Information in this conference. The new media strategy and action plan for its implementation envisioned amendments and additions to the Law on Electronic Media, as I said in the second quarter of next year. Some of what I cited from the analysis of the previous strategy has also been translated into a new strategy. One of the amendments set out in the strategy is the possibility of financial sanctions for non-compliance by broadcasters, which is a mechanism which REM now does not have and which makes its work significantly difficult and certainly that the possibility of introducing financial sanctions will work and appropriate from the broadcaster, when we talk about respecting the Law on Electronic Media. Another thing to do further, which will also be one of the 28 envisaged amendments to the Law on Electronic Media, is to communicate with the public and transparency of the work of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media. Although the most important acts are the work report, records from the REM Council session and file objections publicly available on the website, there is no essential transparency and openness to dialogue, as well as active interaction with the public, professional associations, civil society organisations, academic community, etc. This would certainly reduce further unnecessary politicisation of REM's work criticism. Witnesses are also simply looking at the media content on television with national frequencies, that there is often no consistent respect for the Law on Prohibiting Discrimination, nor the Law on Gender Equality, the law that regulates the media, as well as REM's instructions, but also ethical and professional standards of journalism in general speaking. Even more, it seems that not all of these rules, laws and sublaws are respected when it comes to gender stereotypes and discriminatory practice towards women in the media. Women are continuously little represented in information content and most often stereotyped. The achievements and creations of women are ignored, and the media are invisible and members of vulnerable groups of women. The report on minors also, regulated by the Public Information Act, which according to the action plan should be amended by the end of this year, will be seen if it will already be late, as changes to the bill are foreseen for the last quarter of this year. In 2015, REM adopted a Regulation on the protection of the rights of minors in the field of the provision of media services. Research and analysis shows that children are not being reported enough, and when reported, this is mainly a negative connotation with a breach of the press code again. In the media they are invisible and older, and when they are visible, they are also very often stereotyped from a number of prejudices about their inferiority and unwantedness. Stereotype and discriminatory once misogyny reports and media content often disrupt privacy, and they are especially visible when it comes to domestic violence reporting, but also other forms of violence and not only through reports, but all these other forms of violence are actually abound with reality programs. As I said, the media strategy and the amendments to the Law on Electronic Media predict 28 changes, one of those very important ones about the introduction of financial sanctions, I have already cited, communication with the public as well. I would like to conclude now to look back on what I mentioned at the beginning, and it concerns excellent strategies according to the assessment of international experts and experts, excellent strategy and action plan for its implementation. So, the action plan envisions 13 amendments to the law over the next two years. The first of these laws to be amended is the Public Information Act. The action plan envisions changes for the last quarter of this year. Unfortunately, on today, it's more like we're gonna break that deadline and not adopt it. Reminders for June 30th of this year, the ministry formed a Working Group on draft laws, and the Working Group was tasked with delivering by 30 September of this year to the Ministry of Culture and Informing the drafts of the law, after which public debates were to be held in accordance with the regulations and that the law should come to the Assembly for consideration and adoption. However, media and news associations and associations have also told the government and the ministry that they are concerned by the work of the Working Group to draft the Law on Public Information and Media, due to its deviation from the media strategy. The prime minister's government has come more quickly than a clear and unambiguous response to the proposed amendments to the Public Information Act and the media, as well as others in the media area must be fully in line with the media strategy and there will be no compromise on this. On today, we don't know what ended with that draft, whether or not it will come to adoption. What I can say quite safely and responsibly is that we in the Committee on Culture and Information are waiting for him to know, if you want those Lincolns that we can't avoid tomorrow's responsibility by avoiding her today. We are prepared to wait, not only for amendments to the Law on Public Information and Media, but also for other media laws whose adoption is scheduled over the next two years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-22-0.u11723	Thank you. The word has the deputy president of the JS parliamentary group, Life Starcevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-22-0.u11724	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we are discussing a list of candidates for members of the Council of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media. The REM Council, according to the Law on Electronic Media, numbers nine members and is elected by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the proposal of authorised promoters. To us, this list of MPs from JS, this list of proposals is quite fine. The proposed candidates are not at all controversial. Both proposals are both professional candidates and quality candidates and independent candidates. So in voting day, I guess the shades will decide who we decide. What I'd like to talk about today is the following. Today, we choose REM members, or REM members of an independent regulatory body that has the power to control the media, discuss applications on electronic media and express measures from the warning measure, to the temporary extent of the ban, the publication of software content and the most drastic withdrawal of the licence to the electronic media. Today in the era of electronic media that are so powerful today that they create both the present and the future, which are so powerful that they create public opinion, which are able to impose behavioral models, and even political attitudes, are certainly not small and insignificant powers. That's why REM's responsibility is really big. Yesterday in this room, speaking of a set of laws from the domain of education and education, I pointed to an increase in violence in schools. The rise in violence in schools is the result of domestic violence, through the immediate environment, but also in movies, video games, on the Internet, and the emergence of violence in our electronic media. We had, in fact, a situation, if I'm not mistaken, on Sunday where our electronic media reported on the violent behavior of one of the YouTubes all day. We had a long time ago, not so long ago, the situation that our electronic media reported the suicide of a YouTube girl because of and due to Internet violence. We also have a situation today that on our televisions there is an increasing presence of violence in real-time shows. We also have a situation where we can see that electronic media today is often making shows that talk about people who have been or have been on the other side of the law and who have often resorted to violence. I just have to ask a question here, and what message is sent to children and young people like that? Is this a message that violence is an acceptable model of behavior, that it is an acceptable model of solving problems and relationships in life? No wonder, because that content was introduced by a media powermaker, a reality maker, a program that often depicts the scenes of violence as ways to solve human relations, a man who has committed domestic violence himself, and therefore is rewarded with impunity. He, Dragan Gilas, is among other things the creator of a model of behavior that sees violence as an acceptable form of behavior. Then no wonder he and his political struggle were based on violence. Remember the scene of violence against people whose only fault is that they found themselves on a highway, road or street at a time when they wanted to close the same. The act of blocking highways, roads, streets is nothing but an act of violence and introduces violence as an acceptable model of political struggle and it certainly is something that is very dangerous and creates a bad atmosphere and climate in society. Intangible violence is becoming an ever-increasing social problem, which can and must only be fought by the involvement of the entire society and the state. Yesterday I said that fighting violence requires a multidisciplinary approach that will include all social spheres. The media is certainly an important segment in this struggle. The role of REM in this fight can also be crucial. Namely, the Law on Electronic Media in its Article 47th position 4 states that the media service provider is obliged not to provide programme content that they highlight and support, so that they cite drug abuse, violence, exactly what I'm talking about, criminally or otherwise illicitly, as well as content that abuses the leniency of viewers and listeners. It is in this legal provision, precisely in the powers conferred on REM by this law, that the key to the fight against violence in society may also lie. We of Unity Serbia are in favour of fighting all forms of violent behavior. Such a model of violence is adopted from the family, from the immediate environment, but media also play a major role in adopting such a model of behavior. That is why we appeal to REM, and also to the REM member whom we choose these days to make their maximum contribution within the framework of their legal powers in the fight against the spread of violence, as a model of behaviour in society. Another thing about REM and the powers that REM has on electronic media is the spread of false news and I would like to say about it today. In fact, the Electronic Media Act prescribes the obligation of media service providers to provide true information. In its 1st position of the Law on Electronic Media, namely, the media service provider, in relation to its software content and in accordance with its programme concept, is obliged to provide free, true, objective, complete and timely information. This "free" does not mean that electronic media can lie freely, freely means that within the framework of true, objective, complete information they can bring out those facts that they have come up with in investigative journalism. It is potential for reporting to be true, objective and complete, which means that all sides are heard, all aspects of the topic being talked about, and that is what means free, objective, timely and complete information. Unfortunately, we are witnessing that certain media, which are not even registered in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, actively participate in the media spread of lies, creating false news and creating false affairs, and, you know, it is known that as long as the truth is on its feet, lies are already running halfway around the world. There must be a way for this society to get in the way of very harmful practice, because society instead of constantly dealing with its constructive and sustainable development, huge time and energy to defend itself against lies and bring out the truth. The regulatory body for electronic media as an independent regulatory body must have and find a way to combat this problem. Of course, we are aware of the fact that REM is unable to deal with this problem on its own. We are also aware of the fact that we must introduce responsibility for a publicly spoken word into our criminal legislation and that, of course, it is not and will never be censorship or a blow to journalism, especially investigative journalism. And today the real, responsible, truthful journalists are not and will never be a problem. The problem is with that part of the media that, hiding behind a layer of independent and investigative journalism, actually abuses the same and abuses false news and affairs without realizing in any way that such practice undermines both their reputation and the reputation of their confession and the reputation of their profession, namely, and people's trust in these media. Today's research says citizens never have less confidence in the media. This model of journalist behavior comes to him, as my Marines would say, slaughtering ox for a kilo of meat. Or perhaps as Leonardo da Vinci said much nicer, which is – it is better to suffer for the truth than to be rewarded for a lie. Lies and false news, as well as false affairs, are trying to influence public opinion's views, in principle that a hundred times a told lie becomes true. In real life, however, that is not the case. In real life, a hundred times lied most often only discredits liars. I repeat once again that this struggle with false news, with false affairs, takes valuable time, that this struggle for truth simply costs very much both society and state, but for the truth, of course, it's worth fighting for. We of Unity Serbia know that it is not true in force, but that power is in truth. For this reason, I repeat, the Single Serbia parliamentary group will support the proposal from the list of candidates for the REM Council, as we always support good solutions and truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-22-0.u11725	Thank you. The word has the president of the SPS parliamentary group Djordje Milicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-22-0.u11726	I thank you, dear Vice President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Orlic. I would like first to express the satisfaction of the SPS parliamentary group as well as this time when it comes to REM members of the Committee on Information and Culture, since you are a formal proposing, we are choosing in accordance with the procedure that has been defined very clearly and precisely by the laws adopted by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and not by some popular, they say, European practice and European standards. So, here is a perfectly well-respected procedure, a conversation with both candidates, and certainly in the voting day we will define ourselves as one of the proposed candidates. What I mean is, when it comes to information, and mostly all the colleagues who spoke before me talked about information and about media image today in Serbia, Starcevic is right when he says – true. The truth is the interest of all of us. When it comes to the media and the media image of Serbia today, I can say with complete certainty that freedom of opinion, freedom of speech and freedom of expression are fundamentally postulated by a democratic society like Serbia today. 'Cause if it wasn't, where would you hear me with such a moaning opposition? So they're moaning right about the media -- in the media, because there's no other way to place the information, but through the media. REM was one of the most powerful topics, when it comes to the talks we had on electoral conditions, when it comes to inter-party dialogue, starting with the Faculty of Political Sciences, and the first phase of inter-party dialogue, the second phase of inter-party dialogue. What European Parliamentarians said at one point during the first phase of the inter-party dialogue, what I said at the beginning, is that REM members, then we had to select three additional REM members, the remaining three REM members should be selected according to best European practice and European standards. We have then made it clear that we respect European practice, we respect European standards, all those European standards and European practices that are acceptable and that can bring Serbia's well-being, we will certainly implement them in every sphere of society, but when it comes to media, we will respect the laws adopted in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia where it is clearly defined from which, which member of the sea, from which organisation, from which an individual, or member of REM, must come from. I would therefore like to commend, once again, the responsible relationship I did during yesterday, the Ministry of Culture and Information, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, today and the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, namely the Committee on Culture and Information, because we have one responsible and serious relationship when it comes to the realization of what was agreed during the inter-party dialogue. We have talked, participated on both tracks and who knows which time I will repeat that it is very important that the talks were initiated by the President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, with the support of the President of the Republic, of course, that the talks are being held on both tracks, so that the political parties who want to talk to European parliamentarians, as well as those political parties who do not want to talk to European parliamentarians to hear and see suggestions and suggestions from all relevant non-parliamental political parties, because this is a process from which you cannot absolutely exclude anyone. Everyone has the legitimate right to give a specific suggestion, whether or not this suggestion and suggestion is justified or not, whether he deserves his place in the law or not, whether he should be part of the electoral conditions, it is certainly to discuss it and we have discussed it during the inter-party dialogue. I must confess that we have spoken far more within this second track where the Working Group of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia participated together with the President of the Republic and with the extraparliamentary parties. It is a great pleasure that the result of this dialogue is precisely a compromise that has been reached, so it has been sought for a compromise that will unite and respect in some way all differences in one continent and still respect the law and the Constitution and see how we should implement it specifically when it comes to our electoral legislation. I think that if we look at what is the result of the inter-party dialogue and with European parliamentarians, although one part of the opposition political parties has given up on that dialogue, in fact, has turned their backs on those who have called on Serbia to talk and to try to put pressure on the government, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, probably aiming to end this inter-party dialogue not with better electoral conditions, but to get the result of this inter-party dialogue, let's say, that this Assembly, or the Government, is replaced by some kind of transitional government whose own government would be part of them, therefore, come to power and privilege without elections. It was the only concrete goal they had in mind of everything they suggested, and I'll tell you what they suggested, because, specifically, it concerns the media. All of this for them was a farce, a distraction of the public, an attempt to imagine how God was interested in electoral conditions, and these electoral conditions were only remembered in 2019 when they left this hall, because they no longer had the opportunity to argue and effectively defend their policy that they did not actually have. So somehow, they become politically impotent and then because of the inability to defend your political views, you leave the tide, you hold some sessions in the hall, then you seek extraordinary parliamentary elections. Everyone's looking for an extraordinary parliamentary election together. When they saw that not that they could not be an alternative to the ruling coalition at the moment, but that they would be the plus-squamper of Serbia's political scene, they came up with an agreement with citizens, came up with European parliamentarians and came up with electoral conditions. This is the answer to the question that we are often asked – why you spoke to European parliamentarians. Well, the ruling coalition in Serbia did not call on European parliamentarians to discuss election conditions. No, we are still in March of the month, in fact the President of the National Assembly then, Mrs Maja Gojkovic made a call in March 2019 in March to invite all parliamentary groups to sit down, to discuss parliamentaryism, to discuss parliamentary dialogue, parliamentary practice, so how to improve parliamentaryism in Serbia and how to implement everything contained in the European Commission's report, in particular the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Unfortunately, we did not come across an understanding of a part of the opposition at that time. He spoke to the European parliamentarians, I said for what reason. We are coming into a situation where European parliamentarians come out with a concrete proposal. We fully accept this proposal, without any suggestion, without any amendment, but the same proposal accepts the minor part of the opposition. The other part of the opposition, for them, is unacceptable and turn their backs on European parliamentarians. Why is he unacceptable? Well, because they didn't achieve that ultimate goal. You know, each of the political parties, at least that was the agreement with the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, that every parliamentary group, every political party that wants to participate in inter-party dialogue, would make up a certain platform, i.e. certain suggestions and proposals that it believes can improve electoral conditions in Serbia. As a state-of-the-art and serious and political option, the Socialist Party of Serbia has formed the platform, delivering respect for the system's institutions. She delivered the platform first to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia delivered it to European parliamentarians. On the other hand, you have this part of the opposition that Starcevic spoke of, they did not respect the institutions of the system and they had no communication at all when it came to this first track and talks with the European parliamentarians, they did not have any communication with the institutions of the system and the National Assembly, they did not want it. They are their platform that looked about like this, I will now tell you what it meant, they delivered their platform to the European Parliaments on the eve of concrete results, i.e. the adoption of concrete results and concrete conclusions, which were defined by the European Parliamentarians, and they delivered their platform to the European Parliamentarians, and that platform primarily meant the selection of an independent editorial team, the IT programme of RTS and RTS, so that they could deal with the editorial policy of public service. Then, I say, option two, three times a week, representatives of the opposition, to self-guess on shows broadcast on the first RTS and RTS programs for 30 minutes, in the time of 18 hours and 30 minutes to 19.00 hours. Then, three times a week equal to the number of representatives of the government and the opposition who reached an agreement to participate in the 90-minute debate character emissions that will be broadcast on the first RTS and TV programmes in the 21,00-hour time period, all information shows say Dnevnik one, two, three, morning programme, the morning diary, to ensure equal representation of the representatives of the government and the opposition. To ensure, they say, so-called. by them independent media, and when they say independent media, they mean BETU, they mean Fonet, they mean Truthomer, Creek, CINS, Birn and Weather. So, to ensure this media that twice a week and for 30 minutes, they broadcast their independent content programs not RTS and on RTTV and precisely in prime time. And they say, ban reporting on the activities of state officials that are on election lists during the campaign. So, to simply prohibit you from doing the job you took responsibility for, and on the other hand, they have the opportunity to criticize you for that same job. This is a platform provided by the political option, namely, not only one, but Gilas's party, so Lutovac, then the Free Citizens' Movement, so some "We're not drowning Belgrade", so Nebojsa Zelenovic and then this movement by Janko Vesenovic. It's a platform delivered by the opposition political parties. Now if you ask them if they would accept one segment of what they wrote, if they had any part of the responsibility in Serbia, and they wouldn't have it almost, I'm sure if they were honest, to say no. I think it is the ruling coalition when it comes to the inter-party dialogue that we have led with the European parliamentarians and when it comes to the inter-party dialogue here in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia with representatives of political parties who did not want to talk to European parliamentarians, and it was not just the election conditions that were discussed. What is extremely important to us is that a high degree of political tolerance and political responsibility, particularly when it comes to national and state interests, was also discussed about KIM, also discussed Republika Srpska. I would remind you that the President of the Republic has presented the most important national and state issue to non-parliamentary parties before we talked about it here in the tide. So one extremely responsible and extremely serious relationship. I think that when I look at all of this together, both the first and second track and the results that we have achieved, what we have signed together is a huge concession that this ruling coalition has made to the extraparliamentary parties. I don't think any ruling coalition would ever and will ever make this many concessions to the extraparliamentary parties. So, the parties that are not there, who have never participated in the elections, which do not exist on a political scene in any local environment, did not participate even in any local elections, but we have allowed them to have their representatives in RIK, to have their representatives in the Supervisory Body together with REM representatives, so six opposition representatives, six REM representatives. We said that equal representation in the media, but that equal representation in the media, ladies and gentlemen, does not mean that you will be involved in the editorial policy of the media. I saw yesterday's duel mentioned by my colleague Sandra Christmas. It's obvious, I have to admit, I've participated several times in that show, but somehow, it's evident that those who come from the ranks call the opposition have no political idea, have no political programme. What is their political agenda today, besides what they've announced to us? It's scarcity, lustration and streets. We've seen it all. In addition, they came up with a new idea, which is to abuse ecology for political purposes. Everything we do and do here in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, when it comes to the Law on the National Initiative, the referendum, the Expropriation Act, when it comes to amendments to the Constitution, it has absolutely nothing to do with the Ecology, it has absolutely nothing to do with Rio Tint, it has absolutely nothing to do with preamble, and it can't, in that way, come to cheap political points through such a kind of cheap criticism. So we're doing one responsible job. To our great satisfaction is being opened by Cluster 4, which just means a green agenda and which is expensive, but if someone asked us what cluster would be at the moment when Serbia's ecosystem is being abused for political purposes, I think each of us would say that it is precisely this cluster of environmental and environmental protection. Serbia will find an opportunity because today it is economically strong and stable, there is a healthy system that is based on sound foundations and will find over 10 billion to realize this cluster, to successfully realise this cluster. I'll go back to REM. Since the beginning of the inter-party dialogue, we have at first a hickey and hysteria on REM, and that is precisely by that part of the opposition. In doing so, they keep forgetting that REM is an independent regulatory body. Some of them sat here at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and now we can agree or not with representatives of independent regulatory bodies, but they are independent. It is up to us to discuss their reports, and it is up to us to see whether they have properly interpreted the law or not, and it is up to us to strengthen the work of independent regulatory bodies, rather than independent regulatory bodies, such as REM, to push them into political mud, to ask them to interpret the law the way it suits us, not REM is a political entity, not REM participates in elections, not in parliamentary, not in city, not in presidential, nor in REM who will tell who won the elections. Whoever won the election will tell the citizens on April 3rd. I am fully convinced that we will have both fair and democratic elections and I am fully convinced that we will implement everything agreed on both lines when it comes to inter-party dialogue. It's very interesting that we're talking about freedom of the media today. We have talked about this many times, we have started this topic, and in front of European parliamentarians. I personally talked to Fajon about it and asked her why, let's say, about freedom of the media, we didn't discuss in 2011, when Verica Barac formed a report that made it very clear and precise to whom it belonged every second of the media space in Serbia. Her answer was, we weren't rapporteurs for Serbia at the time. Okay, but you were European Parliamentarians. If the European Parliament is about electoral conditions, why didn't you come early to talk about it, and it is very interesting to know that European Parliamentarians, visited REM, only after the completion of the inter-party dialogue and said there are parallel institutions, parallel media. Wait, if there's parallel media and what they say is independent media, how come there's no objective journalism? So, we're in favour, and I'm going to end up there, and that was very clear and precisely defined in the SPS platform, equal representation in the media, but not editorial policy, because the media has to stay free and autonomous, which means that when it comes to public service, we can direct, make certain regulations, and when it comes to private broadcasters, REM, we can make some recommendations, because, yesterday I was talking about it, in 2000, a strategy for privatising the media and you wanted to privatise the media after that, so did you want capitalism? Here's capitalism, where's the need for you to deal with the private sector today, where's the need to deal with private media? Finally, when it comes to media representation, it is not true that, according to certain opposition political options, they are not sufficiently represented in the media when it comes to public service, when it comes to programme broadcasters. Here's a report on the 2020 elections -- the second most represented in all the information programme and election campaign shows -- was just a political option that did not participate in the elections, which boycotted the elections. Here's a letter from tv, which lists the shows and says very clearly that the mild advantage in the performances just had opposition. So, I will end with this, Serbia is a democratic society that respects freedom of opinion, freedom of speech and freedom of expression, and to return to the past, in the worst form when everyone had to write the same, when everyone had to report the same, we certainly won't let that happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-22-0.u11727	Thank you. The word has the chairman of the Committee on Culture and Information, Sandra Christmas.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-22-0.u11728	Thank you, Vice President Orlic. Indeed, Mr. Milicevic, I am grateful to you for your presentation, given that you have touched the key points of exactly what is the problem when we talk about REM, which is its constant politicization, putting into a political ring of bodies that absolutely must be and is independent. What I would like to add, very briefly, is that I am glad that you remembered that period in which we participated together in an inter-party dialogue. Remember the absolutely total heifer, I remind the public of that, when almost the chairman of the Board of Regulators, Mrs Olivera Zekic was shown, literally, in the imaginary media of Gilas, in that imagination in which I suppose REM, apart from a recommendation that will long travel to Luxembourg, absolutely can't do anything. Someone mentioned, I think Mr. Life Starcevic, and the problem of false news. It is precisely the whole problem of false news that arises on televisions owned by two tycoons, Solak and Gilas. Here we come to the key to the problem, because when you have completely, as they say, two divided Serbias, I disagree with that because I believe that our country has always been unique, has always sought to protect its territorial integrity, the well-being of its citizens, and we do very well that we citizens of the Republic of Serbia are always united and powerful about every problem, around every mishap our country can endure and I will never agree that there are two Serbs, but certainly when you turn on channel N1, New S, you get an absolute second dimension of what is happening in Serbia. It's just that you get into one imagination where anything is possible and nothing is possible. So that's the political creativity, if I can call it that, two tycoons who are trying to create public and public opinion in Serbia in a very flexible way. Essentially, what is very important is that when you look at the situation that you have in the media, when you see that Gilasov and Šolakov's television are not fully acting not in accordance with but in violation of the laws of the Republic of Serbia exactly that so-called Luxembourg re-emitation, you can see that they do not think of respecting the Constitution and the laws of the Republic of Serbia, but of some general norms that we have been negotiating in these inter-party dialogues for the second year. So, they come forward in a situation where they're going to say they absolutely don't care about media laws, about a media picture. They know very well that they are represented more than all the reports say, and we have one report, Mr Milicevic, and the Electronic Media Regulatory Body, which says that all these boycotters literally appeared by one percent less in the media than the coalition parties that participated in the elections. And of these boycott choices were attended by what analysts we know have been paid from the same table where both N1 and Nova S are financed, etc. The essence of an absolutely complete story about media so-called media. Unfreedom, which is impossible because, you had as much as yesterday at RTS, a public service, which is always the most painful point, the presence of a man who absolutely, I said for a little while, the question is whether one vote from his family stands behind him, let alone the support of a larger group of people, you had Jovanovic representing Zelenovic or Petrovic, or, I would say, at the end of all, Dragan Dilas, and you had on the other hand SNS vice president, vice president of the main board, someone who absolutely, a party carrying more than 60% of the support of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. And we're talking about representation? Is there a balance? No, it's an absolute imbalance. When in any country could you see that someone who is not a parliamentary party could come and feast with the greatest and strongest political option? After all, Mr. Milicevic is a representative of the SPS, he was on the show last night. In which country is it possible that someone you pick up from the street should be brought into public service and allowed on a "prime-time" show for an hour? So he could tell a bunch of lies and lies, as he did. But it's not a lonely case. This all goes hand in hand with how much SNS is for dialogue, how open the SNS is to everyone's opinion and how not afraid the opinion is to be heard by the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Because the truth is right on our side. The truth is on the side of SNS and Alexander Vukic. On the other hand, I thank you once again for mentioning the whole history of hysteria at REM during interparty dialogues. I am grateful to you for mentioning all the demands of Dragan Gilas at that time. You know what at one glance could only be concluded from everything that came to pass as a request for European parliamentarians, but also from all attacks a year and a few years, and two years, it lasts precisely on those who are the prey of Dragan Gilas and Dragan Šolak, which is "Telecom" Serbia. That's what the point is, every second, every minute you put in a cable SBB. And that's what we're talking about. It's the freedom they want, the seconds they want to recharge. How? I am. How? Again from the budget, again on the back of Serbian citizens. Well, it won't work!
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-22-0.u11729	Thank you. Does the word want any of the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups who have not been given the opportunity to speak so far? An authorised representative of the parliamentary group "Alexandar Vukic - For Our Children", Dr. Ugljesa Mrdic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-22-0.u11730	Thank you, Mr. Orlic. Dear President, honourable fellow Members of the People and dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, my colleague Sandra Bozic said everything to be said about these points of the agenda for which I was authorised, as regards the list of candidates for members of the Council of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media. We've received a report from the Committee on Culture and Information. We have that final list of candidates. I would also like to remind the public that the Regulatory Authority for Electronic Media is an independent independent regulatory organisation that exercises its public powers and contributes to the preservation and protection of freedom of opinion and expression. If anyone advocates freedom of opinion and expression, it is certainly our parliamentary group, i.e. Our Serbian Progressive Party. My colleagues said in previous talks that we, as the Serbian Progressive Party, gave more to opposition party members, both parliamentary and non-parliamentary and during the inter-party dialogue and all talks than they asked for, and as far as media and public presence is concerned, and as far as all other requirements are concerned. It's just saying that we stand for freedom of opinion and expression, unlike them. But last night's exposure, i.e. Visiting our vice president of the Serbian Progressive Party and the National Assembly, Dr Vladimir Orlic, and my colleague Sandra Christmas's speech encouraged me to make the following views. If we consider how the majority of the media, most of the electronic media, contributes to its independence in the media, we conclude that the Serbian Progressive Party is currently, thanks to its representation in most of the electronic media, and especially in the public media service, currently varying between 5% and 10%. So, SNS between 5% and 10%, and various false environmental movements, extraparliamentary parties and some parties who have and have not participated in the elections, and do not have a rating of 1% of citizens, they, according to most electronic media and representation, have 20% to 30% of the support of Serbian citizens. Of course I am ironic, of course this is not true, but Serbian citizens, when they monitor most of the media, and especially those owned by Dragan Solak and Dragan Gilas, come to the conclusion that SNS is a party that does not have the support of more than 60% of Serbian citizens, but that will barely cross the censorship after the next 3rd April 2022 elections. Why? Because unlike us who here and in time choose members of the REM Council and who here in time carry out all activities concerning the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and implement laws and adopt laws and work by law, the political structure gathered around Djilas, Marinika Tepic and Dragan Šolak, it does not advocate the opinion of the people. She stands for the one-minded, but theirs. They often, almost every day, not every day, but several times a day, plant false information to Serbian citizens. One of the last is that for the opposition, over 50% of Serbia's citizens, and in fact, the truth is, Sandra Christmas presented the latest research, that SNS rating is 57% with growth trend. So, it's clear what the people want, but they need to be explained to the people what Đilas, Marinika Tepic, Solak, Vuk Jeremic and their comrades want. The people want to vote in the elections, the people will, as in the elections of the previous year and all previous years, give their support to a political programme, to certain political parties, to a particular leader. That's how our people in Serbia like our people to choose. On the other hand, Gilas and his comrades, they don't want the people's opinion, they want the common senses. They would be the happiest if a regulation had been passed that there was no choice and that they would automatically come to power with a rating such as the SNS, but because Serbia does not have the voice of the street, but is ruled by the voice of democracy, because in Serbia they do not ask tycoons and criminals, but in Serbia they ask the people, so we have the elections on April 3rd and therefore all institutions, especially these regulatory bodies and all independent institutions and at all state institutions, to do their job responsibly, but it is saddened to say that most media reports all major and vital events. So, let's say, today, a small number of media outlets have announced great successes as far as our President Alexander Vukic's foreign policy is concerned. How many media reports today conveyed to Russian Federation President Vladimir Putin, who directed Alexander Vukic through Russian Ambassador Bocan Harchenk? A small number. Gilas media is either not saying it or causing it, or causing the people to react in one way because they falsely report all events. Today we also had a meeting here at the Turkish delegation received by President Aleksandar Vukic, a delegation headed by the Turkish parliament president. Afterwards, the delegation was also in the Serbian Parliament, followed by Prime Minister Ana Brnabic. Most of the electronic media in one sentence conveyed or did not convey the event. So, all these successes, as far as solving the energy crisis, most of the electronic media, and especially the media under the control of Gilas and Solak, i.e. in their possession, she didn't even pass it on. How do Gilas and Solak's media respond to the latest developments in Shilov, where there was a search of Serbian houses, where Albanian forces under the orders of Albin Kurti are trying to break the spirit and strength of the remaining Serb population at KIM? How did the Gilas and Solakov media report on the terrible events and arrests in Strpc, in the municipality of South KiM where 11,000 Serbs live? Not to mention the announcement of the Gilas and Šolakov media and most of the electronic media when we had the days-long hysteria by director Goran Markovic, actor Sergey Trifunović, actress Svetlana Bojkovic, and after their mentor Dragan Gilas, who supported all their statements and performances in public, as regards insults and threats against President Aleksandar Vukic, and then threats and insults against all those who defended President Vukic against these shameful threats. Then we had, among other things, a shameful announcement at the expense of Minister Daria Kisic Tepavcevic. But to all this, the Gilassovs and Solakov media not only not only tell the truth, but provide support for the false informing of Serbian citizens. What I personally resent as a MP, we have a weak reaction from most state institutions. I am particularly referring to various trustees and independent institutions, because I have not noticed, and I do not now list names, that we have had a reaction from independent state institutions and NGOs and regulatory bodies, as well as from some members of REM when it comes to this shameful attack on the account of President Vukic and his family. So, when Dragan Gilasu is said to be a criminal and to have stolen 619m euros, most of the various independent institutions react and condemn SNS officials, and then we have a prolonged fact that most courts condemn our officials and MPs in record time for their alleged slander. But when it comes to the theft and disappearance of 619m euros, we have no reaction to either these independent institutions or the good part of state institutions, which is their job description, and in particular we do not have an adequate reaction from the judicial authorities. In order not to talk about justice today, since this is not a topic today, it will be a topic tomorrow when we discuss prosecutors, what I want to say is one great hope for the independence of judicial institutions and that everyone will be prosecuted who stole and kidnapped from Serbian citizens, who participated in both economic and organised criminal activities, including Dragan Gilas and all his colleagues, but, of course, when it is, that most media in Serbia, and especially electronics, will not inform the public at all. Just see if it's normal at all, and that's what Sandra was talking about, is it even normal and is it anywhere in any country in Europe, anywhere in the world that someone who is a representative of some association of citizens, some false ecological movement, some organisations that have a number of members of thousands registered in Serbia, performs in almost all electronic media and has media representation in rank, and often more than the president of the strongest party in Serbia – SNS? So it is quite clear that most of the electronic media whose Gilas, along with Solak, owns it, or only Solak owns it, or where they have influence by having a certain part of the ownership stake, so they want Serbian citizens' will to be reduced in performances in electronic media to about 20 per cent, therefore, of the citizens' will 20-30 per cent. Vanparliamentary opposition parties, their false environmental movements, NGOs 70% representation in electronic media. Is that democracy? Do they want to send another clear message to the citizens of Serbia – we are not interested in your position, you are ordinary citizens who do not have the right to choose, who do not have the right to choose either power in the next parliamentary elections, or to choose the leadership of the city of Belgrade, or the president of Serbia? So, Dragan Djilas with Marinika Tepic and Šolak sends a clear message to Serbian citizens, not interested in the will of the people, so they don't care about the people. They don't care about the people who stole it. It is the policy of Dragan Djilas and Marinika Tepic. While on state posts, one, they destroyed state institutions, two, stole Serbian citizens, only Gilas himself over 619m euros. And then now that they're in opposition, they want to control most of the electronic media, part of the electronic media is the owners, and then all of that, now that we're going into one period before the campaign and after we're in the election campaign, there's no function of the ruling SNS, which has a rating of over 60%, that there's not enough representation in the media. Is that their policy? Is it their policy for Alexander Vukic not to participate in the election at all? So, not only do they do what they want and not just want to go back to power to kidnap Serbian citizens, but they want their political opponents to choose candidates as well. Is the next step of Dragan Djilas and Marinika Tepic's policy to draw up and propose lists for parliamentary and city elections, to say they can be candidates, these can't be candidates? Is that the politics of Dragan Gilas? Is it the policy of Dragan Gilas and his media to give public media great space to all those who are known for their anti-Serbian activities? Yesterday, we had opposition MPs to present a series of false information here, but they were greatly denied by their brilliant statistical information by my colleague Marijan Risticevic, who presented in his own way part of the parliamentary opposition, and here we have seven MPs of opposition, falsely speaking, what we had yesterday, about the loss of the Serb people in the territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Kosovo and Metohija, Croatia during the 1990s. Statistics support that he suffered the most in the former Yugoslavia's space, both in World War II and World War I and in the 1990s, the Serbian people. Can we read it or hear it, or see it in Gilas' media? We can't. When someone makes a statement against Alexander Vukic, some fake environmentalist, some regional politician, some quasi-stater from the region, he gets a huge space in Gilas' media. So, when any damage should be done to Serbia, he is welcome to Gilas' media. Come on, you're welcome to Gilas' media, but we've got to finally expose the role of media public service. So will the media public service continue to, in the coming months, in their political shows, in prime terms, continue to provide, under one, false information about the functioning of the opposition and how they have a large rating and how they have great support for the people, therefore, I mean the opposition gathered around Gilas and his coalition partners, and whether SNS officials, including the SPS party number two in Serbia and all other parties in our coalition, will have so much representation that it will all be 20% to 30%? Parliament has representation on the media public service and most electronic media 20% to 30%. Gilas's associates and individual extraparliamentary opposition parties represented 70%. I'm undermining again, is that democracy? Is it anywhere in Europe, in any country of Europe? There isn't. No, but Serbia is a country of democracy and besides, we have agreed to all concessions of the extra-parliamentary opposition. So, both those who participated in dialogues and those who did not participate in dialogues, who sent their emissaries and held various press conferences. In the end, what I would like to point out in particular is one concern. I haven't noticed anything that independent institutions in Serbia, regulatory bodies, and also part of state institutions, and a good part of the media, react when threatened with children, threats addressed to the families of Serbian citizens, and the latest example speaks enough and warns enough about what kind of media image we have of Serbia. So, rarely who convicted, rarely who the media in Serbia has condemned, rarely which analyst in Serbia has condemned, these so-called. Independent analysts, threats sent to the family of Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic, and then we see it all in Gilas' media saying the dark is in Serbia. Not only do they lie that there is media darkness in Serbia, but they are using every opportunity, every going to each Western embassy, every going abroad, whether in Europe or in the United States, to find someone congressman, to find some politician to flatter both their country, and Serbian people, and all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. So I like the people of Serbia to know the truth. The people of Serbia must know what is the alternative to Alexander Vukic's policy, because we do not have two Serbs. We have one Serbia, one Serbia we need to protect and defend and strengthen. We, led by Aleksandar Vukic, are building Serbia, building institutions, and Dragan Djilas, while in power, has torn down institutions, torn down Serbia and wants to come back to power to bring it down to the end. He won't be able to because he won't give it to the people. That's why the people need to know all the lies and Gilas' media and Gilas' portals and social networks. The people should also know how to host and what information media public service says. The people need to know all that Dragan Gilas, along with Solak, the media is controlled and the media is owned. The people need to know who they're lying to. The people need to know who took from our people, and that's Dragan Gilas and his comrades. To prevent that, i.e. In order for Serbian citizens not to give the chance again, as was the case in 2008, 2004 and 2000, the people should know that they should not allow Dragan Gilas again with their comrades to come to power, not because of us from SNS and our President, Alexander Vukic, but because of the interest of both our country and its citizens. That's why I am convinced that the people of Serbia, for me the best possible people are our people, the most beautiful state in the world is for me the Republic of Serbia and that's how all citizens should think, so should those who are also against the SNS... The people should decide who will rule Serbia, and if we take into account the latest research and consider the opinion of the people, it is clear that the people will also support the best policy on April 3rd, which is the policy that our Serbia is building, and strengthens, and leads it to a safe future, which is the policy of our President Aleksandr Vukic. Thank you and live Serbia!
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-22-0.u11731	Thank you. Mr Kovacevic, on behalf of the parliamentary group or as one of those on the discussion list? (Borisav Kovacevic: I am not on the list. I'm sorry. Switching to the list in accordance with the established order. The first word has a National MP named Samir Tandir.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-22-0.u11732	Thank you, Your Honor. Fellow Members and fellow MPs, Justice and Reconciliation Party, as the strongest Bosniak party and our parliamentary club together with the United Peasants' Party, will vote for proposals in the day of voting. The reporter gave a very good explanation. What I want because of citizens and citizens, especially in Novi Pazar and Sandzak, is to point out that yesterday we had a variety of steps so-called, in my opinion, fake patriots who regularly appear at a congregation restaurant, which are regular when they are taken daily, and from time to time we have these weekends of MPs who say a steam and then they're gone for a month. Today we are talking about an independent Regulatory Body for Electronic Media and the selection of members. A very important body, because through this body, through this independent institution, we can correct one of the injustices spoken by counterpart Amela Lukač Zoranic, and as far as the Bosnian language editorials are concerned in the media public service, and that is something, especially their position as they have rejected the editorial, which is unacceptable. Today, however, only representatives of the Justice and Reconciliation Party will talk about it and that is proof of who is authentic in all points of the Bosniak people, but in a way that we talk about everything through one dialogue and that we clearly express our position. What several speakers have pointed out here, is it normal for media public service to host people who have absolutely no political support? I can give my answer and say it's not normal and it's not fair or fair. I can and fully support this and we have highlighted political pluralism, attitudes, and when it comes to ecology and other points in the dialogue with Europarliamentarians. However, the support that citizens are giving us in the elections is the only measure of representativeness. That is why it is absolutely unacceptable for the Justice and Reconciliation Party, as a parliamentary party, as the strongest Bosniak party to visit the media public service once or not once a year, to have, for example, MPs, farmers and peasants, Mr Miletic, who has been elected three times in parliament, who may have never visited the media public service and who are guests of people who are not voted for by or the narrow members of their family. It is not any democracy, and I hope that the independent regulatory body will act with its powers and that we will introduce some order when it comes to media public service to simply comply with some rules. If citizens have given you a certain trust, if they have shown you trust, if you represent certain groups, and we know according to the last list, one third of citizens and citizens are members of minority communities, then they must be represented equally. Today it just seems enough that you don't agree with some ruling policy and that your place is secured on RTS, and now if you want to talk about minority communities issues in one civilized way, in accordance with the Constitution, the law, that you speak your differences through a dictionary that is absolutely acceptable in a public discourse, then someone obviously tries to say that there is no room and push us into a radicalism and primitiveism. It's something we'll never represent, as Mufti Zukorlic said -- never half-trons, never primitives, always partners. What I also want to point out when it comes to REM is a stricter policy, because we do have one hate speech and one discrimination that is present in a particular group of media. It is absolutely unacceptable for any family, any child to be the subject of media spins, satanization, threats, etc. Just because his parents, his father, his mother, anyone, performs some kind of public function. It's something absolutely unacceptable and I don't think it can be the subject of any compromise between political parties. It's simply about your education, it's about something that the law has defined, that there must be certain boundaries in behavior and in our political differences. You can criticize the idea, you can criticize the party, you can criticize the government, you can criticize the opposition, but you can't personally attack anyone, you can threaten or put family members, no matter which party, target on the head, and that they simply are the subject of Satanization, even though they do not perform any public function. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-22-0.u11733	Thank you. Next on the list of reported, MP Vladan Glisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-22-0.u11734	"The frames solve everything," said Comrade Stalin. Comrade Stalin, of course, was wrong in many things, not even in this one, and Alexis De Tokvil spoke of every government corrupting, absolute power corrupting absolute. So, in the wrong system, whatever personnel we're choosing, and the Council of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media, we're not going to solve that essential system problem that we've been having and that's been going on for decades. The problem is, it's a good thing there were inter-party negotiations and it's a good thing that some points of agreement and contact between the government and the opposition were found, but the problem is only being achieved at the level of the one who's interested in it, and that's the political class. Something much more serious and much deeper is forgotten that we cannot talk about, and that is the devastating influence of the media in every social sense, the destruction of our system of values, the planting of other people's ideas and ideologies, the destruction of everything that makes up the identity and the basis of the family model of society that all normal forces in this society stand for, no matter what political option they belong to. So, in the society of spectacles, in the reality of our media space, neither the regime nor the opposition media acted differently. In the way they deal with political opponents, creating an atmosphere of civil war in Serbia did not behave differently either regimeally or the opposition media. So, we'd have it here if we wanted it for the grandmother or the uncles, that REM wanted to do its job, not to be in the REM sleep phase, a lot of work, so that you wouldn't mind any of the other political options and bring our media space into order. However, that is, of course not desirable, it is unnecessary and the way the privatised local media in Serbia according to the EU dictatorship says that someone in Brussels is not responsible for us having an authentic media image in Serbia. What would an authentic media picture in Serbia mean? This would mean that, in addition to two public services, one at the level of the Republic of RTS and the other at the level of the province of Vojvodina's RTV, we have at least some regional media services. I can't explain to my fellow citizens and friends in the Woodland why Shumadi doesn't have his own public media service. It was in a strategy that could have happened, and it didn't happen, because simply some lobbys and interest groups that have nothing to do with even concrete political parties have no interest in the existence of several regional media services, such as those in Austria. Another serious question that we are missing is the awareness that we cannot create free and objective media, because independent media does not exist. As with all the mantras of independence, they show that this independence usually means independence from this people, its interest and our social groups, depending on those who push this story of independence, and belong to some other peoples and other stakeholders. So, on the contrary, we need to talk about objective, honest journalism, because these rules are easy to establish and all journalism students know it in the first year of college. In order to have such journalism and such media, we must first of all have journalists with resolved social and any other status. A wild 30-year privatisation in Serbia has led many media owners to say, "The press doesn't matter, we can catch them on the street." The idea of civil journalism that came with the development of social networks has further devalued the position of a serious journalist. It's not a problem, it doesn't need to challenge anyone's right to deal with civil journalism, but if the state wants to have objective and serious journalism and to make it an institution that needs every serious state, it has to protect a real journalist, a journalist who has to be licensed. Like when some drugstore owner wants to open a pharmacy, there must be pharmacists in that pharmacy. So the media owner would have to have a number of licensed journalists who can guarantee him that the media is doing the right thing. Such journalists will be harder to fire, such journalists will be more responsible for their profession and objective journalism, which is impossible without the will of the state to do so. Of course, what no one asks, and as far as all the media and the regime and opposition are concerned, are there any unions in these media? Do these journalists have union protection? A serious and responsible state would pass a law obliging any media owner to allow trade union organisation in the media. Of course, what the People's Network stands for seems radical but it does make sense, there must only be a domestic owner of domestic media. Foreigners cannot be the owners of our media, the media are the resources of our people and cannot be left to those of different interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-22-0.u11735	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-22-0.u11736	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm a single MP who's proven to be censored. Proved censorship. Dear viewers, you who later joined the agenda programme, said Mirko Marjanovic. So, since 1998 d 2000, I've only been through RTS scissors twice, and everything else has been censored. Spiker covered absolutely all my speeches in words – he answered, and then he spoke, and when I'm done, then I see the speaker taking off the headphones, etc. And then, of course, the session runs normally. Also, I've been censored lately. In 30 years since the founding of the People's Peasants' Party, except in the elections, and there I've been squeezed, pushed, strangled, I haven't been alive in the RTS information programs. Since 2012, I am the most active MP of the people, you can check this out, according to reports, suggestions for amendments, etc. I haven't had the honor of being on the RTS live, live on an information show that's not about the election. They gave me 15 minutes in the election, and they watched me cut it short, cut it out, and so on. They've been looking for prepared programs and what I know. It happened that two years ago I was invited to the questionnaire or three. Djordje Vukadinovic complained about media freedom. He was in that term, which lasted four years, six or seven times, what I saw, a live guest on RTS. I haven't been to one. Once upon a time there was Gjorge Vukadinović and Nenad Canak and it was supposed to be my little thing, I don't know who was supposed to be the fourth guest. That morning, just before the RTS show, I was informed that they're still canceling my visit, and they'll call me once there's a theme of agriculture. I was able to find out that my political opponents from the opposition, Djordje Vukadinovic and Nenad Canak, have conditioned their hospitality to my not hosting. So, they will come to RTS, if I am not a guest, so on the last day is replaced by Marijan Risticevic. I replied to the organiser that probably my political opponents wouldn't go on TV and dialogue with me and that the show would have been canceled for that. They would say it's censorship, and I'll say thank you, and I hope when it comes to the topic – agriculture that you will give me Dragan Gilas, since he has a company there called "The Young One" and so on, somewhere in Sikola in Negotin, so I thought that fellow farmer Dragan Gilas would cross some information with me to bring some dialogue, but apparently I didn't fit in with Dragan Gilas. I'm one of those censored MPs, and lately I've heard that my statements from the Agriculture Committee won't be published, he says -- they won't ask a man from "Farme". All right, I got that manly. The yellow buke is censoring me and let it go on like that. I've been used to it since 1990, and when there was a change in 2001, that button that was given a signal that the RTS speaker needed to cover was a Martian, so he ripped it off without mentioning who was censored, so the uninformed viewers thought he was censored or his MPs, which was not true. I'm the only one who's censored only occasionally by Dragan Vesenov. I was such a regular customer of that censorship. Now let me tell you that the ruling majority did not share frequencies, if we can agree, neither national nor regional. Let's agree she didn't ban any media. Does anyone want to agree that she didn't break in with long pipes in BK television that was one of, whatever I thought of Karic then, one of the better TVs by some of my standards, and sometimes in five to four remotes I like in my hand, and I think I should watch that famous "Telefact" or what was the name of that information show that went in five to four? Let me remind you they're busy with long pipes. Let me remind you that they entered the Courier with the police. Let me remind you that the founders of the Courier and the Voice have been arrested by the public. Let me remind you that his car blew up. Just to remind you how much more pressure the press has been on than it is today. To remind you of social networks by 2012, they weren't exactly suitable for gathering information, for collecting like-minded people, etc. that it's a completely different situation today. Today, media freedom is largely complained about by those who are still represented in the media and far more than me, and by some MPs from the most numerous parliamentary group, or the SNS party. Imagine now that you're on TV and you're having a dialogue with a political opponent who's unparliamentary, you've got 200 and some MPs, and you're represented just as much as someone who has 0.5. I'm thinking of that Free Citizens movement, that it's represented in this political show, which, along with Chabadija, has won 7,000 votes. When Zivkovic gets 7,000 votes it is then the media's interest regardless of what it is with Cabradi and most of his votes would be, the Green Party. Now, when I get 18,800, that's easy, it's not worth anything. When I get 72,000 votes in 2003, you can't go to RTS. So, I'm a persona non grata about television, and here I am not much of a rebel. Speaking of REM who's in charge of RTS, we're in line. Ladies and gentlemen, you certainly know about the occurrence of unregistered political parties, so to speak. Move. The movement register doesn't exist. There is a register of political parties that registers movements as SPO and other movements that are legally registered under the laws that have passed the yellow ones, so DS. They have brought that you must have 10,000 signatures etc. to make it as difficult to register and reregister political parties. They passed that law and now, of course, they don't respect it. Since they can't raise 10,000, the PSG appears, left of Serbia appears and the Turnover or Association Movement appears, as it calls it, Janko Veselinovic and says - we are movements. There's no movement register. There is a register of sports organisations, political parties and a register of citizens' associations. They're a classic community of citizens. That's what they would call a three-member NGO. To remember, with three members. I call it an anti-government organization. The honor of many associations, etc., but those most present in the media and the Urts are, in my opinion, anti-government organizations financed from the outside. Political parties cannot be financed from the outside. It's forbidden, yes, but these anti-governments, or NGOs, can. It's actually political parties that aren't registered. As associations, they can take money from the outside and receive it and go to the polls. Wait, guys, do we have the same conditions to compete in the election? Apparently, they're a little more equal that they can receive and regularly finance money from abroad. They can also receive money from abroad during the election campaign and then simply go to elections as a group of citizens under the same name as the association. It is a violation for me, and we are witnessing today that such organisations have gone to elections and are not reporting to the Anti-Corruption Agency because they are not a political party. They're kind of privileged and we let it go. Then it appears here, breaking the Assembly, most of those unregistered at unregistered gatherings. So, they are not subject to the Public Assembly Act for five days or for how long they have to announce the rally in order for police, firemen, emergency cars to engage in this, that is to say, all of this to be organised in order to avoid harming citizens, abuses, etc. So we have unregistered parties, unregistered gatherings where there's a lot of violence, as you've seen, and then we have media that aren't registered in Serbia. So, REM's taking a nap. There's a nap at REM. There's nothing to do about pirate television. They're pure pirates. I responsibly argue that 30 United media channels are pirated media that are fictitiously registered in Luxembourg and which claim to re-emission the programme, i.e. from cross-border television at the same time without any changes in termination, etc. It's a convention on cross-border television, the name says cross-border television, no walking signals, but you provide a media service for the general public somewhere abroad, and here it is rerouted without any changes in the termination and insertion of commercials. No changes, meaning, the same programme that goes to Luxembourg or somewhere abroad is being taken over in Serbia and the law says that about electronic media and the Convention on Cross-border Television. So there's no re-emissioning without initial broadcasting, which is not the case. The Luxembourg regulator replied to me -- yes, they are fictitiously registered in Luxembourg, but they are not broadcasting the programme there, and then REM gives me an answer, as -- they are, recording the programme in Belgrade, it is true, yes, in New Belgrade. He says - then the programme goes with cable to Luxembourg, from Luxembourg to Slovenia, they pack and throw in commercials and then comes to Serbia and more REM writes to me, according to United Media, they take that answer and say - it's technically considered re-embedding, it doesn't make any technical sense. The convention and the law say that broadcasting is the provision of a media service to the general public, means, for viewers, and re-emissioning is at the same time taking over such a service. That is why they do not have to register in the Republic of Serbia if they re-emission the programme, which is not the case with these bandits, and now you have public gatherings unreported, unregistered parties, where they report unregistered in Serbia television, pirate television, which not only reports, but promotes all these demonstrations, even in a certain way. Here, respected viewers in front of RTS have no one, feel free to push or, look here, there's a cavalry, here this, that precisely the protesters know where to go, where there's not enough police, etc. I can dare and say that they participate in demonstrations in such a way far more than these participants who have not reported it. If the gatherings are unreported that they always know how to bring in nine cameras, etc., that means they're being organized. Now, I'm asking you, recently REM registered RT, it's "Rasha Tudej" in German, right, co-worker? That's what they registered in Serbia. The Germans immediately rebelled. I ask the Germans what they would do if the studio of that television in Berlin was now opened and the School attacked, you understand, in German language, if the entire content of that programme would be tied to German political opportunities, to force the German opposition, that the school and its ruling majority would escape the chairs and chairs? I'm asking you how many Germans would suffer that re-emission that should now allow them to receive a signal under that same convention on cross-border television? As far as I can see, they're not even working to receive a signal about the classic RTL that would only report about the whole world, about Russia, etc. So, their program would be mainly or in general intended for the German market on German events in that software content, but it seems that we are lenient on all stitches, and REM is competent to follow the 74th operator what they are doing and to follow the electronic media, so if there is abuse, then they tell the operator that it is required to remove pirate channels, if he does not, then the operator, in this case SBB and Total takes the right to distribute software content, because they did not act under the law, or that they should implement REM. You have to agree with me, that it is not true – REM does not. You recently saw article 64. The law on electronic media says that the most important events, which include sports, are from the list of most important events identified by REM, and here are the qualifications of our team for the European and World Cup in football, which can only be broadcast by television, only writes, the right of transmission has television, have three conditions, which broadcast the program throughout the territory and free access, which means that it can be on the antenna, so that all citizens are in a position to be monitored so as not to be deprived. In this case, there was a group of abuses of United Media, which also abused cable TV that does not broadcast the program, but re-emissions, the first condition came out, does not cover the whole market, the second condition did not meet and the third condition was free access. They don't have that free access to the antenna. So more than half of the citizens were deprived of their right to follow their team, and REM replied to me that only the right to actually be a priority, so when no one can pass on, these can. It's like if I said -- well, the red light at the light, the right priority, so when no one comes, I can just pass, which is absolutely incorrect. The fact that they bought the UEFA right that they had no right to transfer here means that they knew that REM would throw away the nap and do nothing to prevent illegal transfers under article 64 from meeting the conditions. So when he bought the right, he knew there wouldn't be a REM reaction. So, absolute crime. And third, advertising. The advertising law, article 27, says advertising on televisions re-emitting the programme can only be an integral part of the original programme. So there's no later insertion. I received a reply from REM that it was repacked in Ljubljana, I showed you Mr. Martinovic, that advertising was packaged in the programme and it was sent to Serbia by signal. So, the program that they allegedly produced was recast, so they sent this signal, and they advertised it illegally. On 30 of their channels and re-reading the "Foxa", "Discovery", "Historia", etc. They broadcast 200 thousand seconds a day. You colleagues know that the second cannot be below two euros and that the TV is "India" or "Old Paz". No one's gonna make a commercial, at least without two euros a second. I'm asking you, 200 thousand seconds a day, how much they put into making it cross-border, which in their fake, two-euro, 400 000 euros a day. Then you wonder who's funding these miracles on Gazela, on the highway, etc.? Don't be surprised, it's not all money from abroad, and what's more tragic, these operators don't pay for the product they're using and it's 80 percent on SBB, Total and everything else, 80% on the watchable channels. That's for sure. The white dinar doesn't turn down domestic channels, but these cross-border programmes they get for a re-emission that doesn't exist, it's a fictitious service that pays, it's a money laundering, it's a tax evasion, they get money per channel, by several million euros because their programme is reportedly being downloaded, and that media service in cross-border television doesn't exist, it's just fictitiously registered in Luxembourg. So that's another offense. And let me tell you, since they are constantly calling for the freedom of the media and the rule of law, they are making the most noise about it, and now that the Law on Advertising is not respected, the Law on the Protection of Competition, because the Law on Confirmation of the Convention and Cross-border Television, the Law on Electronic Media, is not respected, so they are right. There is no rule of law, because they break it and freedom of the media. If they take 400,000 euros a day to provide marketing services, which they do not have the right to, so much less money is paid by registered media in the Republic of Serbia that pay all obligations in the Republic of Serbia as opposed to them. It's just like if I open a shoe shop, you open a shoe shop, register in Serbia, pay all taxes, taxes, taxes, etc. The company and everything that goes and I open up next to you a shoe shop and pay nothing. You rebel a little bit, it comes as some kind of inspection, I show a solution from Luxembourg, and I say no, no, I fix shoes here, I'm registered in Luxembourg, and I don't pay anything. It's an impossible situation. So, freedom of the media doesn't exist without income, and if you steal 400,000 euros a day from domestic media, which is about 150m euros a year, I'm asking you if then domestic media have been stolen and their ability to be independent and objective, because they depend, especially local to the municipality, etc. And in this way, politics is made of different kabadias, because media reporting about various mayors have to respect that local hierarchy because they wouldn't get the money. So, finally, let's see what the Germans are going to do about one of these "Rasha Tudej" studios opening up in Germany, starting to attack Šolca, it's an impossible situation. That's why laws are the best laws. What Lata Zabogisic says - the law is for every law and I to these candidates who will be elected and those who are there, I recommend that they finally respect the law and make the pirate media report whatever they want, the software service, the programming orientation, let them publish about us all the worst, whatever they want, but let them register as all domestic media in the Republic of Serbia, is what they are fictitiously registered, it's a domestic media robbery, it's a violation of law and law, and the law has to be for every law, even if it's called Šolak, Gilas, or I don't know how yet.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-22-0.u11737	I thank the honourable MP Marijan Rističević. Let's move on to the list, Daniela Veljovic, representative of the SDPS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-22-0.u11738	Thank you, Chairman. The colleagues and fellow MPs, the Committee on Culture and Information concludes the list of candidates for the REM Council who have proposed associations whose objectives are the freedom of expression and protection of children, as well as the list of candidates proposed by universities accredited in the Republic of Serbia, all based on the Law on Electronic Media. It is up to members that independently with a lot of integrity, respecting the law of the prescribed jurisdiction, and in line with the best interests of the public, they do their job. The Law on Electronic Media in Article 22 lays down in a very clear and unequivocal way the work of the regulatory body. I shall specify only certain provisions, issue approvals for the provision of media service, television and radio, control the work of media service providers and take care of the consistent application of this law, express measures when establishing a breach of legal standards, investigate the needs of media service users and protect their interests, encourage the development of professionalism and a high degree of education of employees in electronic media. It is the laws of the Republic of Serbia, and in accordance with EU regulations, the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media has been given the authority and responsibility to regulate the electronic media sector. Powers, but also responsibility have been placed to affirm democratic values, to spread tolerance and solidarity. An important strategic document that should identify all anomalies in the regulation of electronic media, media literacy, information is certainly a media strategy. Based on the strategy adopted for a period of five years, from 2020 to 2025, a public information system should be improved through a positive legal framework guaranteeing freedom of expression, media pluralism, media freedom, institutions capable of applying regulation. The media strategy as a major problem that needs to be addressed, and as far as REM's work is concerned, there are problems that can affect the independence of this body. The regulator, in addition to independence from state authorities, should also be independent of the entities it controls. In this respect, the problem can be the fact that REM is financed exclusively from fees paid by electronic media. There needs to be essential transparency, openness to dialogue, interaction with associations, academic community, civil society organisations. The electronic media regulatory body should be defended by primitiveism, hate speech, violence, abuse of advertising space. One of the opposition's demands on improving electoral conditions was a clear responsibility of REM when running a pre-election campaign in the media. New amendments to the Law on Public Media Services adopted agreements between the party dialogue in order to improve electoral conditions. The changes relate to the part concerning public interest, and it is noted among other things that public media services through their programme content should promote respect for pluralism, political, religious and other ideas by not serving the interests of political parties, as well as any other individual, political, economic, religious interest. It is up to REM to closely, clearly, and in accordance with the legal powers to monitor the application of these legal provisions. New amendments to the Law on Electronic and Public Service are very good and significant documents that cannot be manipulated. It is of great importance to establish mechanisms and guarantees for compliance with REM's legal obligations. The members of the regulatory body's advice with their responsible behaviour within the limits of legal powers are those who build the REM institution and actually make it important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-22-0.u11739	Thank you, dear representative of the SDPS. Next on the list, the distinguished MP, Snezana Paunovic. I have to congratulate, I mean, if I keep track of this place, it's the 100th jubilee show today, right? We'll find out. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-22-0.u11740	Thank you, Vice President. I don't have that information about the 100 jubilee performance, but if it is, I owe you a chocolate because you sent it away. Dear colleagues, the 100th jubilee performance may be that my colleague, Krkobic, is right, and who knows how many times we have talked about members of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media, in two terms from the position of the Committee on Culture, I really can't remember how many times we've had the choice and re-election and the proposed candidates from the authorised promoters, talked to all of them individually on the Committee on Culture, showed them confidence. Some of them answered the question, some of them didn't. I don't think there are any citizens of Serbia who don't know what rem powers are, and I think that even those who might have wanted to stay out of REM didn't have that chance because REM was the most attractive subject of opposition action at some point, as far as I can remember, or today. Before I return to the proposed candidates for the REM election, I would like to remind myself of yesterday's session at which we discussed important laws. The Law on Cultural Heritage, the awareness that the time has come to deal with these important topics, as well as the Law on Electronic Media, which primarily referred to the implementation of the conclusions of the inter-party dialogue on the role of the media. My colleagues talked about it yesterday, but no initiative was heard, so I simply have an obligation to say it today, and that is, under the circumstances, to expect new amendments to this law in the coming year to be created, first of all, one of my own very important legal bases for which domestic music creation should be treated as a domestic product. This would mean introducing quotas for the broadcast of music by local authors. As socialists, we supported this approach and we expressed it at meetings with representatives of the band, music performers and music authors at the Serbian Chamber of Commerce, who actually launched this initiative. Such a legal solution would give priority to domestic music creation, with all due respect to all authors and all foreign performers. Also, this is, if you want in the end, but we have this right, patriotically, but it is, I would say, of national interest and we are sure that the affirmation of domestic creation would primarily contribute to the development of music creation and its universal quality. We need to listen to these people, we need to listen to their proposal as much as we may be able to experience sometimes as subjective suggestions, when you look at them wider, they really have a stronger effect than what is to be seen at first sight. She spoke to her colleague, Christmas, as president of the Committee on Culture and Information on the procedure for candidates in front of all of us today. I will repeat one piece, which is that it would not be correct to disagree with what counterpart Risticevic was talking about, very studioically, to the level that and if you wanted to add something you would find difficult to do with your hand. You're absolutely right, one unsettled market where we treat someone like a mother, someone like a stepmom. I don't know if we should be doing this, I don't know if it's useful, but I can see it's going through despite some of our initiatives or appeals that maybe we should get in the way of it. However, it has always been important and I talked about it even at the beginning of the last session of the Serbian Parliament, it is important to read the biographies of these people proposed by the relevant promoters since the Assembly is someone who determines these proposals. It is important to pay attention to these biographies at this stage where we show trust precisely because we have clearer answers when any criticism of any of them individually or of the entire Regulatory Body for Electronic Media. The truth is another, there is no independent body like REM, which was under more pressure than domestic, which the foreign public, who tried to influence even politically, although we heard it in the light of these proposals, certainly none of the four proposed candidates have a party book of any party or party from the ruling majority. So it wasn't always enough for these people to be respected and left alone to do their job. They were able to be accused and have a political background in their decisions. I said that on the Committee, I say in the plural, pointing out their trust, we tasked them to be responsible first of all, but also to return us in a way that will truly carry out their work in a committed and responsible manner, which will resist all the pressures, which will resist all possible aspirations to influence their work, because this is the only time that they will come up with productive results of everything that the Serbian public should see or that, if we return to discussions before mine, arrange this market that has really little become, and fellow Glisic is right – and like this and such, there are these difficult features that could be said, but criticise from the positions that we need to talk about today about people who are going to implement and stop all injustices would be insane. So all four proposed names deserve trust, there's no dilemma. I told one of the previous sessions that it's always hard for me to hear all those people who are quality, to choose between four, but that's a simple rule. I'm sure those we show confidence will do their part of the work as they are expected, and on the other hand, it is indeed a sin against those who will not be chosen because they are not less worthy candidates. Everyone deserves the trust of the National Assembly to do the work of a member of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-22-0.u11741	I thank the honourable People's Parliament. Next on the list is Veroljub Arsic, representative of the parliamentary club “Alexandar Vukic – For Our Children”. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-22-0.u11742	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Chairman, I will still have a discussion, I will not perform, and I will address not the viewers, but the MPs and, above all, the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I ask you to pay attention in the future that we do not give our own actions the opportunity to humiliate later the dignity of the National Assembly, that is also your obligation as chairman. Today we have a debate that's about selecting members of the REM Council, one always question that can be quite sensitive, it's always kind of intriguing, especially in the time in which we live today, but I can say it completely undeserved. Because I guess the former regime as an excuse why it can't beat Alexander Vukic in the elections blames REM, blames the Public Media Service, blames various information carriers, without asking what its responsibility is for the results it has from the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. As long as they're ready to go as a former regime, it's getting pretty morbid. I, as an MP who was an opposition MP during the former regime's rule, particularly bothers me when the former regime and those who support it today claim that there are dictatorships in Serbia. I'll tell you why. Because opposition MPs, while they were in power in the Republic of Serbia, beat us at press conferences. They beat us in the squares. They beat us in the National Assembly building, in the National Assembly. They have no right to talk about any dictatorship. To explain to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia what it looked like. If an MP, in the chairman's view, comes out of the agenda, means no hate speech, no insults, no nothing, just a topic of the agenda, he has to leave the National Assembly Hall. If he does not do so, refuses, return to his seat, the session will be interrupted, the police will come, the assembly one, who asked the messenger, "Please come out." He says: “I will not, you have taken away my right, my right to be sent here by the citizens, to speak, to express my political position, for which I am here. ” He says, "Okay, no problem." They start and then all the cameras, as many as there are in the O.R., the cables are ripped out of these cameras, no more contact with the outside world in any form, the power's cut, the signal's cut, and then there's some police coming in that I don't know from, I know it's not congregation, and it's brutally dealing with the MPs. Don't get too excited that you'll get a chance to turn on the camera on your cell phone. There won't be a chance. That was the way it was during their government and their regime. I've had it all. You have a video of me being attacked at a press conference, so now you see how morbidity goes. The former regime did kill Ranko Panic, but they say – it was at violent protests. I've been to those protests. There was no violence. From pure peace, the police surrounded us, began to tear us down with tear gas, and to tear us apart and beat us. There was no violence. They wouldn't let us walk to RTS because they were afraid that such a negative mood could be created for the regime at the time so that early elections could be challenged, which, according to their assessment, were not meant to happen and were afraid of any choice until the end of the term. They didn't have enough 100,000 people here in front of the National Assembly, who were calmly seeking only election call, nothing more, at a registered meeting. And then the former regime talks about dictatorship today. Well, people, morbidity. You know what else they say? Ranko Panic was not so young, he was 39 at the time. He's had more years than some criteria should have had a man you'd say was young. That means it's my age, 1969. But if he were alive and they hadn't killed him, he'd be 52 today. You can read this freely on portals that are subject to REM, portals that are founded, funded and supported by the former regime. And then someone's talking about dictatorship. See how today through these portals, more citizens are not only informed through the printed media and the television house, but also through the portal. You will find that those who blocked the highways, blocked the squares, says – we were there and we received criminal reports. So what, you're just gonna get a criminal report? Because we make laws, not only that the people would respect them, but that they would arrange some matter, freedom of movement, freedom of people. You took that right away from someone. And they say, "Where do the police come from, you keep an eye on their way of thinking, our ID number and home number?" Well really, people, I don't know which state authority issues a ID card. I think it's our police. But you can see how in a bad way they want to show the dictatorship, because whoever doesn't understand it will believe it. Is the ID number misused? It's not. Has anyone seen him in the media? Not from the police, not from the state authorities, not unless they publish themselves, but it's already a matter of their choice. So there's no abuse of personality protection data. But they'll also try to portray it as a dictatorship. Because, my God, I got out in the middle of the highway, I didn't do anything, why did I get a criminal report? Well, because you don't belong on the highway. No problem, you want to hold the protests. Here's the square in front of the National Assembly, go before the government, report the rally, hold it, no one will hurt you. And that someone was really looking for a solution to any kind of problem, so the first thing is probably to ask for a reception into the National Assembly. None of us asked or asked us because it wanted to create such dissatisfaction that would cause some certain civil rebellion. They're not proud that they'll come to power in the election. Here, now you have one controversy that goes to protect one of our artists, directors, etc. It's about Goran Markovic. Now, all praise for him, his work of art, and how Minister of the Government of the Republic of Serbia Daria Kisic Tepavcevic is evil. You have it as if it's the greatest, I can't describe how they want to show her the amount of evil. Which, of course, has nothing to do with the truth. The man is unhappy with some decision by some state authority, not getting the money. He thinks they belong to him. Because he didn't win, now he's a dissident. Wait, I like to call my colleague Djukanovic, our government, dissident. He's a dissident because he's expressing his political stance that I may not like some time, but it's his right. What kind of political attitude is this? It says this - the thing is tightening up and leading to decay, the only thing that isn't said for what, it's possible that a peaceful fall in the regime, which is unlikely, and it can also happen that this current state is honey and milk according to what's waiting for us. One thing is certain, if the regime decides to continue to rule at all costs, including human abuse, house visits, camp openings and so forth. People, in Serbia, there has never been a single camp that the government, the real democratic government in Serbia, opened. They were fascist, but not Serbian. It can't be a dissident, if it's claimed. I ask the question, how will the regime fall? The government gets lost and wins the election. If there's a fall, it's a violent form of taking over power. He calls for violence. All Gilas and Solak's media support this kind of vision. How is it and what sentence is controversial in all of this? I still hope that Alexander Vukic has the end of Ceausescu's eyes and that he will withdraw without blood. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, there are a lot of young colleagues here, not for everyone's stomach. Look at the end of Nikolai and Elena Ceausescu. I don't want to go into the reasons for how their fall happened, what caused it, and how much they contributed, but people were shot. And those directors and actors who defend it won't realize that when the video stops these two don't get up, they're dead, there's no acting, there's no fiction. Is that the kind of neighborhood that wishes Alexander Vukic the former regime? Is that what Goran Markovic wants? It's an honor to him for his artistic contribution to the Serbian culture of society, but it doesn't give you the right to do whatever you want. He's not giving anyone the right. There's something else I'd like to say, seeing as how many have come forward. I am sick of more Serbs or Serbian citizens whose Serbia is not the only country and who do not like the countries the most, so they come to Serbia to raise revolution and rebellion, so when they destroy Serbia with their revolution or rebellion, they return to the country where they came from or which they prefer. I have no other Serbia, I have no other life, I have no other country and I want to fight for this Serbia, to be a normally advanced society, to have its citizens live better, and not to have one elite who thinks himself, as they say, an intellectual elite, to be the only ones who are well, and we are an incompetent mob who deserves to be slaves to that intellectual elite. Well, when they can't win the election, they say -- the people get the power they deserve. The people always get the power they deserve, what, first of all, the people want. They voted for Alexander Vukic and the SNS, because they're not intelligent enough to realize that it's better for us to be in power, for us to be richer, and for them to be poorer. Now, that's a media picture in Serbia today. And, I agree, democracy is never enough, but don't let anyone convince me that there are fewer democracies in Serbia today than there were during the rule of Gilas, Solak and the crew around them. All of their motives for why all this is happening in Serbia is that Serbia is now a richer country than it was while they were exercising power and they are curious again about what belongs to the citizens to make them richer. We'll defend these citizens, we won't let them come to power without the will of those same citizens, so whether they like it or not, there won't be a camp, there won't be a home invasion, and don't scare the citizens. Don't scare them, they have the right to choose who they want in power, and because they won't, ask you a question of your responsibility, your contribution that citizens don't trust you. It's not Alexander Vukic's fault, it's not the SNS' fault, it's just your thieving way of ruling in previous years. Well, then we can talk about whether there's really a dictatorship in Serbia, when they realize if there's really a dictatorship or a real democracy in Serbia. No roadblocks, no traffic jams, just the most common thing called elections. The Serbian Progressive Party came to power in 2012. We also had our elections in 2014, and in 2016, in 2020, we'll be in 2022, so I didn't have that luxury like those gentlemen. Well, let them go to the election. Let them try to win. Let them try to convince the citizens whether they've changed for the better or if they've remained the same thieves they used to be while they rule, and until then, stop trying to scare us. We're not afraid of them. We weren't afraid when they were in power, even less now.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-22-0.u11743	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, since we're working until 6:00, there's no more time. I hereby conclude a joint single search on the proposals for acts referred to in points 17 and 18 of the agenda. Honorable Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 90(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I hereby inform you that pursuant to Article 101(1) of the Rules of Procedure, My rules of procedure interrupt this session for holding the 15th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2021, which was called for tomorrow starting at 10.00 p.m. In accordance with Article 101(5), The Rules of Procedure on the Continuing of the 14th Session, so, this session, you will be notified in good time. In short, tomorrow in the first part of the day we work, we will discuss the points of the 15th session, these are prosecutors, and in the afternoon we will continue to work on the current current current agenda, discuss the acts in particular, and then we have three amendments and then after that vote for this session and tomorrow we will end the work of the 14th and 15th sessions and then we will continue next week.
