ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-07-0.u8822	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the session of the 11th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 12th Assembly. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 128 MPs attend the session. I remind you he's a member of 49. The Law on the National Assembly provides for a quorum for the work of the National Assembly when each decision is taken if a majority of all MPs are present at the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., I ask the MPs to insert their cards into the MPs' units. Thank you. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that there are 166 MPs present in the hall at this time, namely that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? The word has Enis Imamovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-07-0.u8823	Thank you, Mr. President. Currently, a co-ordinated political campaign is being conducted in Serbia for the persecution of a teacher from Novi Pazar by the state summit, regimes and regime media, including police and prosecutors. The whole campaign aims to intimidate Bosniaks and create an obstacle and fear to their identity rights. Since the whole case is being followed by a huge abuse by state authorities, overruns of legal powers, exits from legal frameworks, we SDA Sandzak MPs, as legitimate representatives of the Bosniak people in this House, have several questions. As it all started with the minister of education and education, I now refer my first question to Minister Branko Ruzic. I have before me the Constitution and the laws on the use of state symbols. Neither in the Constitution nor in law does the obligation to intonate an anthem in schools. This is important to remember because of further illegal actions that I will ask the questions of the day. Furthermore, the Constitution and the law clearly determine where, when and how state symbols are used, and in Article 40, special ministries have the right to prescribe a way and use of state symbols, and so on - defence minister, interior minister, foreign minister and minister of traffic. As you can see, there is no Minister of Education here in the authorised ministers, nor is there any mention of school in the law. That's why I'm asking Minister Ruzic for an explanation, under what authority and by what member of the Constitution and by what law did he, as Minister of Education, impose such an order? The very starting point, you see, the very starting point of this campaign is on a flimsy foot and has no foothold in the Constitution and laws. What happens next? Some regime media broadcast footage from social networks that ruled that a teacher broke the Constitution, broke the laws, brought down the state, made a disaster. And what's the proof? After a press release, the Minister of Education ruled that the teacher had broken the law, sent an inspection to the school, and publicly dictated what conclusion she should draw. It involves, then, the police and the D.A.'s office. They're bringing in a respectable woman, a congratulatory teacher for questioning. Why are they bringing her in? Because of footage on social networks that are some malicious regime media, for which some malicious regime media have already written both indictments and convictions, without any evidence. What do you see in that video? You can see a teacher who teaches in Bosnian, a class that attends classes in Bosnian, in accordance with the Constitution and laws and releases an anthem of Bosniaks, which is guaranteed by the Constitution and the laws of this country, and even approved by the same Ministry of Education as a teaching unit. And what's so controversial about that? We had a meeting with the chief of police and the prosecutor yesterday. We tried to find out who he was and what he was based on and on what law, which exactly the member of the Constitution and the law that the teacher violated, and what crime was put on her. We didn't get any concrete answers. It is obvious that the police and the prosecution are hiding the real employer of this political reckoning and political persecution. That's why I'm asking the Republic Public Prosecutor and the Police Minister from this place -- who, and on what grounds, has ordered a statement from Adele Karahmetovic Melajac? Did the police do it alone? If so, who ordered it? If the police took a statement based on the prosecution's warrant, who signed the warrant? What work and evidence do you place on her? We heard a new indictment against her yesterday in the media. Someone ruled that she broke some unwritten law, that she broke some rule unfounded by law.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-07-0.u8824	Mr. Imamovic, since it's been five minutes, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-07-0.u8825	So, there's the wrong anthem in Chačka, too, so I'm asking if anyone's running a trial against it? So here it bothers that the teacher is very successful, very prominent in preserving that identity.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-07-0.u8826	I have to stop you. It's been five minutes. (Ennis Imamovic: I only have one more sentence. He can't, five and a half minutes. You have time to discuss it. Since the SVM parliamentary group has asked, and I ask you to respect that, bearing in mind that the former president of the AP Assembly, Mr Egereshi, has died, and they are going to the memorial and funeral, I will now give my word to Rosalia Ekres. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-07-0.u8827	Thank you very much, President. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, I would like to ask a question about the programme "My First Salary". As the position of young people, as one of the most vulnerable categories on the labour market, is known, is very unfavourable. Compared to the general population, according to official statistics, their double unemployment rate is recorded. In the structure of unemployed persons on the National Employment Service's record, according to age, youth participation of up to 30 years is 21%. Unemployment brings serious difficulties to young people and their families, as long-term unemployment leaves lasting consequences, disrupts normal life, reduces developmental opportunities. Young people who are not employed usually stay to live with their parents, later start families, and find it harder to make up their mind to have children. Therefore, our parliamentary group gives full support to the continuation of the programme "My First Salary", which last year was a successful measure to improve the position of young people on the labour market. Through this programme, young people were allowed to gain their first working experience with state subsidies, through incentive measures. These 8,224 were covered by a programme that registered 17.081 candidates with 7,524 employers. The Ministry of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs announced on 6 August that it is continuing with the programme and that the Serbian government has adopted a regulation on amendments and additions to the Youth Employment Encouraging Regulation "My Rights of Salary", which will continue in 2021. On 20 August, the National Employment Service launched a public competition for the implementation of this programme, which will include 10,000 young people with secondary and higher education, up to the age of 30, with no work experience, and on the National Employment Service records. The programme shall be implemented by the employer belonging to the private or public sector. In addition to a fixed fee provided by the State, the employer may pay the user of the programme additional funds. The Press House "Majar So", from which I come, issue and print the only daily paper in the Hungarian language in Serbia. This year, the postage stamp "Steep Falcon" by the Post Office of Serbia, which is the national candidate in the contest to choose Europe's most beautiful brand. Last year, too, our house applied for the program "My First Salary". We've taken all the steps, from applying to the system, to connecting with five young unemployed candidates -- two journalists, two press technicians and one marketing associate. Unfortunately, we stayed under the line. Instead of five needed, only two college-educated young people were hired from our own sources of funding. I would like to refer the question to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Resent Ministry of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs and the National Employment Service - would it be possible to include all the candidates, with whom employers connect and demonstrate the need for their work engagement, in the follow-up of the very important programme "My First Salary", be included in the programme? So is it possible that all candidates who meet the conditions get their first chance? Our parliamentary group believes that, given the country's positive macroeconomic movements and the exceptional importance of remaining and hiring young people, there is no better invested money than giving them the first chance to try their jobs by building their own future, as well as the future of the development of society as a whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-07-0.u8828	Thank you, Mrs. Ekres. The word is Samir Tandir.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-07-0.u8829	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Vice-President of the National Assembly, fellow Members and fellow MPs, I refer the question to the Ministry of Police and the Ministry of Justice - what have they done about the murder of humanist and journalist Edin Hamidovic in Sjenica just over a month ago? Have they determined the circumstances and responsibilities of the authorities who preceded this murder and how did the perpetrator of the most serious crime, murder, leave the country? A little more than a month ago, respected colleagues and colleagues, at a walkabout in Sjenica, on a corzo, among the masses of people, random passersby, a man named Edin Hamidovic, a man who in his life had not been trampled by an ant, a humanist and a journalist, was killed. He was killed in front of his wife, in front of his children just because some criminal, sick mind at the time thought that he didn't like the opinions and attitudes of Edin Hamidovic. When we talk about this case, please, dear colleagues, honourable MPs, that we have in mind that it is a man who is the father of seven children, that most of us here and those who are watching us are parents, no attitude is worth any idea that someone thinks that because of a different opinion can take a life, and here we are witnessing that it happened. Therefore, the answer of the competent state authorities must be swift, lightning, efficient, so that no one ever thinks of taking justice and justice into their own hands again. These are the sons of Edin Hamidovic. They're underage children. He has five sons, and these are only three. I'm saying this not just for them, but for my son and for our children here. We have the right to our views, we have the right to disagree, but no one has the right to raise a hand to someone. If these criminals are not arrested and severely punished, who guarantees us and our children security, who assures us, our children and our families that when we come to this assembly that someone will not think to apply this shadow scenario? We fully support, as the strongest Bosniak party, the fight against crime and corruption. On the main board of our side, we also adopted the Declaration on the fight against crime and corruption, but it must be systematic and deep. We welcome the arrest of Belgrade's Belivuk, but Sanjak and Shadow Bellivuk must be arrested. They must not be spared in this battle. All those who have sinned against the law, all those who think they are better than others, and who force them to respond to the competent state authorities. What's very important and what I want to point out, we know who pulled the trigger, but what's essential is who gave them political protection and support, whose committee lists, who ran for some important state functions. That's what the police and the D.A. need to question. What the police and the prosecution must also say is that Edin Hamidovic, before his murder, suggested that he was threatened, threatened by the murder of the same perpetrators of the crime. Why didn't the police and the prosecution react? The minimum of what the police and justice ministers are supposed to do is that the chief of police in the Senate is being relieved because he has failed to carry out his task, and the key task of the police is to ensure public order and peace and to ensure that all citizens of this country are calm and calm. The prosecutor, also in Sjenica, must be resolved because he absolutely did nothing on account of these and other cases that we pointed to during the previous period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-07-0.u8830	Thank you. The word is Muamer Bacevac.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-07-0.u8831	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament and MPs, the Honorable chairman, nine people were admitted to the local portals in Novi Pazar last week at the local portals in Novi Pazar, and not a single Bosniak, and if there were many Bosniaks who competed in this contest and met all the conditions required by the competition. It is also said that more employees, i.e. those who have passed the competition and received jobs for these inspectors, are not from Novi Pazar at all, from the practical region of this part of Serbia. I remind you that the laws, as well as the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, clearly require that, of course, expertise is respected and that in state institutions the attitude of the population in the region is reflected, i.e. national minorities and majority people are represented in the relationship in which they live in that territory. Unfortunately, the Bosniaks were less represented before this competition in this institution. If this information were true, it would be both defeated and extremely unfair. Imagine in one city where 90% to 95% of Bosniak national entrepreneurs come from financial inspectors who are exclusively Serbian nationalities. This would indeed be unacceptable and would not be in line with the development of good international relations in the region. I therefore ask the Ministry of Finance to provide me with information on the number and nationality of employees in this competition, in this competition for financial inspectors in Novi Pazar. If this information turns out to be correct, I ask the Ministry to annul the above-mentioned competition because of obvious illogicalities and irregularities, because it is unacceptable for all nine seats to be accepted by members of the Serbian nationality, if most of the applicants had any Bosniak nationality and met all criteria. At least in one place, a Bosniak rival was better than his competitor or the competition. I would like to say that this kind of thing should be approached very carefully in order to build a multiethnic society and promote Serbia as a state, as is tradition, to take care of the rights of national minorities in this country. Also, I would like to call practically on the state to pay particular attention not to be guided by the tendecionalist statements of certain politicians or the trendy news headlines are being treated according to the case, I say, according to the news affair that turned out in the town of Novi Pazar about the intonation of the anthem. I'm giving you clean data, because my kids are going to that school. I asked my children if it was an intonated anthem of the Republic of Serbia, they told me it was. So three of my children attend Bosnian at that school. So, I ask the authorities and I call on us to very carefully examine what happened, not to raise tensions and not to create a gap between Bosniaks and Serbs in one environment where traditionally good relations between these two peoples are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-07-0.u8832	Thank you. The word has the vice-president of the National Assembly Stefan Krkobibic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-07-0.u8833	Thank you, Mr. Orlic. Dear fellow MPs, first of all, I would like to thank the Office of the Government of the Republic of Serbia for Kosovo and Metohija and the Ministry of Agriculture for the exhaustive, precise and encouraging answers to my parliamentary issue of July 22nd 2021 and to the programme of support for the development of co-operation in the Serbian environments in Kosovo and Metohija. The government's Office for Kosovo and Metohija told me that it is planning to support newly formed agricultural cooperatives in the territory of the municipality of Leposavic, East and Gjilana, as well as in the territory of the city of Pristina. Also planned is the establishment of a cooperative on the territory of the municipalities of Kosovo Kamenica, Strpce and Orahovac. The Serbian government has helped launch and develop monastery economies in the Deep Stream, Draganac and Gracanica monasteries over the past period. In response to the parliamentary question, the village ministry specifically stressed that all the programmes supported the development of cooperatives, as well as all other programmes aimed at improving the lives of villages in the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia, are available to our citizens from the southern Serbian province. This concerns the current programme of grants for the purchase of rural houses with a garden for young couples, as well as a mini-bus purchase programme for the transport of rural populations, as well as programmes for improving the social standard and preserving cultural and historical heritage in the country, which is particularly important for the stay and return of the Serb population in Kosovo and Metohija. Also, the Office for Kosovo and Metohija has told them that it will support every initiative of Serbian monasterys and churches in the AP Kosovo and Metohija for the formation of monastery economies. Since the oldest Serbian monasteries in Kosovo and Metohija were old and eight centuries old, at the same time made the first major cooperatives and church economies, as well as that the work of the National Team for the Revival of Serbia already included the top dignitaries of the SPC, the archbishop of Belgrade-based Stanislav Hočevar and representatives of Islamic religious communities, my question today is: whether it is possible to provide so-called "Mustarian Cooperatives", particularly in Kosovo and Metohija, as well as cooperatives in other religious communities, especially in Serbia's mine areas, with so-called. "positive discrimination" in the allocation and allocation of incentives from the Republic of Serbia's budget? I refer this question to the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Serbia, the Ministry of Agriculture and the Office for Kosovo and Metohija. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-07-0.u8834	Thank you. The word is Gjorge Milicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-07-0.u8835	Thank you, Mr. Orlic. The attacks on Serbia and its officials do not damage. The stronger Serbia, the more insults are heard from different camps and anything that wears the prefix "Serbian". This is so evident and deserves the attention and reaction of the state authorities because it is often a violation of the law and it is often a violation of the Constitution. We understand that there are different affinities in the region, but the devastating fact is that domestic, call, politicians and other public figures participate most in the various forms of attack on Serbia. The most recent examples are the launch of the Dukean nation's issue. It is otherwise an old separatist and very dangerous idea of tearing up the Serbian nation and creating the Vojvodina as a republic, i.e. turning the territorial definition into a national one, which is totally unacceptable and is not in the spirit of legal order. Nowhere in the world does territorial belongings identify with national belongings. Why would Serbia be an exception. As for the New Market anthem, no one raises tensions. Instead of a state anthem in Novi Pazar, an anthem of Sanjay Bosniaks was released in one of the primary schools. (Samir Tandir: That's not true. I'm just saying what the Ministry of Education said, and I kept quiet when you were talking. When you were talking, I was silent, buddy. Let me finish. We point out that Serbia provides a high degree of rights for all national minorities living with us, but the symbols of the state must be respected everywhere, even in the environments where minorities live. It's an anthem, a flag and a coat of arms and there's the law clear. Absolutely inadmissible statements by the quasi of politicians who justify such actions by referring to some genocide and that the Constitution violates the president of the state and minister of education who are in fact seeking respect for state symbols. It's like everywhere in the world of commitment to the state we live in. It's a bit of a quote and the law. In Article 36. The State Symbols Act is said to apply the anthem in other cases that are not contrary to the Constitution and the law. The minister prescribed that the anthem be performed at the beginning of the first class, which we think is positive, because strengthening national and state identity is needed in these turbulent times. It's not only that it's not an intonated anthem of the Republic of Serbia, it's terrible that it's released so-called. The Anthem of the Sanjay Bosniaks, and who let that anthem, whose anthem is it? The hymns have states, and the Raska area, which they call Sandzak, is not a state. I would take the opportunity to support the adoption of a law on the use of Serbian language in public life and the preservation of a Cyrillic letter that is now aimed at reminding us that Serbian and Cyrillic are in service but that we must cultivate and promote the use of Serbian and Cyrillic precisely because they are neglected in public life. Some quasi politicians in Serbia say he is so-called Civil Serbia has always stood side by side with like-minded people in the region and we do not dispute it, because together they go from the same thesis, which is - the worse for Serbia, the better for us. Thus only confirms the degree of their hatred for every success of Serbia, but also for the preservation of our national identity. We come up with the latest political excesses by those who have always survived only on incidents and denying Serbia. Serbia has never interfered with the internal affairs of other countries, but it has always stood by its people wherever they live and no one can challenge us. During yesterday's day, one, call a politician, dared to call for the arrest of the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Ivica Dacic, for allegedly interfering with the internal affairs of another country, which is a classic replacement of the thesis, because the president has asked a very clear question – is the activity of this quasi politician a violation of the constitutional order of Montenegro? A particular issue to the government, which should actually be forwarded to the government of Montenegro, is what this quasi politician has been looking for in the headquarters of those who organised protests against the ensuing Orthodox Metropolitan in Montenegro on Cetinje where it has been done for centuries and whether it is the spread of religious intolerance and, as the president of the National Assembly said, a violation of Montenegro's constitutional order. Imagine that there have been protests against the religious act of any religion in Serbia and that politicians from Serbia are involved. What would be the reaction then? What we are particularly interested in is whether it is possible to determine whether certain political parties from Serbia are funding from the centre of power in Montenegro and, of course, I would take the opportunity to take advantage of the SPS parliamentary groups congratulating the capital of the Montenegrin-Primordian Mr Joaniki. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-07-0.u8836	Thank you, Mr. Milicevic. The word is Ugljesa Mrdić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-07-0.u8837	I thank the chairman. Dear fellow MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic made it clear when speaking to the public, visiting a television show that he would not allow Serbia to collapse outside Serbia, neither in Serbia nor in Vrakar. When he said from Vračar, he thought loudly and clearly of all those who do not think well of Serbia, who concentrate their political activities on the central Belgrade municipalities, on Belgrade and use all possible methods did not bring down the government of the Republic of Serbia and President Aleksandar Vukic. These power centres in certain opposition parties have their tentacles in the region as well. They meet secretly on Vrakar, both in Trieste and in Montenegro. They also have their heroes. One of the heroes of these opposition centers of power who wanted to bring down Alexander Vukic is Radoje Zvicer, and their like-minded during the recent unwanted events on Cetinje, also wore a uniform that says Zvicer 23, light green. So these are supporters of those policies, policies against Alexander Vukic who do not have heroes like we have heroes in Serbia like Novak Djokovic and other athletes whose uniforms and paintings we wear, they have heroes such as Radoje Zvicer, leader of the Kavački Clan, who supports those opposition elements that want to bring down Alexander Vukic. In this regard, we are witnessing that it does not pass the day, but that someone from the opposition group gathered around Dragan Djilas and Marinika Tepic through social networks and through means of public information does not refer the threat to President Aleksandar Vukic and his family. Therefore, I refer questions to the competent state institutions, primarily the MUP, the prosecution and the Ministry of Justice – what are all the state institutions doing, not only to protect President Vukic and his family, but also to process these threats? President's son Danilo can't go on vacation, he can't go to sea without being photographed by individual opposition leaders and their associates, and he doesn't publish it to the public. So they continue to monitor the movement of the Vukan family, they continue to threaten in the worst possible way, and I am ashamed to pass on these threats and insults to the expense of Vukan, Danil and Milice, the children of our president. They only do this because they aim to bring down Serbia, and in order to bring down Serbia, they must bring down Alexander Vukic. They know each and every one of us is a weak spot for our family. That's why they're threatening the president. That's why they're tracking his children and looking at him in every way to weaken Alexander Vukic. That's why our president can't continue to run politics this well unless he has the support of all of us, primarily state institutions, primarily as regards protecting family security. So I ask the question and I call on the authorities to react even faster and more effectively, we have occasional statements about a decisive reaction by the prosecution or police regarding finding someone when they threaten to die, but that's not enough, because these attacks are daily. If state institutions react faster and more effectively, I hope that in Serbia, awareness will be initiated, even among those who are against the authorities of Aleksandr Vukic, to criticise him politically and to leave his family alone. Every family is sacred, everyone's children are sacred. Don't, Dragane Gilasu, Marinika Tepic and the rest of you and your comrades, don't take the family of Alexander Vukic into your mouth in your political struggle. Export the program if you have it, and you do not. Your only program is to return to power, to kidnap as you have taken from the citizens of Serbia. In the end, I rely on state institutions. I hope all of these so-called. Heroes across Twitter and social networks who are crazyly threatening to be found and arrested and processed. Why? For Serbia, for the safety of children, for the safety of all families in Serbia. In order for us to continue and fight for our children and to produce results and that Aleksandar Vukic, along with his associates and the Serbian government, continues to lead Serbia to a safe future, all state institutions in the Republic of Serbia must work faster and more efficiently and everyone's family to be safe. Thank you. Long live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-07-0.u8838	Thank you, Mr. Grouchy. Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, answer for word, we continue to work. I would like to inform you that the session was prevented from being attended by MP Diana Radovic. You were delivered the minutes of the session of the 9th and 10th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 12. It's a stimulant. As most of the total number of MPs attend today's session, I find that there is a quorum for the adoption of the minutes from those sessions. I would like to inform you that by verifying the tasks of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs and the mandate-immunity issues, it has been established that no one has submitted to that Committee any of the MPs in writing any objection to those minutes, so we are moving to a decision. I am voting on the minutes of the 9th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 12th Assembly, held on 21st and 22nd July 2021. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote: total – 174 for – 158, did not vote – 16 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the 9th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 12th Assembly. I am voting on the minutes of the session of the 10th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 12th Assembly, held on 28 and 29 July 2021. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I am concluding the vote: total – 176 for – 164 did not vote – 12 MPs. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the 10th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 12th Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, convened by the session of the 11th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 12th Assembly, which was convened at the request of 237 MPs, pursuant to Article 106(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 48(3). Law on the National Assembly and Article 249. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, you have been sent a request to hold an extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia with a certain agenda contained in the request. For the sitting of the 11th extraordinary session, the following Dn e n i r e d: 1. Proposal for a consumer protection law; 2. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Kingdom of Morocco on co-operation in the field of defence; 3. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on the establishment and conditions of action of cultural and information centres; 4. Proposal for a law confirming the Framework Agreement on Loan LD 2070 (2020) between the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe and the Republic of Serbia for a Project Loan – Student Apartment; 5. Proposal for a law confirming amendments to the Montreal Protocol on substances that damage the ozone layer; 6. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on co-operation in the field of defence; 7. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Office of Ministers of Ukraine on amendments to the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Office of Ministers of Ukraine on visa waiver for their nationals; 8. Proposal for a decision on the selection of the vice governor of the National Bank of Serbia; 9. Proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the selection of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, on the proposal of the parliamentary group "Alexander Vukic – To our children" of 15 July, and 10 July. Proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the selection of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, on a proposal from the same parliamentary group. National MP Dr Aleksandar Martinovic, on the basis of Article. Items 92, 170 and 192 and 157 of Article 2 The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that: 1) a joint single search on points of regular number 2 with the 7 that I have just announced, and 2) a joint single search on points under regular numbers 8, 9 and 10. Does the promoter want to explain? He doesn't want to. Thank you. I am putting this motion to the vote and I am asking the MPs to press the appropriate key on the parliamentary unit. I conclude the vote: total – 176 for – 165, did not vote – 11 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. We're going to work on the agenda. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, pages 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 1800 hours, because of the need to pass the Act of the Agenda today's session. According to Article 90(1), I would like to inform you that the sittings have been called: Tatjana Matic, Minister of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications; Uroš Kandic, State Secretary; Višnja Rakic, Assistant Minister; Tamara Samardzic, Senior Advisor and Vera Rovcanin Orlović, Head of the Tourism Legal Affairs Group. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 157(1) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure, I am opening a principle search on the Consumer Protection Act. I welcome the government's representatives present and ask if the proposing representative, Tatjana Matic, Minister of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications wants a word at the very beginning? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-07-0.u8839	Dear President-in-Office, honourable MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, we are facing today a proposal for a consumer protection law, which is based on an analysis of the application of the effects of the applicable Consumer Protection Act, which was adopted as early as 2014. This law that lies before you today is also the result of the work of the Working Group in which, of course, the representatives of traders, as well as consumers, as the basic entities of the consumer relationship, but of course other relevant holders of consumer protection and the professional public were represented. Given that consumer protection is the constitutional category of the Republic of Serbia and that it is one of the primary systemic objectives of our country and, above all, the work of the relevant Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications, today's bill is primarily aimed at offering new legal solutions that will allow consumers to achieve their rights more efficiently and at less cost and that we are in fact guaranteeing a high level of consumer protection in the Republic of Serbia. This law that is before you today provides for a whole series of new legal solutions and measures that will regulate the obligations and safeguard the rights of all consumers, but also proposes obligations, responsibilities and rules relating to the functioning and work of traders and which, in the future, we are sure, will lead to improvements and above all to the creation of a much better consumer position and the achievement of their consumer rights. The reasons for the adoption of the Consumer Protection Act are seen primarily in implementing systematic and concrete legal and institutional instruments to protect consumer rights, which provides for the regulation of all issues of importance for consumers, but also improves the level of protection and information of consumers and travellers, thus achieving a partial harmonisation with the EU Directive on Travel, Packages and related travel arrangements of 2015. Dear Members, I believe that the law on the agenda today is of multiple importance and that it will contribute to the protection of consumer rights and that this way, consumer law in the Republic of Serbia will move in accordance with EU rules. I believe that you will see the potential of the proposal to ensure and improve consumer rights protection in Serbia, as well as that, if necessary, we will have a constructive debate on all possible further improvements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-07-0.u8840	Thank you, Minister. Do the officials of the committees want a word? Veroljub Arsic answered the words. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-07-0.u8841	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the committee has proposed to the National Assembly to accept the bill in principle. There is also a reason, even though the previous law was passed in 2014. We must be aware that trade is something that is living matter, that the way and forms of trade are constantly changing and that traders in certain ways are trying to place their goods and services and that we have come out of that traditional way of trade to go into trade only, to look at goods, to buy it and thus achieve some bonding relationship with the trader, not to say that there will always be abuse in trade often and by traders, often by consumers, and that it is necessary by any subsequent law that we make during a period of time and the possibility of abuse is reduced to the least possible extent. There was also this famous distance shop, especially by phone, phone calls. Believe that many citizens have expressed dissatisfaction because some traders are calling them, especially if it was at a time when it is not done after 22.00 hours and it is perfectly understandable that their dissatisfaction is fully understood and the need for such a type of trade to be fully imitated in accordance with the law and regulated in the manner provided for by the law. Of course, we've had some situations now and some applicable laws, let's see what kind of application it was. I expect in the debate in the principle that we will also come up with, as has been the application of the applicable legal rules, what are these amendments concerning these regulations and, of course, so that our state authorities, primarily market inspection and other authorities, can react when there is a breach of the law. First of all, I'm thinking of breaking the contract and proving the end of the contract, what it looks like today. I can say that there is still one large, large number of abuses by sellers when it comes to it. Later in the debate, in principle, I will also show some examples that in the end our Committee had to intervene to protect itself through the market inspection of individual consumers, as the sellers tried to make those obligations they had under the law meet. I think that, in addition to judicial protection, the state authority should also impose a misdemeanor procedure on such traders, in order to provide a specific way to relieve market inspection and judicial authorities, to protect consumers. I think the bill is good, that it certainly improves consumer protection and I expect in the principle debate that we will highlight all the advantages this law has.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-07-0.u8842	Thank you. The word has a folk MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic, chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-07-0.u8843	Thank you to the President, the Honorable Minister with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament. On the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, we discussed this draft law that lies before us today in the principle debate and we assessed that its provisions were in line with the Constitution and the legal solutions of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, we must always bear in mind, an analysis of the effects of the law, as well as the work of the Working Group as the minister has just stated. On the other hand, we must also give a chance to some new legal solutions that we expect positive effects, above all, that will address the improvement of the consumer's position and which will relate to a more quality exercise of their rights. A bill on consumer protection, except by harmonising with EU rules, will improve the work of the Association and the Union for Consumer Protection, introduce a more efficient system of penalties, create a single consumer protection policy, establish consumer dispute records before courts, but also regulate, for example, non-judicial consumer dispute resolution. There will be more details we will be able to hear in the principle debate. We'll have a discussion in particular. By providing an appropriate legal framework, by adopting this law in many ways, we will contribute to the rapid achievement of the effects that, I believe and the working group had before them as a goal when drawing up the text that is today in the form of a proposal. I would take the opportunity to invite my fellow Members and fellow MPs to support this bill in voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-07-0.u8844	Thank you. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary group, want a word? The word has been given to the People's Messenger Muamer Zukorlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-07-0.u8845	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Minister with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens, today is an important law ahead of us, and I wish I could be in a normal environment and in a normal way, as usual and as we did earlier on talk about the Consumer Protection Act. He would certainly have done so if, exactly a month ago, on August 6th, at the town's walk in Sjenica, a citizen, a humanist, the father of seven children, Edin Hamidovic, in the middle of the city's promenade, had not been saved in the greatest crowd by members of the notorious, criminal, criminal organisation Latovic. He therefore succumbed to his wife and seven children after a few days. His only sin is that he owns a shadow newspaper, a portal he's written over the past months and years about this criminal group, about the conduct of this criminal group with certain local political, police judicial, prosecutorial structures. So, we had opportunities to get through what we were getting as information, which through various films to watch various accounts and various forms of brutal liquidations, but even in Sicily or Colombia, when it would happen that the killers saw six children or a person with children, to delay the murder, or liquidation. This time, a man was liquidated in front of six children, underage children, and in front of his wife, in the city's biggest crowd, and after that, the killer, his helper, walked out of the country, and today, inaccessible to justice, justice, or law enforcement. What happened can't be treated as a simple murder and we can't just go on and say it, so it happened. First because of brutality, second because of the background, and third because of the reaction and the competent authorities and other factors of the public. So, we in Sandzak know and we were eyewitnesses that because of some tax breach or some other offence or suspicion of a crime, that the special forces were breaking into people's bedrooms at four in the morning to eventually find evidence of a certain guilty crime, and now for a crime like this, we haven't seen a single helicopter rise, that any pursuit, even on the seventh or eighth day, has been carried out in search of houses and locals of members of the mentioned criminal, criminal gangs of murderers and rapists. Now I'm going to remind you how long, how many months, how many weeks and how many times from this honorable place and from other media positions I'm talking about the danger that has taken place over us, which is called policy, police, justice, prosecution and crime. I've always talked about parts of this country that I know for sure, that's where I come from. So this is something that's kind of precedent in this country. What has also been painfully painful and is causing a lot of pessimism is a public reaction, especially to the media. We've had most of the media silence. Here, even some colleagues asked me a question, and then they said, "Wait, so what happened when it happened?" So, obviously most of you haven't even heard that something like this happened on the territory of this country a month ago and that could happen at all. That's what particularly hurts, and what specifically indicates that we're wrong, that we have a certain problem, a certain failure. Most of the media kept quiet, one of the media, specifically the Courier on the cover dedicated it to taking sides with murderers and these criminal groups and looking for culprits in someone else who, like, wants to do something about this in Sandzak, against this country and calling for rebellion and so on. While other media were publishing the titles of the type -- after the shooting in Sjenica, Hamidovic died. No, it's not after the shooting, the shooting is when you have a certain shootout between the two sides, and then someone gets shot and succumbs and dies. This is about the most brutal form of liquidation. And if most media are silent, if we have a pale reaction from the police and other authorities, and we tell you more than once what the prosecutor or assistant prosecutor in the Senate is doing, they found in his drawer two cases that are related to the killer himself, for the perpetrator of the murder, one is a criminal complaint about the illegal carrying of weapons, the case stands in his drawer and is not processed, and we will continue to talk - well, the prosecution is a separate body, what do we do? If we have a criminal record whose trial is blocked by an assistant prosecutor and if the person who was to be prosecuted were to commit the murder, this prosecutor's assistant is not just someone who has been unwittingly doing his job, someone who has become an accomplice, because that he has prosecuted the person concerned for carrying a weapon illegally, the question is, would that person be able to commit such a crime? The second criminal report that stood in the case of the prosecutor's assistant in question was an assault on an official person. So, the killer, the perpetrator of this disgusting murder, was previously so violent that he attacked an ordinary police officer and there is an official criminal record against him, which has not been prosecuted. What else needs to happen to make sure not that certain prosecutorial structures and criminal gangs are in place, but to simply set off the alarm, so that they can figure out what degree of this band actually exists? In the next few days, we'll get information about certain failures in the treatment of the crime itself, because we find three notes from the two prosecutors and from the police involved in this murder. They're all different. So the information we have is from the prosecutor on the scene, from a police inspector who's been given the authority to follow up on this event through the hospital and on to another prosecutor who's been talking to the wounded before he succumbed to the hospital itself, and we have, therefore, three different notebooks. Imagine what is now the degree of security or tendence that we see at this point, and I say, when we have in our hands all of these documents, we'll definitely inform the public. The key question is, are we going from the level of all the authorities, as we declare here in the Assembly, that we have a declaration from the positions of all levels of the state itself, whether this state really wants to be a state in all segments of its statehood, in all aspects of its jurisdiction, in all parts of its territory, or whether we are going to have a selective approach and a selective relationship? The second thing we noticed, the organizer and leader of this criminal gang who had already avoided in Montenegro, not only had they gone underground, it is known that when certain groups committed such crimes to lay low, to see what would happen, they did a disgusting act, no, he barked over social networks for the next weeks, he continued to threaten, under his name and last name, he said more threats to concrete persons who continued to oppose this criminal gang. Now come on to me, let someone try to answer me because I, well, I'm not at liberty to understand the profile, his and them, I don't believe in their courage, because criminals and murderers of this kind, so dirty, who in their biographies and files have rapes, have the kidnapping of girls in Sandzak and Serbia, taking them to Frankfurt, pimping, selling after a few years and eventually killing, so they're not witnesses, they all have these in the files of this criminal gang. Such criminals, the very notion of a criminal is even a compliment because they are much worse than that, but such characters can't be brave. Such a character can only be bullied if he has a backdrop, only if he has a relationship that protects him. So, over two weeks, every day after the execution of this disgusting crime, they still threatened publicly, with their signatures on social networks. It's simply about their co-ordination with certain structures in the police, the prosecution and other structures, as well as political structures at the bar, where they feel safe. If you remember, a few meetings ago here, I asked and said that this country would continue with a practice that, unfortunately, was established in the 19th century, that the strategic category of partnership would be with spies and informants? The main problem is, at least for Sandzak's space, they're criminals, so-called criminals. Criminals, drug dealers, various profiles of these petty and large criminals, key police informants and other structures, and that they can do whatever they want and therefore be protected. Is that this country's strategy? Not to remind you, I know it's painful for you, what happened in those relations in Kosovo, so as it all goes on. They're strategically wrong orientations. Of course, I know that no state can exist without spies, but have we gone to the point where we forgive people or tolerate crimes like this so that they can kill whenever they want and who they want and walk peacefully out of the country and be safe because they're co-workers, police informants or some other structure? These are dangerous phenomena. These are phenomena that not only endanger citizens, but endanger the state, endanger the system. It's the wrong form of security strategy. If he's official, I'm building up. If it is official in certain structures of this country, I simply cannot believe that it is an official strategy, but I suppose it is someone's legacy from the past, but I call from this place as a national MP to open this topic and simply make an alliance against this phenomenon, because the crime of this form, such a dirty crime, especially in connection with certain police, political and judicial structures is worse to cancer, worse than gangrene. He's the worst disease and he eats everything, and when he gets to some point, he can't come back. So this is a kind of cry. Remember also at one of the last sessions, when I spoke and when someone was not comfortable again, I counted how many unexposed murders in New Pazar and other parts of Sandzak? That's too much. One thing can happen or, I don't know, none, but it's too much. It actually means that in that part of this country, we have jams in the system of security, in the system of justice. I won't be maligned to say it's intentional, but there's no big difference in the effect between intent and inadequacy, especially on the victim. In ethical terms, there is a difference between intent and inadequacy, but in fact, there is no difference. It doesn't matter if someone, God forbid, run over the truck on purpose or on purpose. It doesn't matter if the victim was killed. That's why this issue and this topic can't be delayed like this anymore and we can't allow it, because these topics are hostages of some local interest, petty, personal, so this prosecutor is close to this political party, and this police commander is close to that, the one that protects this one, the one that protects this one. That's really bad, guys. It's something that'll bite the system and bite it so far. So, what do we got? We have, therefore, on the one hand, a brutal liquidation in the middle of the promenade, in front of six children, an innocent man, a man who thought he was living and who could speak freely in this country and write what he thinks, is undetected in the media, and then, a kind of insinuation that is made around the intonation of the anthem becomes a top topic. Is that a normal relationship? It's not a normal relationship. It's not normal, and nobody wonders what's real. So, the official statement of the school director in which Master Adele works is that teacher Adele left the intonation of the Serbian anthem at first class, and that she left the Anthem of the Sanjak Bosniaks, or intonated at second period. That's what the school director said. So, if so, and I have no reason to doubt that, there is no element of not guilty, but neither criminal, nor ordinary, nor procedural, nor protocol, nor any other act. So that's one moment of factography. So, from this point on... It's just, I'd like to interrogate the prosecutor who gave the order to bring Adele in for why she did it. What it seems to me is that it's actually in cahoots with Ugljanin, that they're making performances, that they haven't arrested her, they've called her, brought her in for a conversation, teacher Adele, who's absolutely nothing to blame, who's acted according to her intent, persuasion, and has not broken the laws of this country. So it looks like a local party, a theatre where Suleyman Ugljan's political performance is now going to be shown to a savior and he's breaking in, running his own television, breaking into the police, releasing Master Adele and coming out, becoming some quasi hero who saved the teacher. Much more with such distractions and such plantings and such revivings of political fossils and those who have nothing else in politics to offer except such innuendos and such performances, where this thing becomes more important than people's lives, where murderers are allowed to function, where it's not a topic, and this becomes a topic. Of course, the theme of state symbols and anthem is something that I personally and my political party were talking about, something we should talk about, the representatives of the state, representatives of the Serb people with Bosniak representatives, and yet what a hypocrisis of Ugljanin. In 2006, he was campaigning for the vote of the Constitution with this anthem "God of Justice". And then, while he was part of the establishment, while he had interests, it didn't bother him. They filled those boxes, forged that referendum to adopt that constitution. Now that he needs another story - let's go, another story. Indeed, let us stop taking part in this madness of the Bosniak people in Sandzak and let them give him the opportunity to actually observe what is good and what is bad and to choose who is right and what is bad, based on what is good. Last sentence. If I wanted to be ironic and there was room for irony, I would suggest that the Consumer Protection Act be introduced into Sandzak's space as a consumer vest to protect them.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-07-0.u8846	Thank you. The word is given by MP Branimir Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-07-0.u8847	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Minister, respected representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues, today when we talk about the new Consumer Protection Act, we must bear in mind that the current law, which is still in force, was adopted in 2014, that many things have changed on the market in these seven years. Simply, one area like this is very sensitive, the market is dynamic. We, by the way, live in a society that carries the name consumer society somewhere, and we need to work constantly to improve legal standards, to improve legal regulation in order to be in progress with market developments. I hope that these amendments of the law too will improve legal regulation and remove the shortcomings that exist now in practice. In addition to the Law on Trade, which takes a central place when we talk about regulating the transport of goods and services and the behaviour of market participants, it is equally important to the Consumer Protection Act, because it directly refers to end-users, i.e. to buyers of goods and services. We often discuss here in parliament measures that are good for the economy, which are good for businesses, especially for the development of the private sector. This is the day we talk about other measures, measures relating to users of services. I can freely say that two very important tasks of the state are when we talk about this area, which is, firstly, to provide conditions for a stable and supplied market, and the second is to provide efficient mechanisms to protect consumers. To make sure that for their money they will receive products where the prescribed quality is guaranteed, thus earning confidence in the legal framework and, of course, using all the mechanisms available to them so that they can exercise their rights. The bill contains several newspapers compared to the previous law. One of the most significant, in my opinion, is the one that relates to the new procedure of extrajudicial dispute resolution. And so far there has been this practice, so far there has been a procedure of extrajudicial dispute resolution, but in a different way. Now, first of all, two important changes are being introduced. The first is that traders are obliged to participate in an extra-judicial dispute settlement, and the second is to provide financial funds from the budget for the functioning of the body leading the extra-judicial settlement of the dispute. If we compare the current practice, or practice that applies under this law and what follows, which we expect will be after the adoption of the law, we can see significant progress. For example, it has now happened that when a customer advertises a particular product, the seller can refuse advertising with an appropriate explanation. He doesn't have to go to an out-of-court dispute settlement, even if the buyer wants to. Then to the buyer, if he's unhappy, the only way to get justice is to go to court. The new Consumer Protection Act provides for different measures. By providing funds for the functioning of the body for the non-judicial resolution of the consumer dispute, it is a significant step. For example, a parent was going to buy a child sports shoes and after three, four trainings, after several kicks of the ball and several running away the sole. The buyer comes to a sports store, advertises, happens, I know such cases, that the trader refuses to advertise, with the reason that the shoes are not worn properly. It doesn't make sense to the buyer, of course, he wants to continue to seek justice. If he wants to go into an out-of-court dispute settlement, he has to pay compensation to the body that's in charge of it, which I think is 7,500 dinars. Shoes, for example, costing five, six thousand dinars are less valuable than that amount of money. Then the buyer is not paid under the current law to enter such a kind of dispute unless the goods are of greater value. In that case, even if the seller wants to enter an extrajudicial dispute settlement, the buyer will be demoted precisely for this fee. With this new bill of law, we remove these shortcomings. Also, it happened that the seller refuses to advertise, the buyer is convinced that the reasons for refusing advertising are unwarranted and even when he wants to pay compensation for extrajudicial dispute resolution, again the seller has no obligation to enter into such proceedings. In that case, the buyer has to file a lawsuit. The very idea of entering court proceedings, the process of proof, the possible skill in the start of a demotious customer to move on, to try to exercise his right. By introducing the instrument that sellers are obliged to participate in this kind of dispute resolution, they will encourage both buyers and sellers to settle the dispute before going to court. The very fact that, under the new law, traders will be obliged to participate in the out-of-court settlement of consumer disputes should also bother them in some way, to agree to do business, or to respect business ethics. It should always be said that the buyer is always right. A good trader will spare both himself and the buyer to be exhausted in certain court proceedings and in time will respect justified advertising. I'm sure, and that's always a recommendation to the merchants, that in this way they will gain customer confidence and their loyalty for a long period of time. The new legal proposal also erases the above value of the goods, i.e. the service subject to the dispute. Now that top value under the law is 500 thousand dinars. Therefore, if, under the current law, the value of the goods which is the subject of the dispute is greater than 500 thousand dinars, they cannot go into a non-judicial dispute settlement. This law erases that upper limit and I think that the upper limit should not exist, because it discriminates against certain categories of customers, for example, car purchasers or agricultural machinery, all those goods that have a higher value. It is good that the future non-judicial settlement of disputes will be settled by persons who are intermediaries in accordance with the Law on Intermediation, graduates with two years of experience in civil law and who are listed in the list of bodies run by the competent ministry. Therefore, alternative dispute resolution is a mechanism that enables consumers and traders to resolve disputes in a quick and efficient way and saves money both. Thus, both easier and cheaper will solve the problem compared to court proceedings. For consumers to be aware of their rights, traders in sales facilities are required to point out their obligation to participate in non-judicial dispute resolution. Anyone who does not point out such a single notice in a visible place at a sales facility will have to pay a fine of 50,000 dinars, which is the same penalty as not to participate in such a single procedure. The introduction of mandatory mediation to some extent will relieve courts and a new law stipulates that courts have an obligation to record any consumer complaint and to provide once a year information on the number of consumer disputes, the number of decisions made and the average family duration of court disputes. In this way, we will form one precise record of the data based on which we will be able to track how much judicial protection is available to consumers and to what extent they achieve it. Also, these data will be a good basis to propose further system solutions for this area. Information on the number of consumer disputes is also the subject of the interest of the European Commission and the European Commission is using this data when it makes up a report on Serbia's progress towards the EU, and because of the lack of this record, we have so far been unable to provide accurate and adequate data. When we talk about justice, I must point out that misdemeanor courts are largely overloaded, that the deadlines of limitations of criminal proceedings are short, and this affects the purpose and effectiveness of punishment. I am sure that another newspaper in the Consumer Protection Act will influence the dispensation of the work of misdemeanor courts. The proposal for a law provides that a market inspector may impose an infringement order on a trader. This is provided only in certain situations, of course, not in all, such as situations where the price is not pointed out, when the pre-contractual notice of customers is not carried out, where no or no record of accepted advertising is kept, etc. So, in these cases, the inspector can place a fine on the spot and if the fine is paid within eight days the procedure is such, it is reduced by 50%. The Treasury Administration, when it registers that payment, returns feedback to the ministry and thus ends the procedure very effectively and thus provides for a more efficient payment of funds belonging to the budget. Otherwise, such measures are not unknown to the market inspection and the market inspection is now benefiting from such measures, but by two other laws – the Law on Trade and the Law on Advertising. It is only a more effective procedure now, when we talk about the Consumer Protection Act, because the current practice when they comply with this law was that when an irregularity is observed, the inspector continues to pass on to the wrongful court, and then the criminal court imposes a final sentence and therefore the whole procedure is slower. I expect it will be much more effective in the future. When I spoke about dispute resolution earlier, I failed to highlight the role of consumer rights organisations. These organisations have played an active role in addressing concrete advertising problems so far. They also played an active role in implementing policies, i.e. in creating a consumer protection policy, whether they participate in advisory bodies or in the work of advertising resolution committees, whether they represent consumers in litigation procedures. Data for the previous four years suggest that citizens often address such organisations, but that 82% of the assistance they receive is advisory aid, and only 10% is the assistance provided by the associations to consumers, which refers to direct negotiations with traders in order to provide, i.e. to resolve a particular dispute. It is obvious that a greater focus is needed on the work of the association, to strengthen their capacities, to be trained to resolve disputes, and it is very important, and I think we have this and now, that every region is well covered when we talk about regional associations dealing with consumer rights. It is also necessary for the work of these associations to be transparent, for citizens to be more familiar with the work of the association, because they only happen to know about their work when they turn to market inspection and market inspection exhausts all possible mechanisms, and then directs them to associations for possible assistance in the exercise of rights. Another newspaper that may not be the most important, but I see it has caused a lot of public attention, which is the introduction of a register called "Don't Call". I'm sure that at least once each of us received a phone call from a certain company to get an offer for a product, to come to some free promotion, and often these calls know to irritate people, and they don't know how to stop and stop further calls. Now this register will in a good way, systemically solve this problem. It showed up, and I heard it, in practice that these calls are directed at those consumers, usually pensioners and health-threatening consumers. The products offered to them are mostly not proportionate to their financial power and when they promote and sell these products, promoters deliberately avoid fulfilling their legal obligation and not inform the buyer in advance that they can give up within 14 days. When everything is collected, the impressions settle, it is too late for the consumer to return a particular product and then address for help to the ministry, specifically to market inspection, and where it is difficult to help in such cases. This introduction of a register is not some newspaper in Western countries. It exists in EU countries, exists in the United States, Great Britain and Australia. Another problem that happened in practice, and I think the new law will solve this problem is when the service provider tells the client before the job is done that the service will cost a certain amount of money, and when the job is done, the price is significantly higher. On that occasion, before the start of the job, it leads to consumer error. For this reason, the law provides that in order to provide a service with a value greater than 5,000 dinars, the seller is obliged to make a budget on a permanent carrier with a service specification and to obtain consumer consent and only then can he access the business. It happened that someone would call the air conditioning repairman, the washing machine, it doesn't matter, and before the job started, the master said it would cost 3,000 dinars, and when the job was done, he said he had some unplanned expenses, the parts were more expensive, so that bill came out to 10,000 dinars and, of course, the consumer had to pay for it. With this legal standard, we're going to warn that there are situations like this. Simply, the master must first make the specification, offer it to the customer, accept the customer and then access the business. If the costs are increased later, the buyer is not even required to pay for such work. The rules governing the rights of consumers in the field of tourism, i.e. the work of tourism organisations, are also commended. It is very important, especially in the time in which we live, that consumers be protected in this area, that they can count on adequate travel, on accommodation that is actually advertised, that no one leaves them behind. In addition to all this, I can say that this law covers a quality package of measures, which primarily strengthen consumer protection mechanisms, which remove weaknesses that exist in practice, enable traders to resolve disputes more easily and strengthen the role of consumer protection organisations. I think there are enough reasons why we should all support the new Consumer Protection Act. Certainly, MPs of the SDPS will vote for this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-07-0.u8848	Thank you. The word is made by the president of the JS parliamentary group, Dragan Markovic Palma. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-07-0.u8849	Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Unique Serbia will support this bill, but what is most important for us from the JS, when will the Company Act come on the agenda, because without consumers, or without producers, there are no consumers? We have a huge problem when it comes to our domestic producers. Of course, it is not the fault of this authority and you as a resolution minister, it is the fault of those who signed the previous agreements and that we have allowed some countries to import something produced in Serbia and to create competition for the domestic producer. In particular, I think of farmers who every year, it happens to them that the price difference between what they produce and the market price is huge, at least once a month, such as the price of living cattle, so the price has dropped by almost 45%, and in shops and slaughterhouses, or butchers, the same price remains. Who protects a farmer when he buys a seed unit, so that the seed unit does not make the one who writes on a bag or on a bag of that manufacturer, and that he respects all the obligations and uses, i.e. “stretched garbage” and the fertilizer that is called for the feeding of agricultural products such as corn, cereals and other agricultural products? We of the JS believe that we have to guard and protect the village, because until 15 years ago, whoever had 20 cows in the barn, each year he was left without two cows precisely because of the price difference. Next, what are two merchants? If they are both consumers, one trader buys some kind of goods from the manufacturer and sells to another trader. Who's the buyer and who's the consumer? There's been a lot of fraud in these relationships, and the litigation is very long. We need to see how to speed up these litigation disputes, no matter what certain payment guarantees exist, but you know that these guarantees often cannot be used, except for the bank guarantee, which gives the only security. Today, traders and individual companies fail within a week and you only hear that this company has been liquidated or workers lost their jobs, and suppliers can never charge their property, or what they have given. Furthermore, we need to see how to protect suppliers for trade, I mean smaller ones, because it opens up in name and last name, and when the currency comes to pay, that store closes and opens up in another name and name, as various public area purchases are done in cities and municipalities. How can we protect ourselves if someone who rents a public area was not a taxpayer and has no guarantee other than a guarantee of their property, and hardly you can through the property of someone who rents space to collect, because it usually happens to be that, for example, a person who rents a public surface is not led by anything, that it is a younger person from a family, how to charge for such persons, and what is the guarantee of such persons? Since we are now in the tourism season, what are service users? Are they consumers? They did. Are the agencies, someone doing favors? Yeah. The agencies are complaining about the licenses that they have very high licenses, and then they transfer that it's someone else's fault, and of course it's not the government's fault, or the department's resolution. Those who were paying up front to go somewhere on vacation, those people, most of them lost their money, and others, I mean agencies, have been using this situation where two years of crowns and epidemics have been around the world. This was in some way their justice. How to protect these people without being licensed as much as they were because they say they take an average from 2019 and 2018 when those agencies worked well. The point is how do we protect Serbian producers and how do we place Serbian goods in markets? There's 80% of the goods from the imports in any market we can get into. We can't ban them, but in some way we can stimulate these owners of these markets, to give them the obligation to open a market that's not from Serbia or whether it's owned by Serbia, there must be so many items in the store. There's something in the European Union called quotas and it can't produce whoever it wants and who will. If they can apply it there, why can't we just apply it and protect every man in Serbia who does some work? For example, in Greece, and Greece is bigger than Serbia, they can store 3,500 pig pigs. In the European Union, they got that quota, and that's a very small amount. I have now led to Greece 992 farmers from 32 municipalities and the city. The one that we've been to, the man says -- well, we're in the EU, and they've obliged us not to be able to guard some larger amount of pig pigs, and we're processing not know how many hectares of land etc. We can make a decision, no matter what the EU has asked of us when it comes to laws, we have passed almost 97% of the laws as they are in the EU, but we are interested, Serbian citizens and us from JS, to give me these citizens' standards when it comes to the cost of costing products produced in our country, do they have a placement, who are customers and who is our competition? This is something that is most important to us, and I would now not only bind myself to agricultural producers, but also to other producers that produce some other kind of goods. Unfortunately, small producers are slowly shutting down, only large ones remain due to competition. The only thing in my opinion is that we can justify, engage, build highways, because we don't have so many workers, we don't have construction machines, and it's never been built in Serbia again, but it's now being built. We do not have a sufficient number of masters, and therefore we have hired, i.e. the state has hired some workers from some other countries to make what is necessary for every man in Serbia, built and built in time. But what's called life and food is at least there we can help every man, because I don't know if you have and follow the statistics that a large number of workers are now not firing workers because they've taken premiums from the state, or not premiums, but help, and that's where we have to realize that the state has first given budget assistance to businesses so that these businessmen can keep workers. Otherwise, when that day stops as a day of commitment to keep so many workers, you'll see, I don't want that to happen, but the lack of 30% of workers will be out of work, because the market has fallen and purchasing power has fallen. The case is also in Vranj, it is not the case that someone criticises now – well, you see the government doing bad work. But that factory in Vranj had a market almost worldwide. So, all over the world, purchasing power has dropped, which means that because Serbia is different from others and when it comes to the growth of gross social product and that we are one of the highly recognised states in economic terms, that the first time the euro course lasts so long, and that it doesn't change for almost nine, ten years, which gives security and credit to those who take credit, or from factories and businesses where they work, and that when we look at it, we're different from others, but this isn't a vision, this is something that's going to happen, something that two and two are four. So, in three, four months or five months, we're going to have a minimum of 30% of the workers fired from work because the workers are going to work, but these factories don't have a market, decreased purchasing power, and when it comes to car manufacturers. There are many factories in Serbia that produce from headquarters to motors for cars produced both in Germany and Italy and in some other countries. How are we supposed to protect us and where are we going with these workers who are going to lose 99% of their jobs? I'm not saying this to you guys like someone who's heard it somewhere in a bar, but I've been a businessman for 37 years, and I've been following, I've got contact with businessmen, and I'm sure you do, as a resolute minister, but what is it called prevention? Here, today, none of us, and neither of us have talked about the vaccine, the vaccine stops the number of infected and preserves the safety and jobs and production, the production that has to go to another state of Serbia in an hour, and that we have a very small number of vaccines, when I say 50 percent of them are vaccinated. Here, for example, one data, in kindergarten one, it doesn't matter where, 35% of the employees are vaccinated. Watch out, 35%. You as a resolute minister, it's not health care in your portfolio, but trade, tourism and telecommunications are very important in your portfolio, and let's see that now we, let's tell you it's not my responsibility or my obligation, so I don't care -- where the sources where the citizens get infected, get the virus, is it at some weddings, celebrations? Children started out in schools to get a crown, to get infected, from whom those children, did they take them to kindergarten or school, or did they get from a kindergarten worker? In hospitals and health homes there is a slightly higher percentage, but there is also a huge problem. If the patient goes to the hospital, stays in the ward, asks the doctor if you've been vaccinated, says, no, then the patient says - the doctor knows better than I do whether or not you need to, and neither do I, since that doctor hasn't vaccinated, etc. We have nothing to do, each of us, every day wherever we find ourselves to say -- vaccination, vaccination, and that's something that will protect both health and economic standards, and protect the family. What anyone will say like these traitors, Gilas and Vuk Jeremic, and whether they will rebel or not, for twenty-three or thirty people, as many as they have, the working woman of Marina, we don't care about it. One life in Serbia cannot be assessed financially to say that life is worth so much. Life has no price, life is invaluable, and I'm not going to say it's not every one of us's responsibility. What's worth doing and so many clinical centres and hospitals, we may have the best conditions, we got four vaccines first, before Germany is also the most powerful economic state in Europe, and we don't use it. You can suggest today, 250 MPs, Saturdays or Sundays, or Fridays when we don't work, that we go around a town and that everyone next to us is in charge, that we pray to anyone who hasn't been vaccinated, to be vaccinated. That anti-vaxers don't have the right over social networks to call on others not to vaccinate, if they don't want to. Telecommunications has some indirect connection to you, and neither can you, of course, but now that it's needed by the state, let's see how to help every family directly. I also ask MPs who are not vaccinated to be vaccinated, that we be an example. I was vaccinated, not to say among the first citizens of Serbia, but at the very beginning, my whole family, I have 12 members in my family, we all live in one house. Only three of them, 11 years old, are my grandson and two grandchildren, not vaccinated, and the rest of us are vaccinated. How can we defeat this evil? Just a vaccine. It's not worth crisis headquarters and Conn and I don't know who to talk about, people figured it out like it's some story on TV now, once a week the headquarters meets and the proposal, I don't know, can do this terrace, can't do it, etc. They can be angry, here yesterday we had headquarters in Jagodina and we told every director, every school, to print out a memo and to ask parents not to make celebrations, birthdays, adulthoods, etc. to postpone. The catering facilities should work, but only vaccinated to get in. Let those who listen be angry, as much as they will at me, but understand, here's an example. Jagodina, 228 has been tested, and 101 has a crown. It is so, you know, 40% in all of Serbia's cities, except in some cities maybe they don't want to report those people working there, I'm asking them to report, we can't say that it's the director of the health, hospital or the president of the municipality, so we can have the right state. We have 12 on the respirator, 20% of the statistics say those on the respirator can stay alive, or far away from what's worse, that's what the waist says. What's proof? Should we take a picture now and send them to see what these people look like on the respirator or I don't know what already? These social networks are very bad. Not only for lies about politicians, but also for great evil when it comes to the crown and when it comes to what's being placed across social networks. Here, for example the other day I watched a dozen, we didn't vaccinate, says my family and I, no one's missing anything, etc. The Crown chooses neither the economic power nor the common man, nor the beer drinker in front of the country's cooperative. Maybe all of us at first thought it was nothing dangerous, but from the number of deaths, every single one of us who sits here and anywhere knows 10% personally. Now that number's increasing. It's the priority of all the priorities of a respected minister, let's see how you pass that on to the government. I'm not saying that my question may be the smartest or not, every single one of us here has not strayed, has the merits of all MPs, but I live in the country, every day I'm with people, and now that I've been to Paraly, I've met some other people who are in Paralya and other people have told me the same thing -- I'm not going to vaccinate. Antigen test, that's zero. It doesn't mean anything. The woman who was the road leader led one group on the bus, she was negative, after the second day when we arrived in Paraly, positive and infected seven more people. The antigen test is zero to let you know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-07-0.u8850	Thank you, Mr. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-07-0.u8851	I'm asking the Minister to answer me.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-07-0.u8852	Minister Tatjana Matic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-07-0.u8853	Dear People's MP, I must say that as a resolute minister of trade, tourism and telecommunications, we certainly feel the most about the consequences of Kovid 19 and the fact that there is currently no sufficient, or desired number of vaccines in Serbia. We, as you know very well, ran a very strong vaccination campaign, had great successes at a time when most European countries didn't even have vaccines. We've reached the moment of one stalemate and the way it should be solved I'm sure it will be discussed at the next crisis headquarters. I have to say, I was, of course, inoculated and rehabilitated myself, and 10 days ago, I received a third vaccine, and I think people who believe in science and who absolutely listen to what experts say about Kovid have acquired enough arguments to vaccinate. The big problem that exists with the unvaccinated I think that perhaps first of all he should try to solve himself through one campaign, through one education, should give professional people an opportunity to talk about some of the delusions that exist. Unfortunately, modern times, technology, our civilization has led to many important, development of society, the conquest of freedom. Many things are available to us, and of course it has its own good and bad side when we talk about means, that is, ways of communication especially, you mentioned social networks, they can, of course, be the source of various incorrect information, not only from the field of medicine, but also from all other areas, and there are ways in which it is sanctioned through our legislation and I am completely in agreement with you. But when we talk about vaccination, I still think that a permanent education, a campaign that would constantly give opportunities, primarily to professional people in the area to explain and to restore in some way the trust that apparently a certain number, the percentage of citizens do not have, but not only in our country, but in the whole world, the vaccine that is the only way out of this situation. I don't believe that the citizens will trust you or me more, or the MPs from the medical professionals. I think those college graduates who got their diplomas from that area are the ones who should be talking about it. Of course, everyone has the right to suspect or criticise something, and for us as a state, it is for us to try to make an argument with a professional approach to this one suspicion that exists in a number of citizens. The tourism sector, apart from the traffic sector, is the most affected by Kovid 19's pandemic in the whole world, including Serbia. We, as a resorient ministry, have repeatedly been through many different types of campaigns, we have had especially one activity that concerned primarily the vaccination of all persons employed in the tourism and catering industry, because we felt it was extremely important for people working in the tourism and catering sector to be vaccinated in order to get conditions for this work to be done as well. When we talk about the tourism and catering sector, it is certain that it is essential for the survival of these activities in the next period as many vaccines as possible. Definitely that, of course, for the recovery of the economy, both ours and globally, it is crucial, but what are the means and what are the ways will certainly be further discussed at the crisis headquarters. I'll pass on your message.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-07-0.u8854	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-07-0.u8855	Thank you Minister for answering, but I speak in principle for moral reasons, because we MPs are not doctors of general practice, so that we all know. So what we're talking about in the campaign that we're all about and protecting the lives of all Serbian citizens, that's what I meant to be our message, and far from that I'm smarter than Dr. Kona and Dr. Kisic Tepavcevic and I don't list all the names when it comes to waist. Something called life, something that's happening on the ground, I see, Dr. Kona taking a statement from a park or a room, so he's not in the field, and based on statistics and based on his profession, he's making conclusions and giving advice, not him, but even the crisis headquarters. What would mind if each of us, what he did in the campaign, he's doing right now, asked the citizens directly to beg to be vaccinated. It's the only way we can protect every person's identity, and it's over television, and the other thing is when you have contact and you go to a culture home where a smaller number of citizens are present or you go around... For example, wherever I go, in a village anywhere in Serbia, there are 50 people gathered. I was almost in Leskovac and I was in a village, I went through a village, I stopped outside the store to buy juice, 50 people gathered. Each of them is famous people who sit with us as MPs and all of us have good intentions. Why do we call ourselves MPs? What are we? People's MPs. So we're dealing from needle to locomotive. Thank you. I'm sorry if you may have misread me. This isn't a criticism of you or the government. You've secured everything, but that's what we've provided. It's like when you're making a wedding and you've got a drink and food in your basement, the basement guy didn't bring it out, you know, the guests are going hungry, and that basement guy didn't know how to convince. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-07-0.u8856	Thanks, buddy. The next is MP Daniel Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-07-0.u8857	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister with members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today in my presentation, I plan to talk about the importance of the regulated Consumer Protection Act and its existing elements. For the Parliamentary Group of the Alliance of the Duchy Hungarians, the debate on the Proposal for a Consumer Protection Law is of particular importance because this bill will correct all observed shortcomings in the current law and allow further alignment with European legislation and, among other things, facilitate the functioning of foreign companies, as well as Hungarian companies, which are already operating under this Regulation in their European Union headquarters. First of all, because this law will really facilitate the exercise of the rights of all consumers, we, as well as the seller in the Republic of Serbia, will put its clear definitions in the legal frameworks of rights, but also the obligations of one and the other. The Consumer Protection Strategy for the period from 2019 to 2024 provides for legislative measures aimed at improving the consumer protection system in the Republic of Serbia in line with new challenges on the world market and fuller protection in line with best EU practice. The Republic of Serbia has undertaken commitments to ensure, among other things, an active consumer protection policy in line with the protection that is in place in the European Union. The Consumer Protection Act has so far represented a significant shift in terms of ensuring a high level of consumer protection, establishing a mechanism for law enforcement, strengthening the association and association of consumer protection associations, ensuring full compliance with European Union consumer law, strengthening the state institutional framework of consumer policy. However, during the application of the Consumer Protection Act, certain shortcomings have been observed which prevent its full application in practice and the inability to provide and guarantee a satisfactory level of protection for consumers in Serbia, due to the lack of a functional and institutional framework for the non-judicial resolution of consumer disputes, the lack of precise number of consumer disputes against courts, insufficient protection of travellers in the field of tourism, the lack of effective punishment which has a dissuasive fact, the need for a higher level of responsibility and the public in the work of the association and associations for the protection of consumers and the lack of compliance of the consumer rights of the Republic of Serbia with new European Union rules on travel, package arrangements and related travel arrangements, which bring greater protection to consumers. This proposal today regulates the fundamental rights and obligations of consumers, material and legal conditions under which their protection is provided, legal instruments for the exercise of consumer rights before courts, other state bodies and bodies for the non-judicial settlement of disputes, the rights and duties of associations and associations for the protection of consumers, information and education of consumers, the rights and obligations of state bodies in the field of consumer protection, as well as other issues of importance for consumer protection. Consumer's basic rights are: the right to meet basic needs, the right to security, the right to information, the right to choose participation, the right to legal protection, the right to education, the right to a healthy and sustainable environment. These rights are social rights, more principles, which are not saddened or sanctioned. At the same time, this law protects not only consumers, it also protects honest traders, as it will reduce the manoeuvres of those who use the established hole in the law and thus harm other traders and service providers who do their job fairly and legally. For example, for all repairs now more than 5,000 dinars will have to issue an estimate and they can only start working when they get written consent. The derogation from the budget will be up to 15%, and all above that, the consumer is not obliged to pay. I'm sure an increase of over 15% couldn't have had a single master who had planned to do the job right from the start and made a fair budget. As far as consumer information and education are concerned, the bill stipulates the trader's obligation to highlight in an unambiguous, readable and easily visible manner the sales price of goods or services and at the same time points to the regulations governing trade and detailed regulation of the matter of price emphasis. The service provider shall indicate the total price of the service in the price list or in the tariff and shall point out in the place where the services are offered, and if the premises in which they operate have a window, a price list and a tariff shall also be displayed in the window. In order to make a reasonable decision to buy goods or obtain services, in addition to the price notice, consumers need to be familiar with the properties of goods or services. If the trader fails to comply with the notification obligation when the contract is concluded, the consumer may request the termination of the contract, irrespective of whether the trader intended to indicate it by missing the notice to the conclusion of the contract. The right to request the termination of the contract shall expire one year from the date of conclusion of the contract. The trader has a burden of proving that he has fulfilled the obligation to inform consumers about data and legislator by introducing a downgraded legal assumption removes the burden of proof from one who claims something against whom the assumption is concerned. In the protection of consumers in the exercise of rights under a remote contract and contracts concluded outside business premises, the obligations of the trader are precisely defined in the event that the consumer declares that he is giving up the contract on the one hand as well as the obligations of the consumer on the other hand. The trader undertakes to refund the amounts paid and when the delivery costs are applicable no later than 14 days after the consumer informs him of its decision to give up the contract. However, the trader has the possibility to postpone the return of money to the consumer until he gets the goods back, or until the consumer delivers evidence that he has sent the goods to the trader. The bill stipulates that the contractual provision obliges the consumer if it is expressed in a simple, clear and understandable language. Given that consumers are different education and information and that the same provision can be absolutely clear and understandable to one informed consumer and incomprehensible to another, less informed. One reason for the adoption of a new law is to strengthen the institutional framework of consumer protection policy, as well as the establishment of bodies to resolve consumer disputes by means of a non-judicial procedure. More effective, more efficient and better enforcement of legal solutions and full compliance with EU consumer law is necessary. The regulation of a special process for collective consumer protection will allow quick and effective prevention of unfair business practices and unfair contractual provisions. A significant role in this process is given to consumer protection associations. Consumers need to feel that they are safe on the market and there are effective mechanisms to detect and eliminate unfair business practices. More effective law enforcement should be ensured among other things by introducing a national register of consumer complaints, as well as by extending the scope of control by inspection bodies and by improving the mechanism for non-judicial settlement of consumer disputes. If, for example, the organizer offered the consumer as a substitute for a second tourist trip of the same or higher quality, he could accept the offer and pay any difference in price. If he is offered a second low-quality tourist trip as a replacement, he can accept that offer, but the organizer can make up for the price difference. The third option is to request a refund of the total amount paid to the organiser on the basis of the contract. Tourist travel is natural to the contract if it corresponds to the usual or contracted purpose, i.e. if it has all the features that the trader has guaranteed to the consumer. If the incompetence to which the consumer has indicated and which the organiser has not removed until the end of the tourist journey is such a volume and quality that it can qualify as non-execution or partial enforcement of the contract obligation of the organiser or delay, the consumer shall have the right to request the return of all that he has paid to the organiser and to claim compensation for the damage. Of course, we welcome the sanctioning of the business of organisers who ignore consumer objections. Consumer protection cannot be effective if it is carried out only at the central level. In this context, it is necessary that AP authorities and local self-government play an active role in promoting and protecting consumer rights and interests. To conclude, a comprehensive Consumer Protection Act is a prerequisite for strengthening consumer rights and interests, but its effective application is necessary, and this is precisely one way to drive competition, innovation and economic growth. That is why the SVM parliamentary group will support this proposal in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-07-0.u8858	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Stefan Krkobiæ. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-07-0.u8859	Thank you. Dear Vice-President Jevdzic, distinguished Mrs Matic, co-workers of the Minister, that the Consumer Protection Act, which we are discussing today, contains only one member, which says that it prohibits the distributor from suspending the provision of services to supply heat and electricity or gas to which the consumer is supplied for heating during the heating season if a threatened consumer lives in the household, would be worth supporting him for that alone, and this law contains much, much more. A party of united pensioners of Serbia as a social justice party that has since its origin consistently turned to caring for the most vulnerable categories of the population with impatience waited for this law to be found on the agenda of our parliament. Both pensioners and proletaries, workers and farmers, three layers of our citizens who are focused on PUPS, other than being vulnerable on other grounds, can at the same time be considered vulnerable when viewed as consumers of basic life needs and services. That is why it is also very important for us that, according to this law, sellers, but also service providers of general economic interest, such as electricity, heating or gas, will be prohibited from discriminating consumers by any standard, so we will no longer have some debtors and several hundred thousand dinars of debt, which continue to have electricity, and the unfortunate ones who owe several thousand dinars are excluded. To be honest, we are most interested in that consumer who, in the sense of this proposal, is defined as a consumer at risk, and that is every one who, because of his economic and social situation, conditions of life, special needs or other serious personal difficulties, or who buys goods or uses services under particularly difficult conditions, or is completely disabled in this. That is why we will try, above all, to look at everything new in this law from the point of view of these most vulnerable groups and the category of citizens of Serbia. Consumers' research into life-style relationships and habits in the nutrition of individual categories of the population for years gives us similar results. For example, women are more careful than men about the calories and the quality of food they bring into the body, more often read declarations on food products they buy, but so speak research, and more susceptible to the influence of advertising and packaging design, because they more often believe that behind the attractive packaging there is a quality article. The younger population, by the way, eats messy fast food, constantly eats something, consumes unhealthy food, experimentes with exotic foods. Older people, on the other hand, had given much more attention and a healthy diet than young ones before this pandemic. The elderly have an armed diet, rarely skip regular meals and rarely eat between meals. They prefer to cook and to eat cooked, more water makes sure the food is healthy and without artificial additives. How to ensure that, for example, This positive attitude of the oldest citizens on health is really invigorating and in practice if our retail facilities are full of suspicious quality products? Consumer rights are not rarely respected, and not even the special protection of minors who are available with alcohol, tobacco and pyrotechnic means. Although we have a relatively long tradition of consumer movement, only a few percent of our citizens know what they are the unscathed rights of consumers. To remind me, every citizen of Serbia has the legal right to meet its basic needs, the availability of the most necessary goods and services, such as food, clothing, shoes and housing, health care, education and hygiene. Then, the right to security, which I mentioned earlier, is a protection against goods and services that are dangerous to life, health, property or environment or goods whose possession or use is prohibited and, of course, the right to a healthy and sustainable environment and to live and work in it, and then goes to the right to be informed, i.e. the availability of accurate data necessary for the reasonable choice of offered goods and services, the right to choose between more goods and services at affordable prices, with the appropriate quality, the right to participate and to represent consumers' interests in the process of adopting and implementing consumer protection policies, as well as the right to legal protection of consumers in the legal procedure provided for in the event of infringement of his right and compensation of material and immaterial damage caused by the trader and so on. Citizens must know that it is the trader's duty to transparently, in an unequivocal, readable and easy way to highlight the sales unit price of goods or services. This law will stand in the way of abuse of this obligation through the so-called. hidden, fine print items of the contract with additional invisible costs. For PUPS as a party to social justice and equality, this means that this item must be particularly and strictly respected by traders providing services of permanent supply of electricity, heat or water, through pipelines and similar services of vital importance for each citizen. The PUPS expects this law to stand in the way of a very widespread, unfair business and particularly misleading and aggressive practice of traders towards the consumer before the conclusion, and during and after the conclusion of the legal deal, because the burden of proving the accuracy and factual allegations to the trader in relation to his business practice will be on the trader rather than on the consumer. Under this law, the commercial practice of the trader which states or threatens to lead the consumer to make an economic decision which would otherwise not otherwise be taken by giving him incorrect information or by creating a general impression or otherwise, even when the notices it makes are accurate, leads or threatens to lead the average consumer into error. We hope that this will eradicate and dissuasive business practice in which some traders are harassing, forcing, even physically, or illicitly affecting the freedom of choice or the behaviour of the average consumer in relation to a particular product and thus making or threatening to force the consumer to make an economic decision that would otherwise not have been made. These include those cases – the visit of the consumer to his apartment without his prior consent, the direct invitation of children or minors to buy or influence parents or other adults to buy a product for them, the demand for the consumer to pay, return or store a product whose delivery he did not even ask for, multiple address to the consumer against his will on the phone, fax or e-mail. The elderly and other more vulnerable categories of the population are particularly vulnerable to swallowing the wrong impression that they are hypnotized by the fraud merchant that, for example, by taking a particular action, they will win a prize or any other benefit if they pay a certain amount of money to an account. Now direct advertising is prohibited by telephone, fax or e-mail without prior consumer consent, which is especially important because of our older citizens who are very often deceived in this way. Contracting provisions governing the relationship between traders and consumers, other than the few about which they accept to negotiate, the trader advances the preparation of pre-formulated contractual provisions, are, as a rule, long and complex so that the unprofessional consumer cannot read them quickly or easily understand them. However, the consumer agrees with them even though he does not understand them well, knowing that there is nothing in them that can change, that it is about so-called. The type contract. The situation in which the consumer is located allows the trader to take advantage of unclear and incomprehensible contractual provisions to impose additional obligations on the consumer or facilitate the performance of its own obligations. In a contract with a trader, the consumer almost always has a subordinate position. The trader is always the upper hand in relation to the consumer. From such a position, it is most often the trader in a position to impose on the consumer the conditions of sale or the provision of services that are exclusively in his interest, neglecting consumer interests. Specific rights guaranteed by this law to consumers and obligations imposed on traders are removed from the inequality and repairs the position of consumers in a contractual relationship with the trader. That it is, for example, proposed Article 16(3) which determines that the burden of proof of the accuracy of the factual allegations of traders is in relation to its business practice on the trader rather than on the consumer. An unfair contractual provision, either assumed to be unfair until the trader proves otherwise, whether it is unfair in any case, is invalid and does not produce a legal fact. Irregular and unclear contractual provisions, in particular the so-called By type contracts, they had a significant disproportionate effect on the rights and obligations of the parties always in favour of the seller and on the consumer's harm. From now on, unclear provisions of the contract between consumers and traders will be interpreted in favour of consumers. From now on, the contractual provision of which the trader has determined the content so that it is believed that the consumer has agreed to it, that hidden clause, if it explicitly does not stress that it does not comply with that provision, does not oblige the consumer. As part of the accompanying documentation, the seller is obliged to hand over instructions for use and other information to which the consumer is familiar with the properties of the goods, given its characteristics, purpose or according to specific regulations, but in Serbian rather than in another language, in a clear and understandable manner. Obligations and guarantees of advertising procedures are also specified, and if the seller refuses to advertise, the consumer will be obliged to notify the consumer of the possibility of resolving the dispute and the extrajudicial pathway and refer it to the competent bodies for the non-judicial resolution of consumer disputes. In the event of a suspicion that the right of consumers to safety is compromised, i.e. that consumer protection from goods and services that are dangerous to life, health, property or environment or goods whose intervention or use is prohibited, the Registrar shall propose to the Government to make a decision on the urgent implementation of joint or coordinated emergency inspection controls by all competent inspection authorities. What is also very important to us from PUPS is that traders will also be obliged to state in the consumer account the elements that enable it to verify and monitor the amount of its debt, but also to make an insight into the current consumption to check the total consumption according to the quality of the service provided, and that these traders are obliged to, if offered or publicly advertised for the provision of electricity, central heating or water supply services through pipelines, in the offer or advert, clearly indicate the unit price of kilowatt hours of spent electricity, cubic metres of gas, water. In addition to the unit price, the trader is obliged to mark all prices that are not counted against the unit of measurement spent. Dear fellow Members of the People's Parliaments, currently 90 associations from the Union for Consumer Protection who have "active status" have been registered with the Agency for Business Registers. However, regional consultations on consumer complaints in recent years have negotiated only 10% with traders in only 10% of cases. In 4% of complaints, consumer information was provided, and in only 3% of the complaints were resolved by writing the submission, while their activity in 82% of the cases consisted solely of advice. It is therefore important that this Bill, article 170, recognises the Institute of Infringement of the collective interest of consumers, which occurs when the total number of at least 10 consumers by the same action, i.e. in the same way by the same person injures the right guaranteed by this law. At that time, the Resort Ministry shall initiate the procedure under official duty in order to establish a breach of the collective interest of the consumer under official duty, if, in the inspection procedure, on the basis of the initiatives, information or other available data, it is established to assume that an act or inaction of the market participants, and in particular on the existence of an unfair contractual provision, threatens or threatens to endanger the collective interest of the consumer. The out-of-court dispute resolution with the help of mediators licensed by the Justice Ministry will become, we hope, the most common but most efficient channel for further improvement of the consumer protection system. We believe that, as a form of prevention, it is very good that for some offences, along with a criminal penalty, a legal person and his responsible person, as well as an entrepreneur, he can impose a protective measure of prohibition to carry out certain activities between six months and a year, as well as a safeguard measure of public publication of the verdict. What has already been proven in the developed world, by strengthening the institutional protection of consumers, competition on the market is also increasing. When it comes to criminal provisions of this law, it is our job to wish that they are applied as little as possible in practice, which means that we at the PUPS - 3P Parliament Club believe that traders will respect this law to the greatest extent possible. Thank you for your attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-07-0.u8860	Thank you. The following is the word of the People's Messenger, Djordje Milicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-07-0.u8861	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, a respected minister, respected representatives of the ministry, believes that the proposal for a new Consumer Protection Act significantly improves the area and aligns it with the EU's legal assets, both with sources of primary and secondary EU law. Consumer protection is certainly an important segment of life, especially today when we are in the era of the consumer society for which the exchange is valid - I buy, so I exist. Consumer society means mass production of products and supply of goods and services that far exceed the basic needs of individuals and families. It's a lot more than need. Experts call this consumer phenomenon consummation, which is spreading globally as a product of globalisation and digitisation, which all these products, whether they are necessary, necessary or luxurious, makes consumers around the world available. And the success of consumerism is based on the belief that certain goods, certain products, give and add value and meaning to individuals and their role in society. The brand today is viewed as a necessary condition for identifying the position of individuals. This creates artificial needs that connect selected and desired goods with the status of individuals, and that is also the purpose of the consumer society, so that each slave finds its buyer, i.e. every slave finds its own consumer. Each citizen shall at a certain point be placed in the role of the consumer or purchaser of certain goods for personal use, for the family or for the household. We buy food, clothing, footwear, home appliances, furniture, as well as luxury goods, art items, tourist arrangements and various other services, which we want to improve our living conditions and make our home pleasant. Of course, shopping always wants to organize according to our material capabilities, although consumer mentality does not bypass, unfortunately, any of us. But whatever we buy and whatever it costs a product or service we have defined ourselves for, we always expect as consumers that it has a certain and guaranteed quality. This implies that the product is primarily correct, secure, reliable and useful, and that the service is adequate and affordable. This is the time of a global consumer society in which, unfortunately, the most frequent capital and its acquisition have primate over the quality and guarantees that the manufacturer must offer to the consumer. It's not always the manufacturer's goal of quality, it's the profit with as little investment and as little cost as possible. The goal is fast, the greater the turnover of capital, so it is often forgotten about business morality, but it is often forgotten about responsibility. This is precisely why the global trend of production and the necessary and unnecessary goods which are characteristics of consumer societies must be protected by consumers. Hence, and the need for the state to prescribe laws guaranteeing basic consumer rights, which are the right to protect the health, safety, property interests of consumers, which also prescribes protection measures and how they are implemented, of course. Serbia also has a Consumer Protection Strategy and the Consumer Protection Act, which was adopted in 2014, and it replaced the previously passed law in 2010. So, this area is important, and with a lot of attention, it's being arranged with us, which says we're going towards building a socially responsible state towards our citizens, but above all towards the consumer needs that are the essence of life's needs. The new bill, which is before us, speaks in favour of the fact that it is a very flexible, dynamic and changing area, which has to be constantly institutionally and legally upgraded, in order to move forward with our strategic objectives, with international standards, but also with the constant needs of consumers to protect their rights from all deviant phenomena on the market of goods and services that are constantly changing to satisfy consumer society in general and deviating phenomena on the market, unfortunately, there is. Unfortunately, we're often witnesses to that. So often we buy an invalid home machine or it breaks down before the warranty deadline. Lately, I think of the time before Kovid, when it was much more traveling, many news began with information that tourist agencies had cheated on tourists, that the arrangements had been double-selled or that the quality from afar was not what it was in the prospectus, or in the advertising material. That is why the law guarantees that products that are our needs and that we are surrounded must be safe and must, above all, be correct for use, although no legal system can guarantee that there is no risk or that products are 100% safe. Our country has high standards of product safety and is constantly being regulated, which is precisely this bill that we are talking about today, as well as other control mechanisms, fighting to improve these standards. Product safety is particularly important when it comes to food, especially baby food, although the safety of other products is not less important. The issue of food safety is the most complex, because it is, first of all, the health of the population and at the same time it is necessary to look at the entire chain, as we often say - from field to table, in order to achieve product safety. Food safety includes the manufacturer, including the purchaser, processor, distributor, and ultimately includes the trader. It is not always easy to determine whose responsibility is for a medically invalid product. The truth is, in the sale of all products, the responsibility to the buyer is borne by the seller, but it is obvious here and the responsibility of the manufacturer, so that the chain of responsibility is necessary to establish in order to share the responsibility among all the participants in this chain, i.e. among all the participants in this whole process. The manufacturer shall bear his responsibility for respecting the declaration and the declared content. However, when you take a product, you can see that the composition of the product is printed in the smallest letters, often unreadable, which is demotized by consumers to get acquainted on the spot with product characteristics, and it is food exclusively. Therefore, the special law, which is the Food Safety Act, regulates the way farmers produce food, including what chemicals are used in the cultivation of plants and animals, how food is processed, which artificial colors and additives are added in the process of processing and finalising food and agricultural products themselves and how this food is sold. Also, the Republic of Serbia has the Health Rightness Act of General Use, which regulates the safety of other consumer goods, such as toys, cosmetic products and tobacco products. What is the quality of the Consumer Protection Act is protection measures, so that safe products, products to which the deadline has expired, products that do not comply with the declared content and quality must be withdrawn from the market. When it comes to food, I can't help but look back at our great irresponsibility in the preparation and use of food supplies. Today, food, unfortunately, is being thrown away. According to some figures of the World Food and Agriculture Organisation, a third of the food produced annually is thrown globally. Of which, estimated, as much as 10% to 15% of food is discarded due to the expiry of the deadline. This says that manufacturer's estimates are bad and that they are produced more than necessary. On the other hand, many are still hungry in the world, so it is inconceivable that the rich part of the world is so irresponsiblely using these resources. Food must be treated more responsibly, and this will be achieved by strengthening the responsibility of both producers and consumers. In this regard, I would like to thank the UN-level World Food Safety Day, which is marked every 7 June, in order to draw attention and strengthen activities to prevent, detect and manage food risks, or contribute to the overall safety of food, and thus to human health, but also to market access, overall economic prosperity, agriculture, tourism and, of course, sustainable development. I would quote the message of the previous World Food Safety Day. It is important for all of us, and it is said that food security is everyone's business. This message promotes awareness of the importance of food safety, the obligation for all of us to care about it, as we worry about other segments of our own health. This global goal is achieved not only by legal solutions, but by general education of the population, primarily on food safety, but also by the responsible use of foods, in order to avoid waste of human and natural resources and food waste. In Serbia, too, unfortunately, a lot of food is being thrown away. We are a large producer of agricultural products, but that doesn't mean food should be thrown. I came across information that in Serbia, 83kg of food per capita is dropped annually, which is over 700,000 tonnes per year. As much as 61% of food is thrown into the household itself, which confirms an irresponsible relationship with food, but also with home budgets, because we will agree, today the biggest item in the home budget is just the cost of food. When it comes to consumer protection, I would like to mention the importance of inspection and control, as it is one of the more effective ways to detect incorrect foods and other goods in the sale. In addition to the consumer’s application, product shortages which can also cause fatal outcomes are the most common during the inspection controls of the institution. We all remember that so-called. It's a cancer case, I'm afraid. Therefore, I will repeat this, the regulatory framework is the most important dam against various forms of manipulation, irresponsibility, benefit and against the behaviour of manufacturers and traders towards consumers. What it seems to me, the practice has shown, is that consumers are not sufficiently informed about their rights. Here I would like to highlight the importance of information and education, but also of the activities of the consumer protection association, which through this law receive significant information, which is also very important. As a good legal solution, I consider the protection of special categories of consumers, such as minors, because the seller is prohibited from selling alcoholic beverages to minors, including beer, tobacco products and pyrotechnics. Unfortunately, this ban, I'd say, is not respectable enough, because it's at the seller's to freely assess whether someone is a person or not. Another aspect of consumer protection I would like to point out as important, which is buying goods via the Internet or ordering via the phone. This issue is more adequately regulated by this law, because electronic trade in communication is not easy to control. We also adopted the Law on Electronic Trade a while ago, so that it is practically implemented in this legislative proposal. Almost every one of us happened to be late delivery of goods sent over the Internet, to get goods you didn't order, that quality is nowhere near what it represents. Basically, you realize that Internet trade was a risk, because the responsibility of the manufacturer and the trader was not adequately regulated. The law now explicitly prohibits the unfair business practice of the trader towards the consumer and underlines the role of the contract on the purchase of products. All these challenges of new forms of trade need to be overcome, and this can be achieved through continuous, repeat, consumer education and strengthening the responsibility of sellers, as I have already mentioned as an essential feature of consumer protection. All of this is accompanied by adequate legal sanctions, which should put more order into the market. What is well regulated by the new Consumer Protection Act is the aggressive business practice and the deception of customers. Today, manufacturers encourage the purchase of their products by increasingly aggressive marketing, so popular brands and aggressive advertising messages affect consumer identification for certain brands that today dictate consumer habits, lifestyle and fashion, so to speak. The negative contexts of consumer society can be avoided through a more realistic approach to the needs of consumers, but also by a quality legal framework guaranteeing consumer rights and their adequate protection, which is exactly what Serbia is doing with this legislative proposal. The consumption of goods is the meaning of production, but compliance with the needs and opportunities of consumers will be necessary in the coming period, because everything we do as a humanity must be brought into line with sustainable development and environmental protection. Finally, in the context of consumer needs, I would point out the fact that basic consumer needs are being measured economically by consumer basket prices, and with that in relation to the minimum labour price. The government of the Republic of Serbia set a new minimum labour price for 2022 a few days ago. It is increased and is 35,012.00 dinars, which confirms the development results and economic opportunities of our country, which will also affect the increase in wages and pensions in the next period of time. At the very end, I will repeat once again, the SPS parliamentary group in the voting day will support this legislative proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-07-0.u8862	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-07-0.u8863	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it certainly was necessary to pass a new Consumer Protection Act. Already in my opening statement as a representative of the Committee on Business, which is also responsible for trade affairs, I gave some of my observations and opinions to the Committee itself, i.e. since the last law passed seven years ago, much has changed. Many types of trade have changed, providing services, consumer habits, trading habits, I can say that there was not much abuse in trade itself, but what we noticed was so-called. new workloads. It was a distance shop, mostly by telephone, where a seller, a trader, in a certain way tried to place his goods in direct contact with the buyer most often, in my opinion, in a rather inappropriate way, regardless of their kindness. I can consider it a kind of harassment, especially if you are invited after 22 hours or persistently trying day after day to sell you a product, and until it's just products that you don't see, you don't get to know them, you can only trust them on the word, and there was a very small responsibility of those sellers and a very weak protection of the consumers themselves, when this kind of trade is at stake. By passing this law, firstly, our citizens will be able to choose whether they will be on the list that distance sellers can contact or it will be banned. It will be enough to inform the competent authority who will make that list and who will be available to all traders at a distance, to know who they can call or not, and those criminal provisions if someone continues with such an unfair practice. Consumer protection itself is a sensitive issue. We passed a few decades ago in a completely liberal way of trade, of course there was no legal matter that protected the consumer, there was no legal obligation that protected the consumer in the sense that he was actually buying a product or consummating a service the way he thought, and often it happened that it was not exactly so and that the price was either too large or the product itself does not provide that quality, comfort, service that was offered when the customer was led astray in a certain way. By doing so, this law further improves the level of consumer protection compared to the 2014 law. Of course, the most sensitive part, and where I am from personal experience, experience as president of the Committee, has seen that a large part of the abuse is happening precisely in products that are within a guaranteed period of time and those products that are within a guaranteed period of less than six months, and when a customer can choose whether to remove the irregularity of the product, to return the money or replace the goods that he bought. I can tell you that traders have really become skilled at making an illusion of upholding the law. Here, from some recent practice in the work as president of the Committee. The citizen turned to him with one request to help him exercise his right to be guaranteed by law. The most common are products of a technical nature. So cell phones, TVs, regular phones and similar products. He sent out all the documentation he had at the time. The failure was such that even a layman who knew the work of a mobile phone would notice that the apparatus was completely invalid. Don't think it's anything insignificant. Mobile phones cost a few hundred euros, so above is not exactly a cheap product. After eight days, he is within the legal deadline provided for under the current law and under the new law, the seller is the answer that he failed to determine that the phone is incorrect. Be careful, the ultimate insolence – it failed to determine that the phone was invalid and could not be turned on and that it informed the service and sent the phone to the service. After 30 days, they say the phone is correct and the citizen comes to take over, which was not true. Then we had to act through market inspection and protect that consumer. Where's the biggest problem? Neither in the previous law nor in this I see criminal provisions for one such seller. You know what? I agree that there is judicial protection, and I agree that there is now a way of non-judicial settlement of the dispute, but if you look at the procedure itself, you'll see that in this procedure even if a citizen initiates this out-of-court settlement procedure, who will bear the costs? Each side of itself. That's what we wrote in the law. If he were to initiate a court case, and the citizens are having a hard time deciding that such matters are being prosecuted, and if even in court prove he was right and exercise his right to return the money, replace the apparatus, even the damage he suffered, even if he succeeds, I ask the question, so the court finds that the trader did not respect the law, will he be punished? He won't. Not according to the current, not according to the new bill. I don't have any big dilemmas and some high thinking. Let something cost a dollar, let it be a completely insignificant price, that money someone earned and that someone wanted with that money to make it possible for themselves something or members of their family a better one, some comfort or anything else. I cannot accept that traders, who are doing business, are selling something that is wrong or not right within those deadlines that should be within our laws, do not compensate for the damage, because they are not guilty if a product is wrong, but knowingly will not compensate for the damage, replace the product, but points to the user of the service or the customer of the goods in court, loses the litigation, does not adhere to the law and does not bear legal consequences. At least the term of office, at least anything that will force him to follow the laws that we are passing strictly and not try to play them or abuse the ignorance of the rules of our citizens. I guess we're making the laws so we can solve some matter, so people don't argue with each other. You know what this story about guaranteed deadlines is most often about and the return of goods that are guaranteed? There are several aspects of the right to guarantee in the system itself and the distribution of goods. The product manufacturer often gives its distributor products at a lower price and the distributor accepts the malfunctions that occur within the warranty period. The second condition is that the manufacturer regulates it, but then it's different. What do distributors and a whole set of stores do? They get certain goods at a lower price, because they need to accept advertising within the guaranteed deadline, sell at a higher price, and they want to earn on goods that are invalid and for which they have received from the manufacturer a certain asset, in the form of lower prices. That's what it looks like today in reality and in life. I think with this practice, we should finally make it tighter. I hope that in some future period we can find a quality legal solution, that things like this can finally get in the way. If someone has lost the court's dispute, I don't see anything and the competent courts who handle this kind of thing, give them the legal authority to impose a sentence, so let them think whether they want to play someone or not. Here, today and yesterday, there was another controversy in our public, I see that again certain tourist organizations, I can't say tourist associations, they're looking again for an extension of the deadline that is related to those tourist arrangements signed before the epidemic, so before March of 2020, they're asking for it to be settled by extension, they're asking for it to be resolved for the state to give them funds or help them secure the loan. I don't want to get into how justified that is, we're going to discuss in particular what these replacement trips on the territory of the Republic of Serbia look like and see if every tourist agency should be helped, whether or not every one. But here I can read in Article 101 concerning the provision of tourist services - The organizer can raise the agreed price from the travel arrangements if it is rightly agreed, if it is agreed that the passenger has the right to reduce the price. The organiser may increase the price referred to in Article 1 in case of a change in the price of passenger transport resulting from a change in the price of fuel or other energy sources, existing taxis or by introducing new taxis, exchange rate etc. That when you read, you really think it's a fair relationship. I say it's not entirely fair, because if I bought something today, and I'm going to do it in a year and today, why did we let the tour organizer change the price of the service he charged today? Now, that can't be. To be clear, money is a commodity. He's got the money. Will he use that money to pay immediately hotel accommodations, airline tickets, airport fees, etc. I don't care anymore. If so, he and I will consume them at the moment of the realization of the journey. But if he's the money he got from me today, and I'm going to realize my trip in a year, he's using his own craftsmanship, it's not right that I'm sharing a risk with him about whether the arrangement I've paid and which I'm implementing in a year's time to collect. Now, that's not right and it can't. I'd like him to get some money, make sure he uses it as a craftsman, make money on that money, and then the risk is borne by whoever gave them the money. I think we can do this, we still have time that if the arrangement is paid 70, 80 or more percent at the time of the conclusion of the contract, regardless of whether it's on the wars, because the war is given by the bank can't be a tourist agency, the travel organiser can't change prices, except to reduce them, provided that whoever's his supplier is in a series, the provider of some service, has also reduced the prices at the moment of realization. And I have to tell you, in real life, that never happens. It's never happened before, at least I don't know that you paid for something today, you spent a year, and then you got your money back because it was cheaper in a year. Now, that never happened. Maybe it was cheaper, but I don't know, I don't know if it came back to anyone. I also see that there is still that provision in Article 11. The law, it should stand, and that's the way to issue an account. The trader is obliged to issue an account for the purchased goods or services to the consumer. In some parts of that 11th article, it is forbidden to charge for publishing and sending bills to the consumer. Whoever acts contrary to these provisions is scheduled a fine of 50,000 dinars. We were little while this debate was in principle, while my fellow MPs, who were authorized in front of other parliamentary groups, spoke here, brought one topic. You can see from the public that SBB Dragan Šolak is constantly trying to convince market inspection and our MPs that this member of the law does not exist and that he has the right to print an account, send an account and charge the consumer and print bills and send bills. I call on all citizens of the Republic of Serbia who have such inconveniences with Dragan Solak to report it to the market inspection. We don't make laws so that someone has the right to play them and to apply the laws to some, and not to some, but to all. If he's willing to pay his fines, let him pay. Since the account is an individual public document, I expect market inspection to do so. According to each account, a fine of 50,000 dinars, if he pays eight days of 25,000 dinars, right? I'm not wrong? Okay. It's that punishment, so now let's see if he's worth it if the citizens are black under his fingernails. To remind you, it is the same SBB and the same Dragan Solak, paltos Dragan Gilasu, who used unauthorized Toplificija installations in Belgrade, JP, to distribute his cable television. It's the same Dragan Solak who stole from citizens, beware this is not an indirect theft but a direct one, by putting his cable TV installations on a common counter in buildings and thus paying him for watching his cable TV, although they already pay certain services. Look how far that goes. I'd like to pass this cable operator bill as soon as possible, that one piracy, because Solak is nothing but a pirate, he sold pirate tapes, there was no copyright protection, he gained millions. Now he owns cable TV. This is really piracy. We're talking about consumer protection. For example, there are three types, as far as I know, of television signals. You have local frequencies, regional frequencies and national frequencies. Whoever wants to work in that activity has to compete to fight a certain frequency, to pay a certain fee for it. Now, look out, this same Solak, so the manufacturer of one product, it's called the television program, is that little television. He will charge that television to sell its product, to the final consumer, or to the consumer, in order to charge both the producer of the television programme and the consumer's consumption, the money, then invoice via his pirated N1 TV from Luxembourg's SBB account, as if I don't know which TV and how to land on Mars every second, his television invoices to his cable operator, makes money from Serbia, doesn't pay taxes, so he still steals electricity, steals electricity from public companies. Well, I think it's high time we passed one such law to finally make that piracy led by Dragan Gilas and Solak get in the way and that there can't be any TV in any way to appear here except by those internationally recognised regulations. You cannot make a program in Serbia, broadcast in Serbia, and you are invoiced from Luxembourg, as if it were cross-border co-operation, you are stealing from the citizens of electricity, and you are invoiceing them more billing and sending bills through a postal public operator. Well, that really doesn't make sense. I expect that in some months to come we will soon have legal matter that will finally stand in the way of all these abuses and that our citizens and our Serbia will have a complete legal framework against such pirates.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-07-0.u8864	Thank you. We are now moving to the order of MPs according to the application for a word and the first on the list is counterpart Misala Pramenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-07-0.u8865	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Dear Minister with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us a bill on amendments and additions to the Consumer Protection Act. From the presentation of previous speakers we could certainly hear about how important the provisions of the law are, in fact, because it's a matter of trade. General purchases, areas that are very variable, very active, very lively, and it is necessary to continuously improve the right, i.e. to make more adequate legal solutions. It is precisely the assessment of the effects of the legal provisions adopted since 2014 that also lead to new changes and additions. We have heard that, in fact, in this legal solution, there are a number of very concrete and high-quality legal solutions that will in many ways facilitate the status of consumers and protect their rights, and this should also be a constant intensification of both the states, the apparatus of the whole and the citizens themselves in terms of the awareness of their rights, and this will be achieved again by the best education of citizens. We have heard from fellow predecessors that even through some legal solutions, unfortunately there may be abuse of certain rights. In this regard, it is very important that competent institutions educate citizens themselves, and that as much bureaucracy and procedure as possible be simplified, i.e. with as little complications as possible. The question outside of court dispute resolution is something that has now been improved though, we will agree that as we once heard, maybe a time delay may be a little bit, even a loss of importance for the product itself that may be the subject of the dispute. The issues of relationship with specific consumer categories, such as minors, are very significant and if they have the freedom of sellers to assess at a certain point whether the person is minor or not, I believe that there may be certain abuses and that perhaps there should be a more adequate response. What I would like to point out through a few sentences is the safety issue of the products we buy, especially in the area of food production and sales, is something that each of us as a consumer of the final consumer is interested in and actually the Food Safety Act regulates this segment. But it is also a fact that in practice we have very often different abuses or problems. Some of these problems are likely related to perhaps sometimes weaker control of raw materials from which food is made, regardless of whether the raw materials are domestic or from imports and should certainly be strengthened or not only strengthened, but are more up-to-date to carry out their work. On the other hand, the product declaration can sometimes be very problematic in the sense that it is not well seen whether the deadline has expired, therefore, the date of production, or the intended time for the use of certain intentions, then the nutritional tables on the products are very often incomprehensible and can only be understood by experts from a particular area, and then we get to know, say, that very sometimes harmful things are human health, hidden behind certain emulsifiers, numbers, etc. So in this sense it is necessary to act more adequately, to pay more attention to this segment and to all available resources really focus on the protection, safety of food from which we depend on both the quality of life and the generations to come. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-07-0.u8866	Thank you. The next one is a colleague of Samira Ćosovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-07-0.u8867	In order to protect its citizens who are, at some point, also in the role of consumers, the state has laid down a law guaranteeing basic consumer rights. The proposal for a consumer protection law that is before us today will correct all the shortcomings of the existing law and allow it to be brought into line with European legislation. For citizens, it is likely the most significant newspaper that will improve their position as a consumer in relation to sellers, as foreseen by this bill, that the trader has an obligation to respond to the procedure of extrajudicial dispute resolution. To prevent this provision from leaving an empty letter on paper, a fine of 50,000 dinars is foreseen for non-response traders who refuse to participate in the out-of-court dispute settlement procedure with consumers. Of course, in order for consumers to be effectively protected, it is necessary to be familiar with the protection mechanism provided by this law. This law stipulates an obligation to point out in every sales place that a seller is legally required to participate in an extrajudicial procedure, and unless the seller points out this notice, a fine of 50,000 dinars is prescribed. The law also stipulates that the out-of-court settlement procedure can only be initiated by the consumer, so that the possibility of abuse of this consumer protection mechanism by the seller is limited. However, in order to reduce the number of such procedures, the condition to start is for the consumer to try to resolve the issue of the dispute with the trader. This possibility of consumer protection has existed before, however, according to the Ministry of Trade and Telecommunications, even 2.2.13 consumer complaints were registered at regional consumer consultations during 2020, and only two were resolved by extrajudicial alignment, while only 16 cases were filed against traders. This was possible because the existing solutions did not have the obligation of the trader to participate in this dispute. As seen from the numbers I just cited, they are talking about a high level of citizens' interest in defending their rights this way, and this law will allow them to accomplish it in a more effective way than it has been before. This law will force unethical sellers to change their business logic, and citizens will no longer have to spend significant time and resources to achieve their justice in court. We see from this that the introduction of mandatory mediation will also have this benefit to reduce pressure on courts where there are many cases related to consumer disputes, but there is no record of how many are true. The courts will be obliged by this law to record all consumer complaints and to submit once a year data on the number of consumer disputes, judgments and the average length of consumer disputes, to the Ministry of Justice, and thus we will get a more complete picture of how consumer protection works so that we can protect them even more effectively in the future. Another significant newspaper adopted by this law is a consumer register that does not want to receive calls and messages from direct advertising. We are witnessing that citizens have been complaining for years about the calls they receive every day from various sellers who are trying to offer their products and services and I believe that each of us has found himself in a similar situation. Such aggressive forms of marketing disrupt the peace of fellow citizens, but they also represent a vector through which unconscious merchants can abuse the naiveties of our citizens, especially older citizens. This bill prohibits direct advertising by telephone, e-mail and fax without prior consumer consent. If the sellers do not respect the consumer's wishes to be recorded in – "don't call" the register is foreseen by the law to pay fines of 50,000 dinars. The new law brings a number of newspapers, such as the budget for all services more expensive than 5,000 dinars, then there are new details in the product advertising process, the protection of users of tourist services, and what I will pay more attention to by saying about the new Consumer Protection Act is also compliance with EU legislation. In particular, it should be noted that this legislation is in line with EU law in the area of consumer protection and that in certain segments it exceeds the standards set by the EU. In addition, the EU Consumer Rights Directive provides that the trader is obliged to obtain prior consumer consent to any additional payment exceeding the initially agreed amount of compensation for the services provided. Since it is unimaginable within the EU that the consumer, when it comes to the price they are obliged to pay for the product or services, can be concluded that domestic regulations in this regard are approaching European standards, as we have seen in particular in the section of payment of services by masters. But there is one segment in which this bill goes beyond what the regulatory EU requires. With regard to the EU Directive on Alternative Dispute Resolution, there is no obligation for the seller to respond to the call for extrajudicial dispute resolution, that the proposal foresees that the seller's response is mandatory, it can be concluded that in this key segment, consumer rights protection is this law even a step ahead of what is required in the EU. The SDPS parliamentary group will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-07-0.u8868	Thank you. The next is MP Slavenko Unkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-07-0.u8869	Thank you, Chairman. I would like first of all to commend the Government of Serbia's decision to make the minimum labour price of 35,000 dinars as of next year. An increase of nearly 10% is indeed a major improvement, and it is also 90% of the coverage of the minimum consumer basket, which is important for our consumers. It is realistic to expect that next year a decision will be taken to equalise the minimum labour price and the minimum consumer basket, which will certainly be a major improvement. I'll remind you that just seven, eight years ago, the minimum labour price was 15,000 dinars, and this is really a clear indicator of our country's economic stability. The adoption of today's Consumer Protection Law will correct and correct fundamental shortcomings, such as the lack of a functional and institutional framework for the non-judicial resolution of consumer disputes, insufficient consumer protection in the field of tourism, the lack of adequate punishment that has the appropriate fact, the greater jurisdiction of market inspectors in terms of punishing traders for obvious crimes, higher level of responsibility and the public in the work of the association and alliances dealing with consumer rights. The fact that in a market game, traders are of great advantage to consumers, because traders are professionally engaged in providing services and selling goods and therefore it is necessary to provide protection and prevent consumer rights violations in any way. This law will certainly contribute to better regulation of these relations. The bill will introduce misdemeanors and penalties that may and should affect traders' compliance with the rules and laws. But the aim of the law is not to punish, but to regulate relations and create conditions for consumer rights. Often traders are not aware of their obligations to the consumer, nor are the penalties that follow them, and that is certainly one of the biggest problems in these relations. Only a responsible trader who knows his obligations to the consumer can fulfil those obligations. In this regard, the most expected are associations and alliances dealing with consumer protection in order to present and promote legal solutions and all these opportunities. The most significant amendment to the draft law is the introduction of a new system of out-of-court consumer dispute resolution that prescribes the obligation on the trader to participate in such a procedure. So far, sellers have most often avoided participating in the agreement, refused advertising and referred dissatisfied consumers to the court, and consumers mainly gave up pressing charges. The old saying that the customer is always right, does not apply to our large companies and large systems, to salesmen of technical goods and sports equipment and they rather than make concessions to consumers and respect real advertising, rather decide to put consumers in a position to sue in courts. For example, more than 22,000 consumer objections were recorded in 2020, and only two were resolved by extrajudicial alignment. According to the National Register of Consumer Objections, according to the type of goods, the most objections to shoes, mobile phones, equipment, white technique, furniture, home appliances, televisions, etc. Advertising is a central instrument for consumer protection. However, it will gain even more importance in this law, as the one who declares the advertisement will gain the right to extrajudicial settlement and dispute resolution before a special body formed by the Trade Ministry. The body will act as licensed mediators who will have more rights than current mediators to resolve disputes. The costs of intervention will be borne by the State, i.e. the Ministry, which means that they will be free for both traders and consumers. The media will develop within 90 days and have three options for resolving the dispute. These are the recommendations of the two parties' agreement and the third is the court's case. One reason for the introduction of a mediation obligation is to reduce pressure on courts where there are many cases relating to consumer disputes. So far, more than 500,000 dinars have not been found in the out-of-court trial. The paper in the law is that the censorship regarding the value of the dispute will not exist. Online trade in Serbia has seen an expansion during this crown crisis, but this has also led to a new problem, which has increased the number of complaints over the delay in delivering, not delivering goods or delivering damaged goods. In this case, citizens, or consumers, are not well aware of their rights in this regard. Citizens have been complaining about phone calls for years from various sellers who are trying to offer their products. The new law prohibits direct advertising by telephone and electronic mail without prior consumer consent. Sellers who don't pay attention to data in the register don't call, they'll risk paying a fine of up to 50,000 dinars. What you can already imagine is that in practice it will be difficult for the register to function – do not call. It is difficult to expect our trader to check, before any call where goods and services are offered, whether a particular person is listed in the consumer register who does not want to receive e-mails and e-mails within the framework of the promotion and sale of the phone. For consumers, there is a confusion about the powers and practices of market inspection and this law will clarify how and when market inspection responds in accordance with the legal rules. Although in European practice and in developed markets a very small role of market inspection, it will continue to play a role in solving individual consumer problems. When it comes to the protection of consumers in tourism, the new law provides that the organiser, i.e. the travel agent, must provide the passenger with full information regarding other costs not covered by the sale price. If the passenger is not informed of these additional costs, it is not obliged to bear those costs. What is not regulated by this law, and perhaps a solution could be found, is the knowledge that individual producers on the market of different countries place themselves as identical goods, goods that differ in quality and by composition. Large world companies treat Serbia and countries in the environment as second-class citizens under the same label offer low-quality products and have proven research in Croatia, Slovakia, Czech Republic. It is known that "Nutela" has the right taste, that certain perfumes are better quality, as well as some other products than those placed on the Serbian market. Although the European Commission has adopted a binding directive against the dual quality of goods and has started to apply it, I hope that we will improve the law in the coming period so that this too is systematically arranged. Certainly, these significant changes to today's law will contribute to better protection of consumer rights with us, and the JS parliamentary group will support this proposal in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-07-0.u8870	Thank you. The next MP is Hadji Milorad Stosic. He's not here. Next is counterpart Snezana Paunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-07-0.u8871	Thank you, Vice President. The Honorable Minister with fellow Members, primarily citizens and citizens of Serbia, is a session of the National Assembly after the summer break and we are starting a debate on, in my opinion, a very important law and it is good that it is – a bill on consumer protection. I would say it is a proposal for a brand-new law that significantly builds on the existing legal framework in this area. The commitment of the Republic of Serbia to ensure adequate consumer protection stems from, at the very least, double reasons. The first is the full harmonisation of our national legislation with communal law in this area, which as a obligation stems from the Stabilisation and Association Agreement signed by Serbia in 2008 at the time of the technical government, and the second is a commitment to its own consumers, which may even be more important, which, at the time of the globalisation of the market, should enjoy protection by these European standards and be at the very least equal. In order to implement international obligations, and above all in order to improve the consumer protection system at national level, Serbia also adopted a Consumer Protection Strategy for the period 2019-2024, and in this context this bill, which is in line with communal law and significantly better quality and more comprehensively addresses the issue of consumer rights, both individual and collective. There are several important newspapers in this bill, and I would point out that the quality improvements that should contribute to the even greater protection of our consumers, i.e. all of us, above all, are as consumers. This law relies not only on European legislation, but also on the good practice of legally regulated countries, which today, when we live in a consumer society world, recognise this need to protect and consumers, not only producers, as until recently was the case. We are free to say that neoliberal capitalism and globalisation have made us primarily consumers of everything and everything, so there are no goods at this point that can't be easily sold, and this also makes a significant contribution to aggressive media campaigns, the Internet, social networks. In fact, we are completely surrounded by advertising messages, billboards, flyers, phone calls, and everyone in these conversations offers mostly the best product. It would take us a long time to deal with consumer psychology that is changing precisely under the influence of advertising policies of manufacturers who have designed whatever products and at all costs want to sell them as best as possible and if they can get as expensive as possible. This is understandable given the costs of market research, first of all, the formation and production of products themselves, promotions, everything that follows, but from the consumer's point of view, it can be and is different. The large capital has an interest in gaining as much profit as possible, multiplying it, which is done by the development of consumer mentality that places possession and acquisition of material values in the seat, unfortunately. This encourages both our human need and the greed that exists, the desire to own, in most cases, and what we do not need, nor can make us happy. From the socialist position, I would first of all like to point out that the issue of human needs is now growing into questionable power through the possession of luxurious things, many of which are neither real nor will be a real need. For the world of one working man who is unable to afford himself any luxury consumer world and mentality fall within the realm of virtual or, in fact, unreal. So the real man often wonders what a world rich man will do to 50 cars or cars that cost a few tens of millions of euros, and on the other hand we have children who are still starving. This shopping race doesn't always lead to a better quality of life. Unfortunately, it is often the way of alienation and deepening of social differences. It creates a larger gap between the rich and the poor. If we take into account the global level, the consumer era also affects the irrational and uncontrolled use of both natural and human resources on our planet. If I can also draw attention this time to the fact that consumer mentality, which often makes us selfish and self-sufficient, is also the reason for this biggest problem we have, which is the fall of birth. If it weren't for that, we wouldn't be denied by the brave Serbian mothers who gave birth during those wars and after the wars when the country was to be restored. However, the fact is that large multinational capital, which today is the supreme ruler of everything, creates this consumer world, including mentality. Today, we have come to the conclusion that consumer mentality is a whole ideology that imposes a new system of values, which is a megalomania, a vast market of different goods, which gives us an illusion of luxury and a beautiful life. As the market is huge, the goods are even more. A new model of customer behaviour has also been established in relation to the manufacturer and the trader, and that is roughly capitalism. The manufacturer used to be the center of attention as a creator of a new value. However, times have changed, neoliberal capitalism has declared consumers a major figure, both of which will depend on future production and sales. Today, the consumer is convinced that he is the center of everything, that the king to whom wishes are fulfilled, and that impression of the great importance of the consumer is achieved through campaigns which producers and traders address primarily the consumer, encouraging the very impression of its importance and the importance of its decisions for which the product will be decided. But that address isn't always honest, not always, but in most cases it's not, we're aware of it and we're witnessing it almost daily. That is why today the state must defend consumers from those ruthless and dishonest merchants who, unfortunately, do not choose the means to sell their goods. Today in the era of modern electronic communications, it's not difficult. I'd say it's not hard to be boring, maybe it's the easiest time. We're surrounded by advertising for different goods, services, travel. The advertisement has become an issue of choice, a question of survival on the market and is no longer a primary quality or is discussed in most cases at all. In this respect, the new Consumer Protection Act, which we are talking about today, is indeed a serious legal obstacle to poor trends in the transport of goods and services and as a motive for legal and ethical business in which there is no and cannot be deceived. That's why I think this law has some importance and it's the right time to bring it. The new, also necessary, concept of consumer protection also involves socially responsible marketing, which includes respect for broader public interest, care for sustainable use of energy and natural resources, human attitude towards labour, human resources in general, and sustainable development and environmental impact of all human activities, and the work of the production of goods. This broader context should mean good quality and optimal quantity in the production of goods, so that the surpluses are not thrown and destroyed, and on the other hand we have categories of population, including the entire markets in poor countries that cannot meet their own basic needs. Serbia is a country that accepts responsibility for producer-user relations and for adequate consumer protection and irrefutable evidence of this is exactly the law we are talking about today. As far as the law itself is concerned, I would like to commend the solutions which, to the most precise details, regulate the issues of achieving consumer rights. In particular, the procedure for non-judicial settlement of consumer disputes is well worked out. I would particularly highlight solutions relating to tourist arrangements and ways of achieving the rights of dissatisfied and deceived customers in the area. I don't think, of course, that the tourist operator is always responsible for unfulfilled contractual obligations, it's often a party that places an offer through the agency, but we've had the opportunity to hear that some agency that isn't a member of the National Association, has no license, organizes a tourist trip, and when you arrive at the destination your apartment is at best not what you bought, if you don't come to the situation that it's already sold. If we are in general looking at the bill that is before us, it is indeed a good law that is in line with European legislation. The SPS parliamentary group will support this law without any doubt in the voting day, and thank the ministers and associates for continuing this session after the break with this law that seems to me to be one of the most important things that we will bring in this term. I am sure that, in some future period, we may recognize some other shortcomings, but that is why laws and there are all of us who are engaged in this business to further upgrade them, but all in the interest, indeed, of the citizens and citizens of Serbia who deserve to be as correct as they have given us their trust. The only thing we can't protect them from is the placement of cheap political products, but it's not in your domain, we have to defend ourselves with politics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-07-0.u8872	Thank you. Next is counterpart Olja Petrovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-07-0.u8873	I would like to thank the esteemed chairman, the distinguished minister with fellow Members, the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens and citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Today, we have before us a proposal for a consumer protection law that introduces a particular newspaper, since the law has not been amended since 2014, the problems arise, but are also being brought into line with European legislation. In fact, a few newspapers are being introduced. One of them is the register "don't call" for all consumers who don't want to be called traders and offered phone products. There's a newspaper in the advertising process as well. Also, a budget is being introduced to provide services worth more than 5,000 dinars. The service specification and written consent of the consumer to the budget are needed. This bill also provides for the keeping of records of consumer disputes by courts responsible for resolving them, as if the data from this record were delivered to the ministry. Then, EU rules in the field of tourism are in line, which we have seen has been the most said so far, where consumer protection is specified when buying travel arrangements related to providing complete information on all travel costs. There is also an improvement in non-judicial dispute resolution. The above census for the value of disputes that can be settled in the out-of-court proceedings has been deleted, but an infringement order is also imposed in the fixed amount of fines, so for the legal person this amount is 50,000 dinars, for the person responsible in the legal face of 8,000 dinars, while for the entrepreneur it is 30,000 dinars, with these amounts being halved if the fines are paid within eight days. All these changes are in line with consumer needs. When we look only at 2017, we see the progress that is being seen and in the coverage of the minimum consumer basket at the labour price, so in 2017 this coverage was 62%, while this year it is 81.5%. The government's proposal is that the minimum labour price is further increased by 9.4% and would be 35.012 dinars minimum monthly salary. I will remind you that the minimum earnings in 2010 amounted to 15,747 dinars or 153 euros, while now, as we see, they will reach an amount that is twice as high, or 300 euros. Salaries and pensions grew in the previous period, but will continue to continue to grow continuously, and a significant increase in wages in the public sector is expected, but is also expected to increase pensions even more than 5% according to the Swiss formula. When we look at 2012, the public debt rate relative to GDP was 79%, and today it is the same rate as 55.4%. Also, Serbia is making progress on GDP, so at the end of the year it will have 51 billion GDP, which will certainly be one of the leading, if not the leading result in Europe. In the first eight months alone, our exports, despite this crisis, were 28 times higher than last year, while only the food exports in the first six months were higher by 13.9%, which gives us additional certainty that we have markets on which we can export all surpluses. Our country has managed to preserve a stable economy, allocate funds to help citizens, and the economy. It is also a good charge for all tax forms, which shows that the state's measures are effective and justified. The aid has helped to ensure that there is no closure of factories, that people do not lose their jobs, so unlike many richer countries, we have succeeded despite all the crisis that has hit the whole world, including our country, to preserve and how low the unemployment rate. Also, under the third aid package on 22 September, all pensioners will be paid 50 euros, then another 30 euros, as well as all full-time citizens, and pensioners will receive another 20 euros by the end of the year, which will mean that only in the third package will the pensioners receive 130 euros in total, while all full-year citizens will receive 60 euros. A great deal of important help for our oldest citizens will come at the beginning of the year, in fact sometime in February when all pensioners will receive an additional 20,000 dinars and they have suffered heavy reforms and they felt the most of the period when our country was recovering but now the state has seen it this way. In addition to all the money given to citizens and the economy, the state has continued to invest and build our country, as much as 7.2% of GDP defined for investment. There are currently seven highways and fast roads being built in Serbia, and ten will be built in December, at least three more. Along the roads, it invests in sewage and water infrastructure, in wastewater treatment plants, in schools, kindergartens, in reconstruction of existing hospitals, but also in construction of even three new coves of hospitals. In addition to the hospital in Batajnica and Kruševec, the third brand-new hospital in Novi Sad, which was built in just four months to better fight the crown and preserve the lives and health of our citizens, which is, you will agree, and most importantly. Thanks to the responsible and serious approach to the situation caused by the virus's coronary, our economy is stable, and the results are even better than expected. From the estimate that we will have a minus 234 billion dinars, we had a deficit of 70 billion dinars. Many of the opposition are trying to dispute the results but it is precisely those who have made hundreds of millions of euros rich during their government. Citizens themselves know how they lived then, how they live today, what is built and what is being built and what is being given in elections and who support people who are fighting for the state, who are fighting for the people, not their own pocket. It is absolutely inadmissible and shameful that the opposition who did not even go to the polls in its political accounts is using constant attacks on the president and his family. Daily insults, threats and slanders at the expense of Alexander Vukic and his loved ones fighting for a better, more successful, more modern Serbia are just an empty policy of those who spread hate and who would continue to become enormously rich at the expense of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. No child should be attacked, because children are the most sacred thing for each parent, so neither can Alexander Vukic's children be guilty just because their father is Alexander Vukic. The same Aleksandar Vukic, who is fighting for all Serbian children, to live in a peaceful, stable, decent Serbia that will be proud of tomorrow and will build its future, because SNS policy is not debt and destruction of the country, but investment in a safe future for our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-07-0.u8874	Thank you. The next MP, Milija Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-07-0.u8875	I thank you, Your Honor. Honorable representatives of the Ministry of Trade, Telecommunications, dear fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, I am Milija Miletic, coming from Svrlig, it is the most beautiful municipality in Serbia located near the town of Nis, and it is the most beautiful city in Serbia. Here in the Serbian Parliament, I represent the United Peasant Party, and I was selected from the list "Alexander Vukic - For Our Children". I, like so far, will talk about all those things that concern this point of ours, regarding the protection of our consumers. The bottom line is I'm saying what's true, which is that it's very important that our people, our citizens, when they go to the malls, they can provide themselves with the most favourable conditions to buy something and be quality. A short time ago, counterpart Dragan Markovic Palma spoke about our agricultural producers, which I would have supported as well. I think it's the right thing to do. Because the biggest problem with our agricultural producers dealing with the production of certain products, is that cattle, is that something else, that their price when they produce it can never reach what he invested in. That is why we need to put more emphasis on these people in order to ensure that our products from small holdings, households, come to our consumers in these tourist centres, that they can place their goods there, that they have their own interests and thus protect our production. As Dragan Markovic Palma said, it's really the right thing to do that our agricultural producers and small owners can and have the opportunity to place their goods and sell in our shopping malls, shops, whether it's in Srlig, whether it's in Nis, whether it's in Belgrade somewhere, but quality products that are produced in us, such as, for example, at my place, the Srljijski lamb, svrljejski cheese, Belmush and all those other products, it's really something that's the best quality. There's something in our shelves at the malls, but it's a very small amount. That's why I think we should support it, and the distinguished representatives of the ministry should put an emphasis on it, about trade, because we're all witnesses, and I've talked about it before, that a large amount of food is being thrown away. That food that's being thrown is very hard to produce, and tomorrow... (President: Time.) I'll be done in a few seconds. ... That food tomorrow, when it stays in the malls, in the shops, it's up to two months' notice, it needs to be provided, because that food is thrown, burned and destroyed, and that's not good. It would be best if the department of commerce had initiated the VAT to be abolished, so that the food left for two months until the deadline that it could be used through the Federation of Food Banks, through the Red Cross, to be placed to our end-users. [[Disabled microphone.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-07-0.u8876	Thank you. Next up is Dr. Muamer Bacevac. He's not here. ) The word has a folk MP, Ugljesa Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-07-0.u8877	I thank you, Chairman. Dear representatives of the ministry, colleagues and fellow MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, as my colleagues have already spoken, today we are discussing the Consumer Protection Act that is really very important, for the reason it regulates one area that is quite alive and that regulates certain bond relations in which we all come every day in our daily lives. Also, this is another step towards our alignment with EU law, i.e. Chapter 28, and I believe that we will guarantee this consumer law faster dispute resolution and greater legal certainty. The practice has so far shown that the Law which remains in force and which regulates this area has not been adequately foreseen until the end and we only had 22.213 objections in the last year, over 50% of these objections were in Belgrade, the fifth applied to the shoes and about 10% to the white technique itself, and mainly these objections did not go at the end, or were not treated for the benefit of the consumers themselves. This practice has shown that traders have been more successful in these relations and have managed in some way not to adopt these advertisings, i.e. citizens’ objections in this consumer role. All of these, as I said, were an indication that we needed a new law, in order to give consumers themselves more instruments to exercise their rights, and I do believe, and on behalf of the SPS Group, I would praise this law as a whole. I would use time to look back at exactly what a certain newspaper is when it comes to this law. One of them is that extrajudicial alignment, which has existed so far, but it is now a trader on the obligation that if the dispute fails with the buyer to resolve, he will go to extrajudicial alignment, or if he does not appear on it, to pay the fine on a criminal order. The second item is the "Don't Call" register. We talked a lot about him on the board, and I would like to commend one such initiative, that there is a register on which citizens can apply that they don't want to be disturbed by various agencies with offers they don't care about or are not interested in. The register itself will be run by Ratel. What remains somewhat unclear to me is, if I understand correctly, the listing will be taken by Ratel and thus managed to obtain information on who called the ultimate potential buyer. But what happens in the situation if the number he's calling isn't registered with? I don't know how we'll be able to sanction someone who calls customers from such a number of mobile phones and offers certain products or services? And also, of course, this law can't regulate it, but I think we're actually dealing with the consequences of that cause, which is exactly that data trade. We've all experienced that our salesmen in some situations end up in certain businesses, at least I've experienced it, and I've never given it to that economic operator, for the simple reason I've never been able to give it to him, and here I'm talking about the number of mobile phones. I think it's also a big problem we're facing, but he's not on the agenda today, and this law could not regulate him, so I think it's a good step to have such a register. I think the ministry's task will be to promote this registry as much as possible in the coming period with citizens to become aware that they now have one of the instruments that protects them. What I also welcome and support is exactly the item about advertising. Until now, the merchants could only make sure that the goods were not properly used or maintained. Here, first of all, we're talking about clothes. Mostly such descriptions go when it comes to shoes and when it is advertised. I am glad that the traders will now have to explain in the next period what is incorrectly used and how certain shoes are especially maintained, so that after 15 or a month people do not come with already damaged goods that have been bought new and are not rarely paid at all. Also, the tourism sector, which has suffered a lot in the last year and a half. I think it's good to regulate bond relations in the sector as well. There have been different problems in the previous period, that I do not speak individually now, but I think it is good to do something in an adequate way now and to protect exactly potential tourists from unfair agencies who are unable to make what they contracted to deliver as a service truly deliver. I have to agree with one of the colleagues who spoke before me, which is that maybe I should, too, that's what I think, that's my opinion, and it's not fair that the risk is borne equally by the seller and by the customer of the tourist service if the customer pays it at one point and if there is a change in price, that is, the purchases have the possibility that the seller, for example, the travel agency, can charge it additionally through that flow of time. I don't think I see any reason for both sides to be at risk in that situation. In any case, I think that exactly the state of Serbia in the previous period, the government of the Republic of Serbia has really helped a lot when it comes to the tourism and services and catering sector above all, and I hope that we are coming out of this turbulent period caused by the coronary virus and that soon we will all return to a more normal life. In any case, the Socialist Party of Serbia will, in the day of voting, support this bill and I hope that in the coming period, if we are, as counterpart Paunovic said, we will also see that we will discuss them here again and that you will be ready to hear our opinions as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-07-0.u8878	Thank you. With this presentation, we end the first part of the session. In accordance with article 87, we continue at 15.00 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-07-0.u8879	Ladies and gentlemen, let's get back to work. The word has been given by MP Hadji Milorad Stosic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-07-0.u8880	The Honorable Chairman, distinguished representatives of the ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, respected citizens of Serbia on the agenda of our first session after the summer break is the proposal for a consumer protection law. At the very beginning, I would point out that the PUPS Group "Tri P" in the voting day will support this law and other proposals from this session and vote – for. This matter certainly falls within the fundamental areas of trade law, but at the same time it is directly related to the everyday life of each of us, because we are all in a sense consumers. I don't think there's anyone who's ever faced any problems with buying wrong goods, unwitting merchants, rejection of advertising and similar, certainly, unpleasant experiences. Certainly, a regulated state seeks to make such a phenomenon, if it cannot already be completely eradicated, that it reduces them to a minimum, so it is no wonder that, with the development of new forms of electronic trade and services in the European Union, a great deal of attention is also being paid to this problem. With the new law, we are trying to best follow these trends and at the same time take a new step towards meeting the requirements to bring our legislation into line with European legal systems and norms. What constitutes the essence of the new legal solution is not seen so much in the provisions that define the very protection of consumers. These provisions have been fundamentally and so far at one correct and high level of standards, although they will be further improved by this law. First of all, I am thinking about protecting the rights of consumers in the field of tourism and tourism services, which so far are much more extensive and more detailedly regulated by this law. Especially those relating to price changes and other terms of the contract, the courtesy, the giving up of travel, student and student travel, as well as other situations. These new regulations should reduce potential abuses and fraud in this area, which, unfortunately, have not been so little lately, according to a report in the media. But far more important than the legal provisions themselves is their realisation and application in practice. It is generally known that legal solutions are mostly well-organised, only a problem arises in applying them and therefore it is vital that the ministry monitor all of this in the coming period and establish how these legal provisions are implemented. As explained in the law, it is noticeable that, although there are a large number of citizens who are wasting advice from the consumer protection service, very few such cases are being brought to court or out-of-court arbitration. It is therefore very important that the new law in Articles 149 to 169 is now precisely governing the out-of-court settlement of consumer disputes. They will be dealt with by legal intermediaries from a list approved by the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Services, and they will be graduated lawyers with at least two years of work experience in the field of civil law. The resolution process is scheduled to be initiated by a proposal from consumers to the ministry to forward it to an intermediary in the place of consumer residence, which is in a way very good, as the ministry will have the opportunity to appreciate and assess its representatives in local self-government. Intermediaries will be able to make recommendations on how to resolve the dispute and to mediate the conclusion of a written agreement on dispute resolution. If a mutually acceptable solution cannot be reached, dissatisfied parties will always be able to apply the provisions on consumer disputes under the Law on a litigation procedure. In addition to intermediation operations, intermediaries will also be obliged to keep accurate records of the type of disputes and participants, which should contribute to the creation of a real picture of what and who consumers most complain about. To that end, the new law gives greater authority to inspectors in this area. But I must note that if increased disciplinary responsibility is to be sought, more amounts of fines should be taken, and perhaps the possibility of introducing a permanent ban on performance as the last measure for those who, in continuity, tend to commit various abuses in this area. In the transitional provisions of the law, a month-long deadline was left for preparation for the start of the work of out-of-court consumer dispute resolution intermediaries. Now, the Ministry will be tasked with properly preparing this, introducing this institute into a legal system, but it would be useful to work at the same time to publicly promote these new legal solutions, so that citizens know better about the protection of their rights and can use this institute to exercise those rights. Since we consider it to be good legal proposals, the PUPS Parliamentary Group "Tri P" will give its support in the day of voting for the adoption of this law. Also, the PUPS Parliamentary Group "Tri P" will support other proposals and legal solutions discussed at this session in the voting day and vote in favour. Dear friends and respected citizens of Serbia, I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-07-0.u8881	Thank you, Mr. Stosic. The word of the People's Messenger is Adam Shukalo.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-07-0.u8882	Thank you, Mr. Orlic. The Honorable Chairman, respected colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, a respected minister with fellow Members, is before us an extremely important Consumer Protection Act, which in this area certainly is one of the system laws, an extremely important and immeasurable act for the lives of citizens, which simply imposes on life and all other circumstances the need to improve. Given that you have stated in your argument the basic reasons why we have a new legal text and what we have in the past time period, while the public debate was, which are the basic reasons, which are the basic reasons, which are the basic beliefs, I would not use much time to refer to it, but I must also say as a lawyer that and on the legal side of the promotion of this legal text, in terms of new provisions, and also the precision of the provisions that were earlier unclear, especially the provisions which are now going in the context of imperial attitudes, that we do not have a situation where certain provisions of the law can be interpreted much broader, now this legal solution is much more precise. Also, I must point out that precise definition, to say, of all the more effective approach to non-judicial consumer dispute resolution, is certainly a significant improvement which, in the absence of a particular case-law that may have not only had enough practices for consumer disputes, but also solutions that go in favour of consumers, will make this legal text more significant to improve. I would use this time not to go to some width, to repeat what you are and in the explanation, and also in your opening discussion when you were talking, you already stated, that we don't have a Resavia, copying school here, and that we're spinning one of those same stories. It seems to me that it would be good for each of us MPs to use time to refer to certain provisions. Here, that's my choice in some context. Generally, when we talk about consumer protection, we must take into account that in the past time period, above all from the Kovid-19 pandemic, the virus corona, we also have a new situation in the context of the relationship between both the consumer and the seller and all others defined in this case by this law. In this context, I must draw attention to the fact that we have, in the past time period, a flood of different services related to catering and food delivery, as well as various deliveries, or the opening of different companies that generally deliver different goods and which, I say, have come in handy over the past period of time. However, we also have a large number of citizens who have complained there in the past time period, but the specific aspect of the story in all of this, if we are talking about consumer protection, which I would like to draw attention to, is exactly catering. I would especially focus on catering that goes towards end-users, which in this case should be used by our children, i.e. caterers for different kindergartens, for example, in preschool institutions, primarily private preschool institutions, as well as various other facilities. I think that, although perhaps in a broader context, this law itself does not need to define it, but it is extremely important to specify the standards that would protect all consumers in this context, so in this case end-users that concern our children. The second thing I want to point out in all of this that is extremely important is the members you have defined by the provisions, or proposed by the provisions 16, 17 and 18, which is unfair business practice and misleading business practice. I've read and interpreted all of this very carefully and I have to point out something that I've been able to see in contact with the citizens as one, to say, a lack of precisely this relationship that defines this law and who is most exposed to such unfair practice and such misleading practice. I think it's primarily third-age citizens, pensioners, whose aggressive traders of different coll-centers, including those who come from door to door, offer everything and everything, and since it's the period in which most of the elderly are from third-age and lonely, they need a little attention, and they talk about everything else. And it seems to me that they're just not the most, to say, present on the Internet, they don't have as much information as we said today that they can be informed, as perhaps middle-generation, younger generations, so they won't be the subject of deception. And in this context, I think that a special kind of protection should go exactly in the direction that goes towards third-year people, that is, towards our pensioners. We think that there is something special to think about, perhaps in certain sublaws, everything else to think about, in any case, about the particular focus of consumer protection on this one right now, to say under quotes, the endangered category of population coming from this population. Also, when we are talking about these provisions of unfair business practice and misleading business practice, I would also like to give an example that is universal and where we also have this aggressive marketing and permanent operators who call in various telecommunications services, primarily operators who offer different packages of TV services, internet services, telephones, etc. So in this case, also in terms of consumer protection, unfair competition, which is again defined by another area, I would like to highlight all that certain companies are doing, so to say that our consumers around Serbia, and especially here in Belgrade, are threatened by some companies, such as this SBB company, which aggressively tactics and, let me say, is a misleading practice, which is exactly what they do, in many buildings, especially newly built buildings around Belgrade, with various machinations coming into a position that consumers cannot come to other services, but that they can only use that service and, in any case, they should also make sure that such practice, which has allowed just broad interpretation of certain provisions, is not at all sanctioned for such things. A special kind of consumer protection should go into the context of the contract's conclusion, because this aggressive marketing, here, I was talking about this company, you have incredibly good conditions that go in that direction that you need maltenes to just wink or rub your hand, or to press a few keys online, and to conclude such a contract and you easily and quickly enter into a contractual relationship, and when you need to break up this contractual relationship, then you enter into your own kind of hell, because you can't get out of that story, and citizens simply fall for different types, let me say, and unfair and misleading practices in all of this which are defined both by Article 16 and Article 18 of this Law. What exactly does it look like? You sign the contract, then at some point they tell you they have a certain promotion technologically and then they bring you some equipment. You take that equipment, you get it for free, but at that point you're painting, to say so archaic, Annex, and if you want to break that contract tomorrow, that annex obliges you from that date, from that moment on, to account for, say, a two-year mandatory contract. I have to say that countless citizens must have gone into such a problem and that they can't come out of such contractual relations, and especially this company is famous for that, for the simple reason that it's being used, let me say, and the misleading and I have to say, in a subtle practice, which is nothing more than robbing citizens, because there are different provisions out of which you can't get out, you have a cancellation period, so you have this story about new equipment, etc., so that you might happen from a contract that you may have signed for two years, that maybe, if it came before the end of that contract, you'll be a minor for four years, so if you take another cancelled period of a month, it'll be over four years. It's really a real practice, let me say, misleading, since this company, these medical homes here, are advertised as some kind of moral vertical in that kind of story. I must point out that they are exclusively dealing with such acts, i.e. to warn citizens about it, but to warn supervisory authorities, inspection bodies, and you who are the creators of certain legal, sublegal acts, that such practice should be disabled in every way, and it is imperative that certain provisions are not widely interpreted, but that these companies will prevent them from doing so. In this context, I believe that we should constantly improve this legal text, as is this new legal solution. The promotion, certainly meaningful, certainly well and goes to the benefit of consumers, hence the citizens. In this context, I say that as a national MP, I will support this legal text and that at this point I can say that these are things that will certainly cause great attention to citizens in the coming period. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-07-0.u8883	Thank you. The word is Daniela Veljovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-07-0.u8884	Thank you, Chairman. A respected minister with co-workers, co-workers and fellow MPs, the main goal of the adoption of a completely new consumer protection law is an even more efficient and effective application of legal solutions, as well as compliance with EU consumer rights, which is also the obligation of the Republic of Serbia to meet the EU CAP. The new law implements 13 consumer protection directives adopted by the EU. Since the adoption of the first Consumer Protection Act, which was implemented until 2011, and whose main guidelines have been declared by the UN Resolution of 1985, until today, the legislative framework has largely been adapted to the legal assets of the EU while the institutional system is based on the principle of partnership with consumer associations. In previous years, the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications achieved important results in the development of consumer protection in the Republic of Serbia. Significant consumer protection has been introduced in terms of their rights. The institutional framework for protection is strengthened, as policymaking concerns a specific sector for consumer protection within the ministry. The digitisation of consumer protection has been carried out through a single database. It is possible to deliver complaints via the Internet, as well as to generate the data needed to monitor the market. Stronger co-operation with consumer associations, as well as with judicial authorities, chambers of commerce and other organisations. The most significant newspaper adopted by this law is an obligation imposed on traders to participate in non-judicial disputes with customers and so far there has been this possibility, but according to the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications in regional consumer consultations in 2020, out of the 22.213 objections recorded, only two have been resolved by extrajudicial alignment while 16 cases have been filed against traders. Most often, consumers faced the problem that after wearing short shoes, the soles were peeled, cracked or the shoes were dislocated. Within the legal deadline, traders responded to the advertising, most often by refusing, explaining that there were mechanical damages caused by incorrect use. In these cases, the inspection of the hands is tied, because they cannot affect the content of the advertising response, but the jurisdiction exclusively referred to the verification of whether the response to the advertising arrived within eight days. The new law will allow the out-of-court procedure to trigger the consumer only if he has previously declared the advertising, and the trader is contesting it. Any action will be obliged to highlight the notification that, under the law, the seller is obliged to participate in the procedure of non-judicial dispute resolution. This mandatory mediation is an attempt to reduce pressure on courts, but also a new law will also oblige courts to record any consumer complaint and to provide once a year information on the number of consumer disputes, judgments and the average length of the dispute. In addition to the significant newspapers adopted by the new Consumer Protection Act, it is very important to target electronic trade, which as such requires special measures, such as special monitoring of such trade, increased consumer information, and thus their protection will be greater. Changes in the market, an increased number of consumers who buy online, especially at this time of the pandemic have become a dominant way of buying, requires an adequate response to the problems that arise, as the development of technology has changed us, but also the market. Electronic trade certainly offers a large number of benefits for consumers, but brings with it serious risks, such as transparency of such purchases and sites, as well as frauds happening on the Internet. All this requires serious analysis and work on education not only for consumers, but also for institutions that will protect them in this digital world. This new law will certainly further improve the position of consumers and represents a significant step forward in the fight for a regulated market. Through its application it will show its efficiency, I'm sure, but also the weak points to work on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-07-0.u8885	Thank you. The word is Dejan Kesar.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-07-0.u8886	The Honorable Chairman, the esteemed minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the respected citizens of Serbia, is today ahead of us with a proposal for a consumer protection law. I believe that during today's day here in the National Assembly we had a very constructive debate in which we were able to hear different arguments aimed at justifying the submission of the Consumer Bill by the government as an authorised promoter. These arguments are based on both facts and on all those things that form an integral part of this bill, and that is exactly what makes this bill even more important. The proposal for a consumer protection law is a legal act whose basis for adoption can also be found in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, as the highest legal act, in Article 97, which says that the Republic of Serbia is taking all measures and actions to protect the interests of consumers, and is precisely this bill, which is now in the National Assembly, an example of good practice conducted by both the Government and the majority in the National Assembly. Certainly, the Republic of Serbia has always been in the role of a serious and responsible partner towards all relevant EU institutions and it is therefore very important that we all work together to find the best legal solutions, thus allowing citizens to achieve their basic law-guaranteed rights in the best and fastest possible way. The basic objective of this law is faster, more efficient and more effective implementation of already existing legislative solutions, but also the need to bring our legislation into line with EU legislation, but the Republic of Serbia, or the National Assembly as the most legislative body, will never be a flow water heater, so that we accept all those solutions that come from other legislation, but we will seriously observe all these solutions and if these solutions are positive we will definitely incorporate them in our legislation, because for us, the security of citizens in legal traffic is the most important. The government of the Republic of Serbia, as an authorised promoter, had the aim of submitting a consumer protection law proposal to establish in one clear and decadent way the rights and obligations of sellers, on the one hand, and consumers, on the other hand, to find solutions to better implement legal solutions, all with the aim of all relevant factors both on the part of consumers and on the sides of traders and other necessary factors having a higher degree of security in the legislation of the Republic of Serbia. When we talk about the bill itself, it is large, concise, with clearly defined provisions for sellers, i.e. traders and consumers to exercise their rights and obligations, but for all of us here in the National Assembly and Government, as an authorised promoter, the ultimate goal is security. If you have this security in legal acts, you will certainly have a much safer connection between traders and consumers, and it is certain that you will have more dynamic business processes, and that these processes will certainly be legal. The bill proposals that come to the National Assembly, which come from the domains of your ministry, the minister, are the results of certain social and business processes that need to be regulated in a clearer way. There is certainly a need for certain legislative proposals to be reconsidered at certain intervals and that how much of a need for them to be revised. As I said, the safety of citizens is most important to us, and this security is currently seen in Article 2 or the provisions of Article 2 of this Act, which says that when interpreting certain provisions, consumers will be considered to be a weaker economic party, i.e. with a special emphasis on the threatened buyer. When I said that the law is large, it contains parts defining consumer rights and obligations, which define instruments for the exercise of those rights and obligations, but certainly instruments that provide for certain criminal provisions. The law itself brings a lot of good news, but I would just focus on the ones that are most important, as far as the new Consumer Protection Law proposal is concerned. Here we can see the introduction of a register "don't call", which prevents certain traders from calling on citizens of the Republic of Serbia during working week and offering or offering to sell certain products, and now citizens will be able to prevent it by registering their number of phones with the competent authority for the Regulatory Electronic Media. I think this provision is certainly good. I'm not going to talk more detail, because my colleagues were very comprehensive about this institute, but it's very important that we inform the citizens on time and in the best way possible. In companies where there is increased supply and demand, due to better economic and wage capacity, such as that of the Republic of Serbia which has significantly strengthened economic and finance and thus provided the possibility for citizens to spend more, there is also a need for a clear definition of the advertising process, as this creates a certain degree of legal certainty for citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The advertising process has been very clearly defined. The trader is now obliged to receive advertising from consumers, he is also obliged to issue the number under which the advertising was taken to the trader. Also, what I'm very glad about and what we all show here is that our citizens' interests are the most important in achieving their basic and legally guaranteed rights is to define short and strict deadlines for their rights. The trader is now required to respond to the advertising within eight days, i.e. 15 or 30 days if it is technical goods or if it is furniture. What is important is that these legal solutions will help citizens to achieve their rights faster and that citizens do not find themselves in a certain time vacuum in which they will be prevented from exercising their rights, so whether it is a replacement of goods or a refund of money. What is certainly most important is the introduction of an out-of-court dispute resolution institute. So far, citizens have been able to react in two ways, by applying the advertising process, and whether the advertising process will now end positively or negatively and in the event that it has ended negatively to initiate court proceedings. For some reasons, citizens did not want to initiate court proceedings, because they lasted too long and because they were exposed to certain monetary costs, both for filing a lawsuit and so in case the consumer eventually loses the dispute against the trader. I believe that one part of them was denied the use of their laws guaranteed by rights. Now, when we have the possibility of non-judicial dispute resolution, with the cooperation of certain bodies that have the necessary knowledge, which are in the register of the competent ministry, we will now solve it much faster and more effectively, but in order for citizens to be able to exercise their rights. It is also important to say that citizens of the Republic of Serbia were exposed to enormous monetary losses and costs during the rule of those who managed Serbia by 2012. They, unfortunately, did not have the opportunity to make a statement of appeal or any other legal remedy on these things, which were done by law. The money of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, which belongs to all of us here and the taxpayers who are looking at us today, was used for those projects that were justified only by those people who were sitting at the top of the DS and those jobs on making these projects and what they called large infrastructure projects were only given to those companies that were close to the regime at the time. One example is the Ada bridge, which former mayor Dragan Gilas represented as not knowing what infrastructure solution, it was built as a Shkodra on Bojana and cost all taxpayers 500m euros. Only 300m euros cost access to traffic. Now, imagine that bridge on Ada that's 900 meters long cost like today half the Moravia corridor, but that didn't matter to them at that point. It was important for certain people close to the DS at the time to take certain fees of four to fivem euros on the project's behalf, to implement the project as quickly as possible, so they were chasing for the project to be implemented until the elections to get them into an election campaign with the infrastructure project because they had nothing to offer to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. You today when you listen to a united and divided opposition, and I must remind you that all these people came from the former DS, so I ask the question – when today in the media they are called united and when the people represent that they will go out into so-called. "one column", then what did you break DS if you were all so ideal and wonderful? No, because there was an empty space between you, and it was called vanity. And that vanity still exists today. You of your vanity, dear representatives of the opposition, have nothing to offer the people. You focus on the Belgrade elections, and you know for what reason? Just so you could come back to power again, that your patron Dragan Gilas would come to power again, and you would rob the register again, like you had to do by 2012. Of course, this is your most important prey because today when the city is handled by serious and responsible people, there are over a billion euros in that register. It doesn't matter either, but when you don't have a single political argument, you go and sue both Serbia and SNS and Alexander Vukic and you talk about how we all oppress you together. What are we oppressing you with? We are oppressing you by the fact that the electoral conditions today that you are calling upon are much better than in 2012? By being Alexander Vucic and SNS, they gave you a 3% electoral censorship that you can't even cross today, to enter this parliament to be a certain political opposition, to tell the people what you're going to do for them in the coming years? No, you're going after the European Parliament, you're going after all the European institutions, and you're suing Alexander Vukic, you're suing Serbia, you're suing the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, why? Because you can't get to Belgrade's register again, you can't get to the republican budget so that your companies directly cooperate with these same companies and institutions and couples carry it out of the country or use that money to drive expensive cars and buy apartments in exclusive locations. Today, in 2021, Alexander Vukic here in the National Assembly talks with parties who do not go to sue the Republic of Serbia in European institutions, do not go to Brussels, do not go to Strasbourg, but want to talk here with legitimately elected representatives of his people. Remember, before 2012, did you ever see Boris Tadic discuss election conditions then with any of the representatives of the opposition SNS? Of course not. We who were then in the opposition wanted to come to power, to improve Serbia, to make the citizens a better place to live, but we fought under the rules laid down. So please, don't go, if you've already gone directly against your people by 2012, don't go against your people and announce new demonstrations, the new break of the city of Belgrade, the new beating of police officers. Coordinate, define, but certainly try to unite, you cannot overcome what is easy to see, which is the politics of Aleksandra Vukic, Serbia's progress and the prosperity of all Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-07-0.u8887	Thank you, Mr. Kesser. The word is Vesna Nedovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-07-0.u8888	The Honored Chairman, a respected minister with co-workers, respected citizens of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, aims at passing laws is a consumer protection system and bringing consumers' rights into line with EU consumer rights. This law imposes obligations on traders to participate in non-judicial disputes with dissatisfied customers. Merchants have often refused advertising, referring dissatisfied customers to the court, and they have not or rarely used their rights in this way. The signing of a special procedure for non-judicial resolution allows for the quick, efficient and effective resolution of consumer disputes on mutual satisfaction for both customers and traders. The dispute is only possible when the customer is advertised, and the trader rejects advertising and adds some evidence to it. The body that will be led by the ministry will be formed, and any trade will have to point out the obligation prescribed by law. Merchants who do not want to participate in extrajudicial disputes will be sanctioned. The new law prescribes a fine of 50,000 dinars for sellers who place their services and products on the phone without consumer consent. Phone numbers will be entered in a consumer register that does not want to receive calls and advertising messages this way. The electronic communications operator is required to enter or print data within seven days of receiving a request from the consumer, and the Ministry of Trade will prescribe a way to enter and print out the terms and conditions, as well as how to run this register. Even an example is services. high prices, repairs. Very often it happens that the price in the offer is not the same as the price in realisation. The prices after the repairs are much higher. With a new bill greater than 5,000 dinars, the masters are obliged to give a specification i.e. the exact offer indicated in the price of repairs. So, what's being fixed, how much was spent buying a new piece? The buyer agrees to that given offer, the master can start in realisation and begin his work. Without the offered specifications, the customer will not have to pay the service bill. This law provides for the possibility of the development of consumer movements and ways of financing and co-financing of their associations. The elections are as clear as the election date, and we are witnessing the dirtiest campaign of some of whom even 3% of the censors are not enough to be a parliamentary party. In the inability to offer Serbia a better future, they offer the fastest hate programme, nowhere ever seen in any country in the world. In the absence of money inflows that have damaged Serbian citizens, their targets are children, because if anyone wants all the worst children of their political opponent, it says it is not human. If their political weapon is an attack on the family, that's what it says about them, that family means nothing to them and that family is not sacred to them. It is our duty and obligation to speak out loud about it and thus express our support for our president. The self-proclaimed elite allows itself to judge who is human and who is not, who is actor and who is not. The same elite is silent and thus supporting the malignant statements of policy followers Dragan Gilas, who want our president's children to fall apart from the worst possible diseases. It's not politics, it's the worst possible hatred, it can't and can't be Serbia's future. The fight for the future is reconstructed hospitals, clinical centres and new homes of health, reconstructed and newly built schools, kindergartens, new highways, bridges, factories, stable and secure land. You gentlemen have left desolation all in favor of your wallets. The health system was so ruined that we could only be silent observers of desolation and tragic statistics left behind by the coronary virus, but there were built three hoofs of hospitals where young doctors saved thousands of lives and when all this evil went on, they would stay in their country and do their job in the best possible conditions, with normal salaries that Mr. Dragane Gilas, were much bigger than when you were in power both in the city and in the Republic. You declare that doctors should have 1,000 euros in salary and you're absolutely right, but why didn't you fight for those same salaries when you were in position? Of course you weren't thinking about them, because you were just thinking about yourself and how you'd devastate the budget by 619m euros. You offer the past, we offer the future that builds, creates security, peace and stability. The future of this country is that more babies are born and this is the goal of this government headed by President Alexander Vukic. I must commend the community from which I come. The municipality of Zemun for the fifth year in a row is divided by ranches containing pillows, T-shirts, writing and drawing kits. So 1863 students first received this little sign of attention from the Zemun municipality in 20 elementary schools. In the voting day, I will support the bill's proposal, as well as my parliamentary group, Aleksandar Vukic, for our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-07-0.u8889	Thank you. The word has a doctor, Dr. Ilija Živić.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-07-0.u8890	Dear Mr. Chairman, the Honorable Minister with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, respected citizens, when we talk about the Consumer Protection Act, I, as Vice-President of the Committee on Economy, Mr. Arsic, can tell the citizens of Serbia that the session we discussed in this law was the longest session we have ever had, which only speaks of the quality of the debate in which all the members of the Committee participated, but also here present co-workers of Ms. Minister. What is extremely important is that present officials, i.e. people working in the ministry, were extremely cooperative, that all our objections were adequately answered, that some of our objections were even adopted, which is extremely rare and happened in the past, while Mr. Gilas and Mr. Jeremic were in power. So once again, on behalf of the citizens of Serbia, thank you for the relationship you have shown to the MPs of the National Assembly and the Committee on Economic Affairs. Otherwise, when it comes to the law itself, for me the most significant newspaper is related to Article 37 and the project "Don't Call", or to the possibility of citizens asking their operator to find their number on the list of numbers that companies that offer everything and everything through telephone sales must not call under the threat of a fine of 50,000 dinars. I think this is the most significant change in the law, and it will mean the most to the citizens of Serbia in practice, especially our senior citizens, pensioners who were the most common target of these sudden phone calls attacks on the weekends or after 19.00 hours. I personally had a call from the SBB a few days ago, it was Saturday at 7:30, asking me if I wanted to make a deal with them, even though I never gave them my phone number. Where'd they get these phone numbers, where did they get our data? This system of manipulative sales has been alive in Serbia since the moment Dragan Gilas mastered Serbia's marketing space through his agencies and connected persons and thus obtained not only great money, but also data and phone numbers. Well, we SNS MPs have decided that this harassment of our fellow citizens and pensioners is officially on our way, as is appropriate, by passing this law. The next problem that was present was that when pensioners received such a call, they were not informed at all how much it costs to transport the product, or how much it costs to postage and then when the product arrived, they would be surprised and shocked by the price and the product, but also by the price of the postage, or delivery. However, our pensioners, such as proud, dignified, have so far been paying for a product they really didn't need, but also too expensive postage. When we talk about consumer protection, it is important to say that consumers have the right to know and where the money they pay for so-called. directors, such as property tax, heating, cleaning of buildings and other items that flow through public enterprises into the Republic and city register, i.e. the budget. So today citizens can see hundreds of kilometers of highways built, dozens of bridges, a large number of hospitals built, renovated city squares and museums that were abandoned during the rule of Gilas and Jeremic. I will remind Serbian citizens that thanks to Dragan Gilas, the National Museum has been closed for 20 years. Twenty years in downtown Belgrade, the magnificent institution was shut down thanks to its lack of care for the building. However, money has not always been adequately available, say Belgrade's citizens. It is time to remind the citizens of Serbia that Gilas spent their money while he was mayor. According to an NGO survey, Gilas paid 11,000 euros in citizens' money in 2012 to participate in the award ceremony, which also paid 7,280 euros from the Belgrade city budget. People, he gave 18,280 euros to our money, our money, our children's money, to secure himself, no less than six minutes and nine seconds on RTS to boast that he got that reward he could make himself for 2,000 dinars. Otherwise, how serious is the institution, the one that gave him the award and which he gave 18,280 euros, for which at that time it was possible to buy three fiattas full and bow down to some home of health or to provide a meal for all the children in kindergartens in one day, I will show you now. Once you get on that NGO's website, you'll see what they do. I'm asking the camera to get closer to this. Come closer, I know RTS isn't fond of us, but please bring this closer. The NGO he gave 18,000 euros to sell on his perfume, tie and chocolate site. He gave the NGO 18,000 euros to win their prize and strut on RTS for nine minutes and six seconds. Now the logical question is asked – is he stupid for what he did? No, he's not stupid, he's just shy when it comes to having our money and money spent by our children, but on the other hand he's been taking great care of his millions, about his 619 million dollars he's using today to pay his subjects, such as Marinika Tepic, the person who changed the most parties in the history of Serbian parliamentism. The same one that asked for a resolution accusing Serbia and Serbs of genocide. The same one that wasn't fenced by Prostava's committees, Milo Djukanovic, funded by the tobacco mafia, cocaine cartels, who wanted to shoot our patriarch with a sniper. The same sniper they tried to kill Metropolitan Joanniki in 2019. Today, the same tycoon Gilas, who has been rich in using mafia methods, to make TV owners pay him marketing seconds, uses the same money to muddle Serbia's state and the Spruce Orthodox Church in every way possible. His hatred for the Serbian Orthodox Church, whose priests butchered and threw into the pits, goes so far as to transfer directly to his portal, no less than the Croatian stance on the entrenched capitalist Joanniki in Cetinje. Please, can anyone lower than this go? Does Dragan Gilas not have a position on the Serbian Orthodox Church or not have it, so he must go to Zagreb for that view about the SPC and our Metropolitan? Gentlemen, I have a message for him for that matter, and I think you'll all be behind it. Strong Don Corleone Milo Djukanovic broke his teeth at the Serbian Orthodox Church, so they will also be broken by Dragan Gilas. Finally, I would like to promise the citizens of Serbia that we, the SNS MPs, led by President Vukic, will continue to amend all the laws that Gilas and his tycoon-mafian group used to make use of to make a fortune at the expense of citizens and that we will continue to pass new laws that are in the interest of a common man, not a tycoon, profiter and foreign embassies, as Gilas and Jeremic did in their time.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-07-0.u8891	Thank you, Mr. Liver. The word is Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-07-0.u8892	Thank you. Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, the Honorable Minister, fellow MPs and MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, we today have a system-based new law, that is the Consumer Protection Act. In the focus of the SNS, the focus of the "Alexandar Vukic – To our children" parliamentary group is to protect the best interests of every citizen of the Republic of Serbia in any role it appears. This is, of course, about protecting consumers, citizens of the Republic of Serbia who are in the role of consumers. I must point out that Serbia has made economic progress and thanks to economic progress, the market has developed, and consumer protection and the best way to protect consumers in fact indicates that competition must be healthy, operate on legal grounds and be fair and correct. Competition, sound competition and how important it is from the aspect of economic growth and development, and the Republic of Serbia, thanks to President Aleksandr Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, notes economic growth and progress yearly and records the better standard of living for every citizen of the Republic of Serbia. What I want first to point out is that this law preceded a broad public debate, that the proposal and adoption of this law included organisations, i.e. consumer associations and alliances, that the Chamber of Commerce was involved, that the bill was also discussed by the Assembly Committee on Business, that the professors of law and other relevant institutions were involved, and that all those objections and objections, which were justified, entered and became an integral part of the law. What is a key change in this law concerns consumer protection and consumer protection through participation in extrajudicial mediation. Why is this important from the consumer aspect? This is important because consumers will no longer have to initiate litigation, or to expose themselves to unnecessary costs, because through this law the obligation is imposed on traders to participate in extrajudicial mediation and to actually reach an agreement with the consumer, i.e. the buyer of these products. I must point out that the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications is also helping NGOs, consumer associations through allocating funding for all those projects that are of public interest and concern consumer protection. Also, I must point out that the Ministry of Trade, or the Government of the Republic of Serbia, has defined since 2020 and the money for the work of the body to carry out the intervention procedures, and that is five million for 2020, eight million and 2022 million dinars. This is also important from the consumer's point of view because they will not have to be exposed to additional costs, as of course it is also significant from the point of view of traders. I must point out that the total consumer protection association in Serbia is registered 90. They are in the APR, 24 are also in the Ministry of Trade and I must point out that seven consumer associations from the Zlatibor County are also on the record and the Ministry of Trade. Also, I must point out that more powers have been given to the inspection, and in particular, it is aimed at one single objective, which is to protect consumers from being able to impose an infringement order against traders, or service providers, which means that payment can be made immediately on the spot in order not to go to court and so that court disputes do not last too long, and, of course, too long litigation only goes to consumer harm. What I would like to point out is that, in one part of this law, it also refers to the Ministry of Justice which will keep an orderly record of all consumer disputes in such a way that the courts will be obliged to submit reports by 31 March of the current year for the previous year on all consumer disputes, on the length of their duration and of course on the number of court proceedings completed. Also, I want to point out that Serbia is progressing in an economic sense, regardless of the pandemic of Kovid, to the almost greatest economic crisis in the world. This is reflected in the public debt situation, which is 55.2% today. I must point out that during the time of the yellow tycoon company of Dragan Gilas who knew nothing else was working but producing public debt, the public debt was 79%. I must also point out that Serbia during 2021, regardless of the Kovida pandemic, is one of the rare countries in the world that has increased the minimum wage, which has increased the untaxable share of earning employers, which has increased pensions by 5.9%, which has increased salaries. So, the government of the Republic of Serbia and President Aleksandar Vukic and how they care about citizens and states are doing everything they can to help both citizens and businesses. The eight billion-euro state of Serbia has invested in three aid and support packages for both citizens and businesses, and is recognised by the whole world, both the IMF and the World Bank and the International Labour Organisation, which says the Republic of Serbia had the highest and most comprehensive measures to help citizens and businesses and even that Serbia's poverty rate has been reduced regardless of Kovid's pandemic. During the tycoon, Dragan Gilas and during the yellow robbery company in 12 years, citizens, the state and the economy were sickened by 100 billion euros. Only Dragan Gilas in Belgrade, as mayor, has drained Belgrade's budget for a billion and 200 million dinars, and filled his private pockets with 619m euros. Imagine, tycoon Dragan Gilas and, of course, his friend Solak do not hesitate to take besides the consumer basket in 2010 and 2020. It's a shame they even do it because the people know and remember. Parents know that at the time of Dragan Gilas, 400,000 people were out of work, that they went to the shops to buy an egg for breakfast for their children, that 25.9% of people were unemployed. Today that number is one digit. That they shut down, shut down all the factories that existed in Serbia, sold out, robbed. The factory even carried parts of the machine. Today Serbia is working and building. Nowhere is done in this part of Europe, and certainly not in Europe, but in Serbia. Serbia today is a major construction site. The total foreign investment today has 2 billion and 600m euros. That's why we're the leader. So investors have confidence in the work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, have confidence in Alexander Vukic's politics. That's why their investments are big here. Only German companies now employ 72,000 workers, and in 2014 the number of employees in German companies was 17,000. The faceless lie that Dragan Gilas and Solak published refers to the average consumer basket in 2010, meaning at the time of the yellowest government, when the IMF saw dealings with Serbia had escaped with its head regardless, they claim in that list that the consumer basket in 2010 was 32,000 dinars. The real consumer basket was 54,000 dinars. So they don't lie for a bit, they lie for the big one. They're lying to everyone. Every word they say is a lie, because they don't have politics. They are haters of everything advanced in Serbia, haters of children, haters of children above all of our President Alexander Vukic, but haters are surely all other children. They only like their private pockets and their cash on various destinations scattered around the world. The people of Serbia know and remember and therefore lie, fraud, manipulation, robbery will never win the support of the people. They've already been sent to the wasteland of history to dig and roll in their own mud. Aleksandar Vukic lives and works for Serbia every day and a better life for Serbian citizens. That people also see and know and that is why Alexander Vukic's policy has no alternative, for the sake of the future, for all of our children's sake. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-07-0.u8893	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dusan Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-07-0.u8894	Sir, Orlic, ladies and gentlemen, I think this bill is good, comprehensive. I think the move forward is relative to the existing law and I will vote for its adoption. However, I also have a few objections, and now, due to time, I'm only going to make two remarks. The first remark concerns the fact that I do not think that the promoter has paid attention enough attention to protecting consumers from buying goods, from buying products that have expired, I am thinking first of all about food products. If you talk to merchants, workers who work in stores, you'll hear it's a mass phenomenon. Store owners have practically developed systems, they say, to roll goods and merchants who refuse to sell goods along with goods that are nearing the expiry date to which they point out the duration and often have problems and get fired. Secondly, I don't think you've devoted enough attention to protecting consumers from aggressive marketing. What's this about? It is that for twenty years several of Serbia's largest trade chains have been bombarding citizens with imbecile lies every day through television screens as some product costs 99.99 dinars or 399 dinars and 99 pairs. It's about faceless lying. The first thing, money as a means of payment in the Republic of Serbia does not exist. So, to me, as I understand the work of the market authorities, it comes to mind, that after broadcasting such a commercial inspection tomorrow, it should go into that trading chain and ask him to explain to him how some goods could cost 99.99 dinars. I believe that this proposal is a law, as well as a current law, regardless of all shortcomings, is proof that Serbia has good regulations. We are a country with good laws, the problem is that the application of these laws is sometimes not appropriate. I will list two examples of this law, and I will refer to two members, they are the same in the old law and in this bill. Article 23. – it is prohibited to sell, serve and donate alcoholic beverages including beer, tobacco products or pyrotechnic means to persons under 18 years of age. In the event of a suspicion that the consumer is a person under 18 years old, the trader is not obliged to sell or serve an alcoholic drink, beer, tobacco product or pyrotechnic means until the consumer allows the trader to see the valid ID card, passport or driver's license. It's all clear and loud. Unfortunately, this is mostly a dead letter on paper. If at night, especially on the weekends, you go out to any city in Serbia, you will see cafes full of children, and you will see that many of them drink beer and other alcoholic beverages and you will see that many of them are drunk. But I'm telling you that you won't see the waiter or the owner of the catering facility come to ask the child for his ID, let alone warn him that he shouldn't drink and let alone deny him a drink. On the contrary, both waiters and owners of catering facilities encourage children to drink, because in this way they encourage their traffic and for another reason, there are more of them but I will mention this, statistics show that most children in Serbia first try narcotics in cafes. When the kid drinks, when he consumes a little more alcohol, he's willing to do something that he'll never do in a sober state. What's this about? It's a poor work of inspection services, and there are three explanations for that. First explanation - an objective lack of quality frames. Another explanation - corruption and a third explanation - the unpreparedness of the inspector to object. You know, bar owners are mostly people who have a certain impact in the middle, especially when it comes to small towns and it's kind of easier for inspectors not to blame themselves for the children of powerful people in their town who can have problems. This problem can be solved very easily, in two months, by law enforcement. So in every city to make control, close two or three cafes where children are sold alcoholic drinks for a month or two. When they start working again, if they repeat that offence, the ban carries out their actions. The other owners of cafes and other catering facilities won't come up with drinking children afterwards. I will also refer to Article 9 in the draft law and Article 9 in the applicable law, and this member is talking about the sale of fuel and, in this way, formulating the rental of parking space. When you park a car in Belgrade, if within four minutes and 59 seconds you don't send a text message saying you paid for the parking lot, you get a $1,850 fine card. Those in the parking lot say it's a daily card. Honestly, it looks more like a robbery to me. And now I'm going to explain why. For people who live in Belgrade, who know about street schedules, who know where they're going, where they're going, etc., who know how to pay for parking, who know about where the border is first, second, third zones and where the phone numbers need to send text messages, five minutes is some decent time for which they can buy a certain parking time. However, several thousand people from the interior come to Belgrade daily. People come from the Great Plan, where I live. There's no parking lot there. There are people who don't know how to pay for parking. And now imagine when someone comes to Belgrade, they're trying to find a parking spot, because, you know, when you get out of a car in Belgrade, you come to some business, first you look at the things you're going to take, what you need, what you need, what you leave in the car, etc., some normal stuff that every normal man does. After that, you need to get out of the car and go looking for that board that says you're paying for the parking lot. You can sometimes find that board after 10 seconds and sometimes you can't find it after a minute. No god if you have passengers in your car, and even older people, and more children, then your ability to pay in four minutes and 59 seconds parking absolutely impossible. Only that you're Hussein Bolt or Vera Nikolic. I propose to the city government with good intentions to change this time, to extend time to 10 minutes or to make this time step forward. How? It's very simple. So if you're late to pay for the parking lot in five minutes, you'll pay for two or three hours of parking. If you don't pay in half an hour, you'll pay half a day. And if you don't pay within an hour or two, it doesn't matter, eh, you'll pay the parking spot for the whole day. Not only do I criticise the city's government, I must commend the decision of the city of Belgrade, it seems to me that it is in effect today, it is an extraordinary decision for me, that the catering facilities will not be able to play music on open working days after 22 hours and on the weekend after 23 hours. We are witnesses across Serbia that citizens are mainly terrorised by owners of catering facilities and cafes that terrorise music, and I think local self-government on this issue should be seen in Belgrade. I propose to the Government that the Parliament be urgently provided with a new draft law on the protection of the population from noise and that an integral part of that law be the right of municipal inspection to have manual noise measurement devices, because inspections today literally have no way to fit in the vicinity of the proud hosts who terrorise the population with music, citizens who live there. Cities that have municipal police are a little easier, because municipal police have powers and should in any case consider giving municipal inspections in municipalities some authority of the municipal police. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-07-0.u8895	I thank Mr. Maric. The word is Alexander Mirkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-07-0.u8896	The Honorable Chairman, the honourable representatives of the ministry, the honourable fellow Members of the People's Parliament and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, of course I will agree with fellow Members of Parliament who have previously spoken and of course we will support this bill. I agree absolutely that the Consumers Act is particularly interesting for citizens, because they are very often in a position to use the provisions of this law. What I want to mention is the fact that, in addition to this law and everything that we're discussing today, it's much more important to follow the law itself and how this law applies. You know, if we adopt something here today, and it just remains a dead letter on paper, you'll agree with me that we haven't done some big job and that citizens won't benefit much from it unless we literally apply everything we talked about today. I am convinced that in this future period we will be able to further improve everything about protecting the rights of citizens, but also through some constructive discussions we can come up with even better solutions. People's MPs, apart from their work and doing it here in the House of the National Assembly, are also in frequent contact with citizens, so everything you hear from us today can be freely applied and taken into consideration, because it didn't just occur to one of us, but it came as a result of conversations or some suggestions, suggestions, and even criticism from citizens from those places where we come from. When we talk about consumer protection and when we talk about this law, we often implement this term of "deception" and how sometimes consumers are deceived by advertising, whether by declaration, whether by guarantee or by talking about how often consumer trust is abused and I fully agree with it, but I am somewhere and confident that, as much as we try, some large companies or some large chain of producers will try to enforce it in one way or another, and I am confident that we will in the interest of citizens will fight that we do not have more or to reduce them to a minimum, but I am also confident that if we apply this law properly, the citizens will be much happier and happier. When we talk about deceptions, just the other day in conversation with the citizens of Voždovec, I heard from one man a constructive idea which, unfortunately, your ministry cannot apply, which is to control citizens' confidence in political parties, i.e. monitoring and misleading what the breaks are. I thought a man was just saying that. However, he had a very good idea, which is that it would be great if someone could also follow what the parties were saying, both during the day and in the epicentre of the election campaign, so it would be interesting to follow how much they have deceived the citizens and whether there would be any consequences. I absolutely agree with this man, and when we talk about it, here you are, witnesses and you have been able to hear how many times only representatives of the former DS regime, painted in Dragan Gilas and Vuk Jeremic, have deceived not the citizens of Belgrade, but all of Serbia. You have heard many examples from MPs who, in their own case and in their personal place, have provided some information that is absolutely incredible and if you would view them as consumers, citizens who have accepted these services and promises, then you will agree that they are brutally deceived in this way. I do not want to remind now that the metro in Belgrade will be built in 2010, 2011 and 2012, I will not remind the citizens that the DS regime has promised Serbia, our country back for years, and that they have never done anything in this field, that they have promised higher salaries and pensions, and that Serbia has fallen deeper and weaker. I can give you millions of examples like this, just like my colleagues. But what is particularly interesting to me today is the rude insult of intelligence to citizens, primarily Belgrade, but then all of Serbia. Namely, what's this about? Dragan Gilas is today a current council member in the Belgrade City Assembly. He's the president of the Freedom and Justice Party. His party has recently been engaged in pure demagogy, delusions, but above all, in a policy of hatred that is being expressed to President Alexander Vukic's family, and today, particularly these days, currently, his son, Danil Vukic. You are in a position to see a variety of newspapers, but also media campaigns in certain media that are directly controlled by Dragan Gilas, where this has become a practice. But what is particularly interesting is that it seems to me, two years ago or a year ago, his faithful companion, but from another party, from Vuk Jeremic's party, Nikola Jovanovic, also his fellow city councilman, who he said, said, for the head of the committee group, was insulting his boss Vuk Jeremic in a coffee conversation, so, most of all, to me, the right hand of Dragan Djilas, at that point, Parliament member Marinik Tepic, a woman who will remain remembered as the initiator of a resolution that Serbia would be found guilty of genocide in Srebrenica. Nikola Jovanovic said all sorts of ugly things about the same woman on that occasion. I can't do it and this house doesn't allow me to quote something like that, but absolutely everybody knows what it's about. The term is used – on the bike. Indeed, I don't want to quote it, but I think the citizens of Serbia know what it is. At that point, the big boost, as it was supposed to be, Nikola Jovanovic, for the Freedom and Justice Party is becoming the most hated person in these ranks. Even though they were together until yesterday, Dragan Djilas and Nikola Jovanovic, there is a major deviation, so you have come to the situation that Dragan Gilas in certain statements and says he had no contact with Nikola Jovanovic, that he does not know what happened and that they are in bad relations. Shortly after such talks came public, Gilas said the following – Nikola Jovanovic wiped himself out of the political scene. Because of the insults addressed to one woman, I absolutely agree that such a man should not be part of the political scene, although I absolutely disagree with Marinika Tepic about nothing at all, although I think that the only policy is hate and lie, but no lady deserves the insult he has made about it. Here, you see, unlike Dragan Gilas and his fellow Members, we from the SNS have no problem saying we condemn any insult or any kind of violence, which is not the case with them. What's more, they encourage him and insult every colleague of ours who stands forward and says something against them or against their politics, all justified and true. What's interesting about this? So, Gilas says Nikola Jovanovic has erased himself from the political scene, says they have no touch points, that they absolutely know nothing about each other and that any further co-operation is impossible. Shortly afterwards, the mention of Nikola Jovanovic forms some kind of NGO called "local Self-Government". Very proud of it, he is the strongest critic of the projects in Belgrade, but in general SNS policies, as well as of President Aleksandr Vukic. His statements with Dragan Gilas are often intertwined, and there is already a sign of their co-operation. As I always want to discuss the arguments here, which is confirmed by the pictures, and concrete evidence, the link between the Freedom and Justice Party, that is, Dragan Gilas and "Local Self-Government" Nikola Jovanovic, is very easy to establish. In public, they say they have nothing to do with each other. However, you have on their home page, so "Local Self-Government", you have the part where you can find our team. Our team happily poses Nikola Jovanovic, with its biography, but another member of their great team is a certain Ana Godjevac. So, Ana Godjevac is part of the team, known to people in Belgrade for not having a thing done in the city of Belgrade in the interest of the citizens of Belgrade, without her being her strongest critic. And it would be no dispute if this Mrs. Ana Gođevac had not led the municipal board of the Freedom and Justice Party of Dragan Gilas at Vračar and not been signed as a Party of Freedom and Justice when he made statements. So, Ana Godjevac is at the same time, pay attention to you, and official of the Party of Freedom and Justice Dragan Gilas, which you can see here where they say they have a plan for Belgrade, but is also part of Nikola Jovanovic's team, at this Centre for Local Self-Government. Why is this so important? In this way, respected citizens of Serbia, you can only see in one case how many people are willing to deceive you, lie, earn personal interest, personal promotion and vote more. Now from this point of view, the Consumers Act only sets one thing. If we view these two parties as some kind of brands so-called or as some kind of service provider, as some kind of action, and voters who would possibly vote for them as consumers, only an open question is being raised – is this consumer deception? This is what I'm gonna end up with. All that I have now brought is only one in a series of indicators that neither Dragan Gilas nor Vuk Jeremic nor their followers at any level there is anything sacred in that they will not trample any given word. Well, that's right, and those people they're in a great conflict with, who the minors talk about don't even know, their first associates and cross together just so they're in the general interest and united about the hatred they have for Alexander Vukic and the SNS have picked up a few votes more. The campaign against both Danil Vukic and Alexander Vukic is something not only recorded in Serbia, but worldwide. But from this place and from each other I would only like to tell the citizens of Serbia that all the results achieved so far by the Serbian Government, the next responsible policy of President Aleksandr Vukic, such lies and such hatred will never be erased, and that the laws we are adopting today and that we will adopt in the next period will be guided only by the sole interest of the citizens of Serbia and the better life of every man in our country, wherever he lives. I am convinced, respected representatives of this ministry, the minister, unfortunately, is not here with us, but I am convinced that in the next period we will discuss more good laws and that this will make life easier for our citizens and that we will all, together as one big team of our own, make it an even better place to live. Thank you. Long live Serbia!
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-07-0.u8897	Thank you. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-07-0.u8898	Thank you, Vice President Orlic. Dear representatives of the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, are certain to amend and supplement the Consumer Protection Act in order to improve the quality of life of Serbian citizens, to improve their rights, and that is one of the consequences of what was done in the past few years when economic reforms were involved and their implementation in our country and everything that President Aleksandar Vukic started as a process when he was Prime Minister in 2014. So, with heavy reforms, with the implementation of a difficult fiscal consolidation and the creation of a good and favourable business environment and attracting foreign direct investment, as well as raising domestic economy and capacity for domestic, micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. The matter is very simple when we talk about consumer protection. The point is that this is one stage where citizens themselves, as people who have the right to be elected and to choose, are people who seek the protection of their own rights and seek according to their economic development, their quality of life becomes better, better quality, more dignified. Free is any protection of consumers, if these consumers and citizens have nothing to spend, if they have nowhere to earn their wages, if they have nowhere to work. This is what made clear the differentiation of everything that personified the government by 2012 and everything that the ruling majority today is doing with SNS and Aleksandra Vucic, which is that today Serbian citizens have a job, that today the unemployment rate is lower than 10%. Today, the economy in our country is very tough, and we have shown it during this very challenging period in which we have been in the second year, caused by Kovidom-19. So, a huge, big, global pandemic crisis, and where we have shown that we can deal with big problems, to preserve our economy, but also to preserve the health of our citizens, to preserve our health system. We are one of the few countries, not only in Europe, but in the world, which can be proud and say that we have built three covids of hospitals, to build, to announce one good news and something that will happen on Thursday, which is the beginning of the construction of the Chinese vaccine factory, the Sinofarm vaccines, after what has already been started as a process between Torlak and Russia's Gamalea and the Russian government, as regards the production of the Russian vaccine Sputnik V. All this tells of how much Serbia has been able to lead, how much Alexander Vucic has managed to make and preserve such an environment in terms of our economy and our businesses. So the end result will be highlighted at the traffic light, and this traffic light is such that economic growth in our country will be more than 6% this year, even some predict 6.5% and 7%, which is a historic result for the Serbian economy, for the Serbian economy. This is all it is, after all, the result of one very wise foreign-political leadership by Alexander Vukic, the ability to manage the economy and economic life of our country, so that our businesses are as successful as possible, to employ as many people as possible, to be more competitive and to make Serbia take huge steps towards modernization and what is most important, and that is what SNS is most concerned with, and that is an ordinary man, an ordinary citizen who should exercise all his rights in the 21st century and live in accordance with its civilizational assets and the achievements of the modern world. When you take a closer look at and get into the analysis of the situation in the Republic of Serbia and compare the situation six, seven years ago when the fear of losing a job in people, according to all the public opinion studies made in our country, was greater than the fear of death, when the unemployment rate was 26%. You have a situation today that anyone who wants to work can get a job. Today you have a situation where you have companies, foreign companies that come here, which employ thousands of people, in which our engineers, our economists, our top lawyers, our young people who can make a profit, who can fill and improve their own career, but also to improve the quality of their families and their children's lives, and thus we meet what is the main goal of Serbian President Alexander Vukic to strengthen the maximum demographic characteristics of this country and to carry out and to keep thinking about how to make us more. Only in this way can our political position be better, our military position can be better, our economic position can be better. I feel free to say that we have prevented, that Aleksandar Vukic has prevented a brain drain abroad, those who are the most qualified, those who are highly qualified, who have the best schools. We even have a very important trend that is rarely talked about because it's not a major topic. The main topic is Vučić, the main topic is his family, whether his son went to study cooking or taking a bath somewhere at sea or at the pool, but it is not the main issue that mass people who have graduated from colleges abroad who have worked in certain important foreign positions are returning to Serbia. They're coming back because there's an investment. They come back because they can make money in Serbia. They come back because life in Serbia is good and good. They come back because the infrastructure in Serbia is getting better and better, with a network of highways, with three airports we currently have. I will remind the citizens of the Republic of Serbia that just a month before the pandemic, we had more than five million people passing through Nikola Tesla Airport in 2020. More than a double level of people who visited Serbia or used Serbia as a kind of traffic hub in the airline. Serbia is becoming a leader in many industrial branches, in many of those sectors and areas that those who were incompetent, whom Serbia, patriotism, economy, production did not interest, who only through the leadership of this country and through power filled their pockets, filled their accounts, themselves and their families. So, these opportunities have been missed and I know, we all know, in our party, it's very difficult to reach the level of development Serbia deserves in a few years. Aleksandar Vukic has shown that this is possible, that Serbia has the capacity, that it has a good economy, that we have a winning spirit, that we can be a leader, that we can be leaders in production, in information technologies, and also in tourism. I must really commend the tourism minister who proved to be a very good minister, who has done a lot in the area of tourism for these few months, although the challenges have also been great. As far as consumer protection is concerned, I will link it to the subject, of course, today's sessions, we no longer have the situation we had a few years ago to have people, individuals or travel agencies or tour operators coming here, understanding this country as a banana state, robbing citizens, fleeing abroad and, of course, damaging thousands, thousands of people. Because until a few years ago, the world looked at us like that, because these partners were actually speculators, and they looked at us like one country where it was possible to do everything without any consequences and without any sanctions. In the past few years, Serbia has become one reliable partner to the international community, key international players. Serbia is a serious state, and I am free to say, of course we should be ashamed of it, by 2012, we were an ordinary "dominion", a "banana state" that was not managed by the people, which was not governed by parliament, the government and the president of the Republic, but was managed by the foreign embassies, by a foreign factor that even affected who would be in the ministerial position, who would lead which resolution, which investor would come here and what conditions would give him for business. Serbia is no longer a country that can be treated and of course such behaviour, such a position has produced a fruit that today we have the growth of gross domestic product at the historical level and that we have a serious state, a legal state which, in addition to having an impact on the creation of a very favourable business environment, affects and deals with being both economically and naturally socially responsible, but also protects its citizens in every way possible. Why is consumer protection so important, why is it so important to citizens? When you look at that Maslovan hierarchy of need, you have, of course, the whole pyramid, the first part, the first needs are ordinary, existential needs of people, the one who doesn't have bread, the one who doesn't have to go to the store, what kind of protection he can or should think about when he can't even buy a wardrobe, when he can't buy a car, when he can't afford himself and his family almost nothing? Of course, by 2012, while the state was ruled by tycoons, while the state was ruled by the one who wants to take power again, which is Dragan Gilas, of course, did not need the Consumer Protection Act at the time. And if he existed, he was completely inadmissible. Today, when people have a job, today when people in families, when they work two people, when they have the opportunity to earn, when they have the opportunity to school their children in a dignified way, to expand these needs, not only to be existential, but to meet the need for self-accumulating, for some kind of need to improve their social, social life, that's what the SNS has brought as a new one, that's what this long-term and hard work is, that people today don't think about whether they're going to get their salary, whether some employer is going to cheat them, they won't pay their contributions, they're not going to pay taxes to this country, they're thinking about whether they're going to get the most quality possible goods, they're going to get the best possible service, and of course if they don't get to have someone to complain, and they can count on a country at full capacity that they're going to stand behind them and who will give them maximum protection. Also, the full pandan of this is the growing interest of people in environmental protection, air quality, quality of education, so all levels of education. It's something that Alexander Vukic and SNS have done in the past six or seven years, hard and daily working on economic growth, attracting investment, fighting for every job, fighting for anyone who wanted to open a shop here with 20, 50 or 100 people. Alexander Vukic wasn't having a hard time opening the plant, going to open the factory to get to it today, here's a colleague of Sandra Christmas, that in Panchev we have a German company that employs over a thousand people, in which the net profit is an average net profit of 1,700 euros. (Sandra Christmas: 2,000 euros. ) Here I am, corrected by my colleague Christmas, two thousand euros net earnings average. So Serbia today is a country in which everyone wants to invest, in which it is good to work, in which it is good to do business and it is a very simple formula. This success that we have made on the economic plan, which is why they take off our hat both in Washington and Brussels and in Moscow and in Beijing, has contributed to the fact that we can also be socially responsible, that we can be responsible in every way possible, and that we can be responsible when it comes to the basic protection of our citizens, such as those who are consumers, who are in daily communication, in contact with traders or anyone when they buy goods or use certain services. This tells you how much the quality of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia has been improved, how strong the citizens of the Republic of Serbia are, how much Serbia today is a decent country, and we measure it according to the fact that we want the average profit in this country to be in two or three years, nine hundred to thousands of euros, which is now the average earnings in Belgrade of 712 euros, which we are sharing these days 67,000 tablets of computers to children in primary schools, 6,700 laptops to teachers in primary schools. It's the city of Belgrade, it's the Republic of Serbia. It is a modern state and we will continue to work and act, be responsible for our citizens and follow the policies of our president and leader Alexander Vukic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-07-0.u8899	Thank you, Mr. Marinkovic. The word is Viktor Jevtovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-07-0.u8900	Thank you. President-in-Office, Dr Vladimire Orlic, respected minister with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I will talk about the Consumer Protection Bill, because, as we do so far, we show responsibility to the citizens of Serbia, and that is what is the basic postulate of politics, President Alexander Vukic and SNS. The law adopted in 2014 changes by more than 50% in order to protect consumers, in the exercise of all their rights, where, among other things, consumer safety, responsibility for products with shortages, consumer protection in the exercise of the right of travel contracts and time-sharing of the use of immovable property. The basis of this law is the protection of the collective interest of consumers, where it is one of the segments and the non-judicial resolution of consumer disputes. Also, the introduction of a new system, the register "do not call", which is extremely important for our older citizens, because so far we have had examples that they have been invited by phone and that traders have offered certain products. This law will prohibit sending messages and calls to consumers who do not want to. In order to provide services with a value greater than 5,000 dinars, the seller is obliged to make a budget on a permanent carrier with a service specification and to obtain written consent from the consumer to the budget. It also extends the time limit for advertising to 15 days, so consumers will be able to advertise damaged or inadequate products and thus have security in the purchase of desired products. In the part of the law relating to EU travel directives and travel arrangements, travellers will be obliged to provide passengers with all relevant information prior to the conclusion of the contract, with all explanations, as detailed in Article 93 of this Bill. Unless the travel organizer honors the contract, the passenger will not be obliged to pay for the service. What is one of the most important items is the provision of a mediation service, i.e. a non-judicial solution to the consumer dispute to be carried out in a transparent, efficient, quick and fair way before the body for the non-judicial settlement of consumer disputes. The work of the market inspection will also be increased, which will contribute to better protection of the interests of citizens, but also to the preservation of the state system itself, where both through tax collection and fiscal accounts will preserve the budget of the Republic of Serbia, as well as all rights guaranteed by this law to citizens. To this end, it was also taken into account for entrepreneurs who regularly reconcile their obligations and protect their interests, as this is the policy of Aleksandra Vukic - citizens and Serbia in the first place. As the former tycoon regime led by Dragan Gilas and Šolak in the manner of proven fraud led his concern for the citizens of Serbia, what plan and programme, except for the bitter wealth and waste while leading and the state had. We know what they had. The sale of state-owned enterprises, the destruction of the economy, hospitals, kindergartens, factories, anything that didn't go into their private pockets, or exotic destinations, because they only found something for themselves in murky business with even more blurry business partners. Now that the people don't love them, if the people don't want them, they'd be happy to talk to all those who are bothered by Serbia's strong and successful. They don't run away from anything. All their bestiality is best shown in the Satanization of President Alexander Vukic's family, primarily his children, the sons of Daniel and Vukan, the daughter of Milice and his brother Andrej, and not saving the parents of Alexander Vukic. For coalition partners, they have chosen the most monstrous clan of Belivuk. And even their senseless politics, which came down to hate alone, is not the end. Every day they go a step further in a way unique to them, racing who will be louder in the Talibanisation, as they call it, the Serb people and the state. Of course, there is also Dragan Djilas, with his Vicar Marinic of Buljarica Tepic, whose reflection of patriotism is her attempt to Satanise the Serb people as genocide. In the shallowness of this unfinished personality, and with the help and support of its boss and patrons, they have bestowed on you in the Serbian flag, the anthem "God of Justice", because they do not know about God and justice, but everyone does what is best. Instead of sharing with the people a sense of pride that the first day of the school year begins with the intonation of the Serbian anthem, in particular with their immorality, they most unscrupulously condemned something that should be a symbol of Serbian style and unity. Something that should be a cornerstone of the nation, for them was a joke and a degradation. This is for them and all of us who are proud of our country and of what Alexander Vukic does for the people, and what they will never be able to do in their dreams. One of the last such examples is the Nazi symbols that took place in Novi Sad, which the Novosadians painted in the colors of the flag of Serbia, and now Gilas and Marinika and that flag of Serbia, as well as Serbia itself, and the people of Serbia themselves, are bothering them. What these poor people only love, they showed their Sundays, millions of bills, and now they'd come back to power again and they'd rob, satanize and take Serbia to the ambis, because they don't run away from anything. Nothing is sacred to them, except the state register that they would empty again, and the people remain on the brink of destruction, humiliated and disfigured, with no hope for the future. That's what Alexander Vukic and SNS will never let them do. The people of Serbia see it best, just as the roads, bridges, factories, hospitals, kindergartens, salary and pension increases, and all that has been a dream for the last 140 years, and now becomes a reality, thanks to the lion's struggle by Alexander Vukic, who does not want to kneel before the hohstapplers and does not allow Serbia to be run by foreign embassies and mercenaries, but bravely as an insurmountable bed of souls, each day fighting uncompromisingly for the future of our people and all our children. The people see this struggle and appreciate that courage, and the judgment of the people is the most important judgment in this world. Long live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-07-0.u8901	Thank you, Mr. Yevtovic. The word is Dr. Boban Birmancevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-07-0.u8902	The Honored Chairman, the Honorable Minister with associates, fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, the Bill on Consumer Protection, which we have introduced on the agenda of exactly the assembly majority that I belong to is really important, and we would not insist that we do not want all those problems that we have seen in the law that was previously changed in 2014 simply to change and that everything that was not good, we try to adapt and target in the interests of citizens, or in the interest of consumer protection. Consumers are our citizens and this is exactly the Law on the Protection of Citizens of Serbia, when it comes primarily to trade. Trade and exchange of goods has always existed, there will always be and there will always be and simply everyone who participates in this store must know what is right and when it comes to selling and when it comes to buying and every transaction is an opportunity for profit, but also an opportunity for someone to abuse and not to do something in accordance with the law. How can one of our citizens, when he orders a sweater and gets a short sleeve T-shirt to react, show and find a piece in the law that protects him? There's a ministry, first of all on the level where everyone lives, market inspection, and that's where it all starts. Generally, there is a legal form and a legal norm that will protect consumers. No one thought for certain that this law would solve all the problems, but we will try to do everything in the power of a modern law that, among other things, is in line with the EU, or with the laws that treat consumers in the EU, but in essence, they are in the focus of this law as always citizens. As a consumer, we expect serious protection from the state and we simply want to get what we bought, no less or less, and we want those who misused that consumer trade simply to be sanctioned and to prevent them from doing it again. It is a sensitive subject, of course, but we live in a modern world, we live in a consumer world, and we live in a consumer world, because we live in the world of Alexander Vukic, where people get up in the morning, go to work, go to their jobs, when the first one comes in a month or 15 depends on how, to receive their salary, and with that salary they can live in a consumer society. Before Alexander Vukic, there were neither jobs nor wages nor Serbia's future. This sensitive topic, and the sensitive topic is the consumer, the sensitive topic is the purchase, the sensitive topic is trade, should be solved in the best possible way. Protection is certainly a prevention and nothing better than prevention, but the law is truly concise, large and as such it will take time and find its application, but be sure that in the coming period, if necessary, we will change again, if there is a need and if we find that any of these legal members and legal norms that we have brought are not in the interest of all citizens. Certainly, as part of this law, it implies and foresees enhanced market inspection work which is the first and closest to citizens and is literally on the ground and needs market inspection in the right way to prevent and prevent all those who want and who will always try in some way to abuse both consumers and laws and simply wrong themselves about justice. We live in a consumer society, but we live in a society at the time of Kovid and this can be called trade at the time of Kovid when all those legal norms and all those customs in trade and sales are simply changed and adapted to that, let's call it, Kovid Shop. There is no one who has a phone without taking advantage of it in some way like the store or not calling, not asking for it, and not having achieved his right or desire to trade in some way via a mobile phone, electronics store, or any other way without going to the scene and without contact with the trader himself. Did that create more conditions and more opportunities for abuse? Yes, but on the other hand, the state has acted in the right way and daily certain acts and regulations, primarily by the Ministry of Trade, influences all those irregularities that occur and are likely to arise in the future. But what's important is that this Ministry and of course this government has resources, it also has people, it also has the support of the National Assembly for all those changes that protect citizens, which protect consumers. I'll remind you that trade is all about where for a certain amount of money or for a certain fee you can get something that's on the market, something that's on the market. I will also remind you that we live in the company of Alexander Vukic, where it is not all for sale and that there is a red line over which it does not cross. First of all, this applies to Dragan Gilas, Vuk Jeremic, not to skip someone on that thieving team, there is a red line, not all for sale, not an honor for sale, not a face for sale. Citizens' support in the election cannot be bought. This is no law, no norm can introduce as a wish that Dragan Gilas, with the help of money, buy votes and come to power. It doesn't work and it won't be, and most importantly, it knows very well that citizens don't have to buy support, there's no buying votes, there's never and there's never gonna be anyone to buy votes. Nebojsa Zelenovic and Dusan Petrovic tried in Sapac, bought votes, bought committees, and failed, and then resorted to re-election. After the first election round in Sapco, the SNS won the support of 30,218 votes, Nebojsa Zelenovic, Dusan Petrovic and the entire Thief team in 18,200. Then they repeated the elections three times or tried to re-election three times, but each time they had a problem, had no support for the citizens and offered, paid, but could not buy the honour of the citizens of Sapca, could not buy power in Sapac, nor could they buy power in Belgrade and power in Serbia. The more they attack President Alexander Vukic, and the worse, of course, they have no limit and no line even in attacks against the family, on the president's children or anyone else's children. Well, one that crosses such a line simply doesn't have support in Serbia. The more their attacks on Alexander Vukic and his children, the more they support Alexander Vukic, on the other hand, is the bigger and larger exactly proportional attacks that come from people who no longer have anything but to attack something that is sacred, and these are our children. The slogan behind which we have all stood, not only in this congregation majority, but in this Serbia for our children is the slogan behind which we will stand in the future, and the support of Alexander Vukic is certainly the support of normal, successful, beautiful and happy Serbia. In that name lived Serbia, lived Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-07-0.u8903	Thank you, Mr. Birmanchevic. The word is Zoran Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-07-0.u8904	Thank you, Your Honors Chairman, Mr. Orlic. Dear representatives of the ministry, colleagues and fellow MPs, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, just today's discussion of the Consumer Protection Act is another in a series of evidence that SNS and our coalition partners are working together to lead with President Aleksandr Vukic in the interest of citizens. It is this law that will allow what is important to consumers themselves, to protect their interests and is a significant improvement compared to the previous law adopted. We had opportunities from distinguished colleagues in the discussion to hear what promotions they were. What is very important is the formation of this base – do not call, which refers to preventing citizens from being disturbed by phone calls and getting offers from sellers, being registered at REM base, and in this way they will actually have the opportunity to use their right. In addition, what is important is that we continue to agree on European directives, especially in a segment of tourism offers, which is another in a series of evidence that we are on our way to the EU and that what is in practice within the EU that we are adopting and implementing through our legislation, all in the interest of making the lives of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia better and better and that we are working to raise standards. Just when we're talking about the results of the policy of Alexander Vukic and the SNS, we don't need to spend too many words. It's just enough to go through Serbia, because today you don't have any place in Serbia where you don't have a construction site or that something has been done, invested, that no new jobs have been opened. It's exactly what they do when we talk about Alexander Vukic's politics. So, you see, the self-respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia that the programme "Serbia 2025" is being implemented successfully, that we have never had a larger number of construction sites in Serbia, that by the end of the year we will have eight highways built, 15 highways in total, that we have new investments that are coming, that we are now entering an era of knowledge-based economy, that it is investing in science, education, education, to keep our young people in the Republic of Serbia, that this potential and knowledge that they have in order to raise our economy. We see for ourselves the data that say, when it comes to IT industry, how much we have developed in this segment, how much is this part of our economy progressing and how much further it will progress, and how much in fact the state of Serbia is making all the efforts it has to encourage young people, how creative it is to exploit it, how much it's being translated from something that just might have been on paper, into concrete ideas and realisation. It also invests a lot in sport, invests a lot in culture, invests a lot, and when it comes to agriculture itself, and we bear witness that no more funds are ever determined when it comes to the development of agriculture, subsidisation of agricultural production, for the purchase of new equipment that will allow farmers and agricultural landowners to produce their products of high quality and to place on markets. Not just in the region, but all over the world. On the other hand, as my esteemed colleagues said, we have people who only looked at their own interests by 2012, which, the only policy they had was a policy of filling their own pockets. They were not interested in the births of the Republic of Serbia. In their time, we could only boast that young people, knowledge, what was the largest export product of the Republic of Serbia, and today statistics clearly show that young people who are studying abroad, who are perfecting themselves, are returning to Serbia and are still implementing that knowledge here in other parts of the world. In their time, it was only important that they would fill their pockets, that based on the abuse of public positions they had to praise that they were working through their media today, that they were successful businessmen, that they were successful businessmen, and that reality tells us completely different, that before they came to these public positions they were neither successful businessmen nor known, nor how they came down from those positions, because the people's will was such, they were even worse managers than they ever were. Today we had a chance to hear one of those so-called feathers. The opposition that attacks what the state was doing to help Serbia's agriculture advance, to help solve the major problem that existed, the famous parish of Prince Alexic of Triestenik, who, while ruling Trieste, was deliberately ruled, because during the time he was head of that municipality he established a dynasty regime, so if you were not in his family's favor or did not work for him, you couldn't expect any help and support in that municipality, he presented today a series of ideas, which they created for their minds, so that they essentially worked to be in the position of the authorities, so that they could re-use certain resources to fill their pockets. Of course, for these ideas they created and brought to the public, they accuse Alexander Vukic and SNS. At a time when they ruled this state, the PKK didn't even care. It was just another one in a series of prey they used to fill their pockets, so he forgot today to mention that Dragan Gilas was mayor of Belgrade and when the city of Belgrade took over the management of the PKK in 2011, that the only thing they knew to do was to make him more in charge of it, and that the debt was rewarded by the management of the then-PKB with substantial sums, especially the moment his shift from Belgrade's head was approaching. Neither they invested funds in the development of the PKK, nor in production, nor they had opportunities for some new investments, and yet I say, today they have brought forth a variety of nonsense, in fact that only characterise their corrupt brains and strategies that they would create and they realize that at this point they are at the head of Serbia, and by the will of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia they are not present, but will never be found again, because they are people who have been seen. They had a chance to prove themselves. They've proven how many thieves they are, how many cheaters they are. Dear colleague Victor mentioned that they are not aware that the people do not want them. No, they and how they realize that the people don't want them and that's why they think that across the street and that maybe with support, let's say, some on the side can come back to the chair and say, "They ride this people another round until they rewind the game," because 619 million euros in their pockets is too little. It is the citizens of the Republic of Serbia who decide what kind of policy they want, who decide who they want at the head of this country to manage it, to solve citizens' problems, and yet I say, unlike them, we don't need to spend time here talking about what's done, because it's the actions that speak. When we talk about the city where I come from. Here today, Mr. Minister visited works on the Moravia Corridor, which is the same ove of Prince Alexic from Tristenik, when the works were solemnly opened, the next day more quickly and better came to be photographed and to say that it was some colorful lie, that there was no machine, no construction site. Well, there isn't, because this same Alexic doesn't know, he's not referred to how things work, because unlike the period when he ruled, or when he could do what he wanted only if he had his blessing and without permission and the republican institutions, the municipal authorities. Today there are laws that are respected and laws clearly state what the procedures are and for the realization of investments. Here we are today in a situation where this highway becomes increasingly visible and as is said by the end of this year or early next year, Kruševac will be connected with the Pojat, i.e. the Corridor 10, the highways, which will certainly mean a new potential for the development of this region because it will form an industrial zone, which means new jobs and new ways and efficient ways for product placements from our region. I will remind only the citizens of the Republic of Serbia to say that while Alexic was president of the municipality of Trstenik, he was willing to raise his salary and thus abuse his function to pump up citizens' money. He also worked on the damages of public enterprises, so the Public Company "Energy" knowingly damaged, forced him to become a loser to enable his paltos to gasse Triestenik without any permission or consent because, he set up a dynasty, thought he would rule forever in Triestenik, that it would be some hereditary monarchy and then he could do whatever he wanted. But he did, because the people of Triestenik made it clear that they didn't want to see him at the head of Triestenik municipality anymore, and I'm sure if he also ran for president of his local community that he couldn't get votes, or maybe even votes within his own dynasty he set up there. So I say, this law that is before us today is a clear signal that we are working for the benefit of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, to solve the problems we hear from them and to which we have encountered. Of course, the next period will continue to work to improve, as always, when it comes to trade and when it comes to consumer and producer protection, there is always the possibility of further improvement, because this is a feature of the policy led by President Aleksandar Vukic. Unlike Gilas and Jeremic and other people who are afraid to go out to Serbian citizens, they are afraid to hear the truth, he is not afraid, he is there always with his people, ready to hear, ready to react, to find ways to solve these problems and fight for people to live better. As a result, I am absolutely convinced, and statistics clearly tell us that when we complete the implementation of the "Serbia 2025" plan, that the average salary in the Republic of Serbia will be 900 euros, the average pension of 430 euros, we will have built highways, improved railway infrastructure, and we can clearly see when we talk about tourism as much as Serbia's tourism potential is today and how much we are used and by tourism potentials and what we can offer the world is recognizable. That is why we have a growing number of tourists today, and it is very important to suggest that this legal solution gives us another significant contribution to the improvement and business environment in the Republic of Serbia to attract new investments, because certainly investors are interested in investing in those countries where they have stability in business, when they are sure that their invested capital can be paid off, that they can successfully operate. This legislative solution will certainly contribute to this in addition to other macroeconomic indicators that we have, and that is also a stable exchange rate, are not stable inflation, and that we have regulations and that we now have a digitalisation when it comes to public administration, that we have become much more efficient and in issuing permits and solving other necessary things, that investors begin to work. So in the day of voting absolutely, together with his fellow MPs, Aleksandar Vukic – For our children, I will support this bill because it is absolutely in the interest of both the future of this country and our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-07-0.u8905	Thank you. He has a word, Marijan Risticevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-07-0.u8906	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in 2016 in Switzerland, there was a referendum with a very strange question about what the citizens of Switzerland were committed to. Namely, they are offered to declare that they get 2,500 francs a month without work, amounting to around 2,300 euros. Imagine that kind of referendum in the Balkans. I think the response would be 100% and I think it would be good if such a referendum could be held in the Balkans that it should be conditioned by vaccination. I believe no matter how skeptical the vaccination is to make the response 105%, it would probably be reported more than it's listed in the voter's list. Some would probably move to the Balkans from the east if they took advantage of that right. The Swiss were wise, they knew that such money that was donated could lead to a decline in production. To me, if someone offered irrevocable five billion grants to divide the citizens of Serbia or to offer me five billion investments to employ, let's say, two hundred thousand people, probably all citizens would vote for the first one, or a large number would vote for the first one to split the money without work. I would personally define myself for the latter, because it would first lead us into difficulties, probably buy foreign goods for that money, goods of foreign origin, probably our production would fall, probably our exports would fall, and probably that would lead to the collapse of the Serbian economy. I'm saying that without production, there's no goods, and without goods, it's hard to have a store, it's hard to have catering services, because it's necessary to deal with the trade of services that you have besides work and some goods that you're going to work with at that point and provide a service in trade, catering, etc. Money is a commodity, and the people need to live in this country from what was produced and exported. Money needs to be made. You don't have to live off the man in charge, like it was during the former regime's parties. You have to live on what's earned. When living off the earned and when production is made, consumption is growing and our consumers have the right to protect them. Basically, the state was created by people, it's a community of people. They joined together primarily to protect them, but mutually, people need to protect the state and the state should protect the people, and that must be mutual love. It's the subject of this law. I have to say something about Serbian consumers -- that they are people of broad heart. You've all been following up on the alleged occupation of Montenegro. Our consumers have occupied the Montenegrin coast for a few months, I confess. Milo Djukanovic is partly right -- Serbian consumers have occupied Montenegro's coast, all with bathing underpants, towels and euros, and thus helped to fill Montenegro's collapse, which is the country I was already talking about, the state's model without production, in a certain way to fill its budgets. That our consumers, as well as the state, hated Montenegro in the way Milo Djukanovic speaks, we could only reduce the PCR test to two-thirds of the tourists in Montenegro. Serbia did not do so as a state, Serbian consumers did not do so and almost had no place to put a towel from Serbian tourists in Montenegro. This helped alleviate Montenegro's difficulties, which currently has a 1.7 billion-euro trade deficit, which is almost 40%, and not nearly 40% of its GDP. With a 104% debt, with a budget deficit of 350m to 400m euros, Montenegro is economically and socially becoming an impossible state, the country I was talking about at the first moment, because "mill-gores" or what others call them created a smuggling state where smuggling slowly stops, has been caught a ton and a half of cocaine, and it has growing and bigger problems because it has no production. If I tell you that exports from the Indji municipality outside Serbia are bigger than the total exports of Montenegro, then I have told you enough about the situation of Milokapic or Milo Krivokapic. I don't think I made a lapus, I think I called things right. Serbia's consumers respected Montenegro. Part of Montenegro failed to respect Serbia's state, unfoundedly accused it of occupation. If the Serbian tourists' anger is on the Montenegrin coast and love for Montenegro's coast, with towels and swimsuits and Euros, if it was an occupation, here I admit that we have performed a tourist occupation on Montenegro and improved their economic situation. This shows that Serbia, its citizens as consumers, have nothing against Montenegro, nor have they recognised another state in Montenegro's territory, nor have they expelled their ambassadors, nor have they expelled members, if any, of the Montenegrin Orthodox churches registered in the service of internal affairs and police in Montenegro, none of this, nor have they adopted a resolution that Montenegrins have committed genocide over Dubrovnik. None of it was done by Serbia in Montenegro. Everything else they did to us, and the Serbian people are one decent people who can forgive and the consumers of Serbia who flew to Montenegro showed it best. Recent events involving Milo Djukanovic and Nenad Canak show how Montenegro reciprocates love for citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the leadership of the Republic of Serbia, the state of Serbia and some future generations that should be respected between Montenegro and Serbia for education, education and continued mutual respect that citizens of the two countries should have. After territorial decomposition, at a time when the Serb community of Serbia-Montenegro, when three Montenegrins ruled Montenegro and the Serb from Serbia in Montenegro were not even president of the home council, in 2006, during the decommissioning, Milo Djukanovic, Serbia's Montenegrin Boris Tadic and the Community, as I recall, Svetozar Marovic. At that moment, we have also divided territorially into Montenegro's aspirations to undo and create national engineering, to create a nation that would be milogorians, their desire is to try, after territorial and earthly unification, to divide the citizens of Serbia-Montenegro spiritually and to undo all ties between, in my opinion, two parts of the same people, regardless of how they currently plead. Mil Djukanovic's problem and that national engineering is next, and it is largely unscathed by consumers leaving for Montenegro, hanging out with people from Montenegro, with Serbs from Montenegro and all people from Montenegro, the problem of Milo Djukanovic is that these relationships are not definitely broken and that he knows that 30% is spoken as Serbs, but in Serbian language, it seems to me, more than 50%, and that the SPC respects more than 60%, 70% of the citizens of Montenegro, and since he knows that SPC is one of the components of the Serbian national being, he has decided to prevent the approximation of the national work towards this spiritual and Serbian language, i.e. that the number of Serbs would not grow in Montenegro. For us as consumers and as tourists who can fly for our money produced in the state of Serbia, it is up to us to choose where we will fly. Many recommend that it be not Montenegro, but I, regardless of the two policies almost identical, led by Milo Krivokapic or Milokapic, no matter what the situation is, I recommend that our consumers go on vacations in Montenegro as often as possible and thus cultivate relations between the two parts, in my opinion, the same people and thus prevent Milo Djukanovic and the politics that are similar to that of him, because Milo Djukanovic cannot crash through his policy, regardless of the politics and the part of the hatred that has been manifested to the state of Serbia, I advise our consumers that those who can do so in Montenegro make human ties with other parts of the people and thus prevent the conversion of Serbs into some other people, which happened earlier in Croatia and in some other former Yugoslav republics. Consumers and viewers. Mr. Chairman, you certainly know that, consumers and viewers and they have certain rights. Recently, the football team played with Luxembourg. The game was broadcast by television, which by law has no right to do so. Games of the Yugoslav national team, qualifications for world and European championships, can only be broadcast by television broadcasters covering Serbia's entire territory and have free access to all citizens through these channels. This means that the transmission can be monitored not only on the cable, but also on the remote control, or via the antenna. That didn't happen again. So, already the second or third round of qualifications, television channels that are fictitiously registered in Luxembourg, pirate television channels, regardless of what the law, Article 64, guarantees to consumers in Serbia, especially those subscribers of RTS, that they can watch the transfer of their representations and, through sport, in a certain way, through the most massive sport, to cultivate and love, through representation, according to their country, which one sports team represents in the world and in Europe in international competitions. They are denied the law guaranteed rights. Article 64 says television broadcasters covering the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia have the exclusive right to transfer the most important events of interest to all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and this list of most important events includes these qualifications that I have spoken of. This is the third time. In such a way, there is no respect for the country's representation, because citizens are not in a position to watch it, except for those who are subscribers to these several pirate channels, and there are 30 of them, and it seems to me that these transfers are carried on to "Sport clubs". It's from three to seven channels, depending on whether you're looking at it on "Total" or you're looking at it through "SBB" and "EON". With regard to EON, consumers are also damaged, as by force opportunities must be subscribed to such platforms, and then independently, without their permission, after a month of subscription, they extend that type of subscription to the United Media, etc., Solakova and Gilas Group. For three years now, I've been saying we haven't had a problem with the opposition, but we've been talking about Sollak's business and Gilas's company, and I guess from what I just said, it's pretty clear. Our marketing space is an opportunity for domestic channels to be in one kind of advantage because they are registered in Serbia and pay for all obligations. Those heritage rights to marketing revenues. So only advertising revenues belong to domestic media, which have the right to advertise, on advertising in the Republic of Serbia's market. Foreign media that so-called re-emitting, while taking over foreign programmes, as referred to in Article 27. The advertising law only has the right to broadcast original commercials broadcast across borders on cross-border television, that is, part of the programme that is being broadcast here. It is almost impossible, for example, for "Maxie" ads, along with the price in the dinars of certain items, to be broadcast in Luxembourg, USA, etc. So, daily on Fox, Discoveri, Histori, Sinistar channels, plus 30 School channels, commercials are broadcast, and all of you who don't believe it, turn on and take a walk on the remote control channels, and you'll see that there's a massive violation of Article 27. The advertising law and the so-called TV, pirates, who claim to re-emission the programme, claim to re-emission the programme in article 27, do not respect that television re-emissioning the programme does not have the right to original advertising, i.e. commercials in the Republic of Serbia, but only those broadcast in the country where the channel comes from. Don't tell me that in America they advertise "Bird Beers" to advertise, I don't know, "Jen Beer", "Diamant", etc. That kind of a commercial in America isn't possible. Our consumers have the right to make decisions to benefit from advertising. Thus, consumers can also be directed towards certain products, and there are ads related to their television services, etc. In this way, money is stolen from domestic media belonging to advertising revenues. Therefore, all domestic media must pay RATEL, REM, SOKOJ taxes, etc., because they are revenue from advertising or should benefit by law, Article 27, from advertising, and those others first have nothing to pay because they are registered on the outside and because they only need to assume the programme at the same time. So it's one criminal association generation, with Solak and Gilas, and certain journalists, who spit on everyone else that they're not free, and they won't say, your journalists, who some of the RTS and other media, fled there for more money, and that money comes from illegal revenues that they get from stealing ads from these first ones, because they leave those first media by moving to others. This money is not only being destroyed by the government in the state of Serbia, and thus the state of Serbia collapses. Finally, to tell you that people should protect the state again, the state should protect people, and God forbid that these by some violence should return to power, in Serbia an anthem would no longer be "God of Justice", in Serbia an anthem would be God's preserve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-07-0.u8907	Thank you, Mr. Ristichevich. The word is Love-Grigorija Pajkic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-07-0.u8908	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President Orlic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, citizens of Serbia, we have before us today a bill on consumer protection. What represents the ultimate goal of this legislative proposal is to achieve security for all citizens of Serbia in legal traffic. However, we cannot say that all representatives of the Serbian people have that protection as in Serbia, especially when we talk about the region, even in a broader sense. They don't have that protection for the citizens of Montenegro, even the one of the most crucial, most important. So I have a great desire to comment on the events of the weekend in Cetinje, first as a folk MP, then, as a man and a Serb, and finally, as someone whose roots deeply stem from the true freedom of Montenegro, which history certainly remembers. These events have three dimensions, and I'm going to try to cross each one in short lines. For starters, the first dimension is that of civilization, human, and I even have to say sociologically, because what I'm going to talk about, and I believe it is, is really the subject of certain sociological discussions, and I believe that the diverse sociological institutes are going to question this thing, which is -- is it possible that in the 21st century, there is a country called Montenegro, which has an official, in this case the president of all citizens, Milo Djukanovic, who is openly trying to block and demonise a religious community, and what is absurd, the largest and most numerous, and that we continue to fall into the abyss of absurdity, the religious community of the Serbian Orthodox Church, that is, at the end, the cultural identity of Montenegro itself? That's the facts. To call on protesters, to support them, and then as president, for the second time I stress, all citizens, directly participate in the same through coordination and so forth, on the ground, ultimately, inciting aggression, I guess, thinking that they should break into the monastery. I really don't get it, God didn't let that happen, that they really broke into the monastery, what was that we were supposed to expect? I'm worried and confused. I don't understand what an epilogue would be. These things can cause, ladies and gentlemen, civil war and bloodshed. Is this responsible behavior of any man, especially the president of the state of Milo Djukanovic, and for the third time, I am stressing, for the sake of this topic important, the president of all citizens of Montenegro? Just imagine if the president of Serbia, if I could look back on the situation in our country for a second, put in place such an equivalent and support to prevent religious rites of a religious community, imagine just what a reaction would be, let's say, Europe. When we talk about Montenegro and Milo Djukanovic, absolute silence, absolute silence. Interesting. The second dimension is still in the regions of absurdity, is the foundation of anti-Serbian hysteria, which we notice, and the gathering of families already known at all events where hatred for the Serb people is celebrated. That's very sad. The third dimension is proof that we did not in vain defend the Serbian national motto – only the style of the Serb saves. We could see that now that the unique Serbian people have succeeded, despite all of it, to triumph over these included and to continue the tradition of Montenegro-Primordial Mitropolis. This handful of misery and mercenaries, a lunatic who was made in Cetinje for the purpose of civil war, which was used otherwise with dangerous weapons, Molotov cocktails, we have similar videos that they tried to burn living police officers, it was terrifying, it embarrassed ancestors, and then it was absolutely defeated by the Serbian Orthodox Church in such an elegant way, that I must say they became really funny. So these were three basic dimensions, and lastly I would like to look back on the Serbian people in Montenegro both these days and since the crisis started with an attempt to pass a fascist, ironically named law on freedom of religion, showed incredible unity, a unity that is due to the freedom triumph of a year ago as well as this weekend. We must not forget the great Metropolitan Amphilochy and wish the new Metropolitan Joaniki luck to lead the Orthodox people of Montenegro with the same wisdom. Also, very important, what I believe and the most painful pain of Milo Djukanovic is the fact that young people have won that victory and that they have penetrated its media darkness in the most creative way. How did they do that? By using social networks in really one creative way and, believe me, it is not a little naive to run a social network, through social networks to express the opposite attitude to Milo Djukanovic was very dangerous. I believe these people also went through the googoto, but they were just the only media of the free spirit and the point of gathering the Montenegrin Freedard people. I think they deserve to be mentioned in the end. It is the Defence of the Church, the Resistance of Montenegro, the Bunt Montenegro, the Renewal of Montenegro, the Serbian Honor of Montenegro, and, ultimately, Montenegro - Serbia's Sparta. These are the pages that were extremely popular, that were really persecuted and decorated and that really participated in this triumph. I believe there are others that have certainly contributed, but I really had to list these strongest and most numerous pages that really had a big part in it. For the end, all I have left is to pray for peace, to thank all the security structures that participated in the protection of His Holiness the Patriarch as well as the Metropolitan. Long live Serbia, lived the spritz people, wherever they were, and lived our President Aleksandar Vukic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-07-0.u8909	Thank you. I remind you, there's 14 minutes left to discuss. The word is by Prof. Dr. Ljubisa Stoimirović.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-07-0.u8910	Dear colleagues and colleagues, the wider the circle of knowledge, the wider the circle of ignorance, the more the desires and desires of the satisfied, the more the desires and desires of those dissatisfied. How to fight in this world with all these problems, simply - knowledge and learning. A smart man learns at every moment in every place and from everyone. A smart man is aware of how much he doesn't know, only a fool thinks he knows everything. We are here with the will of citizens, and we are tasked with passing laws and doing all that is in the interest of the citizens of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia, in the end, so we took an oath. As far as this law is concerned, I have several remarks, which I am about to make now, and they refer to one part of my professional career where I spent most of my education as a regular professor of university. I taught management and marketing classes, and I'm afraid that at least as far as marketing goes, I've stayed in debt to my students, or I've taught them wrong. Respecting the theory, I said that the customer, or consumer, is at the centre of attention, that everything is subordinated to consumers, or customers, but life, reality tells us that it is not. See what kind of marifettelucs are used by those who should respect and protect the buyer because of his life. Here, say, the banks, the banks, they try to rip our skins off, make us sick where they can and when they can and can't. Look at the latest developments, the Intesa Bank and all these others have now introduced some new accusations, some new tribute. For example, they say goods are sold to war without interest. You go to the store, buy anything, it doesn't matter, five, 10, 20 wars, how much they give, and when the bill comes to you to pay, then those thieving, bandit banks, I have to say, put one item -- 50 dinars for what's on the wars, so they take 50 dinars each month. First of all, I think that's where the consumer's right, on the one hand, and on the other hand, they're doing it retroactively. I can understand that they said, from today on, we'll charge all the credits that go to war. However, no, they do it, dead cold, backwards. On the other hand, how many of these manufacturers do you have, a service provider who charges you 50 or 100 dinars or I don't know how much because they deliver your invoice? They say – invoiceing and sending that invoice 50 dinars. Where's that? Who among us who do business is charging his buyer, the committee for writing the invoice, and what is sending it to them? It's always been free, people. It's in the interest of the manufacturer to send the invoice as soon as possible to collect it. On the other hand, we have some others, not just those I mentioned, who are trying in magical ways to get as much money and money from customers as possible. What's the matter with me? We as a government, the Government, the National Bank, have to step on the tail of such thugs and say, "Stop, stop, it can't anymore." He spoke nicely of his colleague Risticevic for these TVs. We pay, we give them money, we develop their program, and they cancel those games, and they cancel Djokovic's transmission, etc. It can't be like that. We have to make it available to every citizen, because he pays it fairly. At the end of the day, we're all paying over the electrician subscription to television. It's not that sweet, beautiful and pleasant after this crown, because it's obvious there's going to be a crisis. Unfortunately, I'm afraid this crisis is going to be very great and it can be seen that every day they collect all these products. We've got to take care of ourselves and not let those bastards rob the people. I almost had an ad, so I called - the Woodland Building Cooperative or something called and I say - you sent me an account where the code couldn't be read, so I would pay for it electronically. He tells me who I was talking to... I'm asking-- is he from that firm? No, he's a pensioner, he works here for them, and that's when I said they can't charge me 30 or 50 dinars because they're sending me a invoice. He convinced me to do it mechanically, manually, that I didn't have to take care of what the code couldn't learn, to pay for it electronically. In the end, when I was determined not to pay for it, he pretty much drove me to "pm" or what the children say in "pic sword". Is that nice, is it cultural? I don't know. How much time do I have left for my colleague, Milimir? Six minutes. I'll have another minute. That's not right. I'm their buyer. I pay them that favor and they have to respect it and hold me like a little water on my palm. I didn't listen to him, and I didn't go where he sent me, but a lot of citizens come across something that's really ugly and disgusting. In the end, I have a message for Mrs. Minister. It's not easy to run this resort that you run. I understand that. I don't know your previous professional life trip, but my Blackwaters say the house is built on the ground. I'll try to help you get into the basics of basic construction. I'll give you a little book called "The Management of Local Development" to help you, to build them strong, to build them up, and then the upgrade will be what they deserve. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-07-0.u8911	Thank you, Mr Stojmirovic. You may approach to present a gift. The word is Milimir Vujadinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-07-0.u8912	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Serbia, I will first take advantage of the opportunity to thank Prof. Stojmirovic in the time he left behind, I guess that's his pedagogical line and consciousness that he's always ready to help the younger ones, because somehow the world remains on the younger ones. But let's cross over. Dear Minister, today we have before us a proposal for a consumer protection law. The final objective of this law is to clarify and regulate the market, or if you want to end up editing the relationship between supply and demand. Quite precisely, you, a respected minister, have defined both the basic concepts here and started from the basic rights of consumers, and further through the information, you have come to court and out-of-court proceedings, and in the end you have determined control, the way in which this legal solution is supervised. This law itself is a alignment with the legal normative of Europe's most developed countries. However, the law is also Serbia's intrinsic need and its market, and Serbia is becoming a serious market. This is due to the serious and economic and economic and political and every other rise in the Republic of Serbia. This is due to the development of our society in general, so ultimately, if you want to climb Serbia to protect all categories and all segments of society, including consumers themselves. Now, this kind of Serbia and its market is not only interesting for Serbian citizens living within its borders. Serbia's market today is something that is interesting for all those living in the region, especially taking into account what regional and political initiatives such as the open Balkans have recently been called "mini Schengen", and we are coming to the conclusion that Serbia's market is something that is interesting for all other regional consumers, including regional investors. Serbia's progress in this regard certainly cannot be hidden and in itself the truth for the will represents a great happiness for Serbian citizens. However, as our people in Montenegro would say, "there is happiness, there is also an accident", and it is unfortunate that Serbia is so successful in its economic and any other rise also interesting to those who are opponents. You will see it in the past few days in the event of shameful events in Montenegro. You will see that Serbia is successful, primarily a thorn in Milo Djukanovic's eye, who took advantage of the opportunity to attack brutally and Serbia and its president, to use these events embarrassingly on Cetinje for a brutal attack on the Serb people. He has joined Milo Djukanovic in the past few days in the business and Bakir Izetbegovic from Sarajevo, and they are not surprised that they found Bakir Izetbegovic and Milo Djukanovic together in the business. It is somewhere to be expected, but attention should be paid to Serbian citizens that the attacks at the same time, but that Dragan Gilas also joined in Belgrade at the same time, threats and insults joined Dragan Gilas with the threat of Serbia's collapse. Do you think, dear citizens, do you think distinguished colleagues are coincidences? I don't believe in such coincidences. I do not believe that the threat of Milo Djukanovic from Podgorica arrived on the same day, in the same day, the threat of Bakir Izetbegovic from Sarajevo and the same day the threat of Dragan Djilas from Belgrade arrived. There's no coincidence and I don't believe in it. I'm sure you don't believe either, you distinguished colleagues and citizens of Serbia, and you should always have such moments in mind, especially the terms that match. But what I believe in is also the principle of the president of the state when he says that all those structures that permeated the state summit in the previous three decades, and were closely linked to Milo Djukanovic and his associates, will continue to clean up from the state structures of the Republic of Serbia. We MPs from the SNS and the people in Serbia will be his faithful allies in this. As for you, the Minister and the Representative of the Government and the Law that you have brought to the Assembly, we will support him in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-07-0.u8913	I also thank Mr. Vujadinovic. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, I ask before concluding a principled search whether the presidents, authorised representatives or anyone else who did not exercise his right under Article 96 want the word. Rules of Procedure? Is it possible that the word "proposer representatives" is what they want? (Yes) Here you are, Minister Tatjana Matic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-07-0.u8914	Dear President, honourable Members of Parliament, I would like to thank you for today's constructive debate on the Proposal for a Consumer Protection Law, and I am sure that by voting for this law and all of us who have worked on it, you will contribute to the better status of consumers in our country and the compliance of our regulations with EU rules so that, of course, we can contribute to the further development of the economy and the protection of consumer rights in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-09-07-0.u8915	Thank you, the representatives of the promoters and everyone who took part in today's work. According to Article 98(4), I am concluding my Rules of Procedure a principled review on the draft law. We'll continue tomorrow at 10.00 hours. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the session of the 11th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 12th Assembly. To determine the number of MPs present in the hall. I ask everyone to insert their identification cards into the MPs. Thank you. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 103 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. We are moving on to a joint single search on the draft laws referred to in paragraphs 2 to 7 of the agenda. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure, I inform you that they are invited to attend: Branko Ružić, First Deputy Prime Minister of Education, Science and Technological Development, Dr Nebojsa Stefanović, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Defence, Siniša Mali, Finance Minister, Nikola Selaković, Foreign Minister Irena Vujović, Minister of Environment Protection, Tatjana Matic, Minister of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications, Aleksandar Zivković, State Secretary, Jelena Tanasković, State Secretary, Milutin Đurović, Deputy Minister of State, Predrag Bandic, Deputy Minister, Minister of Trade, Vera Vukicevic, Deputy Minister of State, Ana Tripović, Director of Public Debt Management, Aleksandra Imširagić Đurić, Deputy Minister of Minister, Bojan Cvetković, Head of Department, Vesna Mitrić, Head of Defence of the Alliance for the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Slavic. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 170(1) and with Article 157(2), paragraph 2. Rules of Procedure, I'm opening a joint single search. Do the proposing representatives want a word at the very beginning? (Yes) I welcome the representatives of the proposer. Minister Irena Vujovic has a word. Here you go.
