ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-07-0.u5052	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Fifth Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2021. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 75 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., I ask Members to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units. Thank you. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, it is found that, at this point in the hall, 116 MPs are present, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that he has been prevented from attending the session of MP George Komlenski. We continue to work and move on to the search in detail on the 1st item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on amendments to the Law on the List of Populations, Households and dwellings in 2021. According to Article 90(1), I would like to inform you that the Rules of Procedure have been invited to attend the meetings of Branislav Nedimović, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, Siniša Mali, Finance Minister Angelka Atanasković, Minister of Business, Snezana Lakcevic, Assistant Director of the Republic Statistics Institute, Petar Korović, Assistant Director of the Republic Statistics Institute and Ljiljana Djordjevic, Head of the Department of Statistics. You have received amendments submitted by MPs Djordje Todorovic and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. Before we go into debate, let me remind you today that we are discussing this law in particular and that after that there will be a vote on all the points of the agenda, which means in the afternoon, probably. Not to be precise right now. (Alexander Martinovic: Later in the afternoon.) Yes, of course, when the time is up for discussion, and then tomorrow, and that concludes today's session, tomorrow we have a second, new session of the President of the Supreme Cassation Court. We're going to the amendments now. Under the name of the amendment law proposal, with correction, MP Djordje Todorovic submitted. The government accepted the amendment in the basic text, and the correction was not declared by the Proposer's representative to accept the amendment with the correction at the session of the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending. The Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending adopted an amendment with a correction. The Constitutional Affairs and Legislative Committee considers that the amendment with the correction is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment with correction has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The applicant for the amendment, Djordje Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-07-0.u5053	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment that I submitted to the title of the Bill amending the Law on the List of Populations, Households and Apartments, which is the subject of this Act, otherwise proposed by the Republic Bureau of Statistics to the National Assembly, refers to the move of the census for 2022. In this context, the full activity, which is intended to move for October 2021, refers to the full time shift for the next 18 months to ensure that the activities that precede this list, which we are talking about months of preparation, months of organization, are implemented in such a way that they do not interfere and that they do not endanger the health of the population, the health of the censusor and at the end of the households, or the family where those censusors would approach them. Here we have a series of activities from preparation, selection, through training to the implementation of these activities, i.e. the list, which I mean the months ahead of us if we adopt this law, that is to say, to adopt these amendments as proposed by the Proposer to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The idea is to move the entire list over the next 18 months and to simply go far better and more organised to this activity, because there is a serious risk of contagion like that legend about Scylla and Haribda, two major problems that can happen in the next period, and it is primarily about selecting, organising, training a censusor on the one hand, as one serious problem that can endanger complete activity and that it is prolonging which would be very bad in terms of planning the whole of this activity, and on the other hand, the possibility that the household, or family, and, out of fear, refuses to accept the censusrs. In this context, we wouldn't even get the right picture, we wouldn't even have successfully implemented this activity. What is important for citizens to know, that we have proposed, is the idea to be in October 2022, and above all to be next year by reputation and to many countries that have postponed their lists such as Germany, Ireland, Scotland, Romania, with one small difference. They proposed this list for next year, and that's the first half, so I'm talking about spring, summer 2022, and our idea is to make it October 2022 for the simple reason that in the spring of 2022, regular presidential and Belgrade elections are coming. In that sense, I would like to reiterate that all of this is in line with the UN Resolution that says and obliges UN members to implement the census at least once between 2015 and 2024. The message we send unequivocally says that we care about the health of our citizens, we care about the health and the people who will be in this whole process, and I'm talking about 15,000 censusors who will work 30 days in that period in October, from 1st to 30th. I'm talking about how far better organized we are than those who conducted the 2011 census. I am talking about showing this as well as what we have drawn out in the six main objectives that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has declared, which is also spoken of by President Aleksandar Vukic. So that we are fighting COVID-19 in every way possible, we are working in every way possible to preserve the health of our citizens, but also other goals that include the protection of national interests in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija, the fight against crime and corruption, the fight against the mafia, the fight to make our own decisions, the rule of law. As a pillar of all of this to strengthen our economy, to be a factor of peace and stability in the region, to help anyone who needs help, and to talk about the countries that are directed at us, that depend on an agreement there, whether and how many tens of thousands of vaccines they will receive and how long they will wait on it. And we showed because we have a strong leader, because we have a man who has great relations. We have a president of the Republic of Serbia who has established far better co-operation with countries like China, like Russia, like America. We have led by the state of President Aleksandr Vukic, who has provided over two million vaccines and these vaccines arrive in further waves and has provided this region, and I am also talking about Bosnia and Herzegovina, I am also talking about Northern Macedonia and other countries in the region, provided vaccines for their healthcare workers, provided vaccines for all of us. He was recently vaccinated, yesterday, is that right, which is very important. It sends a clear message that against this disease, these monsters, these pandemics, we can only fight with vaccines and four producers, which is nowhere in Europe, only in Serbia, that you can receive both Russian and Chinese and AstraZenek and whatever you want vaccine in Serbia and therefore we are the leader of the region, that this is why we are praised by those from the region, that for this, imagine, even the Croatian press says that Vucic is the leader of both regions and Europe, as far as vaccines are concerned, i.e. Vaccinations. So, once again, I would just like to stress, we move the deadlines, we move because we care about the health of our citizens, we move to successfully implement the census, because we want to do this seriously, seriously, unlike those who led this country by 2012, we have led it to failure and to an ambis, which is why we have to carry out difficult economic reforms, to strengthen our country, in order to today be a leader not only in this health sector, not only in the vaccination and procurement of vaccines, but also in economic terms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-07-0.u5054	Thank you, Mr. Todorovic. The word has the People's Messenger Samir Tandir.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-07-0.u5055	Dear Chairman, fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, a respected minister, respected representatives of the ministry, I am reporting by amendment. The amendment is the technical nature and parliamentary club of the Justice and Reconciliation Party and the United Peasants' Party will support this amendment in the voting day. We as the strongest Bosniak party in Serbia absolutely support this shift in the census, we believe that it is both practical and essential to move because of everything the promoter has mentioned. Move for the fall I think it's some optimal time distance when we're going to have much better conditions to carry out the list in quality. I want to say that the census is very important, essential that any strategy at the level of the state, at the level of the autonomous province, at the level of cities and municipalities, is the necessary accurate and precise input information and serves the census. I want to point out that we as a political group have boycotted the last list and not only have I participated actively in that boycott of the list, but I have invited others. Why? I would like to remind you that at that time we decided to call the Mufti, today academics Muamer Zukorlic, the leader of our party, because in 2010 the regime of Boris Tadic and the Democratic Party did not recognise the elections for the Bosniak national council on which the list of the Bosniak cultural community – Mufti Muamer Zukorlic, won 50% of the support. Why am I saying this? I want all citizens and citizens in the Republic of Serbia, and especially members of my Bosniak people to remind us of the conditions we lived in then, that then the government did not allow us to choose our representatives in the national council in legal, legitimate elections. Today, thank God, the situation has changed dramatically. Today we strive and fight to have a fundamental democracy. Today, this government is working absolutely and permanently to correct the living conditions and rights of all citizens and citizens and thanks to the agreement that our party, the Justice and Reconciliation Party signed with the strongest party in Serbia, SNS citizens and citizens in the area of the country where I come from, so Sandzak will get the pipeline provided for in this budget, reach Tutina and Novi Pazar, and in the coming years this applies to other Sanjak municipalities. The continued construction of the highway and the president of the state and the Prime Minister spoke of it these days, these are some preconditions for that part of the country, for the Sanjak municipalities to experience economic development and not to have emigration and not to have that black demographic picture where people from these cities and municipalities are leaving. Also, this agreement provides for replacing high voltage and low voltage networks, because we can't talk about economic development, we can't invite investors if every second, third day when it rains, when it snows, we can't have regular supply of neither households, let alone companies and their plants. What is very important is that all these years we are working to improve relations between the Bosniak and Serbian people and between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina. In voting day, we will support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-07-0.u5056	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Vojislav Vujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-07-0.u5057	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. What is most important to the Minister who has been authorized by the Government to be here with us today, I would like to say that the JS parliamentary group will support this amendment and certainly accept a new deadline for justifiable reasons for the postponement of this list. What I also want to say today is, as April 7th, that today is World Health Day, a small publication that is available to everyone today, shows some statistics that can be very important for the topic we are talking about, which is that life expectancy is expected, when we talk about Serbia, in women for 73.1 years, and in men 78.3. There's a slightly different picture in Europe. In Europe, men live 78.5 women live 84 years. So, ladies live five years longer than we do men. When it comes to the proportion of mortality rates per thousand inhabitants between us and Europe, we are unfortunately 14.6 and in the EU is 10.4. When it comes to the number of doctors, it is now very important statistics, especially in the last year and a half, how long this unfortunate pandemic that has completely disrupted life, and today it is the topic of our gathering, the number of doctors in the Republic of Serbia is 19.884. It's a serious number of educated and trained people to do their job. We have 1596 dentists and 1528 pharmacists. Just one more piece of information, which is that 350 people in Serbia have one doctor, that we have 40,812 hospital beds and that we have one bed on average means 170 citizens. It turned out in this pandemic that even a system as seriously organized as the health system of the Republic of Serbia was at one point in the problem, but with the rapid action of the state authorities, the Government, the President of the Republic, in a short time, covid-patients and a large number of covid-ambulants were created and trained, which made it very easy for everyone. Today, since we're talking about the census, I just want to make one little parallel. I was fortunate to be one of the MPs who visited China three years ago in the Assembly delegation led by Professor Zarko Obradovic. What's fraternizing to me, these are now the facts we all know, if anything else from geography, that China has a billion and 389 million inhabitants. It seems too serious when you say it as a number. What surprised me was that in China, when we were guests, the head or host of the delegation said that there were 70 to 80 million workers missing from China at the time. That's the consequence, of course, of the history that they've been going through, one period when the president of China was Mao Cedung, and then at the moment Mr. Si Jinping took the helm over China, China became one in every sense of that word world tiger. They set up their medium-term and long-term plans to deal with the problem of the lack of 70 million workers. Why am I saying this? Yesterday I had the opportunity to be in a delegation led by Dragan Markovic Palm, president of my parliamentary group, who hosted a business delegation from Egypt. When we talked to them about similar situations, it was found that in Egypt the number of inhabitants tripled over the last 60 years and that the largest annual growth was in 1987, then the rate of growth was 2.8%. Statistics show that a fifth of the population consists of persons aged 18 to 29 years. When we return to the statistics that are the actual situation with us in Serbia, we are a ageing nation, somehow in continuity since 1992. We have the same problems, of course, we're fighting, the government is fighting them, the policies we're fighting with them, but the facts show that based on this, this is what I'm talking about at the Bureau of Statistics of Serbia, based on data on the estimated population of 2019, the average age of women is 44.7 years, and men are 41.9 years old. Compared to the 1921 census data, although it seems far away, but we saw what happened in Egypt from the previous example, the average age was increased by almost 16 years in women, or 14 years in men. This is what will certainly cause us problems in the future. The state is fighting it, and what I keep saying as one example is that local self-government has to get involved much more actively in one such struggle. The fact is, everything gets married later. That age line compared to the time of about 20 years ago must have gone up in 10 years, which certainly isn't good. When we talk about these ideas of fighting from the locals, I'm going to give you an example, I don't know how many of them you managed to follow, but at the end of 2011, Dragan Markovic Palma organized an unusual field trip. A hundred singles from Jagodina over 30 years of age organized by the city of Jagodina took four days to Greece. A large number of residents, given that this information was received from the media, made fun of it, and what is most interesting, and that is one small, and a great victory, is that 30 marriages were made and that 30 children from those relationships were born. Since that year, in 2012, Jagodina is the only city that jumps out of the Republic average in the sense that each year she enters one class of champion students more. This should be one appeal for all of our colleagues who do politics at the bar, which, of course, is never easy, nor easier than this job we do, that they have to be creative. This does not mean that everyone should copy and do the same, but everyone in their place, in the region where they live, needs to find some way and some possibility of getting people to meet. From all of this, and from all this data, we come to the conclusion that this list is the safest and most accurate indicator of how we should behave and in which direction we should create our policies. I'm listed as, let's say, an organization of 15,000 censusors, which is a serious number of censusors, trained people to do this job, is not easy. It's not even a cheap thing, of course, to pay those people. The budget provided funding, and that was all ready and we could literally start with that list, but what happened happened. This could be, as my colleague just said, an advantage. So, if we can have enough time to get better organized and maybe even, I've been looking at the questions from the test list that was done, there's about 30 questions, when the army of people is already engaged, 15,000 people are really an army of people, when they get involved in such a serious job, maybe you should think about what other interesting questions are to be added. Now, professional people have been doing this, and maybe what I'm saying in the domain of their profession is unserious, but when you hire so many people and since we have enough time to make those preparations, maybe we should think about it. You're someone who comes from the economy, that's where you've proven yourself, you've shown how much you're worth, and you're aware yourself that these statistics can always help you create every plan, because if you don't have a plan and some goal, everything you're doing is losing meaning. What's also very important, which we citizens have enough time to get to know even more, is that in the period of the census everyone is obliged to provide accurate information. So, citizens who are being questioned must provide accurate information and exist unless they comply with this rule of serious financial penalties and any others that have been prescribed by the law, and also for censusors who do not do their job adequately with the preparations and training they are going through, and they come into a situation that they can be punished. So there's definitely time to prepare. To be honest, I pray to God that this deadline that isn't small on which we've postponed this will be a deadline in which we will fight this pandemic and this virus and that we will be able to make that list. A colleague just said we've got an election ahead of us. We're going to have a lot of activity in the next period. What's most important is that certainly a large number of people should accept a call for vaccination. We're one of the few countries that has that possibility, these days we've all talked about it, and that's the only way to try to deal with this pandemic that occupied us. Once again, the Single Serbia parliamentary group will certainly support these amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-07-0.u5058	Thank you. The word is Alexandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-07-0.u5059	The Honorable Chairman, a respected minister, fellow MPs, only to explain how responsible we have actually worked when it comes to this section relating to the postponement of the list. I'll start with the List Act being planned ten years ahead. So we had the last census in Serbia in 2011. When you have a list planned for 2021, then the Bureau of Statistics needs a month early to send if it wants to postpone for justified reasons, to refer the request to the Government, or to the Assembly to postpone the process itself for a month before the expiry of the period, i.e. from the beginning of activities relating to the list itself, which is a minimum month before the start of the list itself. Of course, life has denied us in the sense that you can plan something. So no one could plan for the crown to last three, four years in this intensity, or that last year we had such strong effects where the whole world and the entire economy of the world stopped, but Serbia has faced all the challenges that every country has found for itself to fight. Obviously, we have always been more resourceful as a people, especially since we have had responsible politicians and president of the state who in an adequate way managed to make good bilateral relations with both the East and the West simply behind certain blows to the Kovid-19 pandemic in the way in which it is in the interest of all Serbian citizens. These results were shown not only in the economy, but also in the treatment procedures of their citizens. What I think no country has succeeded in building new hospitals at the time of the pandemic, especially when the economy was in decline in all developed countries. Why am I saying this now? Because the census as one of the important procedures concerning not only political movements, not just social movements, not only economic movements is one of the most important processes to be planned in a certain way in an adequate way. Fifteen thousand censusors are scheduled to enter every house, every household in the Republic of Serbia. A total of 20,000 people make a list. So that's something we got as information from the Statistics Office. What they did was they realized that such a process should be delayed for, first of all, September of the month, and then parallel to the law they sent here, they sent to the crisis headquarters for an opinion. What I think is a well-established communication between our MPs, the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Crisis Staff, is that in these talks and initiatives it has been understood that this September, or October, month, when this process is to be completed this year, is too short. It should simply be left for October next year, 2021, for many reasons. One of the most important causes is what is fighting the pandemic and in our case, it is, in fact, the completion of the vaccination procedure, and that is the plan that says Prime Minister Ana Brnabic, predicts for the end of April that 40% of the population should be vaccinated. Why are we all talking about this now and again? Because it appears that the vaccination process is one of the main factors that shows that the number of infected falls, and that the economic activities and all activities in society allow you to go to some normal time if you have the vaccination process at a certain level. It's good, and at every step we need to repeat, that we are the only state that has the ability to choose one of four vaccines for every citizen in Serbia, and we are even so democratic that we have nothing against that there are also those who say they will not be vaccinated, for who knows what reasons. It's up to all of us to tell citizens why it's important to vaccinate, and that shows numbers. When we talk about statistics from the day before yesterday, you see that the number of infected has begun to fall. For example, the percentage of those infected compared to those tested at around 33%, almost in a day two fell to 22%. It says that the state responds really as citizens demand. Why am I saying this? Because so far we have had reports of vaccinations, e system, the most modern software, but it has proved that people in rural areas cannot be vaccinated or can apply, because they are not educated enough when it comes to digital technologies. The state automatically created teams that would go through villages and promote vaccination procedures, make teams of one doctor and two nurses, and anyone who wanted to vaccinate will have opportunities. On the other hand, they reported today that the vaccination procedure without application would be available at certain points. So, the big checkpoints that have worked so far go according to the principle of application and e-vaccine, but other checkpoints, new ones, that open will simply allow all interested citizens to approach, apply, show their documents and vaccinate. This means that this vaccination process is heading towards meeting the government plan of the Republic of Serbia, which has been outlined in the implementation of this procedure, which is that by May we have over two million people somewhere who will be rehabilitated. It's hard work, you've seen, in the field with people, it's a difficult process, but we're all involved, everyone from their point of view. It's just very important to tell people how well it actually brings it to all of us. I think it is important for us as citizens of Serbia to say that, as well as as the MPs, we have simply recognised the need to accept these proposals proposed by our MP for the postponement of the list of population relating to September 2021, for the next, or October 2022, we accept as a proposal, because such a proposal will bring much to be done in this country. Especially to get a much better and more realistic picture when it comes to demographics, when it comes to demographic movements, when it comes to certain needs of the population, because somewhere in these years of the future, which we're talking about will be dealt with a lot when it comes to this pandemic, but also how the economy and society themselves function. After all, the system of functioning of all areas that are not business activities, which is education, culture, the part that relates to health care, which is of great importance to us, shows in fact and the progress of society itself when you have a responsible state that takes care of its citizens. This is of crucial importance to us, it is important that every citizen of the Republic of Serbia simply knows what way it is, and how the state cares about it when certain interests are threatened, when their health is threatened, when the economy is threatened, that at a given moment in addition to the preservation of health, vaccinations have measures of economic policy which simply see that protection and economic activity are at risk. You have social policy measures, meaning certain social benefits. You have measures relating to salary increases and pensions. That's what shows that in every segment of society we have to be extremely responsible. Statistics are helping us through this whole process. That's why it's important for her to be extremely realistic. This is why we believe that the proposal to postpone the 2022 census for the October month is a very important and important decision not only for parliament here to make the decision, but for all citizens of Serbia. As a result, all those proposals that took place at the 26th session of the Committee on Finance as proposals of the Committee went, in fact, to agree on this essential proposal to postpone the October 2022 census and that this process must be prepared in an extremely responsible manner. In this process, everyone participates, many institutions, and I think that as MPs, we also participate in this way, to simply create responsible conditions for implementing this process. In the voting day, we will support these proposals that we voted for on the Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-07-0.u5060	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-07-0.u5061	Thank you. Dear Doctor Orlic, the Honorable Minister of Business, dear colleagues, I have reported on the amendment as an MP and member of the Parliament Club of the Justice and Reconciliation Party – the United Peasant Party. I think what Mr. Todorovic, a colleague of Todorovic, suggested, is precisely necessary because it is very important to make a list of the population, in a way that is safe, exactly, that we know who is where, and who is where he went from, to see the situation in all parts of our country of Serbia and demographically and economically and agriculturally and in every part to know how many people there were, how many people died, how many children were born. This is necessary for all of us, especially this is important for us and from the southeast of Serbia, to see how few children were born, to see how many people died, how much the difference in the number of born and the number of dead, which is all to the detriment of the birth rate and the ultimate policy. I'm from a small municipality of Srlig, where it's an obvious example, where, like the previous list that was made, there's a big difference, over 25% of people are less than before the census. I expect that it will be the same now, which means that our proposal for an amendment adopted by the government and which we will vote here today in the Assembly, it would be good to adopt it and the census will be extended by 18 months. It's really right because of this situation in society, the pandemic, because of a large number of people who are infected, because of a large number of people who take things unseriously, because our country Serbia and our president and government have provided a large number of vaccines. People started to vaccinate, which is right. I would take advantage of the opportunity, today is World Health Day, and I would congratulate health workers and thank them for what they do for the people, what they do for everyone. Thank you, dear doctors, dear sisters, dear drivers, everyone in Serbia's health care. You are now our only defense against this pandemic. But there's also us, who have to point out that immunization is done, and there's gonna be an example of how people need to be vaccinated, to get as many vaccinations as possible, and to do it as soon as possible, and the first vaccine and the poor, and thus to stop this infection, stop it from spreading and save our old and all of our people in Serbia. We are the leading country in a world where vaccination is done in this way. We now have the possibility that in rural areas as well as vaccinations, to go to the field, is that we have a health care problem, health care homes, because we have an insufficient number of doctors, an insufficient number of workers. That's the example in my community, where there are very few doctors and nurses and workers working in the field, where hospitals are being shut down, and that's all to the harm of our rural areas. I can remind you, we all know how big a problem there is in these border areas of our country, where the municipality of Srljig, Bela Palanka, Gajin Han, Babusnica and a large number of such municipalities, and this is true for the Raska area and for the rest of Serbia, where there is a very old population of people. We have to give people a chance to be treated, to provide a sufficient number of health care workers' teams, especially now that this pandemic is. I think that this number will be achieved very quickly, which should be done by immunisation - two million and more people, by the end of this month or early May. I'm sure of it, because they're our healthcare workers, because the largest number of our citizens have seen that immunization is something that's the only thing that gets through the vaccine. The vaccine is a rescue for the situation in our country. Once again, I call on all my friends, all the citizens, all the people who live in the country and from the villages in southeastern Serbia and in all of Serbia, to be vaccinated, to protect themselves, to protect their loved ones and thus make the future safer for all of us. Dear Minister, as far as this census is concerned, it's very important, but even more important when we do that, that a lot of people are employed. In particular, your ministry is doing what needs to be done. I invite you to visit the municipality of Srlig and other municipalities in southeastern Serbia, because, believe me, there is a very difficult situation. By 2000, we had more workers than the number of inhabitants. After 2000, everything went wrong - the factories were destroyed, the privatisation was done to the harm of workers, the bankruptcy managers were working on the harm of workers and society, and all of this contributed to the need now that your ministry, which you run, and now you put an accent on such municipalities and that through certain opportunities, through a subsidisation in employment, through the releases for our economic operators, to allow some investment to be made with us in Svrlig. Yesterday, our Serbian President, Mr. Vukic, received a vaccine in Rudni Glava, Majdanpek, and there promised to do something, that he would get a certain number of employees from a company. I invite you to come to Srlig, to help some of these people there, to open up some business subject there, where we would hire people, because a really large number of our people are going from that environment not only to the big centres, Nis, Nis is the closest to us, but also beyond Serbia's borders. In order to have a good condition and census, our people need to stay. But we have to hire people. I'm sure you have great experience. We've known each other before, when I was at your place in Trieste, because of some agricultural needs, and so I think it would be good if you went around one middle, the municipality of Svrlig, and there's the municipality of Babusnica, the municipality of Panteleus, that's a municipality from the territory of the town of Nis which is also undeveloped. We all need your help to come, to secure at least one investment and employ 150 to 200 people. We are now trying to secure an industry zone, that there are interested businessmen in it, that they come and open up companies, but with your support, it will be much easier. My fellow citizens, my dear friends, dear colleagues, I can say a few more things about this immunization, about vaccination. I think it's very important. But, on the other hand, I'm like an Orthodox believer who will always mention a red letter to us, today is a Happy, mild day, today is the day when some big jobs are to be done, today our young women and young moms have the opportunity to have children and this red letter is very important. At this moment, I congratulate all our Orthodox believers on the Blessings, with the desire for this year to be born and noble to them, both in the field and in the house. Dear Minister, fellow Members of Parliament, citizens of Serbia, I am sure that we will have the opportunity to stop this pandemic, to secure jobs, to strengthen Natalie and to allow our old people to feel safer, and we can do that when we are complex and in this way, when we think only positively. Once again, I will vote in favour of the amendment and the postponement of the census, because it is necessary. One more time - call for everyone to be vaccinated.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-07-0.u5062	Thank you, Mr. Miletic. Just information. The remaining group time is six minutes for you. You didn't spend that time. The time of power is a minute and 40. You used that time. The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-07-0.u5063	Thank you. Dear Presidency, honourable MPs, I thank you, firstly, for supporting the amendment. Two amendments were submitted by our representative, George, four amendments to the Ministry of Finance, so it's justified, and you all brought it up yourself, with a pandemic, that we simply have to do it for the sake of efficiency and for the safety of all citizens, and for those who make a list and those who are our citizens and in rural areas and in cities. I'm sorry there's no Sandzak representative here right now. It is that he supported the list, but I wanted to ask him and warn him that as an MP, he should do a little agitation and direct his compatriots for immunization, for vaccination, because simply, they have the smallest number of people who have accepted the vaccine. That's a real shame. This week, I was planning on going to New Market, Sjanica and Tutin, and for that reason, I gave up. Simply, the Ministry of Economy and if it wants to help, you do not yourself work to seek help in this way to respond in such a way. For these reasons, I ask you to do a little bit of education for your people and your population so that you can have all the help and investment and other help from our projects where they can really have scales. I just can't put my people at risk, take them to such an environment where they refuse themselves. Even medical staff refuses to vaccinate. That's what it's about. As for the gentleman from Negotina, I'm going down for the weekend, but I planned Pirot, Babušnica and Dimitrovgrad. I'm gonna watch the next time I put Negotin in, 'cause I can't really make it all. (Ljubisa Stojmirovic: Svrljig. It's purpose, isn't it? Okay, no problem. Indeed, Serbia is huge, when you look at the map doesn't seem very big to you, but we have a lot of cities, a lot of environments that really need to get into investment, to help out of their own domain, from the Ministry of Economy, I'm going to see that I'm going to go around every place in Serbia and every district, where we can do something and help. You have my word I'll come to Srlig next time and I'll get back to you for sure. I thank you, too, for your support on the amendments, and thank you for that.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-07-0.u5064	Thank you. The word is Samir Tandir, right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-07-0.u5065	I want to thank the minister for looking back at my discussion. I'm the head of the Justice and Reconciliation Party Parliament Club. Our party leader Muamer Zukorlic has repeatedly pointed out what you have just said. So, the situation in New Pazar and Sandzak, due to the pandemic caused by the coronary virus, is not good, as in the whole country. As far as vaccination is concerned, the key responsibility lies with people who handle health institutions. Is that right? So there's no way out of this situation without going through immunization, or vaccination. It's clear to everyone. So what the waist says, I can't talk about it. We must respect the recommendations of the crisis staff, the people who are trained to manage this crisis. When we talk about this responsibility, I invite you to visit the Sanjay municipalities, visit Prijepolje, Novi Pazar, Sjenica, but I ask you to take advantage of the power of your authority both in the government and in the presence of the Minister of Health. We spoke several times, so for 15 years, two men have been running the New Market Health Center. Let's see who runs the local self-government in Tutin, and where is the worst situation when it comes to citizen vaccination? So we can't generalize responsibility. I take responsibility for where the employees of the Justice and Reconciliation Party are. What is not our staff or over a decade and a half of other personnel, they have to take responsibility and come before you both in front of the government and in front of the citizens and say - people, we don't know this, we know the crisis that was the summer of 2020, the worst situation was in Novi Pazar. That is not why the Prime Minister is responsible, although some in Novi Pazar have tried to transfer responsibility to the government, to the Prime Minister and the president of the states. No, it's primarily our responsibility. And if Samir Tandir or my party is running a health institution somewhere, I'll take responsibility and if I don't know how to solve it, I'll resign. So everyone has to look in the mirror, look at the ministers and the government and you and take responsibility. Therefore, I agree in part, but there is no generalization. Whoever has the responsibility, whose party has the responsibility to take responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-07-0.u5066	Thank you. I'll delete the list so the minister can apply for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-07-0.u5067	Thank you. When I talked about it earlier, I didn't mean you directly, which is also normal that you can't put pressure on yourself as an only child. I specifically thought, as far as the president of the state, the prime minister and the government are concerned, the state of Serbia has done the most, minors, in the world, as regards the vaccination itself, the acquisition of vaccines, and everyone envys us for such success. So there's no talking about some guilt and turning the blame on the government and the president and the prime minister. I blame the municipalities, what I said, whether now the representatives of the municipalities, which party, I didn't go into, I think they're all responsible, but people can't be forced by force, but only by normal education. So no one can force you, not even the law, to vaccinate if you don't, but I thought that with a good education among the population, we could help. You have to do between yourselves education, talk about it, because obviously on your field is the worst situation regarding vaccination. Last Thursday, when we had questions, we didn't even get to it, I had questions just about investment in the Muslim part of the population, but we didn't get to it, it doesn't matter, but I want to tell you that you have the opportunity to use the funds, to get help and everything, but you have to be on the line, too, to really help, as far as that other part is concerned, so we can help you. I think you understand me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-07-0.u5068	Thank you. The word has Samir Tandir, two minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-07-0.u5069	Thank you, Minister, for calling and I will initiate from my post a visit to the Ministry, to the talks. So, as regards the position of both the president of the state and the Prime Minister, as a citizen, as a Bosniak, and as a Muslim, I can say that since the democratic changes in 2012, over 2014, because this is the Government of Continuity, it has been working on improving opportunities in Sandzak and improving the situation of the Bosniak people. I said in my first address that the democratic party regime and Boris Tadic did not allow us to form a Bosniak national council. In such conditions we have lived, and these today speak of respect for human rights, respect for the Constitution, electoral conditions, etc. Come on, please. As far as I'm concerned, I'd like to remind you once again, that during the pandemic, the crisis, the president of the state donated the respirators, that unfortunately from the individuals of my people it came upon a conviction, but I want to point out to you that, unfortunately, and today these irresponsible individuals are making local government or they have yet to enter power in the New Pazar. That's the question now. It's not just my responsibility, it's all of us's responsibility, so let's look ourselves in the eye. What's my responsibility and my party, I'll take it, but the health sector, unfortunately, is run by some other people. I, as far as I can from this position, can influence, influence, people know that, and I call on citizens and citizens to enter the process of immunization, because there is no other solution for this global pandemic. As far as the results are concerned, I think they're more than clear when it comes to the number of vaccines, the number of respirators, and that there should be a drop to the state summit and the president and the president of the government, but we need to see who's running our health care facilities at the bar, who's the one in Tutin who runs health institutions, who runs local self-government, and who's now to get back into power in Novi Pazar. They were the same ones who criticized President Vukic when he donated the respirators to Novi Pazar. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-07-0.u5070	Thank you. The word is by MP Ljubisa Stojmirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-07-0.u5071	Dear colleagues and colleagues, there is no doubt that the delay in this legislative project is very important, because we need a certain period of time to prepare well and quality. As they say in science, organization is half the work done. In order to do the job, we need to organize well, prepare ourselves, and there won't be any results left. What makes it possible for us to list the population has already been told by my colleagues. There's a lot we have to change with both the list and the list. I guess we're all aware of what our big problem is in the population's personnel structure. The list will certainly look at this part, but we don't have to wait on the list to repair that personnel structure. Today's situation in our education system is so that everyone tends to become engineers, lawyers, economists, masters, masters, doctors of science, etc., but we have forgotten a very significant educational part, which is a qualified and highly qualified workforce. Around Serbia, especially in Belgrade, there is a major construction action, i.e. building construction facilities and those who wish to walk through Belgrade and other cities and to look at the fences of these sites, you will find very often an ad where it says – needed armyers, needed carpenters, needed carpenters, craftsmen and so on. Now, that's where we have to make sure, that's where we're wrong about planning and running that part of the education system. We are already missing many, many of these qualified and highly qualified workers. What we've missed doesn't make us sit down and whine and cry, but look to help and create new people who will do these jobs. Here, I'll make a suggestion, although Minister Ruzic is not here, but he'll hear it. There is a building school in Black grass and this building school has great capacities. There's a student's home where he can receive, boarding school and home, where he can receive about 70 passersby. I suggested to the previous minister let's do it instead of closing the Black Grass Building School, let's do it there "master's academy" and take advantage of the moment while we have professional and quality people who can transfer knowledge to new generations, who can train them and teach them how to do quality work. If we wait another five, ten or more years, we will not have those personnel, but we will not have those who can teach them and pass on that knowledge to them. How did Serbia live in some times past? Our young people went around Europe and around the world, learned, gained knowledge and returned to Serbia to convey these knowledge to generations that were coming. And what are we doing today? We learn today, educate people, and then open the way for them to go to Europe, America, all over the world to get the knowledge they've acquired here and to work for others, instead of bringing back their homeland, to return to their parents, the country that helped them, because with us there's still a relatively cheap education system, or education, even one part is free of charge. We need to show ourselves here in the education system, to make big changes and create a new large group of these people who will deal with crafts and crafts. Don't let us get into a situation in 10 and 15 years so we don't know if we can change the valve or if there's no one to change the valve or the fuse, and that's what's gonna happen. On the other hand, what else do we have to do, and that list can also help us? We need to take more care of a health care system that I'm not going to talk about right now, because there's a lot that's been said about the health system, and I agree with that. It is our great happiness that we have preserved this primary health system and it is in this torment that has reached us that has proved to be very useful and very good. That's why we need to make it stronger and not let ourselves have surprises like this in the future. But we also have a lot of problems in the area of culture. And culture is the mirror of every country, the mirror of every nation. We must preserve our cultural goods. We've got to get that letter and Cyrillic bill that's been spoken of for a million years and say somewhere in a seal, it's standing in a drawer, it's nowhere to be found. We've started to spoil our language a lot. We use too many of those foreign words. I understand that digitalization has come, that it's a new era in business, but we have to respect our words and our language. Yesterday, it was 80 years since the criminal bombing of the fascist forces of Serbia, or Belgrade. On this occasion, the Germans set as a legitimate goal the National Library, a library that kept the cultural structure of Serbia, which kept hundreds of thousands of books that spoke of our culture, about our past. I can't understand someone who's willing to destroy books. The book is the foundation of knowledge, the book is the foundation of wisdom. We learned everything from her, and we went to a better future with her. And what's happening to us? Well, that's one example of how irresponsible we are to our culture, according to our tradition, to history. Our library that was then destroyed at Kosančić's wedding, what does it look like today? One hole is the most common place where there's little of that building material and nothing further. Not great wisdom, not a great expense to build that library and show those enemies, the villains that they failed to destroy that cultural spirit of Serbia and eventually return that library to where it once was. We have a lot of cultural buildings that can be stored in that facility. Yesterday I watched on television, there was a man who was director of the library, he talked about it, and unfortunately somehow connected everything happened on April 6th. On April 6th, it was built, on April 6th, it collapsed, April 6, this, April 6. Let's surprise Serbia, surprise our culture, build that library. They say it's a two-story building, so let's do it and open it up, so in 2003 it's April 6th. Someone's gonna say-- that's what funds are needed for, this-that. I think that's the least of the problems. Now I'll tell you why. All these months, even years and days we've been reading, talking and talking about the fight against crime, and that's where some people mention the enormous sums of money at the expense of Serbia to their own accounts, not to mention their names, they're on all sides, and they've created huge treasures. Let them awaken in themselves that spirit of respect for the land that has allowed them to create such capital. Just as Captain Misa Anastasijević left many debts to the motherland, so let them build that library. There's dozens of them, there's hundreds of them who can't feel it, they can separate at least a million euros and not a library, but there's a lot we can do with that money. It's not just about individual ministries. Right now, the ministers are here, he doesn't know, one, the other, he's running, the fifth, but the ministries are also a living organism. After one minister comes the other minister. We all have to try to take care of both health and education systems, culture and show everyone that Serbia is not small, as they say, but that it is a country of great, wise, smart and honest people. I hope that this list will help, too, and that every single one of us, in our own way, will always be as boring as me and talk about it, someone financially, will professionally do it and build it and show that no one can destroy our culture or our free spirit. I apologize again if I was boring and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-07-0.u5072	Thank you. The word is Jasmine Karanac.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-07-0.u5073	Thank you, Chairman. I will, before I speak about the amendment, briefly refer to Minister Atanakovic's discussion. Dear Minister, I agree in part with you when you said that in Sandzak, in Novi Pazar, there is a weak response to vaccination, but I cannot agree with your decision that for this very reason you have made a decision that you and your associates do not go on a planned visit to that end of our country. I think exactly the opposite, that you ministers, we MPs, by example, should show that we need to vaccinate and just go to places where the vaccination has failed. You should follow the example of the president of Serbia who, in the worst epidemiological situation, wore a respirator to Novi Pazar, Prime Minister Ana Brnabic, who also wore drugs when she was not welcomed in Novi Pazar. I need you in the field to see how much superhuman effort all healthcare professionals and doctors and nurses and local leaders are making to deal with this pandemic. Here, let's say, in Rudno Glava, the vaccine response was also minimal and there people didn't vaccinate, but that's why President Vukic was there yesterday to make an example of himself. This wasn't a criticism, I just hope, this was a well-intentioned warning and I think you're going to change your decision and go there. Now let me go back to the amendment. I think the proposal to postpone the census by one year is the only correct, rational and responsible solution at this point, because however important it is that human health and their safety be our first priority. If we take into account the fact that 20,000 candidates are scheduled for instructors and censuses, that the list also includes months of preparation, then it is clear why the census has been delayed for a year, to avoid the risk of infecting a large number of citizens. I have to point out here that the only way to get back to normal activities and normal life and to carry out the list next year in the best possible and safest way is to adhere to all epidemiological measures and to vaccinate in as large a number as possible. I think it's a privilege for the citizens of this country to have a sufficient number of vaccines, that we have a big choice that we can identify ourselves between four vaccines, that even those who didn't apply via e-Government can be vaccinated. As of today, checkpoints have been opened across municipalities and cities for all residents who want to be vaccinated without applying for it by electronic means. They even acknowledge us some other countries, Italy, Italian media these days mass praise Serbia, they praise and the process of immunisation, and praise that this country has managed to provide vaccines. Even neighbouring Croatia, which is not so often praised about us, praised the process of immunisation. Also, the ambassadors of foreign countries in Belgrade are grateful that the country has made it possible for representatives of diplomatic departments and their families to be vaccinated, and I therefore believe there is no reason for the citizens of Serbia who have the possibility of not taking advantage of that right. Just in the end, I would like to point out that today is World Health Day and that it is not the best way to thank, repay and facilitate the situation for all doctors and healthcare professionals who care about our health, respect epidemiological measures, to vaccinate to get out of the pandemic as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-07-0.u5074	Thank you. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-07-0.u5075	Thank you. I thought it was a constructive criticism. I never thought I'd visit them at all. Just the thing is, I told her that every weekend I use and visit at least two or three cities and at least one or two firms in those cities. We're going to the firm and I think it's a huge risk right now that we're simply visiting these companies. First of all, we don't even know if we're carriers, if we look at each other like that, and if we're vaccinated, we can be carriers. I thought it was by the percentage that's the smallest, so there in their community, to wait for a period, maybe a little bit for people to be educated, to be vaccinated more and normally to leave. I'm not running away from responsibility or from not being involved in it. Besides, every other municipality we go to, there's definitely a number of people who aren't vaccinated or vaccinated, but we're still going. So we're not from wanting to stick to it strictly, but the current situation, that's exactly what I wanted to draw the Sandzak MP to do a little bit more work on, to maybe make people say and convince someone to vaccinate, to realize how important it is for the economy at all and for life, first for their own people, especially for the economy and for the development of others to be vaccinated, to know what it means to end up with vaccinations and rehabilitation and to go into a practical economy in growth, prosperity, because you just can't expect companies that have 50 to 100 people gone away and that they can work normally and function, and they're all sick. That's what it was about, not because we're afraid of something or we feel like we shouldn't go, but I'm just visiting companies. I'm not going to town, and I'm not going to visit these places like this, but we're just going to the firms where we helped or where we need to help something out of our programs and really out of these intentions, and I had the best intentions when I said we wanted to go there and help them. As asked by Mr. Svilintz, everyone is asking for help from us and we are really working on going around every town and every city for at least one or two companies and seeing what they need, what we can do for them, and for that reason I've said it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-07-0.u5076	Thank you. The People's Messenger, Michaelo Jokic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-07-0.u5077	Dear gentlemen, I think this is a real delay, but what's most important is whether it's October 2022 or November, etc. It is less important, the most important thing in this battle against the crown is that Serbia will restore Torlak, which we will produce the vaccine. Thanks to good foreign policy, we'll get Torlak one. So we'll also have the production of a Chinese vaccine. Those who do not love this country, who do not love this people, who do not love us who are in power, quite normally, etc., cannot simply believe that Serbia has come into a situation that has four vaccines, and let's say one German or a much stronger country has neither, or has one, but not enough. We kept pointing out here, and I want to point out again, that good foreign policy, the extraordinary foreign policy of Serbia, led by our president, has contributed to our being able to knock on any door. We're not on the left or on the right, we're on our side. We're taking care of ourselves and I'm responsible and I think those on the left or right would want to be in the position we're in. We have our own way, our own attitude, and that has helped Serbia find itself in the most favourable situation right now because we are going to win the crown. The victory is there, but no one can guarantee us that those who have made this may not appear and mutated, that it will not appear, so to speak, under the names of the crown one, and that we will master both the crown one and the crown two and the crown three, etc. It is an increased salary to healthcare professionals. Never a health care professional, you have to say, has had these salaries that today and nurses, everyone who works in health care. We've never had such a strong infrastructure, such equipment as we have today. Besides the President of the Republic, of course the Minister of Health is responsible for that. Conditions have been created that we can defeat everything that can happen to us. There's no uncertainty here. With Torlak and Torlak we are on a safe path that there are no surprises for us and that surely conditions will be created before October 2022. Thank you so much for me.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-07-0.u5078	Thank you. The word is by MP Nenad Filipovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-07-0.u5079	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable minister, respected citizens, the JS parliamentary group, in discussions on the draft law amending the Law on List of Population, Households and dwellings in 2021, confirmed that the bill would support the whole. As the proposed amendments to this bill speak of an extension of the deadline for the census, and the reason is that the epidemiological situation directly affects the possibility and quality of the list of actions is enough for the JS parliamentary group to accept and vote for these amendments in the voting day. The method used for the list was improved compared to 2011 when the last list was made, but still the interview method. So the censusors have to go into the apartment or house and thus do their tasks, and the epidemiological situation is such that it wouldn't be the best solution, because the censusing process depends on the number of household members, censusor speeds and other elements would take a few dozen minutes. With that in mind, only the explanation of the amendments due to the current situation in place, and that's why we support it. The promotion of the list itself is in line with the time we are in and with the Government's definition that digitisation is one of the priorities and that it is worked intensively so that the list will also be performed by well-trained laptops, with electronic patterns and software containing the rules of logical control. As a result, it also gives a shortened time of processing, reduced errors, or we call them failures to a minimum, as well as statistical processing, not just on the whole sample, i.e. the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia, but also on a sample of smaller units, neighborhoods, parts of the settlement, and the like. Even this list provides coordinates of the housing facilities themselves, and preliminary results themselves could be expected after a month. The extension of the deadlines provided by these amendments can further contribute to improving the quality of the list, because the two basic elements that are relevant for this quality of the action are selection and training. How it is necessary to select about 20,000 censusors, which instructors, who must have basic experience and skills in working with the computer, are able to select a better quality fit to deal with this problem, and the training of these same people would be facilitated. So we have time to find a lot of quality people who will meet the conditions for this list to be done as well as possible. Otherwise, this should be the last list to deal with this method, the method of interview, i.e. that the list is made by the censusors on the ground. We expect digitalisation to take place in its full glory by 2031, so the future list will be carried out through various administrative registers, i.e. various databases that would be updated at least monthly. In this way, the lists could be done much more often than they are now in today's traditional 10 years, which are otherwise very expensive, as we can see require a very complex organization. Another possibility, which is imposed itself, by extending these deadlines due to the pandemic Kovid-19, is that it is working on the popularization of the list. In terms of clarification to citizens that all data they give to the censusors is statistically confidential. It should, of course, be said that individual data are used for statistical purposes only and that these data are completely safe and individually anonymous. Namely, even in the laptop itself when entering the electronic form, they are encrypted, so that the laptop doesn't accidentally fit anyone can access the data from it. Also, there is a primary and secondary cover-up that aims to eventually and statistical analysis not to know which individual it is, even though it itself was statistically viewed in the database of several million people. That's what I'm saying with the goal of every citizen knowing that whatever data he is at the moment becomes anonymous. Even censusors have an obligation to keep official secrets. This is important for the reason why we should expect to get answers to all the questions asked even though the Constitution guarantees to each individual that certain questions do not have to be answered. The interest of all is that we have a complete set of all data, because only from such a complete set and with this improved software system can we draw quality conclusions, solutions and decisions that are in the interest of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. By the way, let me point out another important feature of the list. The census in the city center and in rural areas is not the same. Listers in rural areas face many challenges, depending on the very development of the rural area, as well as the dissension of the area itself. So far, we have always talked about rural areas, Serbian villages, and we always find that if we improve the village, we promote those areas that we are talking about, as we are talking about today, as we talked about the broadband Internet the other day or the vaccination of people where health workers have to go to these rural villages. So, they're not the same conditions for censusors, for example. in Jagodina with 52 villages and asphalt to every house and rural villages in southern Serbia, which I often talk about here. That's what I'm saying for the reason that another of the government's primary goals, besides digitization, is a good way to go, which is also manifested in action. Let's move those parts to the villages in the south. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-07-0.u5080	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Serbia's Filipovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-07-0.u5081	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, we have heard really constructive discussions when it comes to postponing the census. I think it is another indicator of how responsible the state of Serbia is today to its citizens, responsible for its future, is responsible for itself. This is the fundamental difference between Serbia today and Serbia as you had, I would say from 2000 to 2012. Today, the government in Serbia serves citizens, serves the interests of Serbian citizens and only Serbian citizens. Today the government is not there for itself, it is not there to meet the needs of ministers, to meet the needs of state secretaries, assistants, deputy ministers or any other officials, today the government is working to satisfy the interests of Serbian citizens in the broadest sense. So you have results that we can talk about to infinity. These results are measurable and they are visible. They say the very opposition gathered around fascists and Nazi Dragan Gilas that people should look with their eyes. It is true, people in Serbia today look with their eyes, so they can't look at him at all. When they see that evil on TV, they change the channel. I'm afraid often that when a citizen sees that evil on television, he doesn't break his own TV with anger, how much evil has taken not only millions, but years of life to all of us. How much evil has actually stopped Serbia. How evil it robbed Serbia, how evil it is, hundreds of kilometers of highways to Serbia took Serbia late for a decade or two decades for everyone else in the region, so they all ran away. They all went far to Serbia. The standard in the surrounding countries was much higher than in Serbia, at 150, 200 euros on average was higher in neighbouring countries. Today is not the case anymore. Today Serbia is building hundreds of kilometers of highways, so they say – what do we need highways for? Well, of course it's not necessary when they're taking planes to the Mauritius, to various exotic destinations, they don't care about Serbia's tour and how they live in Serbia. They do not care if the roads in Serbia are in such a bad state that they are dangerous for Serbian citizens, we are interested and interested in Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic. That's why it goes from place to place in Serbia. For some, it's funny when you go to a village in the east, in the south, in northern Serbia, they say -- well, it's going to go to a country, which is where some old people live, there's some lame people who aren't fancy, they're not modern, they don't have modern phones. Well, of course, in these people we should leave, we have to give these people hope and not only hope, because hope itself means nothing, but to give them concrete things that will mean to them in the future that they can feel that the state cares about them. They'll see that when they get their way, then when they get the factory, when they get the vaccines, then when they have a modern home of health, when they can hire their children, stay in that place to work to do agriculture or work in a factory, then when they have an arranged school, then when they have that toilet that they're making fun of, when the kids don't go to the booth. This is the fundamental difference between Serbia as we have today and Serbia, which we had until 2000 when the point was that social and state property was sold out, okay privatisation, it's OK, we wanted the free market, we wanted the liberal economy, it's all right, but it's not right to rob the state, it's not right that under the pretext of reform of economic, social, it's robbing everything that people have been making for decades from World War II to, I would say, in 2000, everything that's been defended, everything that's worked and it's been working in those difficult conditions of the 1990s, extremely difficult conditions and wars and sanctions and criminal bombings, all those factories survived, but they didn't survive Gilas and this fascist-nast regime DOS in 2000. These people have managed to destroy what NATO failed to destroy in 1999, and indeed they are artists, they can be given a huge confession. All that worked in Serbia disappeared after 2000, it was cleaned up. They had an action that was one, I would say, countless examples, but one of the better examples of how they are experiencing the legal state they are looking for today, but they would like you to know what kind of legal state, the kind in which the court judges what Gilas says, as the Marinika commits or cancels, they would like such a legal state, in which those people who work in the interest of citizens to go to prison, and they will go to Mauritius to carry the money of Serbian citizens. It's a legal state for them, where there's never been a robbery, where it's never revealed where you got your car, where you got your villa, where your apartments, where millions of people come from, where you never find out where all those accounts come from, where you never find out why you bought your own company in all sorts of ways. Such a legal state wants those who offer themselves today to the citizens of Serbia along with the fascist and the Nazi, I am free to say, Dragan Gilas, who is just the right example of the man who has the heritage of Adolf Hitler's ideology and we have seen that, just before, we have heard and that the fascist Germany in 1941 deliberately bombed the library to destroy the trail of Serbian culture, history, tradition and our existence. For example, that is exactly what Dragan Gilas showed in Knez Michael when his supporters burned the book on Belgrade. Look, whoever authored the book on Belgrade, whatever the name of the man who wrote it, in this case the author was Deputy Mayor of Belgrade Goran Vesic, I would say at the moment that man was the deputy mayor when Belgrade never went forward more advanced and never faster forward. At that moment, these villains burn a book on Belgrade, at a time when you have a record number of employees in Belgrade, when Belgrade is not late with any social giving of its citizens, when Belgrade walls dozens of new kindergartens, when in Belgrade you have, I would say, every day new and new jobs, when there is an extraordinary result in Belgrade on vaccination, fighting for health, people's lives. It's their idea to burn and destroy. So they say, we'll get all those facades you've done, all the squares you've made, we'll put it back the way it used to be. Well, imagine only Karadjordje's street, down there, like it used to be, in which God forbid you pass during Dragan Gilas at night, there no one but those worst prostitutes, junkies and scum the last one didn't get into that part of town, I'd rather not say what that part of town was called at that time. In the park at the Faculty of Economics, don't let God know that someone went there at night, passed that part of town. Today you have a policy that leads Serbia forward, a policy that employs this country, over 300,000 and that's what Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic presented two nights ago, over 300,000 jobs, new jobs, not by leaving the country and reducing the number of unemployed, but by the newly employed 300,000 people, very precisely, and no one can deny it, for that there are data, it's verifiable and then tajac. Then on their social networks, then on their portals you see, that night there's nothing new, they don't know what to say. He caught on to Dragan Gilas, put nitroglycerin under his tongue, didn't know what to do, what new evil and stupidity to come up with, how in a new way to try to offend and threaten someone, how to curse, where to shed his false tears, how to attack one of the SNS officials, primarily the President of the Republic, because he's the main target of these villains. As soon as we brought down Alexander Vukic, that moment would stop and nothing in Serbia would ever be the same again, it would go back 10 times faster and worse than it had been before. That's why it is the task of all of us, not just here, because we here, each of us, are going to give our own speech, that's what some citizens who are tracking the transmission will hear, someone will look at it on social networks, that's where the story will end. But the point of all of us here who are MPs, that every day we talk to people, that we tell them how dangerous it is to have this evil back in Serbia, God forbid. And what would wait for us if fascists, such as Dragan Gilas, in their hands along with the only book they love and read – "Mein Kampf", came back to God for power, as she tells them – come back to Belgrade first please. That's where they see the most money. They'd be there, they wouldn't be going to villages in Serbia, they wouldn't go where it's the hardest. They would first come to Belgrade to grab the Belgrade cash register. A billion and 200 million last time was left a debt, now they'd go to ten billion if they were to spend what's a lot of money, to get new 30, 40 apartments as fast as possible, to get new villas, new cars, new tens of millions, to find some new destinations, because he forgot more where his accounts are, these fifty bills he has abroad. To continue where he cares, only now faster, because he's aware that people would find it faster and faster. So, people, I am asking you citizens of Serbia, to be aware of the dangers that are not small, the dangers lurking on the other side in the colorful lie of Dragan Gilas, in that poisonous apple offered by this witch in the image of Dragan Gilas. He offers Serbia poison, a metaphorically said poison, in which Serbia and the economic and biological issues would be to survive, because the majority of young people who are returning to Serbia today, who see that Serbia today may be the safest country in Europe in many ways, and who sees new jobs here, who sees that in many private companies the salary is not 200 euros as Gilas speaks, but the salary of 1,000, 1,500, 500 euros each depends on what kind of expertise you have. These young men would give up their return to their country, those people who live here and school would look forward to packing their suitcases and leaving. When there are no young people in this country, then there is no survival of this country. It is a danger and it is the poison that Dragan Gilas offers to Serbia, to drive away everything that is smart from here, so that the smart knowledge gained in Serbia doesn't return, that only his obedients, his criminals, his hooligans, his murderers and all those who follow that fascist-nasistic ideology that he propagates and revives in Serbia. He didn't remember yesterday, April 6th, and none of the opposition remembered saying someone destroyed the library in 1941. He didn't think of any of them taking the wreath, lighting a candle to mention those victims that fell from 1941 to 1945. No one remembers these people. They're ashamed to talk about Serbian victims. They're ashamed of everything that's Serbian. They are ashamed of Serbia. The only goal of them, the only thing they're not ashamed of is to steal and then to lie, and who steals and who lies, we know that the time has finally come in Serbia and to answer for all this and to go to jail. I am glad that for the first time in Serbia, investigations are being conducted against such thieves, criminals like Dragan Gilas and how many tycoons are and how many criminals are, and that Serbia today is stronger than anyone who would try to hit it and the stronger it is than any mob, from any organised group, which no organised criminal group in Serbia will ever again be able to threaten the state of Serbia. Long live Serbia and lived President Aleksandar Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-07-0.u5082	Thank you. The People's Messenger, George Milicevic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-07-0.u5083	Thank you, Mr. Orlic. First I will use the time of the president of the parliamentary group, and if I spend it, I will use the time of the parliamentary group. Dear Minister Atanaskovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, since there has been talk during today's debate about vaccination, about the need for collective immunisation. Of course, each of us should appeal to the citizens, of course, that each of us has equal responsibility in all of this, but I agree with a colleague who has just made a suggestion to you, Madam Minister. The fact that someone is not vaccinated or one city or municipality that may at some point represent a hotspot so they are not vaccinated is no reason for any of us not to visit the city because of our work. I don't mean anything by it. I just want to say that in the sense that Serbia has shown both the President and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, that the system works even when it is the hardest. Not only does the system work, it creates good economic indicators and results. You know, you can try to cheat, you can try to lie, but when it comes to numbers and numbers, there's no lying. That's fact. In fact, Serbia is the only country in the world that has been the biggest burden of the crisis in the pandemic period has just taken over, looking at the whole package of measures since the beginning of March to this day, it is about 8.5 billion euros, I think. The fact is there are three key issues in Serbia today. It is whether there have been layoffs in Serbia, whether jobs have been preserved and whether foreign direct investment has dropped. The answer to all three questions is – no, thanks to the responsible and serious policy, both the President and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Neither the factories were closed, nor the workers were fired. On the contrary, it also helped the private sector, primarily micro and small enterprises, but also large enterprises, with a different package of measures. And that's why in 2021 we enter with an economy that's on, I'd say, stable legs, with economic growth, that's what I was talking about during yesterday, which is the highest in Europe, which is from 1%, which is the slightest drop in economic growth. We enter with full confidence that we will realize what our goal is, and that is to realize the projected rate of GDP of 6%. Some quasi-supervisors who have become used to the politics of the salon, do not actually deal with politics, but call themselves experts, deal with comfortable chairs, receive high monetary compensation, and give themselves the right to give us criticism and analyze what they do, do not realize that a tighter policy is not a magic wand and do not understand what a living policy is. One is the numbers, and the other is when you come down and you talk to the citizens of Serbia and you see if the citizens of Serbia are satisfied and you see what the standard of living is like for Serbian citizens. I said a little while, the third key issue in Serbia is foreign direct investment. Not that they gave up, as far as we know from the SPS parliamentary group, no foreign investor has given up, the implementation of certain projects has been extended, which is normal and logical in the circumstances in which we are located, but foreign direct investment in the previous year was about two billion euros. It is not by chance that the Financial Times puts Serbia back several years in exactly one of the region's attracted leaders, and not only in the region, but also beyond, by attracting foreign direct investment. So, no matter how difficult it is and no matter how difficult it is since March of the month we are facing one of the most difficult health challenges whose end is still, unfortunately, not being seen, but I am fully convinced that we will succeed together, that we will win together, Serbia achieves extraordinary results and that is said by economic indicators, the facts say. Any criticism addressed to the work of both the president and the government and the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia should not be taken into account, it should not be answered, it is enough just to show results and it is enough just to see what citizens think, and citizens always say in democratic elections. The elections were and the citizens made it very clear what they thought about the ruling coalition's work and said very clearly what they thought about the part that he didn't have to participate in the elections, because they had some different scenario, first of all, a boycott, and they thought it would be an incredibly small turnout, because they thought they had an amazingly popular one among the citizens, so the boycott failed, and then they imagined that if the boycott succeeds, that after the boycott, they would challenge the extraordinary parliamentary elections, and now they have a new scenario, and that new scenario is to try again to put pressure on here now and the European parliamentarians, to try to break Serbia in any way. It seems definitely not the right thing to do, and it could have concluded, if anything, at least after the Washington Agreement and after the talks in Washington, that anyone who tries to pressure Serbia, the president of Serbia, the government, in any way, that specifically when it comes to point 10, let's say, accept Kosovo's independence and Metohija, the self-proclaimed state of Kosovo, is just wasting time. So, we can talk about everything, we can talk about the economy, we can talk about common prosperity, we can talk about a joint appearance in front of the European Union, we can talk about Brussels, we can talk about world forces, but there are open issues that we want to conduct dialogue on, but we certainly have a clear principle of attitude and in this sense both the President of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia is leading a wise and rational policy. So even though the situation is difficult, the system didn't stop, the system worked. The opposition's representatives probably imagined that the government would shut down its building and that everyone would work from home, that the president would work online, that would probably be the most appropriate thing for them, and this is definitely not the result. You know how, one conclusion you can draw from all of this, call such representatives political parties only corresponds to one thing, in fact they go from one thesis, which is – the worse for Serbia, the better for us. I would agree that exactly foreign policy, a successful foreign policy that has been conducted since 2012 until today and in this foreign policy alongside the President of the Republic, is, of course, part of the foreign minister, then Foreign Minister Ivica Dacic, one important state project, which is the recognition of Kosovo, 18 countries have withdrawn the decision to recognise Kosovo and Metohija's unilaterally declared independence. I would agree that it is certainly a contribution to strengthening Serbia's international reputation and international image. Because let's compare 2008 when I mention the Washington Agreement, in 2008, no one asked Serbia anything at all. More than 110 states have accepted Kosovo and Metohija's unilaterally declared independence, Washington was one of the mentors, and if you wanted to discuss essential issues concerning Kosovo and Metohija during that period, you in the White House could discuss at the level of the stage. Now, let's do a crackdown and a comparison with 2020, where the president of Serbia is leaving and just essential issues, about the status, about this famous point of 10 that is at stake in the proposal for an agreement, talks equally with the president of the world force, the then president of the United States, and tells him decisively, not when it comes to the national and state interests of Serbia. It only speaks of international reputation, and how strengthened and strengthened the international reputation and international image of Serbia is and how much Serbia today is seen as a reliable, safe, stable and correct partner. Of course, that the pandemic period has shown that when it's the hardest, you can actually rely on two key things. The first thing is always our own resources, what we produce ourselves, and the second thing is good relations with traditionally-oriented states. It is very good that vaccines will be produced in Serbia, but this is the result of good relations with traditionally friendly states. So, not to be misunderstood by the public, because I'm very often quoted, and I'm glad to be quoted in these very distinctive shows, so they leave the possibility to vote, for I don't know, suggestions, I don't even know what that show is called, professors, not one of these shows. It doesn't matter, I love being an integral part of these proposals, but to be misunderstood by the public, we've never been against the EU. We had a very clear position, and we also announced this attitude when considering the Commission's Report, when it comes to the European path of Serbia, I think of the SPS parliamentary group. EU membership is our strategic and one of the key foreign-political objectives, interest, but whether we are an EU member, or not, depends not only on Serbia, depends not only on what the institutions in Serbia do and do, depends, above all, on Brussels, on the other EU members and depends on their relationship, their mutual relations, because they have much more problems than they think the key problem is today, say the key problem, under the allegations, electoral conditions. They have more important issues to discuss. I think the EU - yes, but it will also depend on what relationship will be to our, vital, or national and state interests. They must finally understand that Serbia has never been afraid to negotiate, but that Serbia has also never negotiated out of fear. And in order to have a proper dialogue, you need, first of all, a well-intentioned partnership, not double standards, double arches, so you will always see Pristina through the fingers, and for Serbia you will have different arches. Well, you'll give yourself the right, one of the European parliamentarians, let's say, to give himself the right to say, that she is glad, I won't even say her name, because she doesn't deserve a name to be spoken to in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, that she is glad that Serbia did not open any negotiating chapters in the previous year. Serbia was fully prepared to open negotiating chapters. I also have the time of the parliamentary group, not to speak to the minister, but to the chairman. So why don't the MEPs ask or say, for seven years now, the Brussels Agreement has not been implemented, for example, one of the issues. Why is it not a realized community of Serb municipalities? There is no item in the Brussels Agreement that is not respected by Serbia, but they must understand that Serbia has not entered the whole process to be underestimated and humiliated but to come to a compromise and fair solution that will be acceptable to both sides. Now to go back, why did I mention the EU, not to be misunderstood that we are against the EU, but in fact, Professor Dr. Zarko Obradovic is the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Policy, let him correct me if I am wrong. In March, the EU seemed very clear to me that medical assistance would not be directed to third parties, even if it was a claimant of status to be full-fledged EU members. Right? Well, the decision was quickly, or later changed because they probably realized that it was neither diplomatic nor politically correct. Thanks for your help. We thank the EU for helping but it is a fact. On the other hand, we didn't have these dilemmas when it comes to our traditional friendly relations with China, and when it comes to our traditionally friendly relations with Russia. There was no such dilemma at that time. So we want to have good relations with everyone, but let's talk specifically, that the citizens understand us. Today, when we read the European Parliament's report, I can understand the concerns of European environmental parliamentarians, as it is also part of the report but how they found Smederevo, Bor and Kolubara, quite accidentally where the Chinese are. We will never let them say that everything that is good leaves Serbia, and everything that is bad remains in Serbia. No, we have a great health system. We have a health system that has shown itself in the best possible way during the pandemic period, which has preserved many human lives and we will never allow it in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. That is why, among other things, we have initiated that in their hypocritical position when it comes to the European Parliament's report, the position first is that of our Committee on European Integration, and then, if necessary, you know, as much as they have the right we have, because we are representatives of citizens, we are the voice of the people. The citizens expect us to say what they think, and they think much worse than what I say today. I'm just trying to be cultural. So, if we assess this report and this resolution will certainly be the subject of talks here within the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Well, we should make our own resolution. No one can impose anything on Serbia. They're not our European Parliamentarians or our mom or dad. There's no intrusion. You want a constructive dialogue, we're here but we're not letting anyone, anything impose on us. I fully agree that Serbia is strong, economically stable. Serbia has its clear attitude, think with its own head. Serbia today is a symbol of new values in the region and it is fully visible. He runs foreign policy independently, independently and independently runs foreign policy, which is in the best interest of our citizens. He does not want and will not spoil friendship with traditionally friendly states, but such a Serbia definitely does not respond to someone. We are not interested in this someone, because we who are elected by Serbian citizens will never work in the interest of that someone, we will always work in the best interests of Serbian citizens. I think that in that sense, we have a historic chance, that I have a huge trust and support for the citizens of Serbia, and that each of us with far more enthusiasm and Elena should continue to do the job he has taken responsibility for, not thinking about how long the mandate will last. So it is absolutely irrelevant who will be after April, how important it is to use the support and trust of citizens, not to disappoint them, and how important it is what we will do further until these parliamentary elections, and I am fully convinced, in this Parliament, in an even greater number, and after the parliamentary elections expected in April 2022. A little while ago, someone was talking about it, before I moved on to the amendments, redistributing responsibility about it, about vaccination. He can't have the responsibility of having just a president, he can't have the responsibility to have just a minister of health, he can't have the responsibility to have just a government. Both the president and the government have shown one responsible and serious relationship. We're the only state that has four vaccines, a country where vaccines will be produced. But each of us has equal responsibility, every one of us who deals with public affairs has equal responsibility, and we all need to understand that this health challenge we face, I don't know the state, I didn't at least hear that there's a state where today's political parties compete, political parties of the opposition, with their president or with governments or with the ruling coalition about who's going to come cheaper to political points on this subject. We believe that in this period politicization should have been placed where it belongs, which is quarantined. There will be room and time for us to compete politically. Now we have only one common goal and one common battle that we have to win, and that is why solidarity and unity are needed. That is why I say - there is no individual responsibility. You have given a little time of good advice and I fully agree with you, each of us should appeal, each of us should say – Serbian citizens, please, in order to win, we must have collective immunization. I'm no expert, but I listen to the advice of the profession. We must appeal that Serbian citizens behave responsibly, seriously, disciplinedly, rationally and respect the advice of the profession, to trust our state of Serbia, because this is the only way to win all of this. The president of Serbia visited Novi Pazar at the most difficult time, not to collect political points, but to show that it attaches equal importance and importance to every city and municipality in Serbia, regardless of what is in Novi Pazar there are both Bosniaks and Muslims and Serbs, but they are all citizens who accept Serbia as their own country and are always welcome in our common democratic Serbia. As for the census, first of all a few general things, before I move on to amendments, although in principle we have said that the amendments are fully justified for us, that we will certainly support them and that we support the position and reasoning of the Government of the Republic of Serbia when it comes to amendments. The census, households and apartments, a statistical survey conducted with a period of 10 years, in Serbia the first census was conducted in 1934 and in the last year 2011, according to us, an extremely important and demanding process, and based on the data collected, we get answers to who we are, how many of us are, what are population projections for the future time period. On the last census, 10 years ago, according to official statistics in Serbia, seven million 200,000 citizens lived, 51.3% of whom are women and 48.7% of men, to our great satisfaction. According to national membership, as Serbs, 83.3% of people were declared, and 20 other ethnic communities had more than 2,000 members. Compared to religious membership, Orthodoxism is a dominant religion with 84.6% of citizens, followed by Catholicism, then Islam, etc. A population census law in 2021 was passed in this home in February of last year. The papers provided for by this law in relation to the 2011 census are that the list will last for a month instead of the usual 15 days, 15,500 censusors will be hired for work in the field instead of 36,000, as in the previous list, the data will be collected as a small hour through laptops and this should be the last list to be implemented on the ground. The next list is scheduled for 2031 and should be implemented on the basis of the register. The estimate of the number of population in 2019 suggests a continued trend in the depopulation with a negative rate of population growth. According to these statistics, the population was less than seven million, down from the 2011 census. The concern is that every year, we become less and less, on average, about 35,000 people a year. It disappears, therefore, one city, the size of Bora, Vrsca, Jagodina or Zaječa. The highest rate of depopulation is in rural areas and poorly developed municipalities, especially in southern Serbia. It is therefore very important that we are immediately ahead of the government's constitution and the formation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, just now the President of the Republic and the President of the SNS have proposed two ministries that will deal exclusively with this very important and important issue. As far as the amendments themselves are concerned, I have already said that the amendments refer to the moveover of the October 2022 census, while the amendment to Article 3 refers to the deadline for publication of the final results of the census, which, together with the meta-data on the quality report, will be made redundant by 30 June 2024. The suspension of the list will certainly not have negative consequences for the results of the list. I said when the last list was completed, in addition to the budgets foreseen, the list will be financially supported through the IPA 2018 national programme. The European Union, and for the development of statistics in Serbia, this programme, has planned to co-finance three more, significant statistical research needs to be pointed out, which is a list of agriculture in 2021, a survey on multiple indicators, the position of women and children and a survey on population health. Of course, when it comes to national minorities, we held a debate in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and there we had some suggestions and suggestions, colleagues who are representatives of national minorities, that there would be no representatives of national minorities in that part of the commission, which of course is not true and this confirms today's debate. And that also confirms the conclusion that, with such statements and such views, they came out to come up with political points, not to declare what is true, and what is fact, because that is true and that is fact, here today we are discussing amendments, the legitimate right of every MP is to submit an amendment, so please be able to submit an amendment if they think it is not in the law, and that amendment would certainly be accepted. Once again, at the very end, the SPS parliamentary group will accept the proposed amendments, and will certainly support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-07-0.u5084	Thank you, Mr. Milicevic. The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-07-0.u5085	I have to go back to that finding of mine, maybe it sounded wrong. I'm not afraid that I'm going to Pazar, or Sandzak, it doesn't matter, I've been going to Kosovo x times, I've formed a factory downstairs, so I don't have that kind of anxiety, but I thought my word, especially to the Sandzak representative, was well-intentioned, to realize that if we say something like that, no investors will go safely into the middle to invest and make a factory or something that works if it's not a healthy environment. I want them to understand it well-intentioned, simply, that a little bit more work, as you say, that each of us has such a commitment and a moral obligation, means that he's working to educate people, that he's distracting them from being vaccinated as soon as possible, and that we can bring investors freely and peacefully. As for investments, as you said earlier, we have a really great situation in the economy. In the last five years, we have 177 projects for the company, meaning 78 municipalities from all over Serbia, meaning from all four categories, not at all, it is considered only to be employed from the first to the fourth category. It employs over 51,000 workers and 158 billion dinars is an investment. We currently have 97 new projects that are in process and ongoing. There should be about 35,000 and some new workers to get a job, and the investments themselves are over 300 billion dinars. You have to understand what it means for Serbia right now, besides all these domestic, small and medium-sized enterprises that I visit, every weekend I go to some area where I look to help, to see what's wrong with doing anything else to motivate people to open up or expand their production and employ workers. I can tell you I'm really excited. It's mostly, say, family firms, where I've had a few cases of kids coming back from abroad and working with their parents. This is a big plus for Serbia, and that means that our situation in Serbia has been greatly improved in the last 10 years, that our children are coming back. We have cases that don't come back from Belgrade, and we have children from America, Italy, or I don't know where I've been to and where I've seen everything they do. It's a real success of the president and of the highways, and with the very situation in the country, by improving the conditions and building everything. It should be pointed out and said every time and I really do with the Ministry of Economy all to improve the situation as far as the economy itself is concerned, because there is life in fact. In order for the economy to really progress and work, the vaccine has to be done to make us healthy and real. And what I said earlier, you can't run a company if you have 50 or 100 workers absent, minors every day or every other day that they're out of your system. It was my wish, maybe it was wrong just presented. I'm sorry about that and I'm not running away from it. I'm saying, I went to the southernmost and most rural environments, where most of you probably didn't pass, or saw it, and I saw it all. I really do have a wish, and I'm not running away from whether I'm going to be a year or more, I'm not interested in it, I'm doing the job I came here for, and I've been brought here, for which I took an oath here in front of all of you. I'm looking to do the best I can. Thirty-eight years I've been in production in the economy, I know what it means when you talk to these people, what they need, what the state can help them with, and what it can help them to do better, to expand better, and to simply keep our children here in Serbia. I'm glad this point about the list led to all of our comments and stories, because that's exactly what we need to talk about and what this country's life is, the economy. So that's what's most important next to our people's lives. The list needs to be done. These amendments are quite fine and should be postponed, normally all because of the health situation, I'm glad you're all up to it, but I'm also glad that I can as Minister of Economy talk about other things, what's important to us and our children and in general, to this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-07-0.u5086	Thank you. The People's Messenger, George Milicevic, has the word. Right on the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-07-0.u5087	Dear Minister, there's no need to apologize. I realized what you said and joined your appeal, because I think it should be as a responsible and serious man for each of us to do, anyone who does public work. I fully agree with your findings, and that's why one major part of my exposure and I did focus on the economy. What I mean is, since you mentioned the economy. Serbia is leading a successful economic policy, but the economy that is socially responsible is an economy that has a human, an ordinary Serbian citizen in its centre, so it takes care of the citizens' standard of living. All the things you've been talking about are the measures of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and these measures are now directed towards the right target groups, which is to preserve the level of employment, to improve the standard of living of citizens and to help the economy, especially the private sector, because the private sector is a blood stream, it holds the entire state apparatus on its shoulders. Of course, the three pillars we have defined through the 2021 budget, first and foremost, certainly, the battle against the crown, the shared victory against this monster, the second, certainly, standard of living citizens. You know, we're the only state, I'm completely convinced, which in the Corona period managed to raise pensions by 5.9%, pay healthcare workers by 5%, pay in the public sector, first 1.5%, then 3.5%, 6.6% of the labour price, and on the other hand, the second pillar that's extremely important, and that's infrastructure. No economics without infrastructure development. In the pandemic period, Serbia stands out the most for infrastructure projects -- 330 billion dinars, which is about 5.5% of GDP, and it should just encourage us to reach that projected rate of GDP growth of 6%, because it has shown that when the state invests, it stimulates both domestic and foreign investors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-07-0.u5088	Thank you. The amendment, which is added before Article 1 by a new member, was submitted by the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending. The proposing representative accepted the amendment at the meeting of the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a National MP, Milica Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-07-0.u5089	Thank you. Dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, as we had the opportunity to hear in the debate in principle, the proposal for a law amending the household census law in 2021 envisions a postponement of the census for October of this year. Aware of the uncertainty this pandemic of the coronary virus carries with it the delay of the October month census, which provides for an amendment that is on the agenda today, you will agree, fully justified. The list we conduct through the method of classical interview involves participation of about 20,000 people, censusers and instructors who would be in contact with each of our citizens on a daily basis, as well as those employed by the Republic Bureau of Statistics. In these circumstances today, when the coronary virus is harassing the entire world, even our country, poses one serious health risk to all of our citizens. Since the struggle to preserve the health and life of citizens is one of the six basic objectives of the current government's work, this whole process of delaying the census is then extremely logical. At the heart of the Serbian Progressive Party, President Aleksandar Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, is concerned about the life of every citizen. The proof is that this crown is also the period when we were able to obtain thanks to the responsible policy of our president, the sufficient amount of vaccine for all our citizens when at the very beginning of the outbreak of the pandemic we were able to obtain sufficient amounts of respirators, masks, medicines, so all that guarantees a safe life for the citizens of Serbia. The fact that about ten days ago, about 22,000 foreign citizens received completely free of charge vaccines in our country only shows how much our country's strength and power are actually fighting this coronary virus. When the coronary crisis began, about 400,000 people from abroad returned to Serbia, and they were young people. Most of them remain here, given that the borders of many foreign countries are closed, that they are in a "lockdown" and that they are generally less circulating towards Western Europe now. What is our job and what we are working on intensively is to keep these young people here in Serbia, to provide them with a job, and to keep them here building their future. Contrary to this policy today and our efforts to keep each man in Serbia from 2008 to 2012 it was, unfortunately, not so. You had a situation during that period where about 400,000 people were jobless and in that period Serbia reached never a higher unemployment rate, a record 28%. What remained of the citizen at the time, except that in search of a new job he left Serbia, but it was not only a lack of jobs at the time. You didn't have one or two newly built hospitals, a school, so none of what represents the basic existential needs of every man, and I guess that's the basic thing if we want to have natality, if we want to encourage married couples to have as many children as possible, if we want to encourage young people to stay in their own country. Dear citizens, it is the policy of Alexander Vukic and the Serbian government that works to improve their living conditions through support for pregnant women through support for young farmers. All the problems the Serbian Progressive Party faces by coming to power, we are successfully solving today, thank God. The results of the struggle are seen through dozens of newly opened factories across Serbia, through tens of thousands of new jobs and through hundreds of newly built miles of roads. These are the results we're proud of. We focus today on each individual, every end of our country, and we also focus on ensuring our country's demographic progress. That is why the government in the previous term has increased financial contributions for all newborn children. Couples who needed artificial insemination were provided with a free unlimited number of attempts to get their first child. Also, in order to reduce waiting lists in kindergartens, a number of preschool institutions have been reconstructed throughout Serbia. Here, in the municipality of Rač, from which I come, the reconstruction has just been completed, but also the construction of a preschool facility because the capacities available in the earlier period were not enough to provide and receive all the young people from the territory of the Rač municipality. In addition to taking care of our youngest, and all in order to keep the population in the heart of Shumadia, we have managed to reconstruct two rural infirmarys along the miles of newly built roads in the previous period. One is in the village of Djurdjevo, the other is in the village of Malo Krčmara, which has not worked backwards for 15 years. So it is obvious that there is now one continuity in Serbia when it comes to improving the quality of life of young people, but also in general all other citizens, when it comes to increasing the number of employees and when it comes to reducing the number of those who leave our country for economic reasons and it seems to me that at this moment, when our country has become an economic leader in the region, and perhaps beyond, there are indeed less and less justified reasons for the citizens to leave our country. Given that our goal is strong and stable Serbia, Serbia that creates conditions for the staying and survival of its people in this area, this list, which will be implemented next year, will only help us to further define both educational and health and agrarian and economic and any other policy for the next period. As important as this list is, what is most important at this point is that as much as we prevent the spread of this infection from spreading and that this list is only implemented when the safe conditions for it are acquired, not risking lives or the health of our citizens. That is why, together with the parliamentary group Aleksandar Vukic – for our children, in the day of voting, I will support these amendments, i.e. by extending the start of the October 2022 census. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-07-0.u5090	Thank you. The word is Samira Ćosovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-07-0.u5091	I find it justified that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has accepted the shift of a period within which the census will be carried out, as the Kovida-19 pandemic situation is one reasonable decision. However, I would like to refer to your address at the beginning of today's session, given that I come from the municipality of Prepolje. It's a Sanjay municipality. I am a Bosniak and Muslim, and I never meant to point that out here in the National Assembly, because I was supported by both Serbs and Bosniaks in Prijepo. What I'm saying is that both Serbs and Bosniaks live in the municipality of Prepolje in almost equal numbers. However, 11500 vaccines were distributed in the Prepolje municipality, which ranks the Prepolje municipality first in the Republic of Serbia by the number of vaccinated citizens compared to the number of inhabitants. I believe that there is no need to generalise, and I believe that both you and the Government of the Republic of Serbia must apply some measures of stimulation. In Sandzak, you're welcome to the Predpolje municipality. Reward the municipality of Prepolje, come visit our businessmen, reward the municipality of Prepolje for this zeal in the vaccination of citizens, give us an investment. Bring us an investment, because that's what we need through. The people of Prepolje will know that they appreciate it. I am sure that this number of vaccinated citizens will be even higher, because they have already joined the vaccination without appointment, and from today on, vaccination has been made by local communities precisely because of the age, which is because of the distance, because they live in rural areas, far from health institutions, they are not able to come into vaccination, so I am inviting you as a national MP from the municipality of Prepolje and Bosniaks to come and visit not only Prepolje, but I would primarily like it to be Prepolje. I'm the one who's exhibiting you in one piece and I'm justifying and understanding. I understood it as the calling of those who would have to be an example to their countrymen, whether it was political, religious or other prominent representatives of one nation, to show by example that vaccination was the only way out of this difficult situation with Kovid-19, which reflected on all of us, on the lives of all of us. Once again, I urge you to come and by providing the Prepolje with some investment, you may also stimulate other environments to perhaps approach the immunization of their citizens more zealously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-07-0.u5092	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Atanaskovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-07-0.u5093	I'm thanking you. You're already on schedule, let me tell you. So, Pryboy, Pryce. Anyway, that's how I connect three cities. When we get the map, we're looking to connect some of the environments that are in the same county. You understand? I'm glad you just mentioned it about vaccination, which means it can and can mean a lot of people's agitation to basically educate people, to realize what that means first for their health. Normally, every life is important, first of its own, and then the rest of its household, and especially for the economy of the city itself or the country at all. That's why I said it, not because... Just the thing, it could have been my Trieste, for example. It has nothing to do with nationality or I don't know what. People really need to be forced to talk and talk all the time. It's something we all have to do together, and I keep pushing it. So, for those reasons, I'm going around. I was able to sit in Belgrade all the time, at the reception, in my office and do the administration and that's it, but every weekend I use to visit at least three places in the country and three firms or four, even five where I get there, to see exactly what problems, what can, what schools exist in those places, because investors are also looking for labour. So, I always need to know what school there is and what the investor is looking for so we can see together what can come of them and, simply, help you get an investor and I'll work on it. Thank you for calling.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-07-0.u5094	Thank you. The word is Nebojsa Bakarec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-07-0.u5095	Dear Chairman, Mrs. Atanaskovic, the honourable ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, the honourable citizens, I wanted to point out, I listened very carefully to the debate last week and now, indeed, to some things that no one has spoken of. So I'm just predicting and they're great, of course, all these amendments and the basic law itself, of course, about the list, but there's a fact, a simple prediction that's very thorough, and I'm going to talk about that, that when it comes to order in a year, this list will be compromised. So the probability is over 90%. So, what for? Just make sure that the destructive part of the opposition attacks and challenges all the good that this government does. I'm going to give you an example to challenge the fight against the epidemic, challenge vaccination, spread false news, that's all they do, of course, mainly the Gilasian part of the opposition and the Gilasov media. So it's logical to assume that as they attack the heroes' doctors, they will dispute the list, when it comes to the order, that they will attack the censuses, that they can also attack the Republic Bureau of Statistics, because in the past few years, they have physically attacked institutions many times and physically attacked individuals who perform certain functions, which is all, of course, very destructive. Gilas returned from London the other day, attended a meeting there with his bankers and mechanics, returned visibly angry and dissatisfied and then held a session of his party's presidency at Kragujevac, where he was about to announce violence again. There he hallucinated, for example, about it, and it's connected, it's an institution that was once attacked, that Serbia needs a slightly more free RTS. As Gilas imagines a slightly more free RTS he showed in March 2019 when he organized and participated in a violent attack on RTS, so on Public Service when they broke and destroyed and threatened journalists. That way they'll probably break into the Republic Statistics Service. Simply, in Kragujevac, Gilas hallucinated about it, I quote, and it's very embarrassing that he's talking about it, how Serbia can well, imagine, it looks, thought, when he came to power, I think, what Serbia looked like since he was already in power. We know that, therefore, between 2004 and 2013. So, during that period of three state functions, he performed three state functions, he acquired, or I say, robbed 619m euros, so today only what was discovered to have 68m euros in 53 accounts in 17 countries. So that's what Serbia will look like in the future if Gilas returns to power. Let us remember that the city of Belgrade, to which he was mayor, has been the last function he has performed since 2008-2013, while Gilas has been rich, as I have described, immersed in a 1.2 billion-euro debt. So, the city sank when DS, same in Gilas' time, robbed the city of Belgrade in "Bulevar" affairs, land management, containers, bus procurement, bridge. The following data, you are a businessman, who are certainly familiar to you, talking about how Serbia looked in Gilas' time and fortunately that it will not look in the Gilas era again, because it will never come to power again. This is the following data: in April 2012, at the end of his government, the unemployment rate was among the lowest in Europe and was 44%, the unemployment rate was as high as 25%, and the number of unemployed rose by 300,000 from 2008 to 2012. That's how many people they fired. That's what Serbia looked like. So the average earnings in Serbia in June 2012 were only 40,000 dinars, and now more than 60,000 are up. Simply, in Kragujevac, Gilas invited his officials to tolerance, which is extremely hypocritical. How does Gilas imagine tolerance? That, of course, I predict you, will feel the censusors. I've already said something about that, and they'll probably feel the Republic Statistics Institute that's going to be exposed to the attacks. How Gilas imagines tolerance was shown when he attacked his ex-wife and his former father-in-law, a retired man, a 70-year-old man. As Gilas imagines tolerance to testify when he was cursing, watch out, I attended that session, the council members at the City Assembly's session in October 2008 or, say, when he was cursing students at his own rally just because they threw the truth to him, which is that he's a thief. As Gilas imagines tolerance we know when he staged an attack on RTS, when he organized this assembly in July last year. How Gilas imagines tolerance shows those two examples when he openly threatened the police to lose their jobs when he came to power. Be careful, in the end, in this Kragujevac, Gilas has ordered, which is indicative again for the census, that the election will not be because he will organise protests on the street and violent shooting down authorities. He talked about it several times, but he made it clear – there will be no choice. His deputy, in this context, Borko Stefanovic, was a few days before that meeting in Kragujevac, in front of the City Assembly, which I personally heard, so in front of the Belgrade City Assembly, Borko Stefanovic said that Djilas' party, when it came to power, would never, fortunately, cancel all decisions since 2012, and in that light, former Vice President of the Djilas Party Marko Bastic, a colleague of Filipovic, said something about it, made it clear that if he came to power, he would return everything to the previous state, everything that was built, said Bastic, deputy president of the party, he would return everything to the previous situation. That means they're going to tear down everything that's been built in these nine years. This means that it will bring down two hoofs of hospitals, for example, that it will cancel the decisions on the purchase of vaccines, that it will bring down the factories for the production of vaccines when they are built. Fortunately, it will never happen, of course, because they will never come to power, but they are their announcements. For example, they're going to crash, obviously announce it, all the newly built kindergartens and schools, because they said, we're going to put everything back in order. They don't hide it, they brag, and it's logical to assume that when next year's list, they'll do it with a list. Gilas was on N1 the other day, which again indicates that he was very unhappy on his return from London, was on N1 and the ruthless manager asked him nicely – why, Mr. Gilas, do you believe you? And he, you won't believe, lied fatly, next, said Dragan Gilas, everything I've promised in my life I've done. Look out, that's amazing. He is to himself, beware, none of what Gilas promised before he came to power has been fulfilled. He promised not to relocate the Roma, not to put them in containers, so thousands of Roma were buried in containers, destroyed their homes, displaced them, and so all the promises he made before he came to power he lied and annulled. He promised himself and fulfilled those promises. Gilas has promised himself: I will be rich when I come to power, and he has fulfilled that promise. Gilas fulfilled to himself that he had acquired the i.e. He robbed 619m euros and kept his promise and now has 68m euros found, recorded at 53 accounts in 17 countries. Otherwise, everything Gilas has promised and lied since 2012 is being implemented and fulfilled by Aleksandar Vukic and the SNS government, and that is significant. Dragan Gilas was then at that shameful, it simply says, testifying as much as a man is telling the lie, he shamelessly lied to the host and the auditorium that he never supported the Brussels Agreement, nor the party he led. You have a press conference on him since 20 April 2013 where Gilas announced his decision, the DS representations that they are for the Brussels Agreement. As he speaks that untrue which is easily checked, so Gilas speaks falsely and related to anything else. So he's telling the truth about his program and the astronomical wages he's announcing, it's only a matter of course he didn't do it while he was in power? His program is called "The Day After", which sounds like an announcement of some kind of cataclysm, to remind you of that movie, "The Day After Tomorrow", which speaks of cataclysm. So Gilas, probably, when he does, fortunately won't, plans when he comes to power to challenge some kind of cataclysm, which is why his program is called "The Day After". Gilasa simply and disproves, which is easy to verify, everything he did from 2004 to 2013. And for the end alone, I will paraphrasise the great lyrics of the great poet Vladislav Petkovic Dis. So I'm going to paraphrase from the song "Our Days". So: “Gilas’ scum, debauchery, and vices came up with a rotten breath of decay, and all of Gilas ’ dens and canals were seen, and Gilas’s basements, all of them insidious, all of them damned, and all the little ones were lifted up high. ” Thank you. Long live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-07-0.u5096	Thank you. The word is Ugljesa Mrdić.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-07-0.u5097	Thank you, Mr. Orlic. Dear Minister, Mrs Atanaskovic and her associate, distinguished fellow MPs, dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, Serbia, and this today shows that it is a serious state. This is shown now and in the case of a census. Serbia clearly shows that health is more important to us than the list. Serbia as a serious state for everything it does is seriously preparing. When I say Serbia, I mean the government of Serbia and President Aleksandar Vukic, who successfully lead our country in the fight against the crown of the virus and in the fight against the mafia and in the fight for economic development and all that the Minister is in your portfolio. So there is no end in Serbia that is not taken into account. You were talking about Raška and Zlatarski, Zlatibor County today. You've come from Racine County where you've had a great professional career. So every end of our dear Republic of Serbia, Serbia that we need primarily to love so that we can comment on it, so that we can help it, and that we can deal with politics, all of this shows one of the most important things in politics and in every life, which can be reduced to one word, is called responsibility. And this delay in the census, which my colleague Djordje Todorovic and other MPs spoke of well, is clear why it is important to postpone the census for October 2022. It's still something that lasts 30 days. The list includes 15,000 citizens. It is not by chance that Germany or Ireland or Romania have delayed their census, but it seems to me, unlike Germany, Romania, that Ireland is not moving to start next year, but in the autumn of next year when we expect to best beat this monster from the crown of the virus. This way, I must appeal to all citizens of Serbia, that whoever did not vaccinate to vaccinate, influence both their families and their neighbors, because in order to be able to have certain results and as regards both businesses and economies and the fight against the mafia and all other important resolutions and to be able to fill the budget, so tomorrow we can invest in health, and don't give God when there's some new trouble to react as we're ready and react when it comes to fighting the coronary virus. That is why I also support what I will support in the day of voting for this amendment concerning and delaying the census. The list will be, I have no doubt, well done. The state will prepare well for this period until the census, as the state of Serbia led by Aleksandar Vukic prepares well for all, for all areas, I have no doubt that the list will also be well done. What is certainly most important today is what we said about vaccination, because if we don't all vaccinate and if we don't achieve the result of Israel, we'll be in trouble. Given the current statistics that Serbia is the leader in Europe as regards vaccination, I am confident that citizens of Serbia and those who are against vaccination will understand that the interest of themselves, the interest of the health of their families and loved ones, will be vaccinated as soon as possible. While we, on the one hand, as a responsible state, are thinking and talking about vaccination, while we are talking about the census, some of the other lists are also current. For example, one of the main critics and Alexander Vukic and the Serbian Government and you, Madam Minister and all of us here present, Dragan Gilasu, who is the first man together with Tadic of the former regime, is more important to him a list of his bank accounts and a list of his assets that has not yet been announced to the public. So we have some information about his accounts, about millions of euros, it seems to me, in 17 countries in the world where he deployed his millions of money that he took from Serbian citizens. We've had opportunities here to hear the list of assets, parts of the property of him and his brother Gok Gilas, but we come to one conclusion when we get a good analysis, if we hire financial experts to analyze the assets of Drago Gilas and his accounts, we'll come back to that figure we're talking about here, over 600 million euros. Now, Madam Minister, you'll say far better than me because you're an expert and you're in that position as such, what could be done in an economy of over 600 million euros? What could be built as far as the health and education system is concerned? It could be a lot. You know it better, and I'm sure you'll explain it to us. With over 600m euros, not only would it be enough to invest in our health and education system and in the economy, but we could invest some of that money in even more investment as regards what we talked about yesterday, and on the Serbian-BiH agreement on the reconstruction and maintenance of 11 bridges on the Uvac River, the Drina and the Sava River. So, Dragan Gilas as one of the leaders of the former regime, one of the leaders of that part of the opposition who does not think well of the state of Serbia and its citizens, has taken as many of the citizens as it would be right now for us to fill all possible gaps in the budget, to strengthen even stronger relations with the Republic of Serbia and BiH, to invest in health, to invest in the economy, the education system, to invest in both our security forces and the police, and to reconstruct everything that needs to be reconstructed in Serbia. Why? Because the Republic of Serbia, led by Alexander Vukic, is one responsible, serious state that, I repeat, takes care of everything, whether the list, whether the tour of the site, whether the construction of the railway, the highway, the reconstruction of the bridge towards Republika Srpska, is not important, because everything is important. So be careful of everything. Serbia thus shows that Serbia wants good relations in the region, but that it takes care of each end of Serbia, of every citizen, regardless of national and religious membership. Serbia has shown during this period now that it is not only a leader in Southeast Europe, but that it is leading the best foreign policy in the newer period. When I say a newer period, I can say freely over the past 100 years. And foreign policy and internal policy, not to mention the results of the economy, economy and finance. As far as the deal is concerned, you'll allow me another sentence. The agreement on Serbia and BiH's relations itself was best explained yesterday by my colleague, Marijan Risticevic. Drina is not a border, Drina is a river that connects the Serbian people and all other citizens living on both shores of the Drina River. So, Drina connects, Drina doesn't separate. Serbia and Republika Srpska, Serbia-Montenegro, Serbia-North Macedonia have excellent relations, and this is best shown now in the case of the virus's crown. I again return to the topic of vaccination, because vaccination is now not only in Serbia, not only in the region, but also in the world of topic number one. As for problem number one, topic number one, Serbia is the leader. Serbia is a leader thanks to Alexander Vukic and the excellent leadership of the state in both Southeast Europe and Europe and the world. One of the most organized states and so small, in our heart large enough because we do not have another country, Serbia has shown that in times of crisis it can rise and react. Serbia also knew in its history at very difficult times that it was responding when we had numerous victims. My colleagues also talked about April 6th, I think, too, Professor. Ljubisa Stojmirović. On yesterday, 80 years ago, a bombed Belgrade. Belgrade wasn't bombed only then. Belgrade and Serbia and the Serbian people and other citizens living in our area have been bombed several times. Serbia has every time heroically raised itself, managed to rise, strengthen and connect with all those nations, and even those nations that were our enemies, because we are a people of peace, order and discipline, because we as a Serbian people and all other citizens in the Republic of Serbia always give our hand and reconciliation and support. That is why I am particularly pleased that today Serbia is leading such a responsible policy, led by Aleksandar Vukic. On the other hand, all those critics can only criticise and baselessly attack the government of Serbia and President Vukic, and here we are fellow MPs led by our MP, Alexander Vukic – for our children, Dr Aleksandar Martinovic. Dragan Gilas has now shown who he is and what he is in this very difficult period. He has always shown that his personal interest is both property and financial interest that he is more important to him than the interests of the Serbian and Serbian state. On the other hand, we in the SNS with our dear coalition partners show that the state of Serbia is our first priority, and that is why in the day of voting I will support this amendment, support this law and all other laws, because we show that we have the health of citizens, that our country is led by Alexander Vukić in the first place, both me and all my dear colleagues from the Legislative Group Alexander Vukic – For our children. Long live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-07-0.u5098	Thank you. The word has the Minister of Business Mrs. Angelka Atanaskovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-07-0.u5099	Thank you for your support. I'd just like to say that the list doesn't include 15,000 or 20,000, it's 7,000,000 or how many of us are there, we'll see by the list. So we all participate in the list of people. You should keep in mind that this vaccine, which we've been talking about now, is important for both of which, and that's why this has been delayed, just so that we have security and that our people keep their health, because every house needs to be entered, into every apartment, every company. So it's 7,000,000, 7,500,000, God forbid there's 10,000 of us. As for the rest of what you mentioned, I can say that over 8.5 billion euros has been given only to three minimumers, the one that the president has divided, then for those 100 euros, there are still these three stages of assistance, which is still around 2.5 billion euros. Do you know what could have been done and how many factories only made of that money? How many roads? How many hospitals and schools and kindergartens? But unfortunately, the epidemic was stronger, not only with us, but in the whole world, but I am glad, first of all, thanks to the president, that we were able to deal with it first and take the first steps and make the best use of all these opportunities, his friendship and his engagement so that our economy wouldn't stop and be in trouble. We don't have layoffs, minors, workers, something minimal in some minimum environments. Otherwise, all the big investors, all the bigger firms, are still working full-time. They're even hiring. We've got an increase in workers. So it's really a big fight and a big deal at this point in the pandemic that you have a healthy economy and that you're making progress and that you're better than many in Europe, which is really for every praise. It is the success of the entire government and of the president and of you as MPs, and I think it is really important, not because I mentioned it earlier, that we are all working together to end it as soon as possible, to have a healthy environment and to move together into all our other normal activities that would only contribute to strengthening Serbia and the rest of our children here in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-07-0.u5100	Thank you. The Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. The proposing representative accepted the amendment at the meeting of the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The word is Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-07-0.u5101	Thank you. Of course, the amendment is in line with the health situation above all in the Republic of Serbia, but of course throughout the world because the whole world is affected by Kovid 19's death. What is the priority and principle of number one of this government, which it supported and actually gave to President Aleksandar Vukic, is to preserve the lives and health of citizens. The list is a complex statistical process in which both the censusors and those who train the censusors, but also the citizens, as the censusors go from door to door and enter each household to list both the population and members of the household, as well as the apartments. Of course, preserving the lives and health of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia is the number one priority and delaying the census for a year that is entirely justified because the aim of the census is for all citizens to participate in the census. Why is it important for citizens to participate in the list? Because of the census except that it represents one statistical element and a statistical indicator and how adequate planning of public policies, adequate planning and economic and health and social and educational policies depends on a longer period of time. Also, the census also has great importance from the aspect of population policy, and I have to say that the first one under the rug pulled out and put on the 100th issue of population policy is President Aleksandar Vukic because the fact is that our populations are being recorded as being less born, and more people are dying since the 1970s. The issue of talent, the issue of demographics, Aleksandar Vucic, has marked as a strategic and national issue, a question of national importance for the Republic of Serbia and, in any case, that this data will be obtained on the list and that it will benefit from the creation of an adequate population policy and in encouraging birth. The first time in terms of national policy measures is again now that President Aleksandar Vukic has been allowed for mothers who are born to have a third and fourth child for 10 years on a continuous basis to receive a parental allowance for a third child of 12,000 a month, and for a fourth child, 18,000 a month for a 10-year period. It's never been before. Never before have women, mothers, farmers been able to use this parental supplement because of restrictions on land ownership. It is now possible for women who are in the country to be fully equal with other women to exercise the right to a parental supplement. Also, all mothers working on jobs, part-time and temporary work contracts, which are in working relation to a certain period of time, can exercise the right to a parental allowance. What I also want to point out, I want to draw up a parallel between the list that was made during the yellow tycoon and robbery authorities of Dragan Djilas in 2011, Boris Tadic, Vuk Jeremic and other members and the yellow octopus and census planned for 2022. On these examples, I will show how far Serbia has progressed as a country in the field of electronic administration and digitalisation. In fact, 300 tonnes of paper was spent in the 2011 census. It was a pen. 12 million questionnaires were spent. It worked on the ground of 40,000 censusors, of course with a pen, and then 500 operators, seven months in two shifts. They've been working on processing this data to get the data into their database. Today, the 2022 census will be electronic, not a paper questionnaire. The census will be 15,000. They will be equipped with 18,000 laptops, which means that the list itself will be faster, more efficient, but of course this way will reduce the possibility of error. Also, I want to say that for the first preliminary results the deadline will also be reduced, and the first preliminary results after the census will be published within one month. Of course, the yellow tycoon company led by the biggest national pair robber, Dragan Gilas, did not have time to think about adequate preparation for the census, but also about meeting the other needs of the citizens, but above all it was directed to meet and fill its own pockets, but not of its own work, but of the people's pairs. For example, the Belgrade city budget damaged 10m euros, i.e. citizens of Belgrade by buying software that had never been put into service, which was in fact meant to link all public procurement to the city level. It's just that the software put Dragan Gilas into operation, that he connected public procurement, because the biggest robbery was most likely and was through public procurement. Dragan Gilas, of course, did not hesitate to kidnap from pregnant women, so he owed them 400 million dinars. He did not hesitate to kidnap any of the poorest, so only by depriving the right to one-time cash aid to those poorest citizens of Belgrade owe 120m dinars. The Belgrade city's budget, Dragan Gilas, a robber and tycoon, which, in 17 countries of the world, has more than 53 bills from Mauritius, Hong Kong, Luxembourg, and, according to journalists' research, about 70m euros, did not hesitate to steal from the poorest. He did not hesitate to conclude, and it shows the citizens of Belgrade, false contracts, to trade for seconds and to fill his own pocket, i.e. to fill his company's revenues. He, namely, built the first facility to reality the Big Brother programme, which was otherwise introduced by Dragan Gilas in Serbia, marked the construction contract as a contract of general social interest. An ordinary liar and a fraud, since the facility for the needs of the Big Brother was supposed to serve children. It's a shame how much a robber and a tycoon stole from those who are the most sensitive and those whose most helpful state needs to provide. He did not hesitate to move the Roma into canned containers, to give them a note when entering the bus with an explanation where they would go and, of course, to the press, he said that he was not doing it for Roma and for their better position, but was doing the location permit. When the SNS came to Belgrade, we needed 3.5m euros in power to correct all of Dragan Gilas' screw-ups regarding Roma. But what is important today is that Serbia is the only country in which citizens can choose four vaccines in which citizens from other republics also come. They were only around 22,000 during the previous weekend. Serbia today provides assistance and shows solidarity, humanity and gives the hand of friendship and neighbouring countries when it comes to the health of their citizens, it has given vaccines to both northern Macedonia and Republika Srpska and Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Montenegro. Serbia knows that the health of both the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and all those citizens in the region is a matter of further progress and economic development of all countries, and above all of the Republic of Serbia. That is why we are calling for citizens of the Republic of Serbia to be vaccinated, because it is the only cure against this serious disease. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-07-0.u5102	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Vesna Ivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-07-0.u5103	The esteemed chairman, a respected minister with a co-worker, respected co-workers and fellow MPs, is the census as the most complex and expensive political interrogation. This study is conducted in a 10-year period with the aim of collecting data on the number and basic geographical, demographic, socio-economic and other characteristics of all other units of the list of persons, households and apartments, to the lowest territorial level. The list provides complete, quality and comparable statistics of data that are extremely important for the planning of social and economic development. This list is also specific because it should be the last census in Serbia to do censusing on the ground, as the 2031 census should be realised on the basis of the register, and of course the basic condition for this will require all administrative registers to live. Data obtained by the census are particularly important for realising the volume and resulting from the eviction of the population for the past 10 years, the decline in fertility, the accelerated ageing of the population and other parameters. In view of the independent epidemiological situation caused by Kovid 19 and the danger of spreading it, both citizens and those who perform the list shop, this list should be postponed. In order for this research to be carried out, in which so many controlled health conditions, without risk, it is necessary to postpone the same thing when an epidemiological situation is favourable, because only research requires contact with both the censusors and staff in the office, direct participants in the list, and citizens. Especially those citizens with sensitive hands, faces located in homes for the elderly, children without parental ageing, students, students located in collective centres and others. The aim of this bill is to regulate in a uniform manner the competences and obligations of ministries and other bodies and organisations in relation to the preparation and implementation of the rules. In addition, the view is that the pandemic has a direct impact on the production of European statistics and many countries face the same problems, even a recommendation from the UN Statistics Department and the Population Fund in the context of the negative impact of the current pandemic that a list of populations is proposed as the most reasonable solution. Because of the above, I propose that we vote for these amendments, as well as for the law in general, which the SPS parliamentary group will do in the voting day. Another appeal to all citizens to be vaccinated in as short a time period as possible and in as large a number as possible to prevent the propagation and mutation of the virus and that's the only protection from this monster. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-07-0.u5104	Thank you. The word is Milija Miletic. Your group's remaining time is close to seven minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-07-0.u5105	I thank you, Dr. Orlic. Dear Minister, I will support this amendment as I did just now. I think this is necessary and necessary that what we started to finish, but at a time when it allows the situation that people can be safer, for all those who come to them, about the interrogators and all those who do the list, I think this is all in place. Once again, some things I said earlier, you replied to me, I expect you to visit Serbia's southeast as well, visit the Svrljig municipality, where the town of Nis is, where the surrounding municipalities are, where the problems are similar. These were once very strong municipalities, a large number of employed workers, as I said earlier, were more workers than the population itself. The transition made its own, people who were in power from 2000 to 2005, 2006 and by 2012 at the level of the Republic, they did theirs, so that all there was shut down, privatisation, bankruptcy, destroyed jobs, robbed factories, workers out of work. I have repeatedly pointed out that certain things, for those workers who have once lost their jobs, have before the court a judicial verdict, to find the possibility to refund them in some way through certain reliefs. It's something that's supposed to end, and there are certain judgments from the courts. One of the important things is to provide better conditions for attraction, to attract investors. All of this is done by our President, Mr. Vukic, all of this is done by our government, but in particular, it would be good if one of those investments, which comes to Nis as well, came to Svrlig. This is what I'm saying, because I really feel the problems of my fellow citizens, and of those who live in the Srlig itself, who may be in a better position than those who live in our villages, because life in the country is much harder. Life conditions are different and there needs much more investment. One such proposal is a proposal, and this is spoken on the Committee on Economic Affairs, is that in some future period a law or some sublegal act will allow for greater release of business entities, small business entities that open up and work on the territory of such municipalities as Svrljig, Bela Palanka, Gajin Han, Babusnica, and a large number of such municipalities which are the fourth group of underdeveloped and demosted areas. They have to be more liberating, it's some Norwegian model that has produced very good results in Norway, is that Norway is a very strong and powerful country, but they have made such things possible for economic operators in areas where life conditions are more difficult. In our municipalities, life conditions are really difficult. There must be freed every one who wants to open a job, each must be allowed to be less tax-to-income, then less VAT-outs. I think that is possible if we want to help and speed up the development and employment of people in such areas. I'm a very big optimist that can be done. I've made more and more of a point, because I know that's the only way to stimulate someone, that's what business is about, that's what agriculture should be about. This must also be done for demographics, to provide what is said to be a protracted policy, to stimulate birth, to finance greater for such areas, to rural areas, to be given greater opportunities if someone wants to open some drive in a village like Mr. Vukic said yesterday in Rudni Glava. In such places there are opportunities, there are free homes of youth, local communities that are not used by former schools. There's a big space where there can be some business subject to focus there, to work there, to provide him with certain reliefs and to come, say, from some larger village, to come to a village, to say, the village of Pluzina, Pregonoga, Drainac, some villages in my municipality, but some other municipality can offer the same area of elementary schools, where there are no children, where the last 15, 20 years no one is there. There can be opened some space to provide elements and all that it takes for those people who want to work there to hire people to do this with tax exemptions and give them larger subsidies. I think it's the only way for those people who stayed there to stay there to live and maybe someone to come back. If it's not done, I think it's gonna be a lot harder for people to stay there, because we're old municipalities, if any of the young people stay there to live through the employment program, he can only create a family. It's the only way, financial support to the family, employment of people, living conditions, strengthened paths, which is said to be public lighting and a strong profession, and that everywhere it's best, and homes of health, that we have infirmarys that can be treated there, that everyone has the same rights, the same opportunities. This can only be done in this way to isolate as much as possible and to place an accent in undeveloped areas, in devastated areas, in mountainous areas and in areas where it is necessary to invest in young people and in life. Once again, I will support this amendment, because I think this is a need, but on the other hand it is also necessary to invest much more in these small environments, because from these small environments come great people who love and love their own breast. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-07-0.u5106	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-07-0.u5107	Dear Vice President of the National Assembly, Dr. Orlic, the census is extremely important to all of our citizens. He is not only a formal census, he is a significant national identity issue for both the Serb people and other national communities in our country. Dear People's MPs, it would be good if we could get a list of the population of our diaspora, which is very difficult to do when the census of our population is working, because today we don't know how many Serbian people we have, or Serbs in the diaspora. In the last few years, we've had those approximate numbers. For example, we know that there are 300,000 in Austria, of which only in Vienna 191,000, in the United States 350,000, Germany 460,000, Scandinavian countries 180, Great Britain 55,000, France 100,000, Canada 170, Switzerland 130, Russia 20,000, Romania 16,000, Greece 6,000, Australia 69,000. So, not counting Republika Srpska, BiH and Macedonia over two million for now, but it would be good if at least these were on temporary work, but I think it will cover it with the list, at least those on temporary work abroad. Dear People's MPs, we do have verbal attacks on the President of the Republic, Alexander Vukic every day. This time we have terrible attacks, but in the continuity of Vuk Jeremic or a member of an international gang of thieves and frauds. Only two dates to let you see, I have 20 in the last four, five years, 27 February 2019, says – Vukic favours Kosovo's independence. In August 2020, 30, Vucic pledged Kosovo's independence. In 2018, on November 29th, he said – Vukić is a traitorous bastard. Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, today in front of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, that we would really do more, as the people would say, cross over, to see who is a traitorous bastard, whether it's Vuk Jeremic with associates or whether it's Alexander Vukic. Unlike Jeremic, Aleksandar Vukic is a great Serbian reformer, a great Serbian builder and defender of our country, and above all a great Serb patriot and, respected citizens, who will never, ever, work against the interests of our country, nor give up Kosovo and Metohija, as was denied by Vuk Jeremic, Dragan Djilas, Boris Tadic and their other associates. I'm going to try to make some real arguments today and accuse the opposition politicians of betraying the country. Vuk Jeremic, a member of the international group of thieves and frauds, said in a conversation with US congressman Ted Pou in December 2008, "The entry of Kosovo and Metohija into the United Nations is the best that Serbia should hope for." Who's a traitor now? Did Alexander Wolf say that, or is it the Wolf Jeremy? Jeremic requested, without the consent of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the transfer of the Kosovo problem from the United Nations Security Council to the European Union, thus bringing the Eulex mission to Kosovo and Metohija, thereby disabling the vetoing of Russia and China in the Security Council and by who knows which way, Vuk Jeremic, a member of the international gang of thieves and frauds, stabbed the back of his own country. Who's a traitor? Is that Alexander Wolf or Wolf Jeremy? Speaking of Vuk Jeremic, the Honorable Vice President, Dr Orlic, Vuk Jeremic is a very dangerous man. Believe that he is a dangerous man, because usually smaller people can be dangerous by growing up, as Napoleon was, but you see what Vuk Jeremic did – he threatened his former party colleague Nebojsa Krstic: "You, Krle, will serve as an example of how treasonous garbage passes when the time of evil comes, for that I will personally work," 30.03.2021. So you see what kind of person this really is. Zoran Zivkovic. These days, he attacks not only the President of the Republic, but also Gasic. Zoran Zivkovic said at an international conference in Vienna in December 2003: "All is one and completely irrelevant to me whose Kosovo and Metohija are." Here, you see, respected citizens, who is a traitorous bastard, is that Zoran Zivkovic or is that someone else? Nanad Canak, in a people called "Gicoje Neso", said on 5 March 2017, "I am ready to recognise Kosovo's independence" and thus ranks in the order of traitorous bastards of our country. Speaking of Mr. Nesa Gico, he proposed, believe it or not, respected citizens, to the President of the Republic of Otto von Habsburg and thus humiliated his country. Cank's programme document The League of Social Democratic Vojvodina is – the Duke's Republic. And what is very important, German diplomat Gert Arens found in the book "Delomatija on the edge" that Nenad Canak sent Lord Karington and the Yugoslavia Conference a document entitled "The Memorandum of Vojvodina", which stressed and said that "the historic conditions of 1945, when Vojvodina joined Serbia and Yugoslavia no longer apply and the future of Vojvodina is to become a confederate unit of Serbia, and if Serbia does not accept, then it will be an independent and neutral demilitarised state. “ Who is a traitorous bastard? Is it Alexander Vukic or those listed, and among them Nenad Canak, who does not come down from the TV screen these days, muddling our country and declaring Serbian heroes as criminals. Let's move on. Boris Tadic, in a people called "lipicaner", in an interview with envoy Wisner on 27 July 2006, assured him that he "worked within himself and accepted Kosovo's independence as a choice", imagine, and accuses Alexander Vukic of what he never did or will do. In a conversation with US Assistant Secretary of State Daniel Fried, Boris Tadic, in a people known as "lipicaner": "Independence of Kosovo and Metohija does not mean loss if properly - I am underlining "the right" – set in the heads of voters" and thus placed himself in the traitorous scum of our country. When I say - traitorous bastards, let me say, however, that our Penal Code says: “If by force or in some other way counter-constitutionally tries to break off some part of the territory of the Republic of Serbia, it will be punished by a law of three to 15 years.” Let's be clear. Let's move on. Sergey Trifunovic, in a people known as "Sergey Pisa", why, because he said he would piss on the grave of the President of the Republic of Aleksandr Vukic, he said on 31 January 2019, quote: "Kosovo is lost. Kosovo belongs to Albanians, not Serbs," the quote concluded. That puts him into the traitorous scum of our country. Sasa Jankovic, in a people known as "Sale Prangi", said on 3.08.2017, I quote, it was a presidential candidate, imagine who was the presidential candidate, quote: "Serbia is in the interest of Kosovo entering Interpol and thus acknowledging Kosovo's independence." Thus, the “Sale of Prange ” was classified as our country’s traitorous thugs. Cedo Jovanovic, in a people known as "Kedo Smrkanovic", said on 29 September 2015, "The state of Kosovo is an irrevocable act trying to ignore only irresponsible politicians," and thus became the traitorous bastards of our country. Dragan Djilas, a people known as the "Diki Mafia", was in talks with the US Embassy's envoy in Belgrade, Jennifer Brass, quoted me as saying, "I am in favour of arresting Ratko Mladic and I will give up Kosovo," and thus placed myself in the traitorous scum of our country. Who, respected citizens of the Republic, is a traitorous bastard you see now. Let's go further, Professor Rade Veljanovski among professors known as "Rade eggs", why you've probably read it, because he did some unworthy work around the doctorate, 21/04.2018, he said, imagine Professor Dr. Veljanovski, quote: "Serbia should recognise Kosovo's independence and provide him with a chair in the United Nations," and thus Professor Rade Veljanovski, in a people called "Rade eggs" has been classified as our country's traitorous bastards, and he preaches to us daily in the Belgrade City Assembly of Belgrade City. We move on, Bosko Obradovic, a people known as the Bosko Violent, admitted Kosovo's independence at a secret meeting in the US ambassador's residence in Belgrade on June 13th 2019. How? At that time, he did not contradict Kyle Scott and Mattie Palmer, who repeatedly repeated -- I quote that Kosovo is an independent state, finished a quote, and thus Bosko Obradovic, in a people known as the Bosnian bully, as our country's traitorous bastard. Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, this list is not finished and short, it would take a long time to list further from the academics of Prof. Dr. Dusan Teodorovic, who gave up Kosovo and other academics and prominent, per allegation, people. Here, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia as opposition and their leaders betray Kosovo and shame their country at every turn. Who's a traitor? Never, but never, from the president of the state, have you spoken such words as they have said. On the contrary, while our President Aleksandar Vucic daily returns our country's international reputation, throughout the world, but also seeks a compromise solution for our southern Serbian province and implements peace policy, solidarity policy, health policy of all our citizens not only in the Republic of Serbia, but also in the environment, and a policy of accelerated economic progress, compromise policy, as I said to the Kosovo problem and in these difficult times, so far the bastard Dragan Gilas, and the bastards of his associates, whom I have listed, along with other leaders of the Alliance for Serbia, do everything to preserve their robbed millions and dollars in the accounts of Mauritius, Switzerland, Bulgaria, Croatia, Slovenia, Lithuania, to 53 accounts in more than 17 countries. As you can see, honourable citizens and honourable MPs, don't be surprised that they robbed the country. They gave up long ago Kosovo and Metohija. Alexander Vukic will never give up our southernspring province, I think today we all know who's fighting for the territorial integrity of our country and who's selling our country at every turn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-07-0.u5108	Thank you. The word is Luke Kebar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-07-0.u5109	The Honorable Chairman, Dr Orlic, the Honorable Head of the National Assembly, the Honorable Minister Atanaskovic, with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, dear citizens and citizens of Serbia, at today's session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, we are talking about the submission of amendments to the Law on Changes of the Law on the List of Populations, Households and Apartments, for 2021, and these amendments were submitted by the committee responsible in the National Assembly, the Committee on Finance, the Budget and the Control of the Spending of Public Funds, as well as by Parliament MP Djordje Todorovic, from the Legislative Group Aleksandar Vukic – To our children. As regards these amendments, they concern the very title of the proposed law, in particular, amend that date, or year, and concern the very content of the law, or those of the key legal norms, especially those in which the date is mentioned, or years. Namely, it is necessary to postpone the census list, according to these amendments, to be postponed from 1 April to 30 April 2021, from 1 to 30 October 2022. Why? Because today we live in one, I feel free to say, a global climate of uncertainty because the pandemic of the corona virus has taken hold of both numerous world and European institutions, such as Eurostat, the Department of Statistics at the UN, the UN Population Fund, all these institutions are now proposing to the governments of many countries to postpone the census. As we know, the list in our country takes place every ten years and simply on the importance of this data and should not be spoken. These data are important for both economy and statistics, they are important for overall economic development. When we have accurate data, we can do some more serious projections, either demographic, economic or any other. What is important to emphasize is that this list procedure itself is very modern in relation to the previous list we had. Today, maltenes are all digitized, so this process is digitized to some extent, but this process of the census itself continues to mean that we have to contact all citizens. The aim of the list is that we have the exact details of how many citizens we have, and the census procedure itself, lasts about ten, fifteen, maybe twenty minutes. Of course, it's being done with laptops today, but it's still necessary to get to the citizens themselves. There are therefore two aspects of potential danger, a potential risk of contagion. The first is between the Republic Statistics Institute itself and its instructors, which will train with censusors and list committees, and the second potential danger, or security risk, is that those censusors and census committees must come into contact simply with all citizens in the Republic of Serbia. Therefore, our government and the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia agree that the list should be postponed in order to avoid further expansion of the Kovid-19 virus pandemic. As we know about our President Alexander Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the health of citizens is most important. Citizens' health comes first. The important thing is the economy, the important thing is the economy, the development of the economy, but just for Alexander Vukic health is the most important thing. That's what's crucial, and that's what we're fighting for to provide vaccines, to provide both respirators and the necessary medical resources to deal with this pandemic. The successful results of President Aleksandar Vukic also include numerous world media. We had the opportunity recently to look at the interview that President Aleksandar Vucic gave for CNN, CNN is one renowned world media house, but again we are aware that CNN has often had very negative, very bad attitudes and criticisms when it comes to the Republic of Serbia, when it comes to general policy over these years. That CNN recognizes our success. They are aware that we are champions, absolute leaders, champions of vaccination. When you look at statistics and at this European and global level, you will see that we have been on average for the last few weeks, mostly at the top five, when the whole world is at stake or at the top three when it comes to Europe. Also, there are four different vaccines in the Republic of Serbia, as we all know. So citizens can choose four different vaccines of renowned world producers. It is also important to point out that we also had the best software in Europe, probably throughout the world, it is an e-government that allows for free registration and also allows monitoring of the entire flow, i.e. the vaccination process in the Republic of Serbia. I must point out here that President Alexander Vukic is expressing a good neighbourly policy. One policy that allows all citizens, not only the former Yugoslavia, but also other foreign citizens to be vaccinated free here in the Republic of Serbia. I have one piece of information where a larger number of Germans were vaccinated right at the Belgrade fair. We heard from counterpart Peter Vesovic at yesterday's session that a number of Italians were also vaccinated with us. Which means from the EU, perhaps from the most developed countries such as Germany, Italy, France, they come to Serbia to vaccinate for free. This means that their countries were unable to enable them to be vaccinated in their countries, and we are providing them with it. Imagine that 20 years ago, someone knew this was going to happen and apologized to someone. We'd be the first to comment if that man wasn't normal. Imagine, there's a German coming to vaccinate with us, because Germany can't get him vaccines, but today we live it, it's reality. Now, that is precisely proof that we are a global, not a European power when it comes to vaccination, when it comes to quality and efficiency and efficiency, of the entire health system. I would also like to mention that the Croatian "Evening List" also praised President Aleksandar Vukic. They are, I can't exactly quote right now, but I'm going to paraphrase that Alexander Vukic is a leader, not a region, but a leader of Europe when it comes to vaccination. Unfortunately, we are aware that many people believe various anti-vaccinal, or anti-vaxer movements. Unfortunately, they're getting more and more, but I want to appeal to the citizens, I want to ask the citizens to trust the profession, to trust the doctors. Our biggest experts, pulmologists, virologists, immunologists, infectologists, people who studied medicine for six years, then interned for a year, and went to specialization for three years, and wrote numerous scientific papers, spent their working lives as clinicians, or were involved in science. These are people who know and they claim that these vaccines, that they are all good, all of which we have imported, because they have passed through ALIMSA, as an accreditation body in the Republic of Serbia, "Torak" also confirms their quality. Don't trust the antivaxers. Those vaccines have nothing to do with sterility, or with a 5-G network, with some kind of chipping. These are all some disinformation and nonsense that some ignorant people, who don't know a simple extended sentence to put together or simply, some people who may be educated, but do it exclusively from some political particular political interests or simply from some economic benefit. They just got money to promote such a policy. Recently, a certain number of citizens, I think last week, played in the Sava Square in front of the Stefan Nemanja monument and a round was played and, of course, did not follow the measure. No one wore a mask, there was no talk of physical distance, and let's remember, the other night our President Alexander Vukic was visiting on a television show and he said nicely – he should understand these young people. They need to understand their desire, their need to socialize. Believe me, my heart is full when I see the Serbian wheel playing in front of Stefan Nemanja's monument in Sava Square. I'm the luckiest man in the world when I see that Serbian wheel. But I'm happy, only when I see that bike playing in so-called. Health security conditions, peacetime conditions, when we don't have a Covid 19 virus pandemic. Only then do we have to dance and hang out and celebrate together. So I urge and pray, first of all, those younger people, hold out a little longer, to beat this crown, to end this pandemic of the Covid 19 virus, so that we all can be, above all, healthy and safe and then we'll all celebrate. That's the most important thing. Let's just wait a little longer. And President Alexander Vucic says -- about a year and a half ago, that crown simply took away the young people, but let's wait a little longer, to respect the measures, to wait a little longer, to wear masks, to respect all the measures of the Crisis Headquarters, to keep to that physical distance, let's wait a little longer. Let's all vaccinate, check in through the E-Government portal, get that vaccine. Just don't trust those anti-vaxers, like I said, they're either ignorant or they have some political interest, or they're playing a game. Look at how former tycoon politicians, such as Mr. Dragan Djilas or Ms. Marinika Cobanov-zivko-morić, said among the first, that the vaccine was not good, that our state was unable to obtain these vaccines, and they ran among the first to receive the vaccine as soon as possible. And they received from different producers, members of that party, that banana party, freedom, justice, as it is already called, a non-essential party. They were among the first, their executives also received Faiser's vaccine and Chinese Sinopharm, and all other vaccines, and it is therefore very important to be aware that the vaccine is important, that it is important to vaccinate, because that way we can contribute to our country. In this way, if we all inject ourselves, we can fight together, especially together, for our young people, for our children, to fight for the plan, Serbia's 20-25 plan, to make Serbia stronger and more modern. So I urge and ask you to apply, and these students, to endure a little longer, to respect the measures, to apply for the vaccine, and I am convinced that in this fight we will persist, because in this fight we are all together, and the church and scientific community and the military and police and administrations and businessmen and farmers and pensioners and citizens. We're all in this fight together. Let's hold out a little longer and win. Long live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-07-0.u5110	Thank you. Honorable Members of the People, pursuant to Articles 27 and 87, pages 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly, today, will be working after 18 hours, for the need to bring in the acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. I'm setting a regular break for 60 minutes. I'll see you at 3:00.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-07-0.u5111	We continue to work, MPs. The Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds submitted an amendment to Article 2. The proposing representative accepted the amendment at the meeting of the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Milimir Vujadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-07-0.u5112	Thank you, Mr. President. So, if we're talking about the census, I think it's a fateful word today when it comes to the Serb people in the Balkans, and it seems to me that the question of the census is a little bit when he had that fateful character like this moment. Namely, there's one thing you should know. Serbia is not just what we list in it. Serbia is not only its population, its real estate and everything we list in it, but Serbia is every man, every man that lives outside the borders of this country. So, never this moment in history was as important as today. Serbs, as you know, are a very politic people and it is like no other people in the Balkans. Serbs live in several countries in the environment today. To speak only of a census within the Republic of Serbia, and to forget all those lists in the surrounding countries would be absolutely wrong, as neither would Serbia be fully and fully statistically portrayed nor would the Serbian people be complete without a comprehensive view of the list in the region. But there was a great danger over our people. Namely, as you know in Slovenia, the big question is whether members of the Serbian people and all others who live there will be allowed to declare themselves according to national provisions, and when it comes to language, religion and nationality. In Croatia this right, although formally existing long ago in practice is not enforceable. I think it may be unnecessary to talk today about everything that is happening in Croatia when it comes to the Serbian people. If you look at the latest developments in Montenegro, the intention of political silence of the Serbian people and its political representatives is evident, especially in light of the latest initiatives on the replacement of the minister of justice in the government of Montenegro, which will be the political stances of the Serbian people in its functioning. In Albania, this right Serbian people have long not enjoyed it. In Macedonia, too. It could be said that, possibly in Romania and Hungary Serbs enjoy adequate rights against what is actually measurable against what national minorities in the Republic of Serbia enjoy today. Then it becomes clear from all of this why the Balkan census issue, this time fateful and why what is involved in the list in the Republic of Serbia must be tied to all lists in the region in order to get a complete picture of the state of the Serbian National Corps in the Balkans. I will take the opportunity to, regardless of all these pressures that our people today suffer in the environment, appeal to the authorities from neighbouring countries and to all those where the Serb people live to allow our people to plead freely on the list, and that all members of the Serb people in the environment are freely declared, say which national corps they belong to, which language they speak, which they write and which religion they confess. It's the only way the statistics on the list will be complete. Perhaps he would be hypocritical if he spoke only of the rights of the Serb people. I can't help but look at the fact that for decades, even in Serbia, there were peoples who were banned from being nationalized and that everything that was the expression of their free will was denied. As I come from Subotica, from the north of Backa, I know how important this question is, I have already spoken about Hungary, Croatia and all other communities, but it is crucial for the rebel national community living in northern Serbia. For decades, the identity of the rebel national community has been violently placed under the paw of Croatian identity and it seems to me that for the first time without political pressures and some artificial engineering of the identity of the rebel people has a chance to plead as he wishes. It is certainly a feature of a responsible policy that today Serbia is leading with the president towards national communities that are minority, which live in the Republic of Serbia and a good example for all those in the region so that they should relate to the Serb community. Here's a chance for them to see how we should treat all those who make up one state. We will certainly, Minister, as MPs of the Serbian Progressive Party, since the law gives itself freedom and is one of the more liberal and acceptable, perhaps in Europe, to support these legislative proposals, but also all those policies that are at the affirmation of the rights of all those who live today in the Republic of Serbia with the Serbian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-07-0.u5113	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Aleksandar Mirkovic, after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-07-0.u5114	Thank you. Dear Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly, honourable ministers, Vice-President of the Government, honourable MPs and fellow MPs, these amendments today, which are in front of us, will certainly complement something as important for the citizens, which is a list of the population, and I certainly think that it is of greater importance that the census is scheduled to be delayed for some time as a state, but like everyone in the world, it is somehow healthier, safer and when we hope that because of collective immunisation this virus will be much weaker, and certainly the victims will not be as they are today. If you just take into account the fact that the crown of the virus has now killed about three million people around the world, we are all aware of the danger that lurks from day to day and that we are all facing. What has been said today has to be particularly subdued. The Corona virus has found the whole world and no one has been prepared for such a thing, but only by the responsible policy of the Serbian government, and, above all, by giving in to such a safe, responsible, as the government has dealt with any problem or any task in the past period, so this crisis that has reached the whole world of Serbia has shown the possibility that and when it is most difficult for you and when it is most difficult for the whole world, Serbia can adequately react. If you take the information that we are from all parameters and reports from Europe, but also from some American institutions, Serbia as one of the most serious countries in the coronation of the virus, you can clearly see that everything the Serbian government has done was in the interest of public health and in the interest of the lives of Serbian citizens. Last year we successfully fought for every respirator, we successfully fought for medical equipment, we successfully fought for every drug or any medical aid needed, especially for medical workers, to come to Serbia and to be there at the service of our citizens, and in that battle we succeeded, in that battle we were among the most successful. But today, when this war against the crown of the virus has moved to another level, and as far as vaccination is concerned, Serbia is today the most successful in the world. If you exempt Israel that slowly ends with its immunisation, if you see the figures there today, after Israel, the UK, Serbia ranks among the most successful countries in the world, and it is proud of all of us and every citizen of Serbia, but we all have to admit, even those people who do not perhaps support the policy of the Serbian Progressive Party, must admit that without responsible policy and state approach, such as Alexander Vukic has every topic or every problem, we would not be the only country in the world that has even four different vaccines completely free of charge in offering citizens. So, Serbian citizens can make a complete free decision on one of the four vaccines, get vaccinated and thus save their lives, but primarily their loved ones' lives. I took advantage of that possibility, but I also use this discussion to invite citizens to be vaccinated, because, in addition to saving their lives, in this way, what young people find difficult to understand, which is some normal life, life without limitations and life as they have, unfortunately, for the last year and have not in that full swing that they expect, so that anyone who wants to overcome this crisis as soon as possible would have to go from themselves and take the coronaryvirus seriously and be vaccinated to begin. What shows, too, how successful we are in fighting the crown is the fact that many world media are reporting Serbia's successes and some of the most important media in the world, whether it's Chinese CCTV, whether it's the New York Times, whether it's CNN. So you can see on the Sunday level the contributions, reports from Serbia, where only in words of praise refer to everything that President Aleksandar Vukic and our country are doing. When you have such a policy and you have such a situation, Serbia is able to show once again its human side that we have always had as a country and only from 25 to 28 March more than 22,000 people of foreign citizens have been vaccinated in our country and this shows how strong, stable, economically powerful our country is, when in addition to the vaccination we are carrying out in our country and for our citizens, we are able to donate vaccines and an opportunity for someone to be vaccinated in our country and who is not our citizen. However, what, apart from this battle and the battle that is most powerful today, is the topic, which is certainly a list and, unfortunately, respected Mr. Nedimovic, we had people boycotting the elections a year ago, but I see now that in their circles if they are unhappy with the elections and the election process, the election result, I hear that they also have a situation that they may be boycotting the list. I don't know how they think they're doing it, I don't know what their goal is, but I do know that those people who are aware that they don't have support in citizens, I'm aware that these are people who don't have support in the people, and I'm aware that these are the people who are their chance to do something for the citizens of Serbia, and they just used it to fill their pockets. A particularly interesting fact is that our list or statistics are not believed by those people who have some kind of research that they've already won the election. I just don't understand why they're not already saying they're going to participate in these elections and win the SNS? It is amazing that these days in the media that is directly controlled by Dragan Gilas you have the opportunity to hear that he is almost already the winner of some of the next elections, only to agree on who will take over and who will be in the next government. In addition to this, the fact that, it seems to me last week, that bought party Dragan Gilas, so Dragan Gilas bought from his current party presidency member, bought one party because he could not collect a signature to form the party. At the celebration of his party's second birthday, he had a shindig of his brilliant statements, from having more members today than during October 5th, to having as many as 20 people join each day, which you are all here sitting in parliament in the opportunity to get to know the functioning of the political party and its infrastructure, so you know how negligible that is, but I guess he wants someone to fascinate that way. But what was particularly interesting about the citizens is the research that Dragan Gilas read, and that's why I look back at him, because statistics, the list doesn't match him today, but he's got his own statistic, and he's got his own research that he wants to display as relevant. According to the survey, Dragan Gilas says to himself that he has somewhere with all these opposition parties, so all those who are against Alexander Vukic, about 41%, and that Aleksandar Vukic is somewhere at 37%. When you look at all this from the corner of someone who may not be involved in politics and is not familiar with the character and part of Dragan Gilas, who rarely can come out to a conference to answer a question without using a lie, and I certainly forgot when he answered the question directly whether there are 25 million euros in real estate and whether there are a lot of these bills that we're talking about today. What is particularly interesting is the fact that he is convinced that his party will rescind the SNS in the elections of the republic, the city and that Aleksandar Vukic will not certainly be president in the coming period. All this he said and said that this research would never publicly let anyone take it, and knowingly playing with the intelligence of Serbian citizens, because the transfer of this birthday and these research went live on his Facebook page, so of course everyone saw it, and later his media transmitted it. What is particularly interesting, I have to show the citizens today, is that he is calling on the sources of Mr. Djordz Vukadinovic, in Serbia known as the false Vlah. Why? Because a man enlisted as a Vlach to make it easier for him to cross some kind of censorship, to get into parliament, and everyone knows it. And when someone is discredited in this way, so somewhere by force of opportunity on his own conscience, he no longer deals with politics. However, nations and belongings seem to be changing, so Borko Stefanovic from Borislav Stefanovic also moved to Borko Stefanovic, thinking that it would contribute to him somewhere. Why does it matter? It is important because Djordje Vukadinovic had previously carried out the same research, which he said was relevant, and in this study, pay attention, it is about research involving the city of Belgrade and the question being asked, will you vote for the SNS? So 39.4% said yes, they said 41%, and they don't know 29.5%. Well, gentlemen dear, if you add these numbers, you come from 110%. Well, he's a research expert. He's doing so well in mathematics, Mr. Vukadinovic. So the research that's supposed to end with 100%, it's 110%. Now, respected citizens of Serbia, don't trust your eyes and don't trust you with these lies, but trust Dragan Gilas and Vukadinovic. That's right. So, here's what Mr. Veroljub Arsic says, I agree, it's probably those 10% commissions; 10% on the bridge, 10% on the renovating of King Alexander Street, 10% on the containers, 10% on the budget, on kindergartens, double-charged kindergartens, 10% on the 10% on the refurbishment of King Alexander Street, 10% on the street, 10% on the streets, 10% on the budget, 10% on the kindergartens, double-charged kindergartens, 10% on the 10% everywhere and then, behold, you get out of politics with 25,000,000 euros in real estate only. So it is obvious that Dragan Gilas had his own policy when he was able to lead both Belgrade and Serbia has passed on now that the opposition, however, is on such fine research. So it doesn't matter if it fits there, whether it has sound logic or reason, no. The only thing that matters is that the numbers are fixed the way they fit him. Dear citizens of Serbia, if you have the opportunity to see only on this case how they treat you today and how they insult your intelligence by thinking that you've forgotten everything they've done by 2012 and 2013 and how they're stealing from your eyes even on staged research, what could you expect if they, by what case of science fiction, were returned to power? As I said at one of the past sessions, I think these days they're best at talking about themselves and everything they said about each other I don't think any of us could say more precisely, because we didn't sit with them in the same party. For the very end, to see what kind of circus this is, these days they've split up, they're going into two columns, three columns, Jeremic won't go with Djilas, Gilas won't go with Jeremic. I see Tadic is politically active again, so, well, no one asked him anything, he himself ran for potential candidate for the opposition president, however, there is one small problem, Bosko Obradovic, who sat down almost until yesterday in these benches, said he would not accept Boris Tadic's candidacy, and now I will read his explanation to you. So Bosko Obradovic says: "I told him that we do not want to be hostages of the former regime, which, together with the present, keeps us in a vicious circle that has been going on for 30 years. “ So, gentlemen dear, Bosko Obradovic will not be, he will not return the former regime. So, Bosko Obradovic will not be with Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic, with the same people he participated in a fight against traffic signs here in the Republic Square or who shot down a fence here in front of the Assembly, who tried violently to enter this parliament. So, he, man, doesn't know what he wants anymore, he doesn't know what he doesn't want anymore, but the only thing he knows for sure is that hate for Alexander Vukic and for Dragan Gilas and for Vuk Jeremic and for Bosko Obradovic, it grows from day to day. Dear Ministers, if you haven't heard, here I will repeat, Bosko Obradovic will not be with Boris Tadic because he represents the former DS regime, but Dragan Djilas does not appear to represent the same regime. Paradox in their ranks as much as you want, but for the very end, when you know everything, when you have information about everything, you have every research, come on nice, respected Mr. Dragan Gilas, tell us if you have these accounts in countries around the world, so we play interesting geography by discovering some countries and some new accounts, whether you have those 68,000,000 euros in those accounts and how did you come from a failed window washer, a gum salesman and a failed entrepreneur of 75,000 euros, a used SAB car, come to the property of 25,000,000? Do not answer that question to Alexander Mirkovic or Aleksandr Vukic, answer it to the citizens of Serbia, because they have the right to know it, because you have embezzled their money and put it in your pockets, and I am confident that we, as MPs, will make decisions and laws that are primarily in the interests of the citizens of Serbia, because this is SNS policy, because it is the policy of President Alexander Vukic. Thank you. Long live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-07-0.u5115	Thank you. According to the amendment, MP Bratislav Jugovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-07-0.u5116	The esteemed chairman, respected ministers, dear fellow MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I think it is the right decision to postpone the census for October 2022 and many speakers have explained why it is so, why it is good to do so. I'd like to know if e-Government can be used in this census process. Through e-Government we applied for vaccines, very efficiently, very quickly, everything works impeccably. As a citizen of the Republic of Serbia, as a user of the Internet, I would like to know if e-Government could participate in this process, in this very important process which is only a statistical issue for Serbia, and for countries in the region, where fascism is emerging, it is a political issue. A respected colleague of Ugljesa Mrdic said it would not be too burning to make a list of the property of certain thieves on the political scene. When I say this, I mean Dragan Gilas, let's see how much his brother Gojko and he have real estate in elite locations, how much he accounts for in the white world, how many huge millions, how rudely rich they are, how much they've gained by honest work, and how much heisting the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I would add to what the esteemed colleague Ugljesa Mrdic said if he hadn't been burned to count how many parties were changed by Marinika Tepic, a politician owned by tycoon Dragan Djilas, to count how many politicians are on the scene owned by tycoon Dragan Dilas. So we have Bosko Obradovic, a politician from Cačka who owns the tycoon Dragan Gilas. We have Borislav Stefanovic, who in the meantime changed his name, so the man gave up his identity, his baptized name, and now he is Borko Stefanovic and he is a politician owned by tycoon Dragan Dilas. You'll see that it's just one simple click that doesn't want to take part in the list, that there's no power there. I must say that Vuk Jeremic is not a politician owned by tycoon Dragan Gilas. He's a politician owned by an international gang of thieves. It is not bad to count how many lies about President Aleksandar Vukic and his family members were told by Marinika Tepic and other politicians owned by tycoon Dragan Dilas. It's not the same thing to count how many factories they've closed down while they've been in power, how many people are out of work, how many disreputed workers are. It's all useful to count, but the most important thing is to count how many factories Alexander Vukic has opened since when he was in power, how many new jobs have opened up, how many salaries have increased, how many pensions have increased, how many kilometers of highways. Just from Chuck to Belgrade... We Cacans are very proud because finally in the 21st century we come on the highway to Belgrade and now we believe that Belgrade is the suburb of Cačka, that Cačak is actually the capital of Serbia, and that is what Aleksandar Vukic has given us. Thank him for that. Unfortunately, there are some politicians in the ruling majority in Cacca who have done everything to ensure that Aleksandar Vukic is not an honorary citizen of Cačka, but he is an honorary citizen of Cačka for me. He deserved it. All this is important to count for Serbia, for our children. Now, you see, in addition to the census, it's important that we count and who did what for Serbia and why someone deals with politics. In the end, it's important that we count how many hoodlums we have in our ranks. We must not remain in debt for generations to come, nor for ourselves. Long live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-07-0.u5117	Thank you. The People's Messenger, Vuk Mircetic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-07-0.u5118	Thank you. The President-in-Office of the Republic of Serbia, the amendments we are discussing today concern the move of deadlines within the framework of the Census, Households and Households Bill proposal at 2022. Due to the current global situation caused by the coronary virus and the generally difficult functioning of the business environment, it is entirely justified to move deadlines for several reasons. First of all, the census procedure needs to be conducted by 20,000 people. We have already talked about that of these 20,000 people, more than 15,000 people are people who are censusers, who are supposed to enter every house in the Republic of Serbia. This, of course, is not in line with the current epidemiological measure relating to the very pandemic of the coronary virus and therefore makes sense that the census itself should be postponed to 2022. It is also important to note, one of the previous speakers said that several EU members, such as Germany and Romania, who use the same method of the census, i.e. interviews or that direct contact, also postponed the census to 2022. In one of the previous speeches in the tide, I mentioned that the Republic of Serbia is extremely important in this strategic approach to solving any problem. You, Minister, were here talking to us about the fact that the list of citizens is one big activity that is planned and implemented every 10 years, and given the importance of this activity, but also the current situation relating to the coronary virus, it is essential that we, first of all, create conditions that are safe to implement the citizens' list itself. Science and the profession know, I guess, a lot more than I do and they say the only way is mass immunization and vaccination of the whole society. I am glad that previous speakers talked about vaccination, about its importance, because the vaccination process in Serbia itself is something that is proud. More than 2.5 million citizens of Serbia will soon be vaccinated, and Dr Bekic mentioned in today's statement that Serbia is the first in Europe at the rate of re-experienced. All of this has been reported by the world's media, as well as by counterpart Aleksandar Mirkovic, as well as by our ability, Serbia's ability to fight the crown of the virus. But what's very important, we don't have to be praised, because we don't do anything to be praised, we do it because our lives are important and it's important for us to save lives. The fact that in this situation, the Republic of Serbia was well equipped to speak of statistics, says the number of vaccines, speaks also the rate of vaccines, but says the number of respirators that we acquired at a time when few states could do so even when some countries that are bigger and more powerful than us couldn't do the same. For Serbia, obtaining vaccines is not a geo-political issue, it is a matter of saving lives. In a personal, personal case, Prime Minister Ana Brnabic has shown that vaccination needs to be done. She vaccinated first, however, we all remember that well, when she vaccinated individuals began to talk about how the vaccine was gone and how the government would vaccinate itself and that it would remain on it. Of course, the facts are quite the opposite and the fact that we are now one of the best countries in the world at the rate of vaccination is saying that they were absolutely false. Our President Alexander Vukic's position was that he should be vaccinated when the people and just yesterday, so somewhere in the middle of the vaccination, he was vaccinated and said after that he felt quite well, or that he felt great. However, because of the difficult global situation some time ago, the Republic of Serbia allowed the vaccination of foreign citizens, people from the region and we all saw in the media how it went and how they praised and satisfied, that the Republic of Serbia allowed them and allowed them to be vaccinated. Vaccination alone is a signal that we can move forward together. It's just that these are our neighbours and we think it's fair and that we should show that in the region absolutely everyone should turn to the future. Of course there are always issues that share, but we don't want to go back to the past, we want to work together on something that is good and that allows us to progress. It should be recalled, of course, that the Republic of Serbia has, that is, the possibility and choice of four vaccines. Here, Minister, you tell me which other state in the world gives its citizens the opportunity to choose four vaccines? In spite of all this, vaccination points are now open throughout the Republic of Serbia where our citizens can come without prior application and be vaccinated. I must also commend the decision to have your vaccination checkpoints in all places, not just in those 50 cities as originally planned. When it comes to mortality rates, we have the lowest in the region and we are among the better in Europe, because we are trying, as I have pointed out several times, to preserve lives, and our measures are among the mildest, along with the naturally vaccine that we are carrying out even better than others. However, for Serbia, it is beyond all of this, and I am saying this because I think it is important that we create an environment in which we can organise this list and implement it in one safe way, it is important for Serbia to also get the vaccine factory, or not only to pack that liquid in vaccines, but also to produce vaccines. This will be done with friends from China and Russia and President Aleksandar Vucic said Serbia is of paramount importance and the opening of a Bajofor technology institute, as Serbia's economic progress is linked to investing in biomedicine and biotechnology. The message of the president of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, seen absolutely by all, is that Serbia has gone ahead and can't be brought back, although many would like to see weak Serbia. Now imagine a hypothetical situation that happens today that we have representatives of the former regime and that we have, that we have to know that 15 thousand people have to engage on the census and now imagine how they would react, what would they do? Would you, on the one hand, let those 15,000 people enter each of their homes in this current epidemiological situation, or perhaps the proposal for their amendment to change this law read not to be in 2022, but to be, for example, sometimes in the future or perhaps never in the future, or until they find their way? During the opening of the Batajnica loop, President Vukic said that it was an irrevocable time when members of the previous regime thought only of themselves and how they would increase personal wealth and of course not to return, and for all of us as ministers and for us as MPs to work even more responsibly, even stronger, and to be, of course, in constant contact with the people. It is necessary for the Republic of Serbia to have such an important activity as the list is done in a highly efficient way because the census is very important for the Republic of Serbia. This is why, of course, I will support this in Voting Day, and given that today is also World Health Day, this way and from this place, I want to absolutely to congratulate all health care professionals who have been on board for over a year now and to thank them for fighting for all of us and for my personal name and for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia -- thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-07-0.u5119	Thank you. Alexander Vukic's MP group for our children, the remaining 54 minutes. Next is the Messenger of the people, Krsto Janjušević. Let MP Veroljub Arsic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-07-0.u5120	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, respected colleagues, to the census, I believe that infrastructure and large infrastructure projects will make some kind of list through many cities and municipalities where they go and where they pass. A large role in the list of new jobs, investments and reasons to stay in their city will continue and end the works of the Preljina-Požega highway on Corridor 11. It's April 7th. Will either of us be much older on January 7th on Christmas next year? No one will, and then we'll have a highway to Požega. It's something we couldn't dream of before. Now it's a reality. Here at the threshold of Užica, Arlja, Kosjeric, Ivanjica, we will have new reasons for staying and we will have a time when, I would only turn the direction of arrival, so not from Užica to Belgrade, but from Belgrade to Užica, it will take more than two hours for tourists from Belgrade to see Zlatibor, Zlatar, Tara, Divcibara. Then when we do further the Moravia Corridor, and that kind of investment list and new reasons for staying people - Pojate, Čicevic, Kruševac, Trstenik, Vrnjačka Banja, Kraljevo, Čačak. Moravia Corridor, 12 kilometers long, will be completed in three years. Again the question - will any of us be much older in those three years? We'll be older, but as many older people went through the gogoth by 2000, more specifically from 2000 to 2012, it said -- just that my child was to live, we gave up ours, and we kind of gave up, but at least my child to experience this better and more modern Serbia. We succeeded with this strong economic policy, created by President Aleksandar Vukic, so that even those people who said they didn't see hope for themselves, but let my child, my child, be better off too, make it better for them. Whoever doesn't believe in Preljina-Pozega, turn around and see Belgrade-Preljina. Who doesn't believe that in 2025 there will be an average salary of over 920 euros, so when President Aleksandar Vukic became Prime Minister, he was 330, today 540... Everything we strive for is based on what we've achieved so far, and that's very important. We keep mentioning these hate spills, but we can't see what the alternative is. People who know what they're up against are mentioned, but they don't know what they're for. We have heard enough insults at the expense of the Alexander Vukic family, at his expense, the most monstrous insults, threats and organization of something very dangerous, which I believe the authorities will very quickly determine, only one thing we haven't heard and should ask them at every step - what is the name of the man who would lead Serbia better than Alexander Vukic? What's it hard for them, when they know so much to tell, how bad we are, how bad we are, how we are, how we are, to say just one name and name? That's all we ask of them. Shut up. Is that the Wolf of Jeremiah? He was recently in Koserić, something he promoted had no answer to one question - why is he a favorite person in Pristina media? When we talk about new investments, new airports, the Morava airport, which recently had a first flight and a big investment at the Ponykva airport, which started, this year there will be 300 million dinars, not that it didn't fly at the time of Vuk Jeremic. He flew to the most luxurious classes, to the most luxurious destinations, and the people flew from work - 400,000 people remained from 2008 to 2012. They were satisfied at the time. They're satisfied with a time where 400,000 people are out of a job, and we're not happy, and I'm saying this, because it's true, and it's not that we've provided 400,000 new jobs in the past few years because we're fighting for a lot more. We are not satisfied with the rate of unemployment below 9% and heading towards that European average, we want an even better result. Look at Serbia through history. When you add all of this together, this whole struggle of SNS, Alexander Wolfich, somehow it can fit into one word, which is security. Throughout history, Serbia has been burdened with some as part of any state community or any other arrangement, but Serbia as Serbia and Serbs, wherever they live, have always been burdened with it, and have watched over them some fear of war, of pogroms, there was heavy slavery, there was a pogrom, there was everything. In its history, Serbia was not stronger, more modern, internationally respected, and when we talk through history we all know it, and if we hadn't taught it we could listen to it from our ancestors, they best convince it, that they were once not allowed to enter the church, that they had to break cakes in secret, that they had to keep an eye on when and at any time to pray or anything. What was in those prayers? It was for Serbia to be strong, to be militaryly strong, to be neutral, not to depend on anyone, to fight for its better future, to have friends on all sides of the world, and I think that this is Serbia that most looks like that Serbia that was in the prayers of our ancestors. Once again when we talk about an alternative, if we can call these people an alternative, they present themselves, so what are we going to do, how is it possible that a soldier could have waited or that a soldier should wait for him to get back the one who said - what do you need an army for? Boris Tadic. Imagine a member of the MUP who, at that time, always doing one of the most dangerous jobs and really has to give them a special confession, he goes to the street and doing his job running into this jilas mystery who tells him - I'm going to fight to keep people like you out of a job, what could he expect from a country that should stand behind him because he's doing the most dangerous job? He's going there to fight criminals in front of him, and the state is being led by criminals at the time. Then where is he in all this? What could a doctor, a nurse with a salary of 30,000 dinars, expect? When we talk about the bird, it is very important to note that until the end it would be clear how much the fight and investment in health is extremely honest and systemically, the Clinical Centre in Nis, one of the most modern clinical centres in the Balkans, was completed before the coronary virus appeared. An increase in salaries and pensions for healthcare workers took place long before the crown appeared. So, not at the moment – health workers, the crown has appeared, now we need you, so let's do all this – no, but with this started much earlier, which is proof of one ultimate responsibility of the authorities and an honest approach to solving health problems. We will fight for Serbia and we will win, but we will win so that no honest and honest man who votes for another option will be defeated. We'll beat these scum, criminals and tycoons never again see at the state's mangers, we'll win by building roads, highways. Today, as we think about the bypasses around, for example, Cačka or Užica, the tycoon and his team are thinking about a tour around Serbian citizens on their way to the chair. Well, mangoons, there's no way around Serbian citizens. There are elections, where each time, more convincingly, Serbian citizens clean you up. And on this road, stared at the "Serbia 2025" investment plan, we will fight for Serbia in which the average salary will be over 900 euros, pensions over 400. When all this is collected and we talk about Alexander Vukic and those who want to tear him down, he fights to make the average salary more than 900 euros, and on the other hand we have a man who fights that he alone has over 900m euros. He reported 619. Moravia Corridor, more specifically, Preljina-Pozega's share of highways costs 450m euros. The man peeled the Serbian citizens' backs of Preljina-Pozega and a good part of the Moravia Corridor. Maybe get a little closer to what kind of scum and criminals they're dealing with. That's why we're going to fight for Serbia, for the greater good, for Serbia, in which the student who enrolled in college this year will graduate when the average salary is over 900 euros, and certainly much more in his branch. Long live Serbia!
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-07-0.u5121	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-07-0.u5122	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mr. Minister, of course, that the health of our citizens is the most important and perhaps the most important reason why the census planned to be implemented in 2021 should be delayed for some time when public health will be far safer and when I am the process of censusing the population, households and dwellings can be implemented in one way, as it is imagined, planned and that the data we have are more credible. However, Mr. Minister, I must also say that I am extremely sorry that there will be no list in 2021, and that is because the last census was in 2011 exactly 10 years ago. In Article 6 of the Basic Census Act 2021, it is said that, among other things, there will be a list of persons who are considered to be in a working relationship. It was 2011, so we would have the opportunity to see the difference between Gilas' government, then he was in power in 2011, and the government led by SNS and Aleksandar Vukic. Most of all, when it comes to those 10 years, somehow, that cowardly former regime, I have to call it that, trying to attribute their results to us and what they've been doing. Here, however, whenever you open any newspaper, whether Sunday, whether the daily ones, controlled by Gilas, will always find some professor who doesn't work and doesn't live in Serbia but abroad, and they probably think that those outside of Serbia are more valuable than people, as experts, know more, I don't think that it is, I don't mind being a professor in both Nottingham and Florence, but I don't think ours lacks the knowledge as much as these have, and the next data will bring out. For example, in the last 10 years, Serbia has been the lowest in the region to grow gross products. And then they explain it. And they'll never tell the truth to the end. In 2010, 2011 and 2012 Gilas' regime was in power and then we had a GDP disaster, then we had minuses, not to tell how long it took all of their crap that they did in the state and that they left us with all these problems, we had to solve it. Another information will always be presented, which is very incorrect, which is to compare us in this, they say, with comparable economies, including Bulgaria, Croatia, Romania, the Czech Republic, Slovakia. I have nothing against these countries, but we have no comparable economies. We don't. They're EU members, we're not. They can use EU funds, we can pre-accession funds that are ten times smaller than the amounts they can withdraw. We must find our own funds and finance the development of the Republic of Serbia, while they draw a good part of the funds from the EU funds. And it's never those economists of the type Culibrk, etc. They won't tell you. But that's not weird, because they don't know how many acres there are square meters. Let them learn that. Here, you're the Minister of Agriculture, when you meet Culibrk, tell him how many square meters a hectare he hasn't learned yet. He hasn't learned that yet, believe me. So it's one of the ways they turn it all around. I think that the list that's supposed to happen really shows the difference in the government between us and them because they're trying to go through various economic analyses again, now I'm going to give you one stupid thing that these professors from abroad use. I don't want to mention their names. You don't have to. He says this -- it was worth 330 euros more in 2011, than 550 euros in 2021. Then a man kills himself to explain to us that we don't know how to distinguish the euro in 2021 with those euros from 2011. That's why I think we finally need that list. One more thing, let's finish, and that's to stop dangling more about this people leaving 70, 80, 90, 100 thousand people annually to Serbia. As far as they said it had left, half of Belgrade would no longer be here. This trend is now reversed, we may not be satisfied, but we have produced a result and will always try to convince us that during Gilas's rule it was better because we failed, than during the rule of Alexander Vukic when Serbia progressed. It is similar to that claim by Mirko Cvetkovic -- Serbia has statistically emerged from the crisis, but citizens do not feel it yet. They have now rephrase it a little bit, so they would like to say that citizens live better, but Serbia is statistically in crisis. And they've always been used to all these manipulations. If we want real data to be provided, and about the number of people in Serbia, about the number of households and the number of employees, let them take some data that are comparable. Five years ago are the years when Serbia managed to implement the reform process so that its citizens feel the benefits of the reforms we implemented in 2014 when Aleksandar Vukic was first president of the government of the Republic of Serbia. Thanks to these reforms today, we have both the economy and the state that resists this monster called the pandemic of the Coronation Virus. Thanks to these reforms, launched by Aleksandar Vucic, and the former regime did not want to, but it was not allowed to do so, we today have such an economic situation in Serbia as it is. But, Mr. Minister, whatever you do for Serbia, whatever you do in the area of agriculture, since you are in charge of it, your colleague who was in the afternoon for the economy, your colleague who was yesterday for traffic and infrastructure, Momirovic, will always attack you that you as a minister are not doing it for Serbia, but to stay in power. Here's another crazy way of thinking. They say - Alexander Vukic doesn't care about the lives and health of the citizens, he obtained vaccines to extend his power. There, it is a way to conduct a policy of the former regime, which is now headed by Dragan Gilas. I think all of this is offensive to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and I wish we had another 2026 or 2027 census, so that we could confirm those ten years of SNS-led authorities through that list. Who will then be in power, I don't know, but I know who won't be, Dragan Gilas, the former regime, who destroyed and destroyed Serbia and will never again be in a position to repeat what they've done to us and take away our future for 12 years.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-07-0.u5123	Thank you. The 3rd amendment was submitted by MP Djorđe Todorovic. The government and the Finance Committee, the republican budget and the control of public spending, accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word is "proposer." Just to let you know that the remaining time is 31 minutes for the parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-07-0.u5124	Thank you, Chairman. I shall immediately mention that I will use the time of my authorised representative. I would like to say, as far as the amendment I submitted to Article 3 is concerned. The draft law amending the Law on the List of Populations, Households and Apartments for 2021, which refers to Article 28 of the Basic Act, point 2), is in fact the domino effect of what we are talking about today, about the postponement of the census for 2022 and the publication of the final results for 30 June 2024. This is the essence of the amendment that I have submitted, which concerns this law, and what I would like to say to Mr. Nedimovic, the respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, is essentially the support of all these amendments and those submitted by the Finance Committee and those I have submitted, which are talking about postponing the census for 2022 due to the epidemiological situation, but above all to preserve the health of our citizens. That's how we in SNS have always acted, taking care of Serbian citizens. I would use this part to remind myself of what the 2011 census was when Serbia was headed by a yellow company headed by Dragan Djilas and this new one that wants to run for president of the Republic again, Boris Tadic. At that time in 2011, we had the same situation as the Bill on Census Law, I hold it here in my hand, it refers to February 4, 2011, and the month, two later was adopted - the list is delayed by six months. But then she wasn't a monster like the one who's been harassing the world today, who's harassing Serbia, then she was some other monster. It was then a monster that was depicted in this yellow company. They moved the census from April 2011 to October 2011, and in the meantime before April, implemented the government's reconstruction and reduced the number, or members of the government, by three resistors, to rock somehow eightm euros as much as was missing from the budget from Serbia to fully implement the census. So, eight million euros didn't have in the budget to make a list. That was the time, that was the situation, and I might remind you, and the citizens of Serbia know it very well, that was the time when Serbia sank, that was the time when half a million people remained on the streets. It was the time of the robbery privatisations, which was the time when Dragan Gilas offered Serbian citizens bones and helmets, according to Rakela Ferrari. Bones and a helmet for 15, 16 thousand dinars of minimum wage, about 300 euros of average salary in Serbia, and a man on the other hand provides destinations like Mauritius, such as Hong Kong, such as exotic positions in the world, other countries of Switzerland, America, etc. It was a time when Sanda Raskovic Ivić provided herself with pumpkins from Rome. It was a time when Marinika Tepic, although it is now current, looked in one direction at how to fly from one party to another, a third party to secure a good position. It was the time of Serbia's collapse. It was a time when young people decided to flee this country. In 2011, I was a student and I thought about how I would look for these jobs, but I continued to look for studies in the white world and I was motivated by parents and society in general. He was getting along as he could. It was a difficult period for all of Serbia, and it continued in 2011, 2012 and 2013, as long as Dragan Gilas shook the city of Belgrade as mayor, when he managed to push the city of Belgrade into a 1.2 billion-euro debt and thus secure half of the debt at the end of his company, so 619m euros he recognised. It was a time when he allocated money to the black days, Mr. Korovic, for the black days of millions of euros in exotic destinations, and that is the game of numbers, in 53 accounts, in 17 countries of 68m euros. It is large amounts, 68m euros he took for himself, and eightm euros did not have to implement the census. For eight decades, we could have carried out the list that the biggest thief in the Balkans had not damaged the budget, Serbian citizens for so much. The point is, Gilas doesn't love anyone, and they say love is mutual, so no one loves him either. And he even had to provide real estate for his brother's love. So you know what they say -- he loves you to the last square, and he had it somewhere in more than 30 properties in Belgrade. All of this managed to secure that unfortunate Gojk, along with him, to open accounts in the white world, and the situation in Serbia was catastrophic, catastrophic in Belgrade, catastrophic in all parts of our country. And now that the earth is finally on its feet, what are they doing? They're criticizing. They're criticizing and all that would be good if it were some constructive criticism, not as I read yesterday in Gilas' media when, on April 4th or 5th, so two or three days ago, when these unfortunates of his from the Belgrade Committee of Freedom and Justice say, and before that, of course, they're talking about that the House of Health in Borca is not open yet, I'm coming from Palilula so that I've completely followed this news, he criticises both the mayor and deputy mayor and health minister. He, I think of the Belgrade Committee of the Freedom and Justice Party and says – this facility is of capital importance to Belgrade. So they acknowledge that the home of health built, entirely built from the state's resources, is therefore talking about the total amount of sevenm euros. Seven million euros have been allocated from our own resources, we build the most modern health home in Belgrade, which is literally a mini hospital and will be invested with significant resources to make this home of health and equipment, they say below, so, in addition to acknowledging that this facility is of capital importance for Belgrade, and when they led Belgrade they did not remember that one dinar invested in this facility, they continue because it is not only intended to provide primary health care for 100,000 inhabitants, of course, but is of particular importance because of this epidemiological situation. So we manage to build a home of health that extends to seven thousand squares, in a period where the whole world is on its knees, we extract significant resources and increase wages, we increase pensions, we build covid hospitals, we raise clinical centres in Serbia, we care about public health, and what they did was exclusively and the only concern about their own pocket and how and how to get rich. And then here goes one key sentence, he says - it's scandalous. It is scandalous for them that the building of which sevenm euros has been invested has not yet been detained, while more than 14,000 healthcare workers currently lack jobs in Serbia. They're worried, these are fake altruists. They take care of health care workers, they worry about the facility we built in less than a year, the facility in which significant funds were invested, the facility that we will equip here criticise that something was not done right, and a clinical center, a general hospital, one home of health, were unable to build from 2000 to 2012. What hypocrisy it is in the works I will leave to the citizens to judge for themselves. Why are they doing this and why is it the current Palilu? Because he was recently arrested by the former president of the Palilu municipality. Danilo Basic, the extended hand of Dragan Dilas in Belgrade's construction mafia, was arrested during a period of time when Dragan Djilas shook Belgrade. Thus, this man, who reportedly cared for health workers, who also cared for families, who cared for all sectors within our capital, generally and beyond, because he had to lead politics and how to seek out certain percentages in the construction of the Bridge on Ada, in the reconstruction of King Alexander's Boulevard, etc. There's a lot to talk about on this unfortunate subject. The point is that today everything is different, different and far better. Following the difficult economic reforms carried out by the Prime Minister in 2014, Aleksandar Vucic, who has been dealing with the economic problems and the noose around the debt, managed to raise the country to its feet, fully secure economic stability, help Serbia to get on its feet, become a leader in the region, become the country that is first in Europe as regards economic growth and to be an example in Europe and the world and to talk about how much better we come out of this crisis, and we talk about countries in the region, I'm talking about media that follow these developments, the world media. All of this wouldn't be if President Vukic didn't have a great relationship with Si Jinping, with Vladimir Putin, with Emmanuel Makron, with Brussels, Moscow, Beijing. All of this wouldn't be if we didn't invest significantly in our military industry, not to invest significantly in supporting young people to stay in our country. You've heard probably often that wing that doesn't stand, which is that young people leave this country and I told you at the beginning of my presentation that I was one of those youth groups that planned to leave Serbia in 2011 and 2012. The country is far better today, far more advanced and the Vienna Institute finds it. It notes that from 2015 to 2019 more young people came to Serbia, or have returned, than has gone away. Ninety thousand young people have returned during this time period, and over 400,000 people are completely, so I'm talking about all the age structures, 400,000 in the previous year. A large number of them remain, because we offer excellent conditions, because we have significant incentives for young farmers, Mr. Nedimovic, because we have significant subsidies for young businessmen, entrepreneurs, because we invest in the future, because we have a great plan that bears the term "Serbia 20-25" and that provides for significant funds that we will invest in the next years in the ultimate policy, to make us as many as possible, that when we once do a list, in ten years from here, we show that difference and how responsible policies are being directed towards Serbian citizens, according to our people. The point is that every one of us can see that Serbia is going ahead unequivocally, that the salary is an average in Serbia far higher than it was in 2012, that the number of employees is far higher and that after this 550 almost euros, the average salary for three, four, five years from here comes to what we have drawn in this plan, which is that the average salary, as my colleague Krsto Janjušević said, is 900 euros in Serbia, that our pensioners will be satisfied with what they have invested in this country, what they have built, which they have raised, to almost double our pensions and show that Serbia is economically safe and can be the engine of development of the region, to continue these countries in the region, but also those who are economically stronger than we are, to look at the activities we are carrying out, as well as this economic growth, and to show that it is worth living in Serbia and Serbia today. I'm very glad to be part of this team. I am very glad to be part of the Alexander Vukic Parliament Club – for our children and for what I can talk about all the time and I will keep talking about it, I will continue to fight for it. I call on my distinguished colleagues to support the proposed amendments in the voting day, so we can do this list properly in much better conditions, in a much better organisation in 2022. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-07-0.u5125	Thank you. The time of the mandated and time of the promoter is exactly spent. We continue by amendment, MP Ljiljana Malusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-07-0.u5126	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers and Associates, ladies and gentlemen, today we are talking about three amendments to my distinguished colleague, Mr. Todorovic. In fact, it is a census, i.e. the amendments, which relate to the delay of the deadlines. The first deadline is for the census not to be completed this year, as the census is done for 10 years. The last census was made in 2011, the list was scheduled to be made from April 1st to April 30th this year. However, due to the emerging situation due to the pandemic of Kovid – 19, we will not do this for the sake of the health of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, because it is of national importance. It's just impossible to make a list, because the list makes 15,000 people and 5,000 people who train them. We need to get into every apartment, and that's impossible right now, so we're putting it off for 2022, and the announcement will be in 2024. Just a few more words to say about it, namely, that the first list was set in 1834, that since 1961, it was agreed that each list should be carried out at 10 years, which is good. Why is it good? Because it's very important that we know the sex structure, that we know the age, that we know the relationship between Natalie and Morality, which is actually the most important, that we know what age we have in a population that can work. It used to be that three people worked and three people supported one man. It is fortunate today that as we came to power, we are approaching that ratio 3:1, and while DOS was in power, this relationship was 1:3, which means one was working, and it supported three. I have to rely on the story of my esteemed colleague, Mr. Mirkovic, who taxed, I apologize, I have to say stupid things, whether on that birthday party that was bought for two years, there's Gilasov, so they thought, or who knows what happened, that they have 42%, please. Please, like this, yesterday was published in all newspapers, "Ipsos" valid agency dealing with party ratings that Gilas' party, letters and figures have 3.8%, so that's her rating, 3.8%, SPAS has 3.5%, and SNS has 58%. It's only right and it's true and it's not me, it's the agency that says it's valid. So, all that insinuation, stupidity, calling, we don't even have to talk about it anymore, and besides, next year's election, we'll see who gets by, who does have the results, today has 58%. I think when I finish this fast track, when we hire another tens of thousands of young people, and we're working on it, when we bring in that factory. Yesterday the president was vaccinated, so he was in the Rudna Glava. He said the factory would open by the end of the year, that another 100 women would be hired. So, throughout the Republic of Serbia, factories are opening up, and we dear gentlemen are going to have over 60%, but they were alive and seen. If we work and continue at this pace, anyone who does so will be, and we see, I have to go back to corruption and crime, because lies are short feet, so we came to the real truth. Investigation authorities have found that currently one of the wealthier people in the Republic of Serbia, Mr Dragan Gilas has more than 70m euros in 53 accounts in 17 countries. I was shocked, probably by the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, that's only part of what they currently found in the former republics. There are bills in Macedonia, there are in Montenegro, there are in Croatia, there are people who know where there is, there are accounts in Mauritius, there are in Luxembourg, there are everywhere in the world. That's what they found right now. We'll see what else they find. And what I can't say is that I'm surprised, I'm shocked, that for my 619 million, it's the first thing that has 35 apartments, that he gave to the Republic of Serbia or that he built something in the Republic of Serbia, so here's the thing. We paid two hospitals, 35 million euros. One hospital has 930 beds in Batajnica, another 500 beds in Kruševec. Unfortunately, they're both full of patients who got sick and it costs, like, $35 million somewhere. There, he could have made ten birds of hospitals. He could make ten schools, ten kindergartens. Of these apartments, if he had shared socially endangered populations that had three, four children, maybe his name would have been amongst the honourable citizens. Until these vast millions are explored in other countries, and it would be their turn to give something to this troubled country because when he left power, he left unmistakable debts. Come on, he left Belgrade City, was in charge of a billion and 200m euros, an affair, from the Adi bridge, 400m euros worth, and the real value was 200m euros. Well, then underground containers, then trams prepaid, then buses. I don't know what he didn't do. He devastated the land and his pals, peeled it, ripped it. So 560 companies robbed, so the robbed brought back to the state that we were revitalising them. Well, then you remember when they were selling companies, there were no auctions at all, but somewhere internally, it costs, we start with one, two euros, and they buy their peytos, and now they're millionaires. It didn't happen again. I am sure and not only of the ruling structure of the time, but also of all thieves in the Republic of Serbia. I include, let them come from us, everyone has their own property card, we've published ours, all the data is transparent. I hope all those who stole will be behind bars. Speaking of the population list, let's get back to it, 'cause I'm always a little... I guess my dissatisfaction because I can't stand thieves, I can't stand someone who's lying, who's stealing, because I don't think this country deserves it, that for the rest of my life somehow, and for the first time in 2012, it starts out as a phoenix to develop, to shine in its glow. We are still somewhere in the middle of these developed countries, but thanks to the work, order and discipline, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the President, Mr. Alexander Vukic, we are really going the way up. I am sure that in a few years, and today the average salary of 540 euros in Belgrade, at the level of Serbia, will be 520 euros, in 2025 will be 900 euros, and it is announced that in 2027 there will be 1250 euros. I still have to point out that over the period when the covid began, so two years ago, 400,000 people came back to Serbia. Whoever gets sick is free of charge. The Republic of Serbia has provided for all people, unfortunately from the respirator, through all other medicines, vitamins and all that is needed, and treatment and hospitals. The other day there was no report of where Mr. Vukic was, because if you remember everyone saying at the beginning of the pandemic, that we would never leave the pandemic, that half of Serbia would die, which is nonsense, untrue, which is immoral, unethical. It's full of respirators, everyone who needs it, we'll help. This country lives not only for itself, but also for its neighbours. This country has empathy. We are people with broad arms and I love all people living in the Republic of Serbia. In the Republic of Serbia, we have 22 councils from national minorities, which represents only one charm, one beauty of life. It's the most precious life in the world. It should be appreciated. I think that everyone here, who we're participating in today's session, not today, but this many weeks, we want to, we ask that all the people who are able to vaccinate, if they're not, we're not going to get to them, I'm not thinking about myself and my friends sitting here, but the doctors. I have to say, since I'm coming from Vozdovci, the newest free vaccination checkpoint was opened yesterday. He's in without an appointment. All residents of Voždovci who want to go to Duke Stepanović's village, the street is the Shumadian Division 10-14 that is the number of multiple checkpoints being given free vaccination from 14 to 20 hours, so please citizens of the Voždovac municipality who are interested in leaving, to do it for themselves, for others, because this is how they protect their health. Yesterday, it was reported that, unfortunately after the cove of the party, a dozen, 15 covid parties in the Republic of Serbia, the number of newly ill has increased, so since the day before yesterday 3,700 newly infected, there were 4,400. I ask all young people and all people who are not vaccinated, it's not an obligation, it's the resolution that someone doesn't have to be vaccinated, but people it's health protection. If a young man doesn't want to be vaccinated for his parents' sake, because of his grandmother, his grandfather, he's life's most precious. Once again, just two sentences. Thank our doctors endlessly. I hope at the end of the year we can repay ourselves to those beautiful angels. One piece of information since the vaccination was introduced in that red zone, no doctor has died, thank God. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-07-0.u5127	Thank you. The word is made by MP Dragoljub Ackovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-07-0.u5128	Madam Chairman, Mr. Ministers with Associates, Honorable People's Parliaments and People's MPs, the respected citizens of Serbia, today there have been beautiful discussions on various topics, and all of them are, I must say, I have the impression that we want to save as many people as possible, so that by putting down the census, or this document that we discussed and which serves to postpone the census for the next year, we will certainly save a number of people's illnesses, and perhaps don't give God and the worst, which is death. One of the questions I want to apostrophe in my discussion is precisely that of every citizen of ours during the course of this monster called the Crown. I want to support everything our President Vukic has initiated and what he's been fighting for all these months how long the battle with the Crown has been going on. So, I think by postponing the list, we're going to help preserve health, not rarely the lives of our fellow citizens, of a large number. If we want our country to have as many residents as possible on the upcoming list then let's do this which little colleague Malusic asked for. Let's all go to vaccination, let's do what we have to do, let's not think about what some antics are going to say. Those antiques can play with themselves, although I don't think they're playing, that they're the first to vaccinate and they're done with that job, so now they can tell us whatever they want. I make this call today especially because it's a world health day that we have to respect and we believe we're going to do a lot of things. Speaking of which, since I've mentioned the world day, let me tell you something I'm particularly interested in, which is World Roma Day, which is tomorrow, not today, but tomorrow. What is World Roma Day and what is it, April 8th? For some it's a birthday, some it's a celebrity, some it's a birthday, some it's a significant date from its own history, and some countries have won some victory or had some defeat, and we Roma have a national holiday that's April 8th, I said World Roma Day already. How did it come to be a national holiday for all Roma in the world on this day? By bringing together representatives of Roma from 13 countries in 1971 from April 8th to 12th at the World Congress in London, and by making a decision to declare the first day of Congress a world day and to adopt some very important decisions. One of the important things is that we got our anthem, which is already known as the old Moldovan Roma song "Delem, djelem" which he instilled, so to speak, because he did not write it, Zarko Jovanovic better known as Jagdima or Fire, the father of Gypsies Ivanovic. I just want to say a few more words about this convention that is extremely important to us Roma. I probably wouldn't have sat here with you guys talking and working if it hadn't been for that congress, and it wasn't for Free Berberski to raise the question of recognising the status of the national minority to the Roma people, both in Serbia and then in Yugoslavia and the whole world, and so it was. What else is done? It's what I don't do, I don't speak in my native language here just so I don't burden translators, and I'm not much of a language expert. So the novelty is adopted as a unique Roma language, and all dialects in this language are recognised as equal. It's done at the World Roma Congress and I'm informing you that tomorrow in the old assembly, I call it, I'm an old man, in King Milan, to hold a big, beautiful gathering. I'll try to follow all the rules. Fifty people will gather. We'll talk about what we've done, how we've done, and we've staged a few events. Today, in the Palace of Serbia, there was also a nice cultural, nice gathering on the subject, and everywhere in the world, in every major city, in every place where the Roma have been held today, tomorrow or the day after that, such gatherings. I thank you, especially those who show up tomorrow, if of course I can at the gathering we're organizing, as I said in the old assembly room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-07-0.u5129	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger George Dabic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-07-0.u5130	I thank the chairman. Dear People's MPs, ladies and gentlemen, the honourable Minister Nedimovic and his associate, our parliamentary group will vote for the proposed amendment and next year we will hold a list when we come out of this whole crisis. I am sure that there will be a much better situation simply epidemiologically, and we hope that by then Coronal will be completely defeated and we have reason to be optimistic, since we can now say that over a million and two hundred thousand have been vaccinated and rehabilitated, one million and two hundred thousand of our citizens, surely next year this crisis will be behind us and then the list will be able to be implemented in the right and full sense in a way to reach every man, without the risk of infection, and that is certainly what this amendment foresees, and of course our parliamentary group will vote for this amendment. In the coming year, I also say, we will have the opportunity to grow that already this year, and this is predicted by the World Bank's latest projection, although 3 percent of GDP growth in January, estimated that this growth will go up to 3 percent, and the other day we saw that GDP growth in Serbia is estimated to go to over 5 percent this year, which turns out that, when we have predicted this budget, that growth will be more than 6 percent this year, many have been skeptical and have said that this is an unrealistic growth in the conditions of the crisis in Europe and that no country can have so much growth. Now I'm saying, and the World Bank confirms that this growth is real, and that's something that gives us hope for optimism that this year after we get out of the crisis, we're going to be able to go back to all those investments that we started in the previous period. We're glad that the epidemic situation has begun to improve. We see that the catering facilities have started working. Here, first of all, we should thank that economic part of the crisis staff who managed to influence the medical section of the crisis headquarters and slowly give in. We can see that the gardens are open, though, this snow that fell probably brought unforeseeable problems to the caterers, but they announce the forecast in a few days that they'll be back in good weather and we'll have our gardens again, full of cafes. So, in general, the economy is starting to grow and that's what's certainly a good thing. When we talk about Serbia being able to rightly respond to this crisis, we need to note again that we had five minimals last year, three minimumers this year, that all those endangered categories of the population received assistance. The president has also announced new donations for our citizens, and certainly this is due to the fact that we have a stable, economically strong country that can respond to this crisis in a much better way than countries in the environment can. When we talk about Serbia being a strong, economically stable state, we must remember that it was not the case nine years ago. Not only were we economically weak, economically powerless, but we were in a situation where foreign addresses dictated who would be the minister, who would be prime minister, who would be the director of certain public enterprises. As it seemed then, we have a chance to see right now in Montenegro when you have a situation for the foreign embassies to dictate to you who will be their minister, who will not and we see great shame that the Serbian people's minister, Mr Vladimir Leposavic, who had the courage to tell the undisputed truth that every Serb knows, which is that we are not a genocide people, that there is no genocide in Srebrenica and no matter how they try to impute us that we are members of the people who committed genocide and today you have people who are brave and who can step forward and say that it is absolutely not true. However, we see that Krivokapic, not according to his opinion, but according to foreign embassies, decides to replace the Serbian people's minister just because he said such a truth that Serbs are not genocide. You see for yourself, today when you look at the situation in Montenegro, you see what it looks like when strangers dictate your terms. It wasn't that long ago in Serbia. We remember in 2000 to 2012 you had a situation to direct from foreign embassies, from the tycoon ranks, then people who had large capital, together, I say once again, with foreign embassies dictate that the state will go in which direction it will lead. This is no longer the case in Serbia today. We can proudly say that today Serbia is deciding on its own policy. We decide in our Parliament, in our government, the President of the Republic, too. So decisions are made in that triangle, not in the triangle of organised crime, tycoon and foreign embassies. So today Serbia can implement its policy, can implement an independent policy. It wasn't that long ago, I say, there was a case where we had an powerless state, a weak economic state, and when you have an economically weak state, of course it has every right and influence, simply and needing to be your tutor and impose itself on you as some factor that should make decisions instead of people. Once again, I say, the list to be held in Serbia next year will certainly be implemented in accordance with the highest European standards. We will have the opportunity to see really all the statistics we are interested in and, I'm sure, will be an indication that Serbia is in the right direction. Here one of the speakers said -- they keep telling a lie that, I don't know, 50, 60, 70,000 people leave Serbia annually. That's absolutely not true. We see more people coming back to Serbia. counterpart Todorovic just said 400,000 people returned to Serbia last year when the root crisis began across Europe. Four hundred thousand of our citizens decided to come back here and live here. So our people also have these prerequisites that next year, when we defeat this monster, we go even better to say once again, that our country is developing in the right direction as it was before the crown crisis. Once again, we will vote in favour of the proposed amendment, and I am sure that next year and practically, already this year, we will have this growth of 5-6%, which will lead to even greater investment, even greater investment in all that is needed for all citizens of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-07-0.u5131	Thank you. The 5th amendment was submitted by the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending. The proposing representative accepted the amendment at the meeting of the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-07-0.u5132	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Mr. Minister with an associate, honourable fellow MPs, certainly I support the amendments submitted and it is a good decision to move the list process itself by 2022. The colleagues have already talked a lot about it and the arguments that make it important, otherwise it is also a practice that is being implemented everywhere in the world. A large number of other serious countries are absolutely very important to delay, to do so over a period of time when conditions are created for this. We are aware that this is not a process that lasts only a month, but a whole procedure from the preparation of the people themselves who are involved in the process of material, the provision of equipment, of course, and in this case will also be taken into account in the health situation itself. While we are here discussing and working, and working on the implementation of the "Serbia 2025" plan on the realisation of infrastructure projects, we have also seen that the loop on Batajnica is open, that it is working intensively on the Moravia Corridor, and that Serbia is really becoming a growing construction site every day and that we have never had so many projects in history that are being implemented, the other side is absolutely dealing with the question of the census, but not the list that we are talking about here, but rather with the list of political inexperiences, political opponents. As long as that list as it should be done face-to-face, they, of course, only use social networks, because the only space where they know they're dealing with politics or actually better at politics, because unfortunately, they've never actually been serious politicians, they're social networks. Of course, whenever an argument brings out its views, its visions are broken with their own, that person enters their list of political inexperiences, of course, some of these leaders are doing it on their own, uncontrollable, probably under the fact of some gas, not of course of course of this gas that we are trying to introduce for our household and maintain energy efficiency, but other actually gas, where these arguments end, of course, in which these people are listed where they are being paid, that they will share cells with others, and others, of course, use their half-trons and people doing dirty work, and then that argument ends with threats that someone will be cut off, and so on. What is interesting for all of them, unlike the Serbian Progressive Party and serious political parties, they do not actually have any support for themselves or citizens. All the polls and all the research that are being done right now are saying that even these 3% of the electoral threshold that they're planning can't skip, and that they couldn't even collect a minimum number of citizens' signatures in order to form their own parties, they had to spend money on their accounts from exotic destinations or accounts that they formed through their NGOs to collect parties and persons from whom they bought the parties, of course, put the first vice president in the honor post or whatever, the extended hands that should do the dirty work for them. Otherwise, as they're actually ready to talk, because they're really just dealing with it, how we're supposed to deal with some interpartial dialogue, in order to talk about better pre-election conditions, they forget what election conditions they've made and their legal solution, they actually showed on yesterday's show where my distinguished colleague Sandra Christmas, when she broke the truth to their faces and when she reminded them of what they were, they threatened to leave the show. So much for them, so much for their courage, so much for their argument, because they have arguments, they would actually make those arguments, but they don't. Of course, they feel that they are very important, that these shows are actually created because of them. As they dealt with politics, they never put Serbian citizens in the first focus, but they always cared more about and even paid more attention to the animals they were actually visiting, instead of people, where they cared more about the health of some chickens than how people suffered the basic disasters that hit the ends they were visiting. This list, which will be implemented next year, will be a clear indicator of the success of SNS policy and of our President Alexander Vukic, who we have actually introduced into our country, how much Serbia has actually changed in this period of 10, 11 years, where it has become a country of grey, from a country where people have fled from it, a country of champions and in attracting foreign direct investment and economic development, but also that we have become a country where young, educated people come back and decide to start their jobs. Certainly, in the day of the vote, as well as my distinguished colleagues, we will also support these amendments and the law that is before us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-07-0.u5133	Thank you. The remaining time for the parliamentary group Alexander Vukic – For our children is two and a half minutes. The word has been made by MP Tomislav Jankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-07-0.u5134	Thank you. Dear Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia and Minister Mr. Nedimovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we are really talking about a very important topic, a topic that will be a topic again over the next 10 years, something that will paint life in Serbia and through statistics, but also through the quality of life. Serbia has a long and rich tradition, a long and rich history, and therefore a long and rich tradition of organising institutions, and thus a list in our country's space. The census, in one part, paints politics at one time, because politics affects all events in one society. What is the role and importance of the list? I don't want to spend much time, given that my colleagues have talked a lot today on the subject, but I'd like to go back to the 2011 list. There is a good basis to see what the policy was in the previous period, what it was in Serbia in 2011 and what we should do for the next period so that after 10 years from the next census we can compare and tell where we are today. According to the 2011 census, there were 2,487,886 households living in Serbia with slightly more than seven million inhabitants, 7,106,000 inhabitants of the Republic of Serbia. Unfortunately, there are fewer than seven million people in Serbia today with a further trend in reducing the total number. According to the census, 2,914,000 people lived in the suburbs, 40.5% of the total number. It says enough that our villages are shrinking, that only cities grow, the three largest cities of Belgrade, Novi Sad and Nis, and that our demographics are such that at an annual level of 35,000 to 40,000 people die more than they are born. I see here a very important role of your ministry, Mr Nedimovic, as well as the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Family and Demography, because it is precisely the Serbian village that needs to be a good base that will provide a good basis for us to be more in the coming period. I've had this opportunity to cooperate with you and I know your energy and your commitment. I believe that what you do through your ministry, as well as the government as a whole, with strong support from the President of the Republic of Serbia, we will have much better and better quality results in the coming period as far as the census itself is concerned. Of course it's justified that the list is being moved for next year and that through new people, through the way of censusing and the means that we have to make a good, quality list that will be a good basis for some of the next periods. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-07-0.u5135	Thank you. The time of the parliamentary group has been spent. Since I don't see anyone in the system who doesn't belong to that MP group who doesn't have time anymore, we've finished the search. Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. According to Article 87(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby set Wednesday, 7 April 2021, starting at 17.15 p.m. as the Day of Vote on the agendas of the Fifth Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2021.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-07-0.u5136	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before we move to a decision on the agenda points, we need to determine the quorum. According to Article 88(5), The Rules of Procedure, a quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the voting day, exists if most of the total number of MPs are present at the National Assembly session. I ask the Members of Parliament to insert the cards into the MPs' units. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 170 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and therefore there are conditions to decide. We're moving on to a decision. First item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on amendments to the Law on the List of dwellings, households and dwellings 2021. Before moving to a decision, I remind you that an integral part of the bill's proposal has become the amendment of the People's MP, Djordža Todorovic, to the name of the Bill, with the correction, and to Article 3, as well as the amendment of the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds, which is added in front of Article 1. 2nd and 5th. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending the Census, Households and Apartments Act in 2021, in principle. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. Stopping vote: total – 171, for – 171. I find that the National Assembly unanimously accepted the bill, in principle. I remind you that the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have proposed that Article 1. The bill has a feedback. According to Article 197(2). The Constitution of Serbia and Article 160(4). The Rules of Procedure, when the bill contains provisions for which a return fact is provided, the National Assembly shall, in particular, decide whether there is a general interest in this feedback. I put to the vote the proposal of the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds that there is a general interest in the feedback of the provision of Article 1. It's a bill of law. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. Stopping vote: total – 172 for – 172. I find that the National Assembly, unanimously, has specifically decided that there is a general interest in the feedback of the provision of Article 1. It's a bill of law. We approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending the Census, Households and Apartments Act in 2021, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. Stopping vote: total – 172 for – 172. I find that the National Assembly unanimously passed the bill. Second item of the agenda – PROPOSAL OF THE MUZENIJA ACTIVITY LAW Before moving to the vote, I remind you that MP Nikola Radosavljevic, by written means, withdrew the amendment that he submitted to Article 44. The draft law, and since no other amendments have been submitted to the draft law, the National Assembly will, in accordance with Article 160(3). Rules of Procedure, to decide only on the draft law in general. I'm putting the draft law on museum work in general. Please press the corresponding key. Stopping vote: total – 172 for – 172. I find that the National Assembly unanimously adopted the proposal for a law on museum work. Fourth item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers on the maintenance and reconstruction of road bridges between the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers, I remind you that, on the basis of Article 105 paragraph 3 of Article 6 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, decides on laws governing the conclusion and validation of international contracts by majority of the votes of all MPs. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of BiH on the maintenance and reconstruction of interstate bridges between the Republic of Serbia and BiH, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. Stopping vote: total – 172 for – 172. I find that the National Assembly unanimously passed the bill. Fifth point. I put to the vote the Proposal for a Decision to declare an old and rare library building for cultural well-being of exceptional importance, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. Stopping vote: total – 172 for – 172. I find that the National Assembly unanimously adopted the motion for a decision. The sixth item of the agenda – Proposal for a decision on the termination of the President of the Infringement Court in Negotin, the Fundamental Court in KRUŠVC and the Fundamental Court in the New Market, since the National Assembly carried out a single search, and before moving to a decision, I remind you that according to Article 105(2), paragraph 12. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly of the majority of the votes of all MPs, decides to suspend the role of the president of the courts. I put to the vote the motion for a decision on the termination of the office of President of the Criminal Court in Negotin, the Court of Fundamental Court in Kruševec and the Court of Fundamental Court in Novi Pazar, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. Stopping vote: total – 172 for – 172. I find that the National Assembly unanimously adopted the motion for a decision. Since the National Assembly has conducted a review of all the points of the agenda of this session and decision on them, I would only like to remind you before the end that I have scheduled for tomorrow the sixth session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly starting at 10.00 hours with one item of the agenda – Proposal for a decision on the election of the President of the Supreme Cassation Court. The vote will be after the debate tomorrow, late afternoon. Consistent with Article 102. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby conclude the fifth session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2021. Thank you.
