ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-27-0.u7187	I thank you, National Assembly President. Dear colleagues, citizens of Serbia, I will ask a few questions important to all citizens in Serbia, but much more important to the safety of our children in Serbia. In particular, the first question is, it is a question concerning our children and traffic safety, addressed to the Ministry of Education and the Agency for Transport Security. Since we are witnessing that back a few months, that is, from the beginning of 2021 to today, we have five deaths of children, who are involved in traffic. There were four children on the street or on the sidewalk, and one child was on a bicycle. My question to the Ministry of Education is - is the Ministry of Education within its jurisdiction, within its programmes and rules of conduct in schools, in pre-school and primary education, does it have compulsory lessons in learning the safety of children in traffic? We know it's one of the most important things in school, that he knows the basics of how to behave in traffic. That doesn't mean that kids only know traffic signs, which means triangles, what this sign means, what that sign means. At school they learn what land is, what is air traffic, what is water traffic, it may mean to kids sometimes when they grow up, but it will mean a lot more to them when they tell them how they should behave from house to school, how to move down the street, how to cross the street. These are all the things that will save their lives tomorrow. My appeal is that the more important it is put in that part, that children are taught in school, in primary education, and that they know that it is shown in practice. That's what's important to me, because, as I say, so far, there are five cases of death of children on the street or in traffic. This is the first question, and I expect that in the next period, the Agency for the Safety of Traffic, which already speaks and appeals, the Ministry of Education will work, and put an accent there, to pay greater attention to these children with concrete indicators on the ground. The second question is, the same is for health care. Today is the European Day of Emergency Medicine, and I would take the opportunity to congratulate them all on this day, because we are witnessing that doctors of emergency medicine and all the other doctors are in the first place on the ground, and they provide assistance to every man. Otherwise, local self-government, like mine, from which I come, has no possibility of having an ambulance. And here's what happens back a few months, two months, there have been serious fatal accidents. We do not have emergency care, we do not have emergency medicine and therefore my question to the Ministry of Health – will there be a possibility that during the period that comes they will be provided with a regulation that and municipalities that have fewer than 20,000 residents, that they have the right to emergency care, that they can provide adequate assistance at any time to all those who have a car accident. Otherwise, we all know in the first half hour if we don't get there, then it's hard to save lives. The great need for all of us is that these local self-governments, as well as large centres, have modern medical equipment, have a larger number of doctors, and a great need is a small environment because there is a large population of old people in these small municipalities and there is a greater need to get on the ground as soon as possible. One more call to the competent ministry, the health ministry, to find the possibility that small homes of health should have the right to emergency care, that they can provide adequate assistance at the right time for anyone who needs it. Another call from me as a man and as an MP, the president of the United Peasants' Party, to get out, to vaccinate all people, because vaccination is the only cure against the pandemic. Dear President of the Assembly, now once again, I would like to talk about people's health, the great need for people's health is to use healthy food, to use everything that nature gives us. I was in the last assembly here talking about the World Beeman's Day, where you told me to provide a jar of honey for every MP here in the Assembly. I'll do it myself, but since you're the president of the assembly here, I've now brought one kilo of honey, turret honey, and that's healthy. This is the honey from Svrlig, the Mounts of Svrljljig. I would once again invite all of you and the President of the Assembly and my fellow MPs and the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the President of Serbia to visit the most beautiful municipality in Serbia, to visit Svrlig, to try our specialties, but one more thing I can say and it is not a secret, but there are honeys and nuts here. That's healthy. I hope it's no problem for me to bring you, since I promised, and here our colleagues, if there's a need to try something sweet, you can at break provide a nice spoon for them to try it. I hope it's not a problem for me to bring? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-27-0.u7188	Thank you, Milly. But just to remind everyone one by one, it's not one for everyone. Is that right, Milia? Okay. Thank you very much. The word has a folk emissary, Marija Jevdzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-27-0.u7189	Thank you. President-in-Office, I am using my parliamentary right to request information and a response from the competent institutions on the following. In this House of Commons, every day we pass laws that improve life in our country, for us all citizens are equal and equal, and the other day we supported the Law of Equality, but should we remain silent when some politicians use their power and money to be more equal than ordinary citizens. Some want to be more equal than others, as George Orwell would say, more equal than ordinary citizens, as is the case with Dragan Gilas. We do not want to fight for a society where there are more equal and more equal, but for a society where everyone is equally equal and has equal treatment before the law and all institutions in the country. Unique Serbia, for some time since we received information that in 2014 an official note has been made at the Vračar police station, and according to former wife Dragan Gilas's report that he has committed domestic violence, we are asking both the judiciary and the D.A.'s office for the reason why no official note has been made. He struck his former father-in-law, inflicted serious physical injuries on him, threatened, harassed his then wife. Can we, as a society, accept this kind of violent behavior, someone who only speaks for Serbian citizens, for their better tomorrow, for better modern Serbia? If Dragan Gilas acts violently towards his loved ones toward the most born, what can the citizens of Serbia expect tomorrow? What power is that, what money that can amneste you from violence and abuse your own family? What's that corruption that first in the country offends 400 women, not 400 women, but one single woman, for what? With what right? Because of your political promotion? What's the depravity of using the problem and the care of a mother and her child to collect a few political points, and everything you say has nothing to do with the truth? If Dragan Gilas thinks he has the right to lie as much as he wants and what he wants and does not respond, if he thinks he has the right to fight, to blackmail, to blackmail, to demote institutions, and not to answer it, if he sees justice through the prism of his lies and takes those lies as facts, which he's pressing charges against, he's giving protection to false witnesses by acting prosecutor, he's giving, in doing so, he's making some accusations by acting judge if it's justice, then it's Gilas's justice, not justice for which the citizens of this country have fought for centuries. Serbia is a regulated country, the rule of all rights is respected in Serbia, justice is only in the institutions of the Serbian state, is not in any political party, nor can it be shared by any politician, and in particular by Dragan Gilas, who, thanks to money and political influence, probably with someone's help, has managed to absorb not only from criminal acts, or prosecution, but from the very investigation of domestic violence and threats he has sent to his former wife. The case of the cover-up of this application must be investigated, this case once again shows Gilas' tendency to abuse state resources, which, apart from a tendency to violence, makes one person absolutely unsuitable for politics and performing responsible state functions. And that's why we're asking that the authorities, the authorities, react to the case of domestic violence and violence against women in situations where we have victims, where we have witnesses, where we have perpetrators or the culprits of Dragan Gilas. That's why we're asking the authorities to bring in Dragan Gilas, so he doesn't affect the witnesses and repeat his work, to take away his passport so he doesn't take advantage of the situation and run off to some exotic island. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-27-0.u7190	Thank you. The word is a folk letter from Nina Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-27-0.u7191	Thank you, Mr. President. Today's question I refer to the Ministry of Construction, Transport and Infrastructure. As we know, Serbia is a sports nation, especially in collective sports, and in order to have top results, we need to develop mass and school sports and cultivate sports clubs and in smaller areas across Serbia. In the 1980s, the Niš Football Club played the observed role, both in the SFRY and in Europe when beating famous clubs from many richer countries, in order to be competitive again for titles and other high ranges, it is necessary to create conditions. In the first instance, it is necessary to complete the reconstruction at the Char Stadium. The Char Stadium was built in 1963, so nearly 60 years ago, so the three-tier of the eastern, northern and southern stands and the dangers of collapse since 1995 have been banned from using these stands. The three stands were reconstructed in 2011 with a capacity of about 18,000 seats, and in 2020, funds were approved for the completion of the Western tribune, but the reconstruction, unfortunately, was not completed, most likely due to the current pandemic Kovid 19. Serbia's Football Federation planned to play international representative matches ten years ago, but the stadium did not meet the requirements. Although the three stands have been completed, the rest of the West is insecure and cannot be used. As we know, the town of Nis extends in southeastern Serbia and represents the largest administrative and economic, cultural and sports centre of this part of the country. And by the number of residents, it takes third place, after Belgrade and Novi Sad. It deserves to have a trained stadium to help the tourism of the city of Nis, as well as young people to activate, because the Char Stadium is not only a football stadium, but also a city stadium, which has an athletic trail. Football legends, such as Knezevic, Pantelic and current selectionist Dragan Stojkovic Pixi, who came from this stadium, deserve to have football heirs. I therefore refer to the question of the Ministry of Construction, Infrastructure and Traffic, can the Ministry help the city of Nis to gain the appearance of a modern and sporty building, what kind of town Nis and the football club "Workic" deserve? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-27-0.u7192	Thank you. The word is Natasa Mihailović Vacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-27-0.u7193	Thank you, Mr. President. I refer the issue to the Ministry of Culture and Information, my question has been as far as it has come to implement an action plan for the media strategy, as in the next two years, the media strategy and action plan envision changes, not only of media laws but also of a number of other laws concerning the safety of journalists, their work, but also of improving media regulation, more specifically its compliance with the media strategy. According to both the European Commission and media experts, the Republic of Serbia has adopted an excellent media strategy, a working group has been formed to implement the action plan, and the action plan envisions all deadlines requiring changes and additions to media law. The Law on Public Information and Media, in the fourth quarter of 2021, by the end of this year, needs to be amended, and in 2022, the Law on Electronic Media, and in the third quarter of 2022, the Action Plan envisions amending and supplementing the Law on Public Media Services. In the action plan, a number of measures have been given to improve the safety, social economic and professional conditions for the work of journalists, the protection of news sources, professional autonomy of journalists and editors, functionality and up-to-date media registers, so that the amendment and addition of 13 laws is foreseen over the next two years. Of these changes, the most changes relate to the Law on Public Information and Media, the Law on Electronic Media and the Law on Public Media Services. As we wait for Chapter 10 to be agreed on to join the EU, it would be good to implement the action plan as soon as possible as possible. So, to stick to those deadlines prescribed by the action plan, since we know that the Working Group is in charge of implementing the Action Plan held a meeting on 17 December 2020. I'm asking the Ministry of Culture and Information, how long did it take to implement the Action Plan for the Media Strategy? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-27-0.u7194	Thank you. The People's Messenger, Nebojsa Bakarec, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-27-0.u7195	Thank you. The esteemed chairman, Mr. Minister, with a co-worker, respected MPs, respected citizens, is great, which is where the interior minister is at the moment, as the issue is addressed to his ministry. So, I'm asking for a notice from the MUP, asking the Prosecutor's Office for Organized Crime, from REM and the Press Council, you will hear about the threats that occurred yesterday, May 26th, on TV "New S" on "Among Us", said tycoon Dragan Gilas. On the question of the leader, you say lustration. The People's Party calls it rematchism. How is it done and who estimates it, who are these people who need to be lustrated? End of question. Then, Oligarch Gilas, he clearly threatens and says, "Whom will he take revenge on?" I quote Gilas -- "People, people who have been engaged in some public action, above all, which means that this applies to politicians, but also to people who used the media to spread hate. As part of the whole story, this will refer to all people like Dragan Vukicevic, or to all people who are working on "Pinka" or "Hepija". Here, I'll take an example of Mr. Bakarec. “ He says I too should be lastrated. Gilas further says: “People who attack others and acquaintances, this hatred they spread, and the attacks they make, so someone has to answer for it, so everyone will answer. “ It says Gilas, so everyone will answer. The threat is addressed to all of us. He says - someone has to put an end to politicians who have wronged moral codes, for this must be held accountable. Dragan Gilas has committed more crimes, threatened editors of the media, threatened all journalists and all employees on the TV "Hepi" and TV "Pinku", threatened all politicians, non-insects, threatened all of us MPs, threatened all who, he says, have sinned on his moral codes, and his moral codes are violence, robbery and theft. Gilas is openly threatening, afterwards, to subtract national frequencies, "Pinku" and "Hepija". At the end of the interview, even wilder, Gilas accuses and insults EU and US representatives and openly said they were corrupt and that Vukic corrupt them and that they support him for it. He particularly insulted the U.S. Ambassador, Anthony Gotfrey. State, respond. What does Gilas mean by lustration and rematchism? Does he mean to fire people, like the yellow ones and he fired 400,000 people between 2008 and 2012, as part of rematchism? Does he think it's rematchism, the closure of journalists and politicians who are not at his will? He has, I remind you, filed 400 lawsuits and criminal charges so far, against journalists and politicians who have investigated his machinations. Does Gilas, under rematch, mean rape, as his Zeljko Veselinovic threatened Ana Brnabic, by rape? Does Gilas under lustration mean hanging, throwing into the Danube, slaughtering politicians and journalists, courts of revolution? All of this was reportedly announced by his prominent elites over the last three years, and referred to all of us again. Does Gilas under lustration mean attack on RTS, which he already carried out last year, when they threatened the press? Does Gilas under lustration and rematch mean an attack on the Serbian Parliament, which he already carried out last year, when 140 police officers were injured? In this context, let us remember the great threats of Gilas, from the cases of swearing and family violence. Let's remember how he insulted the cop who stopped him and told him, "Come on." More, here's your card, so you know who left you out of a job. Next, he sweared at a session of the City Assembly, the SRS council member Zoran Ognjanovic, he said - j... I'll have your mother and your father and sister, I heard it myself, I was two feet away from Gilas. In May 2018, at a session of the City Assembly, Gilas physically attacked the head of our committees, Aleksandr Mirković. On 17 March 2019, Gilas, in Terrazie, sweared, threatened members of the police in civilians, that he would lose his job again, insulted and cursed students on January 19th, in words "I... the mother’s homophobic curse. Gilas was on the 3rd of May, while the whole town was trying to tell him that he was a thief, threatening the president, quoting Gilas, so this is what he told the president, Gilas keeps saying he doesn't insult anyone -- you're a coward, a sick one, you'll pay when you do. At last, Gilas was harassed and physically beaten by his wife, father-in-law and former mother-in-law in December 2014, about which there are records in the MUP. In addition, according to her testimony, his ex-wife physically bullied her while she was pregnant and threatened to cut off her head. And then these days, Gilas is repeating the worst nonsense that President Vukic is mentally ill. From what I've made clear, Gilas is a dangerous psychopath and a sociopath, he has no compassion for anyone. I'm going to ask Gilas because he's insulting me in his media these days and calling me all the time, what he's done for the people, what he's done for Serbia? He robbed Serbia. In the last year, he sabotaged the fight against the epidemic. He didn't donate any mask, no respirator. Unlike him, I went to severe surgery twice to donate the skin to hard-burned children, Uros Karovic of the Kralje and Milena Šukundi of the village of Prigrevica, and in the meantime Gilas was screaming skin from the back of the people. The Bible’s revelation of St. “ I saw an angel coming down from heaven, who had a key from the abyss and a chain great in his hand, and took hold of the ark, and a yellow serpent that is the devil and Satan, and bound for 1,000 years and in the abyss, shut it down, and seal it over it, that it may not overpower the people, until it is 1,000 years old. ” He who does wrong shall yet do wrong, and he who is a Gentiles, and he who is righteous, let him yet do righteousness, and let him who is holy still be holy. Long live Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-27-0.u7196	Thank you. Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, answer for word, we continue to work. After the conditions have been met, I propose that we establish the mandate of the People's MP in the National Assembly for a vacancy, in order to enable him to participate in the work of the National Assembly. You have been given a decision by the Republic Election Commission on the allocation of the MP's mandate in order to complete the vacant parliamentary seat in the National Assembly. Also, you have been presented with the Report of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly, which has established that the conditions for confirming the mandate of the People's Parliament have been met, with a proposal that the National Assembly, as set out in Article 27(5). The Law on the Selection of People's MPs finds confirmation of the mandate to the MP Radovan Arezina, elected from the electoral list Ivica Dačić – the Socialist Party of Serbia, Unique Serbia – Dragan Markovic Palma. On the basis of the Decision of the Republic Election Commission and of the Report and the proposal of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs of the National Assembly, and in accordance with Article 27(5) thereof, The law on the election of Members of the Peoples finds me confirming the mandate of Parliamentarian Radovan Arezina. I congratulate the People's MP on his election and ask that he prepare himself to take an oath. Dear People's MP, please, under Article 17. The Law on the National Assembly, approach the oath. (The President reads the text of the oath, and the People's Messenger repeats it. ) "I swear to defend the duty of the national envoy in a committed, fair, conscientious and faithful constitution, to defend human and mankind rights and civil freedoms and by my best knowledge and to serve the citizens of Serbia, truth and justice! “ I ask the MP to sign the text of the oath. Allow me to congratulate you, on behalf of the National Assembly and on my behalf, on the election for the MP and wish you successful joint work in the current term of office. We're continuing our work. Ladies and gentlemen, let's get back to work. I would like to inform you that he was prevented from attending the session of MP Đuro Peric. We continue to work and move on to the search in detail on item 2 of the agenda – PROPOSING OF THE LAW ON AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE LAW ON PERSONAL CARD. Before we continue, just once again to remind you that we will be working on this debate in particular in the afternoon session. It is 16:00 to 19.00 p.m. to ask parliamentary questions to the government of the Republic of Serbia, and after 19.00 a.m. will be voting day. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that they have been invited to attend: Alexander Vulin, Interior Minister Sinisa Mali, Finance Minister Zoran Lazic, Interior Ministry Secretary and Valentina Vulic, Head of the Department of Administrative Affairs at the Ministry of the Interior. You have received amendments submitted by the Defence and Home Affairs Committee on the draft law. You have received reports from the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives on the table amendments. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The Committee on Defence and Home Affairs submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I would like the representative of the motion to make a statement on the amendment. He has the word Alexander Vulin.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-27-0.u7197	Dear President of the National Assembly, Vice-Presidents and Madam Vice-Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, comrades and comrades, it is a great pleasure for me to work together today and, as I said the last time we talked about this law, to come to the Assembly to correct the laws, to get clear suggestions from you as representatives of the people and to get clear instructions on which direction we should do something and how we should do it, I want to thank you for the amendments you have proposed and to tell you that all the amendments proposed by the committee in charge are adopted by the Government, and to thank you for the fact that this law, thanks to you, will only be better and be further at the service of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. So all the amendments you've proposed have been adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-27-0.u7198	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-27-0.u7199	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, firstly I would like to thank the Minister for adopting all the amendments proposed by the Defence and Home Affairs Committee. So, at the session, held yesterday, the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs sessions, we have chosen to submit three amendments. So it's a more precise determination of certain provisions. In particular, when we talk about an amendment to Article 1 above, the above-mentioned amendment is a compliance with Article 8 of the Law, which is prescribed that if the ID card form contains a chip, it shall be entered, inter alia, and the population information. We felt it was necessary to enter the same data, even if the ID card did not contain a microcontroller, i.e. The chip, and in particular we had in mind the importance of the address of the citizens' residence in administrative affairs, since that also determines the local authority's competence in administrative affairs, which is proven by the ID card. I would like to take the opportunity to, since in the public or to say in the part of the public, there are some ambiguities and misunderstandings about it, I stress that this does not change anything in that part that citizens will still have the opportunity to identify whether they are for a chipped ID card or not. So, I've noticed in public certain misunderstandings in that sense, and I wanted to point that out. Therefore, the form of the identity card will provide information on the address of the residence. It's been a case before. So for those citizens who decide they don't have a chipped ID card, I repeat that this has been the case so far, and this is actually only the alignment, or precision of this particular part of the legal act. Mr. Minister, I'd like to take this opportunity when we talk about the ID bill, when we talk about this subject, to repeat what I said and when we had a principle debate. So whenever some of the laws in the interior ministry are on the agenda of the Assembly, it is a good opportunity to discuss some other matters concerning the security of our citizens, concerning the security situation in the country, concerning the fight against crime and corruption, concerning organised crime and all other matters of the interior ministry's domain. In principle, we pointed out that, as the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs two weeks ago, we had a session that adopted the Information on the Ministry's work, as well as the State of Security Report of our country and that, when considering this information, we noticed that the overall crime rate in Serbia today is at a significantly lower level than before, at a much lower level than in some previous years, in fact, when some others exercised power in Serbia. From the reporting period, there is a trend in the decline of the level, i.e. the overall rate of crime, and I would like to point out, among other things, your merit, Minister, for that, because it is a reporting period that covers October-December 2020, and there is a clear difference from the same reporting period of some previous years. At this point, I don't just want to highlight statistics. So these statistics are in favor of this thesis and clearly visible from it, when you take the general crime rate, when you take all the other parameters that talk about concrete crimes, so you see a decline in every possible segment, but I don't just want to talk about statistical data. I mean, it feels like every citizen in our country. So, the personal subjective feeling is that Serbia is a far safer country today. So, and I would especially like to underline that part about fighting organised crime and your merit when it comes to the repression of organised crime groups, and this organized criminal group, which has been known to be one of the most dangerous criminal groups in this area in this part of Europe. It's a crime clan called Belivuk – Miljkovic. That, of course, is not the end. We see from the means of public information that it continues with this action, that the message that they will not be protected is that the message is that no one is stronger than the state, that the message is that when there is political will in the state, the state will always find ways and strength to deal with all kinds of organised crime. I would like this opportunity to run for one topic and ask you, Minister, for your opinion when it comes to one phenomenon that is happening in Serbia, which is that not all share the same enthusiasm and not all share the same satisfaction when we talk about the state's results in the fight against organised crime. So, it's a campaign. I've talked about it a few times, but I haven't had a chance to talk to you on this subject yet, which is that some media is, by chance, under the control of Dragan Gilas, whether it's by chance or not, some Serbian citizens, but these media from the very beginning, from the very beginning of this sharp struggle of the state with organised crime and the mafia, kind of like they've been planting clips under wheels. If you remember, Minister, when the president of the state is like someone who's a trigger, who is the initiator of all of this, without whose energy they wouldn't have, I'm convinced, these results, when I repeat one of the most dangerous criminal groups in the region, he took out some pictures to demonstrate, to show the citizens what we've been dealing with, what criminals we've been fighting with. He took out the pictures and showed, that second in Serbia it stopped being important whether we were fighting organised crime, what the results, who was arrested, what crimes these people were suspected of, and hopefully soon and accused of, that second became only important for some media whether the president was allowed to show photos or not, was it degutantly by them, was it moral, could he, should he, should he, etc? And that's all the debate was about. The same is happening now, so ten days ago, when the president was on a television that he spoke very explicitly about the way the same criminals were committed. I can agree that maybe it's embarrassing, that it's not pleasant to hear someone grinding in the 21st century. I agree that it may not be pleasant, but it does not reduce the weight of these crimes. This does not reduce the need for a man to come out and explain to the citizens of Serbia what monsters we have faced, and that second the case is repeated. Again, these same media, they're just dealing with whether Vukic was allowed to speak so explicitly about criminals loving people, etc. It doesn't matter anymore, no getting into the essence, no getting into the measure of things. In this way, Minister, my opinion is that they are trying to derail the entire fight against organised crime, to dissuade, to demean the results, in such a way as to revitalise criminals. And, of course, the culmination of all that was her, I have no other expression, but a monstrous show a few days ago on, I mean Nova S, I don't know what it's called, and it's some two. One presents himself as a writer, the other as a publicist and they run some show, which is known to the public only for the amount of grossest insults and the most vulgar curses against you, ministers, and the president of the state, and us MPs, and everyone who participates in the fight against crime and corruption. Now, on that show they brought in a man all Serbia claims to be a pedophile, the whole of Serbia claims to be a pedophile and he is suddenly a legitimate talker. They invited him and ate kewapes with him, laughing at the victims of the criminals who were killed, believed to have been crushed afterwards. In this way, they directly mock the family of those victims. I wanted to run for this topic, and I wanted to hear from you how is it possible that there are media in Serbia today, and I'm going to let myself say to myself, as well as certain centres of power, which directly obstruct the fight against crime and corruption, the fight against organised crime, the fight against the mafia, and thus help criminals? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-27-0.u7200	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Alexander Vulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-27-0.u7201	President Aleksandar Vukic has declared war on the mafia and has indeed succeeded in uniting all capacities, all the resources of our country in a unique fight against organised crime. The Ministry of the Interior, the BIA, the Prosecutor's Office of Organized Crime, the entire judiciary, are all united in this fight. I did not achieve these results, and the results were achieved by an organized and united state, and I had the honour of being at the head of the MUP at that moment. When you have such support, when you have such synergy of the entire society, the whole state, victory is certain and there is no organized crime that can be dealt with by the state when the state decides something, when it says something. President Aleksandar Vukic is the first man of our country and has managed to unite the entire society, has managed to unite everyone who cares about a peaceful, secure, stable Serbia to participate in this fight. You're right, there are those he's not. You know, when President Aleksandar Vucic said we were going to declare war on the mob and announce a recent fight with the mob, you first had jokes, right, on those same media. I just wouldn't agree to say -- the media in Serbia. I'm sorry, it's the Luxembourg media, it's the Luxembourg media. It is of course very interesting to me that the Luxembourg media is giving so much attention to the situation in Serbia. I'm not sure that the media in Serbia is giving so much attention to Luxembourg, but well, what to do is we're an interesting country and, see, we even have Luxembourg media that are so concerned with Serbia and who have their favorites in Serbia, they know who wants to rule Serbia, how they should rule, they all know. Only in Luxembourg doesn't do journalism that way, but here we are, which is fine and I'm glad about it. I'd be more happy if they were to pay next to the state of Serbia. That might be for the best, but I'm not exactly an expert on it. They'll talk about it for sure. So the first thing they try to do, make fun of the fight, say -- there's nothing out of it, no mob will fall, no one will be arrested. And that was really funny and really funny and really having fun. Less than 100 days later, when the most organized criminal group in Europe, and certainly the most brutal criminal group in Europe fell and was broken, then they started talking – it's not really that, I mean, it's some arrest, but it's not exactly what they're saying, it's an exaggeration with fans, it's actually something between authorities and fans. When the president came out and with the agreement of the prosecution, to repeat once again, with the consent of the prosecution, and the prosecutor is the master of the investigation and of all the evidence that comes into the investigation, therefore, when, with the agreement of the Prosecutor's Office for Organized Crime, President Vukic showed only a fraction of what he has, and not to use it as some kind of media event, but among other things, to help us in the investigation to see if anyone can identify himself, whether anyone will come forward who knows anything, and we haven't yet come to him. So when it turned out at that point, it didn't matter who butchered those people, who took people, it mattered whether they were allowed to show the photograph. It's too harsh. I agree it's harsh. I agree it's disgusting. I agree that this is something that we should never have experienced in our country, but since we already have, and that's how we fight people like that so that it never happens again, that it never happens again. From that moment on, for those of Luxembourg and the political parties they support, it was no longer a crime, nor who committed the crime, but only whether Alexander Vukic brought this or that paper, this or that photograph. Crimes don't matter at all. The biggest crime is that there is Alexander Vukic, and it is a special crime that the state of Serbia, which Serbian citizens vote for him so massively. And they don't forgive him. It would be easier for them to forgive any crime other than the crime, the crimes of free, independent and stable Serbia. And that crime won't and can't be forgiven. Suddenly it doesn't matter anymore, nothing matters. Our police, our BIA, our prosecution deserves sincere congratulations from all the citizens of this country. You know, if they had at least so much elemental respect for us politicians who are at the head of the institutions, how the Constitution, how the country, how the law requires, but for people who work in the MUP, BIA, the Prosecutor's Office for Organized Crime, so that at least they tell them – every honor for this great fight, we don't like those who lead you, we don't like anything, we would have seen it better, so that they would do it better, but at least if these people said thank you. It's not that. Do you know how a police officer who risked his own safety and his family by confronting this clan when he reads in the papers or watches on TV that it's not really a fight, that it's nothing like that, that the police are actually a political organ? Then he looks at himself, looks at his children and says -- wait, I risk my life, my health for Serbia, and Serbia tells me -- well, God knows what, who cares about your life and your health. It's not a good message. Fortunately, all police officers know very well that it is some Luxembourg-based Serbia, a strange Serbia, which is not the one Serbia that we meet every day and that we work for and for which we live. It's not like that. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have done, the MUP, the BIA, the Prosecutor's Office of Organized Crime, have done a huge job. When charges are filed, when the trial begins, when the prosecutor is free to present everything we've come to investigate, then you'll see the situation of the evil that has walked this country, what are the incomprehensible conditions of evil that in this country wanted to determine who ruled this country, which in this country dealt with the most terrible forms of crime. I would understand, ladies and gentlemen, that you can attack any politician, it's a policy job, but that you can challenge this action and the value of what the members of the Ministry of the Interior, the BIA and the Prosecutor's Office of Organized Crime have achieved, I can't understand, I have no excuse. There's no excuse for that. Our Serbia is now better and safer, safer because of this. When I say "safer," do you think there's a difference between being a member of this party or that party when it comes to the sense of security and protecting that man? No police officer, no BIA member, no member of the D.A.'s office of organized crime thinks about such categories. We don't know who they are, if they broke the law, we don't care, we don't care. President Aleksandar Vukic said - no protections. Remember that the first arrests were from some of the officials, members of the ruling parties. That's something, of course, that wasn't a manners during DOS authorities. You spoke, and thank you for that, statistics as statistics, she can show anything, you know. It says -- a collection of accurate data that gives the wrong picture, and that's very true. Essentially, the way I, as Home Secretary, measure the success of every chief of police administration is how his citizen, how sure he feels on the street. There are no small and large crimes, every pickpocket, the simplest pickpocket deserves to be punished because his allowance in some city traffic line makes hundreds of people insecure, that their day starts badly, that their day ends badly, that they are afraid, and they must not be afraid in our free city. Here, a few days ago, we just caught a group of foreign citizens who were doing pick-ups at our malls, and the city is safer now. Of course, the Luxembourg media will say – shame on them, pocketing instead of big cases, you know how it goes. Well, yeah, but come home when you have this feeling that someone took something from you, that someone pulled your wallet, that someone's mother wasn't safe when she went to the mall or got on the bus. There are no big and small dealers, say you arrest people for 10g of marijuana, but I'll arrest them for 5g of marijuana, because it'll get him off the street for six months. If nothing else, in those six months, they won't have anyone to sell those 10g marijuana to our children. There's no big and small. The quality of the PU in every city is measured by how much they fought the so-called. The ordinary, street crime, the fewer pickpockets, the fewer drug dealers, the fewer petty thieves, the fewer thugs, the less peer violence. In that you think naively that you will be supported by the whole society, but you won't. Unfortunately, he won't. Those who do not care about stable Serbia, who do not care about Serbia who is safe, who is stable, will not support you. You know, it will be a great joy for me, indeed a great joy, I hope by the end of the year, that only in Belgrade will we have 400 new officers, like once, in every neighborhood a police officer who starts here and ends his working life, knows every child, knows every school, knows which cafe those who don't need to gather around, when he comes in to know with respect to get out of the way because they know the state has come and the police have come and I want to spread it to the whole Republic of Serbia, I want to work in every city. Again, someone would think it was good for all Serbian citizens and it is good for all Serbian citizens, but you will always have the Luxembourg media and politicians they support and who will say that nothing is right, but the only criterion, ladies and gentlemen, is the feeling of Serbian citizen how safe he is, how safer he is on the street every day. When you and I as parents can say, a child is late from school, it must have been a game, and we don't think someone did something to him. Now, such a state has measured the success of all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-27-0.u7202	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-27-0.u7203	Dear Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly, respected interior ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I am certainly glad that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Minister, and you have accepted this amendment by Mr Markovic, which he spoke of, because the amendment itself, and the whole law, is in step with digitisation, on the one hand, and on the other hand, is our goal for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia from their home or from their apartment to exercise their rights rather than to rob daily the counters of state institutions. Now that I've taken the floor, let me say a few more sentences and please, MPs, pay attention to what I'm about to say. Mr. Minister, our President Aleksandar Vukic received an apology from Czech President Milos Zeman on 18 May 2021 for the bombing of Serbia. President Zeman said, quote: "NATO bombing was a mistake, it was worse than crime, and I would ask the Serbian people to forgive us," the quote concluded. This is original, exactly as the president of the Czech Republic said, not some medium, as they transferred, under the control of Dragan Gilas. Ladies and gentlemen, this date on May 18, 2021 will remain recorded in historical textbooks. On the same occasion, President Zeman decorated Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic with a white eagle medal, with the highest recognition of the Czech Republic. Pay attention. With an order like this, from the Serbs, only Nikola Tesla was decorated in 1937. Also, the Order was given to Jacques Shirak, Spanish King Juan Carlos I and Leh Kachinski. Look wonders, against apologies, according to what you're saying, Mr. Minister, and Mr. Alexander Markovic, was part of our citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Among them, believe it or not, Prof. Dr. Rade Veljanovski, spokeswoman Dragan Đilas, believed it or not, Natasa Kandic and Prof. Dr. Vesna Vodalić. When it comes to Professor Rade Veljanovski, you should not be surprised, the respected citizens and the honourable MPs, this impeccable gesture, Veljanovski, because he is known for pushing for breaking Serbia's territorial integrity and for hating President Aleksandr Vukic and SNS. As you know, I never think of talking. Prof. Dr. Veljanovski said on 22 April 2018, quote: "Serbia should recognise Kosovo's independence and provide him with a chair in the UN," a quote concluded. Tell Professor Veljanovski, spokeswoman Dragan Gilas, whether you have stated it or not, and you are cursing the President of the Republic these days because he hung on his chest the award of Zeman and you said it was on the wrong chest. No, Mr. Veljanovski, it's given to the statesman, reformer, patriots and patriotism. That's how you, Mr. Veljanovski, put yourself in business with your own country and your own people. Look at the wonders, it was accompanied by Natasa Kandic, a picture and opportunity of Gilas and his associates who led Serbia until 2012. Notice now I will speak as a witness in the process of Mr Milosevic's century, on his side, not the prosecution's. What I'm about to say is published, I didn't just publish, but other scientific workers did. Kandic invented Shipar corpses for The Hague tribunal. That's how she set up the ice-cold case with the corpses. Please, People's Messengers, from the piety to the victims to listen. The "Timoc crime magazine" list published two articles on the ice-truck truck. You'll see why I'm saying this. The first article was published in 16.9.1999, which stated that dead Kurds were in the truck, pay attention, dead Kurds, and that the license plates were Swiss plates, while Dragan Vitomirovic wrote a journalist. Look at the miracles, in the second article published, again in the "Timoj crime show" by the same author, Mr Vitomirovic, but in the 1.5th year of 2001, almost a year and a half later, which Natasa Kandic presented, this member now of which I will tell the world and the source of the charges against Slobodan Milosevic, so that dead Kurds became dead Albanians, and Swiss license plates became Kosovo's license plates. The author of the article Dragan Vitomirovic had a brother who had in his police record smuggling illegal parties across the Romanian border. I won't be long yet. He was still encouraged by then, believe it or not, Interior Minister Dusan Mihajlovic, who supported NATO to write another article, invent. Natasa Kandic said, quotes her words, "Our investigations", hers, "have come to testify that many people have been killed, and their bodies have been buried only to be excavated and later transferred to other places," the quote concluded. Just about this. Police officer Dragan Karlesha, who was in charge of investigating such allegations, appeared in The Hague in July 2002, but as a witness to The Hague prosecutor's office, not Slobodan Milosevic, against Slobodan Milosevic and admitted that no single witness statement was taken. This is what I am telling you, honourable citizens and honourable Members of the People, from the transcript of The Hague Court. "In view of the fact that since July 2002, UN officials have not taken a single witness statement, nor have they had a fraction of the evidence to confirm the indictment, as it was possible for the BBC to publish its "Mass Murders in Kosovo" documentary programme on 27 January 2002, thus six months earlier. It was funny and tragic to listen to The Hague prosecutor Najs, as he described together with the main media the Kandickin Centre as a reliable source of the human rights organisation. So, you see who took part in the case of the "Fridge" and muddled our country, and who today, the day before, interrupts the mud and the country of our president and our president, when the president of the country receives the highest recognition of the Czech Republic. So, these three. You should not be surprised, respected citizens of Serbia, that Natasa Kandic, Vesna Vednelic and Prof. Veljanovski, Gilas' associates say the Order of President Zeman is attached to an unworthy bust, this is a quote. Unworthy of them. And that's right, Mr. Minister, everyone will never agree with 90% of the citizens. Those who worked back then in 1999, 2000, 2002, 2005 are still working today. Is that right, Mrs. Kandic? Is that right, Mr. Professor? Rade Veljanovski, otherwise known among the academic community as Rade eggs? Is it so, Mrs. Vodalić or not, and you're a law professor? While our President Vukic daily returns Serbia's international reputation, including this visit to the Czech Republic, conducts a policy of peace, solidarity, a health policy of all our citizens, not only in Serbia, but in the region, even wider, and a policy of accelerated economic progress, so far tycoon Dragan Djilas, Natasa Kandic, Vuk Jeremic, Professor Veljanovski, Mrs Vodalić, the mud of the president of the state, the state of Serbia and all citizens of Serbia, as well as the Czech President Zeman. I'm sure, respected citizens, you'll punish them, but I'm sure the court of history, which is the hardest, will punish them. Thank you, honourable Members of the People.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-27-0.u7204	Thank you. The word is made by the president of the JS Parliamentary Group, Dragan Markovic Palma. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-27-0.u7205	Dear Ministers, MPs, JS will vote for this bill because citizens can now do their job much faster when they need a ID card as a document and a travel document that especially those living in the country should not lose two, three days to go to the counter and wait, but they can do so much faster. Mr. Atlagic spoke well. I just want to add that Czech President Zeman wasn't president before the bombing, so now he's saying he's sorry to Serbia. It was before the bombing, during the bombing and now. This means that it has a huge weight of someone who then accepted something without a Security Council decision to bomb Serbia and no one can say it, especially these Serbian traitors, that has no particular weight when someone who is a member of the EU and their president when it comes to the Czech Republic, Mr Zeman. I must say that thanks to Vucic and the policy implemented by this government would never have happened if certain changes had not been made to have Hashim Thaci in The Hague, that Haradinaj was no longer asked about anything at KIM and that in international relations Serbia is today much more popular than it was in earlier years. Once, Serbian officials asked for money, aid from America, from other countries powerful in the EU, and today we are not asking for money from them. Today, all we are asking is that what is true and what is justice is applied against Serbia and that decisions are made not by voting but by applying international law. We in Serbia have some who are used to being in office, and their habit cannot be provided by criminals, liars, frauds, thieves and the richest politician in the world, Dragan Gilas. I've been a businessman for 40 years and I know how hard money is made. Today I suggested on the TV "Heppie", given that the whole of Serbia has been talking for months about the great money of Dragan Gilas, and that he didn't say at any time -- I have so much money, I have made a fair profit, but I have been silent as a mule -- to take away his passport, not to flee to some countries with which Serbia has not signed an extradition agreement for criminals, thieves, etc. The D.A.'s got to do his job. I'm not saying what he, as a domestic bully, who beat his wife and father in front of underage children, attacked me that I was seducing underage girls, etc. All those lies I denied their witnesses, their papers, I got from the people they were talking about having certain knowledge of. Mr. Minister, if there's a law and a sentence for such an act for up to five years in prison, why did someone keep it in a drawer? I ask the police to ask the prosecution for consent to enter this procedure and listen to the bully and the damaged, beaten, Ivo Gilas, former wife of Dragan Gilas and father-in-law, for whom there are serious physical injuries. Not if he has enough money to do whatever he wants in this country. His game is called "Freedom and Justice." Is it freedom to beat a woman, father-in-law? Is it freedom to engage in RTS with criminals? Is it freedom to fight the police outside the Serbian Parliament, dissatisfied that you didn't go to the polls and you didn't get a single vote? Is that freedom? Is it justice when someone does something and goes wrong about the law in this Serbia? He needs to be sanctioned. Don't be afraid of the EU, this is neither Ukraine nor Belarus, so, like, no opposition leaders can be processed. For all there are arguments and facts about what anyone has done in this country. I'm asking you to initiate this procedure. It's like genocide, it can never get old with something called domestic violence. Do you know why we had that thing with the Red Star fans and those kids the other day? Those kids got a warrant. They're not criminals when they're 17. But they saw Uncle Dragan Gilas beat the police, enter parliament, beat his wife, and no one can beat him, that uncle, the uncle. Can this happen in this country? He can't. Mr. Minister, and the European Parliament must know who Uncle Dragan Djilas and his paltos Vuk Jeremic, who they are talking to about freedom, about the rights that are allegedly threatened in Serbia. Their biographies must be delivered. My next step will be exactly that. And Tanya Fajon, I want to meet her in person, take her all those papers. And the passport needs to be taken away, Mr. Minister. You know that the big affair was about Bus Plus, the bridge, where huge millions of euros, asphalting some streets, giving advances to some artists who never got in and never brought them into work, etc. That's huge millions. There's got to be an investigative procedure for that. Let him prove he's not guilty. But it never got in the way. Fellow MPs, Mr. Atlagic, Bakarec, do not say that they hate Uncle Dragan Gilas, a bully, surrounded by criminals and thieves, and these 250 MPs sitting here, Serbia is asking for it. We can't talk every day - he beat up a woman and nobody else, what this country's obligation is not to do. And then they say, "Oh, that's not true." They'd have arrested Gilas a long time ago if that were true. He was killed by money in the head and fame. And you know, when domestic violence happens once, often these thugs and when they go to prison, when they come back, they continue to harass their family both verbally and physically. He lives alone with his money. Him and the money in the room. Is that life? Why would he need 10 guys in security? Who are they keeping it from? He's like a wife. Who's going to physically attack Uncle Dragan Gilas? Nobody. But he has to go to prison for the work he's done. When I was respected by the media that I was doing this or that, they didn't file a criminal charges, because for a false criminal record, there's a responsibility. I went to the D.A.'s office myself and asked them to take a statement from me and get it started. Do you know who's being heard? Only those people they listed from my environment, 30 people. Why did they disrupt that criminal who was arrested six times and convicted, a scrawny witness, but who didn't smudge him, but defiled him, he's a board member, senior official of Gilas's party? So to say, when the investigation takes place, he's afraid of Palma. That's why we hid his face and his voice color, etc. When we took off his mask, we saw who it was. Why didn't the capitalist with the suspicious money and his employee, the contractor, Marinika Tepic, say what he said when he went to the police? They still told me, Minister, that this protected witness wrote a criminal report against me because he's a protected witness. Who protected him - Dragan Djilas, Marinika Tepic and Vuk Jeremic, whom was paid by foreign embassies without contract, without severance, without invoice? Why? Because you speak English nicely and because you spent Serbian money when you were a minister in America and rented a 350 square-story hotel for Mr. Vuk Jeremic. Do you know what 350 squares is? The whole place where I live in Concharevo is six acres of pay, Minister. It was all paid by Serbian citizens and then buried Serbia, asking for an opinion on the Kosovo and Metohija problem, from the International Court of Justice. These are the politicians who want to enter parliament across the street. You know, if nothing is done, they can't perform the people and the masses, but they are the inspirers through the European Parliament. Why is the European Parliament's report negative? Because they listen to these two scumbags. They give them these reports, because Vuk Jeremic was in the UN General Assembly and they think he's some guy because he's got a nice tie, a white shirt and black shoes, as my Concharets would say. The Cončarets say -- 10 euros enough, and they have, the people tell 619 million. Well, that's times three, and now what are we talking about? To tell the European Parliament – gentlemen, they can't help you. Why are the other opposition parties running away from him? Because they saw who was sitting in the front row. Madmen, criminals, liars, contractors and the richest politician, Uncle Dragan Gilas. Look, he, he talks about Serbia and we, ladies and gentlemen, are late, we are not entering the EU, because the EU's respect for us is not true. Well, we've been changing the law to election campaigns, and because of them, we've reduced the censorship to 5% to 3%, just to get to the polls. They weren't allowed to go to the election then either. He allowed them, and he wouldn't let us, who were the first to collect signatures, we had to go to the notaries, and they had to go through local self-government, through the matrimonials, where every local self-government has five to 10 matrimonials, in order to collect the signatures as soon as possible, because it took them 30 days, and my coalition collected the signatures in one day, and the coalition of the SPS Ivica Dačić - JS Dragan Markovic Palma in two days we collected the signatures. They also tried to buy some parties, signatures, and failed to collect signatures. Serbian citizens must know that the EU, or the European Parliament, there are several MPs there who, I cannot argue, but surely have some benefit from these two to report such reports. When there was an online meeting with European parliamentarians and Tanya Fajon was on the other side, I was just asking her why you hate Serbia? Although they said we weren't public speaking, I don't want to bring it all up, etc. I couldn't get any arguments, except she told me, well, I'm mad at Vukic, said Vukic that I bought a house in Slovenia, that is, she didn't buy it, I don't know what she was doing. Okay, you prove that you're not, and don't do that now, and all your reports all the time, and as a spokesman for that report, you're attacking Serbia without having facts and material evidence for everything you're saying. You know, they can't forgive us for our economic power, economic progress, GDP growth, that our army is just called the army as it used to, and it doesn't seem, we didn't even have slingshots when they were, each of us here knows what slings are, the police are too. To enforce the law, whoever he was, and not -- I'm Dragan Gilas, I've got money, and watch out when I come, where he comes from, from Mauritius, when he goes to see his interest. Listen to this Minister, he took that money, a bigger number of those couples to some other countries, they charge you for keeping money, even going, 0.5% because they're keeping money there. Well, bring it here, Gilas, if you've earned it fair and square. How many you think you're keeping there, and who you're gonna spend it with when you're alone. What you need in life, how much you're going to eat today. He got married another time, that woman ran away from him, and I stayed in the big house. He who attacks Serbia all the time, lies, attaches labels. Says Crazy Wolf. Well, you did, Wolfie, crazy, as soon as you went to the construction site at 11:00 p.m., because he's got the number of money. Gianni's got one machine, this one's gotta have five machines, to see, because he's hiding them from himself, there's no one in the house, there's no one to steal from him. I'm sure he doesn't know where he hid that money at night. Look out, he's resting it. That's why he's crazy. You're crazy about bringing in so many vaccines, so you're crazy about giving the vaccines and the Montenegrins, who are attacking us, and the Croats, and the Macedonians, and so on. Thank you, Macedonians, for voting on the Eurovision for our girls. I, Mr. Minister, am taking 600 doctors to Greece from donors provided by 3. - June 7th, and I will tell the bus drivers to stop at least three pumps, to spend some money, in gratitude to Macedonians who support Serbia and that former friend, I will not now talk about the man, the Zaev, lately, every honor he has seen that Dragan Gilasa is a fraud, like three matches, here is not my mother's, and here is, wherever you lose, with him is always chico, like a roulette, and where it is for the people. Minister, you're a very serious man and, you know, I like to listen to you when you talk, and you have to do what's called - Uncle Dragan Gilas to process, material proof. It's not that, Mr. Minister, said the best friend of Anica's godmother, because Anica's boyfriend works at Inkotechni, and the one from Inkotechne heard him drink coffee at McDonald's. This is the truth, the signature. They say we denied it. It can never be denied, you can settle, you can pay. What's that poor woman doing, knowing this guy's beating, having money? She complained to the police, the state, nothing and then she certainly said – Uncle Dragan Gilas was not very strong, he hit my father with his half-open fist, he could have closed his eye, but he didn't want to, one eye was enough to shut him up. He needs to be processed, Minister. Do not let the citizens of Serbia lose that material evidence, and that money, he says, lie. Well, come on out and say it. He's lying to Palma, he's lying to Vulin, he's lying to Dacic, he's lying to Wolfie and so on. He never got out, he just says they're not in that state. If they're not in that, then what are they in? Where are they? Just so you know, Minister, there's a newest bank, it's called a canal bank, it's five meters from the house, three meters deep, three meters wide, in a bag of artificial fertilizer, because they're thick sacks and there's still no detector for it, but I heard that the Chinese are building a detector, so they can find the paper, it's going to be July. I'll buy from the Chinese that detector, go around and see that "canal bank" in the yard, but when you dig something in the yard and in the company, the necessarily neighbor looks out the window. What are you digging for? And to find, not to find only, they found caves, such as Albanians, and killed by Serbs. Natasa Kandic and these others, rather than a little "the bank's canal", let's see how they are, how their counter is and so on. Thank you. I'm asking for an answer from you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-27-0.u7206	Thank you. The word has a minister, Vulin.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-27-0.u7207	Your Honour, everyone in this country is equal before the law, and they especially deserve the protection of this country and the law of the victim of domestic violence, and we truly agree there. The law is what it is. Can an investigation be reopened, the D.A. decides, and I fully agree with you that, of course, according to the law, everything needs to be done to make this happen. It's pretty immoral for a man who beat his father-in-law, beat his wife and did it in front of his children. It's not something she just said- said, or something that's my thing or your impression, it's something that's been told to the competent authorities in the form of official notes, in the form of a public statement. I agree that we can see and investigate and responsibility, possibly responsibility, if there were any failures, I can't say that, in the investigation itself, but it is the fact that what happened. You know, you can't sanction all things, you can't get everything under the law, some things especially in politics have to be said and they know each other so that citizens can judge about it. You know, the gentleman you're talking about, Gilas, the man who helped Alexander Vukic save and save the basketball union of Serbia, spoke of as a great man, as a great statesman, as a man who understands sports, who knows, who, without whose support our team, would have little success. You remember when he brought him presents, and then all of a sudden when he didn't need that Alexander Vukic, he's a dictator, a villain. You know, it was, if I wasn't wrong in 2012 or 2013, Alexander Vukic was the first Deputy Prime Minister, he was the Defence Minister, I was the Director of the Office for Kosovo and Metohija, and I found myself at a meeting among other things discussing who would be our representative at the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. The time has come for the state of Serbia, I'm sure the President of Parliament Dacic would remember that. The state of Serbia had the right to do so in one place and has the right to delegate someone of its choice, who meets certain criteria, but most importantly has the support of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, that is the essence and that is the measure. Let me tell you right now, it's a good place. It's done in London, the salary is in tens of thousands of euros, pounds, which, in any case, is more than good, it's hard to get to it, you have great reputation, authority, bank, big business, in every professional career, and material satisfaction huge. And a number of names are mentioned among other names: Milica Delevic, former wife of Dragan Gilas, immediately I was against you. I didn't ask myself, but when I was there, the material for the session was being prepared, I say, I don't think it should be done, I think it's politically problematic, and I don't want to talk about what no one would ever think during the session that a member of the SNS wife, for example, or at that time I don't know the SRS gets the support of the state authorities. No way. The debate was cut by President Vukic and he said – she is an expert in the job, I believe she can do it well, which, whose wife I don't care, who I don't care about, things have changed in Serbia, from now on will take care of the expertise. And so Milica Delevic, former wife of Dragan Gilas, became a representative of the Republic of Serbia at the IBRD in the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, made tens of thousands for years, hundreds of thousands of euros, and never did Dragan Gilas comment on it. Never. And about this man, Alexander Wolfich, he spoke so much insult and so many lies. I'm saying, you can't judge everything, you can't judge everything, it can't be the law for everything, but here's what I've told you, it's about the difference between people, or it's about who's telling the truth when it's talking about how normal or not normal. Here, Alexander Wolf, I used to tell him a lot of jokes, and I tell God you're a really better man than I am. I wouldn't do that. He did it, and it is his gratitude that her husband declares him crazy and that every evil he can do to him and to the state of Serbia, he does so. If someone did this to me and you, if it helped me in my life, we're ordinary people, you can see us on the street, at the market, at the pubs, talking to ordinary people because we're ordinary people. We know what the word "thank you" means, you know what it says: "Don't, man helped me, I owe him at least that much, he did to me, he hired me a child, he helped my wife when I needed him." This is remembered in the Serbian people when someone does something to you in life and asks for nothing in return. Nothing. And then you see Gilas who won't, not that he didn't think to say -- well, wait, this man has shown high moral values, this man has shown that above politics, this man has shown that he doesn't think at all that he's going to shine on someone, and he's going to lustrate. Mr. Bakarec talked about it. There's no lustration, there's no lustration, there's no question of whether it's someone's wife. The estimate is that it's professional and over. Do your job and nothing else. Who did you vote for, whose office you're in, who your husband is, so what difference does it make? But as you can see, it's not going back well. They sometimes say that the Wise Lord Milos said: "I do not know what is so hated by that man, I have not done him any good." Alexander Vukic now needs to know what is so hated by Dragan Gilas, he has done him very well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-27-0.u7208	Thank you. The word is Dragan D. Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-27-0.u7209	Thank you, Mr. Minister. I'm happy with your answer. I just want to say a few more sentences, which are liars and con men. After they invented everything and have no victims or witnesses, then this woman from Jagodina tells her son who gives false information to report that they've been robbed of their apartment. There goes the police and the crime department, the apartment wasn't robbed, that guy who called the police, the cops said, so he didn't rob the apartment, so he said he didn't, so what you called the police, he said -- I thought he was robbed. During the time the police were working, Dragan Djilas, Marinika Tepic, and he says NATO, why are you waiting not to arrest Palma, see how he scares witnesses? So this worker, Dragan Gilas, first said what kind of prosecution and Jagodina, the police, fortunately transferred to the King, went to the King, but also went to Dragan Gilas. He is certainly either a court expert or an engineer for interest and money, she comes out of the D.A.'s office and says, "Here's a firm promise that this process will be transferred to the Prosecutor's Office for Organized Crime in Belgrade." The D.A., 15 minutes after that, says we haven't talked about it at all, the process hasn't even started, because we don't have anyone to start the trial against, we don't have witnesses, etc. So they're ready to steal an egg under the hen, the hen, without her feeling it. You know, what's a hen, where we put seven, eight, ten eggs and then they lay out chickens and you can't approach the hen, but they also know that they crawl and anything else when something needs to be stolen and lied. Please, on official duty, ask the police to seek medical records from the Jagodina woman, who sends false information and her name is Katarina Jokic. I ask for the public's sake, so the citizens know who gives information from Jagodina and whether that person who gives the information tells exactly and why he doesn't speak exactly, because he's not alone, what our people would say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-27-0.u7210	The word has been issued by the SPS parliamentary group president, MP Djordje Milicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-27-0.u7211	I thank the esteemed vice-president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Dear Ministers, honourable representatives of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, before I begin to talk about the amendment and the reasons why the MP group of SPS thinks it is good that the Security Committee has submitted the amendments, and that it is good that these amendments are accepted, encouraged by the stories we have just heard, above all by Mr Atlagic, Markovic and Bakarec, I must say a few words about what I believe today in Serbia is an essential issue. First of all, Mr. Vulin, the ruling coalition's policy is not hate, it is clearly defined in six key points and principles, defined by the president of the Republic, the president of the SNS, after parliamentary elections, and they are pillars of the exposé of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. On the other hand, the obligation of all of us, the responsibility of all of us, and us MPs who are legitimately elected representatives of citizens, because the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is the voice of the people, and as you say in united Serbia, the obligation of all of us is true. We deserve that truth and it is our responsibility, our obligation to the citizens of Serbia, above all. The truth is the interest of all of us. Why am I saying this? Years ago, Mr. Vulin, in Serbia, it's someone's fault, when we're talking about politics and politicians, for years, someone's been guilty of something, and nobody's answered anything, from which only one conclusion can be made -- politicians are somehow always protected. The ruling coalition, the president of the Republic, the government of the Republic of Serbia, shows there are no protected ones. No one is above the law, no one is stronger than the state. I want first of all to congratulate you, I think you're too modest and you and the representatives of the BIA. I know that this is a united Serbia and that this is an action that has been launched, above all by the President of the Republic, which clearly outlined six key principles of principle and said that one of the key principles is the fight against crime and corruption, an organised fight against crime and corruption. But without an adequate reaction and determined action and a serious blow to organised crime by the M.E.P., by the B.I.A., by the prosecution, would not have gotten to these results. And it takes courage and I congratulate you on that courage. I believe this fight will continue during the period ahead of us. You have struck a serious blow to organised crime and corruption in Serbia. So no one is stronger than the state and no one can be above the law and there is no selectivity and there are no selective targets. You know, you mentioned a little while, when the president of Serbia spoke, right before the assembly was established and the formation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia of six key principles and principles on the basis of which the government will be formed and which will be pillars, as I said, the exposé of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, and when he announced the unscrupulous fight against crime and corruption, and that they will not be protected, not that we heard ridicules, but you know what the definitions -- this is a seasonal performance, Alexander Vukic. All of this takes an independent judiciary. Here, a united Serbia, as you say, shows works, not words, that this is not a seasonal performance. And as for the independent judiciary, he said, it seems to me, that I no longer know which political party he belongs to, that Stefanovic, because they often change those political parties, so I can no longer follow. But they have a moral right to speak of an independent judiciary. Those who fired 900 judges, those who appointed judges and prosecutors by sending proposals, opinions, so the president of the municipality was required on the one hand, and the chairman of the municipal board on the other hand, and there is documentation for that. You know that well. They're talking about an independent judiciary. On the other hand, Mr. Vulin, Mr. Beckarec just spoke of threats. The threats referred to by me cannot be called a gentleman, it is far from the gentleman, the gentlemen do not express themselves, but to one person who calls himself a quasi opposition and leader of the quasi opposition, who has never measured its strength in the elections, because there is no courage for it, but you know, these threats are nothing new and when you refer to such threats there is a reason for such anxiety, and it is very interesting when we say to the European Commission that very often resents that Serbia is not accounting with organised crime and corruption, when we say, here, there is a political will, we do this practically legislatively. So, the moment there's one synergy between practical and legislative action, then there's one nervousness in one part of the opposition, specifically those, Mr. Bakarec, which you listed, so there's a legitimate reason for all of that. The threats and their courage are very well known. You know, they just have the courage to show up at a press conference and not answer the questions of the press. There, that's courage. Keep it like that in karate, you know the Kates with the imaginary opponent and turn around and walk away. (Dragan D. Markovic: First must be the yellow belt. They don't have the yellow belt. They didn't even get to the first class. Then when you ask a journalist a question – Do you have an account or do you not have an account? Do you have that money or don't you have that money? You just have to answer yes or no, nothing more if you've already called a press conference. You say, "No, I'll sue you." Is that the modern democracy they stand for? Is that the independent judiciary and the judiciary that the quasi opposition stands for? I believe that we, Mr. Minister, will soon not be able to tell us now, I know that, but I believe that we will get answers to all those questions that these quasi opposition men have avoided to answer very quickly. What's the problem if you're sure of something, so what's the problem with going to a polygraph to answer three specific questions? Do you have a receipt? Do you have the money? Where did you get the money? (Dear D. Markovic: I called him, he didn't want to go. ) Here, Mr. Markovic offered himself a polygraph and offered to cross-reference questions. (Dear D. Markovic: No, I called him, and he didn't want to go. What's the problem with that? So there's something we don't know. I believe that you will soon, with the other competent authorities and competent institutions, come up with concrete answers. When citizens say what they think about it, call the leaders of the opposition, and then you have those directorial shows, I'll express myself to the city's vocabulary, whine in front of the cameras, but first you need to be properly mounted, they have to make a good directory, so it turns out you're crying because someone told you you're a thief. What you said before all that. You have to wonder why the citizens are telling you this. For God's sake, your family's been hit. Have you thought about the families of others? Have you thought about our families? No, I don't. The point is to make yourself a victim. He does not expect the people of politicians to represent themselves as a victim. The people expect concrete solutions and answers to key issues, just as the President of the Republic does, as does the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as does the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. You know how, I might have believed him that he wanted to change something, so let's say he told these fellow Members: "Stop people, so don't enter the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in such a way. Well, don't use the Serbian flag. Stop, don't attack a physical journalist TV "Pink" who has barely 40 kilos." That's a lot of courage, you have to admit. It takes a lot of courage. "Stop, don't! Emergency measures have been introduced, emergency situations. Do not set a bad example by sitting here in front of the congregation and speaking to the pensioners in such a way. Don't attack in such a way as the chairman of the Administrative Board, that you physically turn on him. Stop, Obradovic, don't come into the Chamber of Presidents of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, it's not appropriate, it's not dignified." If he'd done it before this scenario, before this director, if he'd tried to change something, maybe someone would have believed him. Like this, political fog, political marketing, no longer passes. Speaking of families, so I have to remind you, we talked about it here in parliament in the previous session, let's remind ourselves who invented that matrix and that patent to mention the family of politicians and to publish photos of politicians' children through social networks. Well, we begged them not to. No one from the ruling coalition did. Gentlemen, we're in business... You're not gentlemen, I can't say "ma'am," but we do politics. We didn't ask our families and our children if we were going to do politics, but we decided to do politics. You can tell us, I've told you a million times, so bring down a bucket of feces, but be brave and do it politically. Don't push others around and don't create a script like this. Show a little determination, at least a little courage, but you know, lack of political power, lack of political influence, lack of a political programme, lack of political ideology, exits from one, I would say, without a political situation... Well, they are not waiting for those European parliamentarians because of electoral conditions, but think they will put some kind of pressure on them. Well, there's no pressure. No pressure. Without a choice, no one will come to power in Serbia. Democracy takes place in Serbia in the elections and only elections can change Serbia's political course. Forget it, you drag it by the sleeve and you're looking for your parliamentarians to submit 400 amendments to speak ill of Serbia. Forget about it. European parliamentarians do not vote, Serbian citizens vote. Stop drawing targets on members of the family and president of Serbia. Stop drawing targets on all of us. Enough of that! Have courage and try to be politically accounted for and do not push others around. A little while ago, Mr. Bakarec mentioned lustration, and you think they know what lustration is? (Nebojsa Bakarec: and Rematchism.) You know what? Lustration and rematchism, yes. The lustration was mentioned by one, and the rematchism of the brave one, the other one, the courage we all fear, except that instead of being sent to us, Mr. Vulin, and I'm going to ask you, which every night, not every night, but roughly so spontaneously send a political play here to the Parliament, I have no problem. I don't have a problem. Even though I'm that kind of health condition, I really don't have a problem. I got called up for a physical, so they're on their way to the car. I don't know what they're gonna accomplish with that. They're not interested in me, but I'm asking you to make good security assessments because of your fellow stoned co-workers who are called the most reprehensible names. I don't want those in the front row, acting and alcoholising, and I wouldn't say that yet, I want these in the front row, these political leaders of theirs, call the political leaders. I want to see them in the front row, so they tell me we're counting, to show the courage to deal with it. As for lustration, well, you know how, the best lustration, Mr. Vulin, is being held by Serbian citizens in elections. Now let them wonder where they are today and where we are. Let them look at the composition of parliament, let them look at what the citizens of Serbia have said, and ask themselves when they talk about lustration, and when they talk about rematch, do they think that someone is afraid of them? Well, we from the Socialist Party of Serbia didn't fear them on October 5th 2000, and we will especially fear them today in 2021. So, I ask you only one thing, these people here have come, and colleagues and colleagues, to be responsible, seriously and committed to doing their job and doing it and doing it, let them and allow them not to have that kind of violent and violent behavior, because it's not politics, nor is it the essence of politics. It is far from politics, far from political vocabulary, every political tolerance and political correctness. No, it's crossed every line. It's violent, I repeat, and violent behavior and it's a social norm. It must not be a social norm in Serbia. It's something we all have to fight together. Now, when it comes to amendments and when it comes to the law, just a few sentences. First, the Socialist Party Group of Serbia believes it is very good that you have accepted all three amendments and that they will contribute to the qualitative legislative proposal you have proposed. He will certainly have the support of the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group. I will first of all take a few sentences, reminding myself that the ID card is a public document that makes Serbian citizens prove their identity and that the obligation to own this document applies to all citizens from the age of 16. Getting a ID card, as we said in the debate in principle, is among other things a sign of maturity, a sign that a citizen becomes visible and recognized, but also, what is very important, is responsible under the law. For those who first get a ID, it's an honor, for the state, it's a ID document. Digitalisation, which is the strategic definition of the government of the Republic of Serbia, was first realised through a personal map as a digital document, i.e. a digital ID card. Modernisation of this document also enables rapid identification of citizens who are important to modern society. This document contributes to accelerated procedures in the exercise of citizens' rights, but also to the state. Before the introduction of biometric passports in 2008, Serbian citizens could travel without visas only to 19 countries in the world. For the citizens of our country, the European Union abolished visas in 2009. Serbian citizens without a visa can stay in 71 countries, while holders of diplomatic and official passports without a visa can enter and stay in 93 countries, and the Serbian passport is on a global scale of 28th in the world. According to the "mini Schengen" people will be able to travel across the region with a valid ID card. The ID system, on the other hand, provides maximum protection of personal data, which is very important in the era of digitisation, because today it is much easier to access different data and these data can be misused. Obviously, the degree of data protection on the ID card is not a space for hackers who are today surfing the Internet and entering various data systems. In that sense, I would like to commend the degree of data protection on the form of the ID card. The change and complementarity that we are talking about is part of the realisation of the government's "Stop Bureau" project, which was created to reduce, Mr Markovic also spoke of, to reduce administrative and bureaucratic barriers in the communication of public administrations with citizens, businesses and in mutual communication between state institutions. As regards, in particular, the first amendment submitted to Article 1. The draft law, which refers to Article 7 of the applicable law, therefore the amendment complements the provision of this article by adding a new position 5. It is specified that a copy of the ID card, which does not contain the chip, must provide information on the address of the registered residence. This is certainly a good and precise solution to provide the content of the same data for cards without chips and for ID cards with chips. I have to say that the electronic ID card, which replaced the old paper form, which was an old book-shaped ID card, represents an easy-to-hand modern form, and using data is much simpler. The identity card is now the primary, basic identification document from which all relevant owner information is drawn. Of course we will also support this amendment of the Committee and of course we will support the next two amendments and, as I said, of course we will also support the law that you have proposed. Once again, Mr. Minister, don't be too modest, because the MUP, BIA, and, I repeat, the prosecution, they need to collect evidence, they need to collect material, and only then do judicial authorities, and everything depends on what you and the BIA and the prosecution do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-27-0.u7212	Thank you. Before we continue to work, one notice of today's work. The honourable Members of the People agree. 27th and Art. 87 pages 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 1800 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to bring in acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. The word has the People's Messenger George Dabic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-27-0.u7213	I thank the chairman. Dear People's MPs, ladies and gentlemen, the honourable Ministers Vulin with an associate, the amendments that are before us are in the role of improving the very text of the law and I will support the proposed amendments and our parliamentary group in the day to vote, too. We need to look around, today's the wedding day. After 90 days, the Assembly ends its regular spring session, but that does not mean that it stops working. As we find out off the record, it will work throughout the entire legion, and I'm not saying that it would possibly complain because the Assembly is working and because there is no break, all Serbian citizens are also doing the whole of Serbia, and that is necessary to have this high GDP growth. And President Aleksandar Vukic has just insisted that laws be passed, that the Assembly meet constantly, that the government of the Republic of Serbia proposes legal solutions, sublegal acts that would allow better living standards for Serbian citizens. All the laws that have been on the agenda in the past period are just aimed at improving the quality of life of Serbian citizens directly, as well as when we talk about the ID card, allowing citizens to have lower costs in replacing their ID cards, and everything that colleagues have talked about earlier is directed precisely at allowing Serbian citizens to have a better administration, a better bureaucracy, that we have lower administrative costs here and ultimately to harmonize our legislation with European legislation. I say, it is done today, in this way by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, along with the National Assembly working effectively. In the previous period, we adopted over 200 different laws, sublegal acts, various agreements. President Aleksandar Vukic is constantly giving, as I say, a strong pace to the government of the Republic of Serbia and ministers, as well as to the National Assembly. We see that we have a lot of work to do here. It's not like some time ago, when, you know, they voted from Bodrum, when they met electronically, when they didn't even come. As summer comes, nothing is done. That used to be the case. And it wasn't just the case with the National Assembly. We remember how the ministers understood their resources back then. He who receives the resort sees it as a personal feed for himself and his loved ones to, as they say, smell the wider and narrow family and to assume it while the party remains in power. That's not the case today. Today, the minister who has no results, who has not achieved the outlined goals President Vukic seeks, is being removed and is something that has been a new practice in our democracy since SNS and Aleksandar Vukic took power. And not only do ministers have their goals set, they are constantly insisting, you ministers know, on the race of the BPD, it's something that is the most important thing in Serbia today. We want to achieve the European quality of life, and we cannot do so without the strong growth of GDP that we have today. While we had the former regime in power and Boris Tadic and his chairmanship, we remember that it was coming to work, that the president, according to the working lists, could be seen, from half a dozen worked men, for up to two hours he was already at home, and therefore the result of that policy is 79% of GDP, which was the country's duty and is the consequence of 400,000 people fired on the street, 1,000 closed factories. We remember they only had 30 kilometers of highways built. This is all the consequence of this very bad relationship with the very state itself that the former regime had when it comes to the most important of some national interests. I'm not saying this today because we want to blame some of our failures here for the former regime or the people of the previous government, but precisely because the feathers of this regime are today the leaders of the opposition, who are pushing to come to power again. And I'm just saying the same people, absolutely the same people today are predicating on a full state register, the same ones and Boris Tadic, who apologized in the region because a Serb, it was a disgrace to him, the same wolf pozdarac Jeremic, who, we know, also hit the stamp on Kosovo's independence with that idiotic question, the same Dragan Djilas, who left a billion and 200 million in debt in the Belgrade cash register, who built the most expensive bridge in the world and who was the main trader of state seconds during his time in power. Well, the same three are now predicating for the state register, chasing and hearing, here have some new methods of coming to power, since citizens will not, since they cannot come to power in a civilized, normal way to run for politics, and to support that policy in the elections, they are running for office, as I heard my fellow Milicevic said, remandism, lustration, that's something they stand for today. Can you imagine a Wolf named Jeremic lustrating someone, doing rematchism over someone? Indeed, I would warmly recommend that he look himself in the mirror and realize that there is absolutely nothing of this matter. You're the same people, Milan St. Protic, diverse, Jove Grannys and similar ones who say they're going to chase us, that they're going to pick up the hook and the hook, and that I don't know what they're doing today are the ones who just can't say it differently, but it's funny when you and people like that, the obscenities are saying today that they're going to do certain things here, it's really amazing. We have to listen to it all, all this nonsense, all these idiotic stories, just, we have to listen, we can't react, they'll tell us we're some dictatorship here. It's a scary dictatorship where everyone can attack you, say they're going to hang you, arrest you, haunt you, and you can't say anything because right away from the Council of Europe they're going to tell you, from the EU, that you can't do it. Imagine the situation of the MP calling for rematch of the former regime, here, now to say that there should be a rematch against Vuk Jeremic, of Dragan Gilas, in order to have a situation regarding our international position. Well, I'm sure the OSCE and the UN would have called and everyone would have jumped to the protection of some of the opposition's rights here. And we would have the right to seek rematch against those who have eaten and destroyed this country, who have filled their pockets, who have moved their money into 50 countries, robbed by Serbian citizens. We could insist on exactly the ones they insist on today, but we won't do it. We have our programs. We are talking about clear promises to Serbian citizens. Our policy is that our children stay here, and that's what we're called the "For Our Children" list. We advocate that children stay in Serbia and thus demonstrate our patriotism in this way, not to drill one hand in the chest, while our other hand is in the pocket of the Serbian citizens, as those seciks did while they were in power. Therefore, all the laws we adopt are aimed at improving living standards. We talked in the previous period here about many laws and the Law on the Register of Administrative Procedures and the Law on Fiscalization, the Law on the ID card. This is all part of the Agenda adopted by our Government in 2016 and 2020 on the digitisation of our country, and therefore it is all directly aimed at improving the standard of living of citizens of the Republic of Serbia and not only the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, but also our economy. Investments are now coming to Serbia, because we listen to the needs of businesses and investors who want to invest and here we provide good legal solutions to a better simple business environment for all of them. That's why we can talk about a huge inflow of foreign investment. In 2019 we were recordmakers, in 2020 something was slowed down because of Corona, but here, already in 2021 we see that continued GDP growth, the arrival of foreign investment continues. Yesterday, to the joy of all in Valjevo, the president announced the arrival of Bizerba company, a German investment that will allow for the opening of thousands of jobs and, especially what I would like to stress, will create high-paying jobs for engineers, people who will have several thousand-euro salaries. That's exactly what I'm saying on purpose because of those mischievous criticisms we hear in the previous period, how here we bring only those investors who hire, they say, cable rides and somehow insult all people who work in Serbia today and make a fair living for bread. The same ones who robbed them, who took them back, whose time the minimumer was 20,000 dinars, and we remember well, I know a personal example of people who, when they picked up the minimumer, were obliged to return some of the minimumers to their hands, and we all know that it was happening, the same ones who got so sick today with a mockery talk about people who work, who are employed. Of course, in the first period when we were pulling foreign investments, we had to bring absolutely everything that was offered to us and go to Vranje and Leskovac and down to those factories that had been opened by the foreigners and tell those people that they didn't need those 40-50,000 dinars, to say that it was some low-paying then power of these investors, but we just had to hire the people so that today we could raise the wages and today we have the opportunity to raise the wages for all of them working today in those factories, to raise the minimum wage, and to make those investors pay better. We had to hire Serbia, since everyone was unemployed while they were in power. Today we can say - bringing Bizerba to Valjevo, will have our engineers pay several thousand euros, coming investment in Prijepolje, as we heard. Also, for years, there was a good investment waiting for decades in the Zlatibor district. Today we can say that downstairs our young engineers will remain, that they will have a chance not to go to Belgrade and bigger cities. The Japanese investment, as we hear Niedek investing, watch out for two billion euros in state-of-the-art technologies, comes to Serbia, plans to create 10,000 jobs. The salaries will be up to 3,000 euros. That's exactly what we're talking about. We had to hire Serbia first in order to attract these investors who come and offer jobs, to say, in a much more paid way than those first investments that came after 2014 when we simply struggled with unemployment. Today we have employment below 7%, we can dictate salaries and ask investors who are going to invest really in high-tech, build electric motors, make here what we need for our engineers who really have all the conditions to work on better-paid jobs. We're not just talking about Serbia going better, people's MPs don't say, the government of the Republic of Serbia, President Vukic, so someone should say -- well, they're pushing for a certain policy, so they have to convince us that there's something that might not be. Look what international organizations say. Here, the IMF forecasts the other day that Serbia will be the first to leave this crisis after Lithuania precisely because of the high rate of vaccines that are again due to the fact that we have a stable economy, that we could have led to the time, the capping of these vaccines, to bring them here when no one had, when the whole region cobbled with vaccines, Serbia had enough vaccines, we gave them across the region. We saw that 100,000 vaccines went to the Czech Republic the other day. So Serbia responded in the right way to the crisis, and that says not only the IMF, that's what Ambassador Godfrey, the American ambassador says yesterday. No one can say that the ambassador of the most powerful Western state is someone who goes out in public with some unverified information and talks. So he says Serbia is a locomotive for the development of the Balkans. Ambassador Godfrey is just saying that Serbia has come out of crisis in a brilliant way. We've had the slightest economic downturn in all of Europe. Now we have good grounds to raise GDP to 7%, which is also the goal of all these reforms that we are carrying out. We are not talking, therefore, just that, and so are these Gilas' unfortunates and their media, here, you see, "Today" writes with regret that the news from the German newspaper "Walloce Chatung" that Serbia will increase its power with the creation of vaccine factories, not only in the Balkans, but throughout Europe. Even they have to accept what's fact, what we're talking about here. I read the other day, also, one tycoon weekly writes that it's not very good, in the sense that GDP growth is not the most important thing to be interested in citizens, there are, it says, other parameters. So they do not deny that Serbia has the biggest GDP, GDP growth in Europe, but they do not mind, they say, doing so in such a way that the state artificially pushes GDP through public investment. So they do not deny the fact that Serbia has the biggest GDP in Europe, but they need to call their analysts, tycoon, who come and spit on their country's mission. That, I say again, is proof that we are telling the truth here. No one here has anything else in mind, except for our country to be better off, for our children to stay here. That's why we're saying it's a good thing that Alexander Vukic's politics is being implemented. The people are the best judges, and that's why we have 60% of citizens' support, and that's why those who are on the other side, who spit everything good that comes to Serbia, don't even have a censorship. The people are the best judges. This unfinished film of theirs will never again be seen in Serbia, never again will tycoons be asked about the local community, let alone the management of our country, because Serbia believes that policy that has contributed to the growth of GDP today, this many new factories, this many new investments, highways, railways and everything we talk about in parliament, here, since it was formed. So we're saying what citizens need to know, which is that we're doing for the sake of improving Serbia's citizens. It is the policy that has today the legitimacy and majority, and I am sure that even in the next period of the policies of President Aleksandr Vukic, the SNS will win the elections of those who are looking at each way to spit out their country, because they have no other programme and do not know how to return to power. We're telling them that the tycoons will never return to power while the SNS is, while President Vukica is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-27-0.u7214	Thank you. The Committee on Defence and Home Affairs submitted to Article 2 of the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I would like the representative of the motion to make a statement on the amendment. The word is made by Minister Alexander Vulin.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-27-0.u7215	Thank you, Your Honor, the President. As we said, all the amendments submitted by the National Assembly were accepted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I am taking the opportunity once again to thank all the MPs for their contribution to making this law better and more useful. I will take this opportunity to refer to the presentation of you, Your Honor, but also to the presentation of the honourable president of the SPS parliamentary group. You know, I was here in this same bench, in this same House, many of you were then members of that assembly when we passed the Labour Act. I will remind you of the hysteria that caused us, what conflicts we had, what attacks we've had, what lies we've heard about ourselves and the law we've passed, which is the law that was the first reform law, the law that ultimately led to Serbia having better, more efficient, more successful economy and more employment. When we passed the Labour Law, unemployment was over 24%, the money in the government's register was for up to two months' wages and pensions, we paid 70% of pensions from the state budget, touching pensions. That's what Serbia looks like that we inherited from DOS, from what they want to lute us. That's what Serbia looked like. Today, Serbia has unemployment below the European average. Today, pensions from the state budget are paid about 40%, the rest from real sources. Today is average earnings, today is minimal, today is more and more in absolute terms because we have provided high employment, because the state has made an ambience for people from all over the world to come and invest in Serbia. What? Do you think they can't invest in Romania? What is wrong with the 18 million market, which is a member of the EU along the way? What are they investing in Serbia? Because we have provided such an environment, because we have provided a political stability that is a prerequisite for economic stability. That's why President Vukic's policy shows results, results. And that's visible. I need to look at the lustration you were talking about. I'm sorry, what's the unknown? On October 6th, lustration began, all political insinuators were expelled from all state institutions. They didn't bother with legal forms, they didn't bother with papers, letters, disciplinary commissions, they threw physical people out on the street. You remember they came in from Customs, through the National Bank, to the Football Federation. No institution in this country has been spared their lustration. They've done it all before. We've been through this before. How many political inexperiences have they kept in state authorities? Not one. They did not, as President Vukic, allow the opposition leader's wife to become an important state official and representative in international institutions. No one could have imagined it. Which of our family members could have worked in state institutions, in public enterprises? When I entered this parliament in 2012, it was the first second of my life that I was on the budget of the Republic of Serbia. I have never worked in any public institution or state of Serbia for 20 years. After October 5th, to employ a public enterprise or a government body as an official inexperienced DOS, unimaginable or any member of my family, unimaginable. It was enough to think that your friend, not a member, a friend, was unimaginable to hire anywhere in the country and anywhere in the budget. We've already survived that lustration. We've seen this before. They also forbidd us to work and to appear and to deal with politics, they did everything to ban any other opinion. We've seen it before, we've already survived it. Now they might be even more brutal if it were possible to be more brutal than those who set fire to this congregation, beat up journalists, lynch people in the streets. I don't know if it could be any more brutal, but if it could, they would be. We've seen it before, we've lived through it all. You know, that lustration, as you well remember, was not only about us who were politically highlighted, but also about every voter, as would tomorrow refer to every SNS voter and our coalition, everyone, without exception. You listened to Jeremiah and Gilas, who say: "All of you who make comments on the networks, you will clean up tomorrow, I guarantee it to you." So, not only would they have prepared a lustration for political opponents who knew their names and last names, but also those whose names they would only know tomorrow if they had voted for the SNS. It's not a lustration of political inexperience. It's a lustration of the entire people, everyone who's not under them. Just don't let this be my attitude and my impression, just read what they say in public shows, read what they write on networks, on their profiles, just see how many times they've threatened anyone who's given them a critical remark that they're going to disappear, whether it's a journalist, a politician, an ordinary man who has his own attitude. If they had one more chance to finish what they started, they'd have done one thing they couldn't do. The law would ban political engagement for all who are not part of their parties. And that's the only thing they haven't been able to do yet. How many times have We heard them say? The people do not know what they say, and the people do not know what they think. How many times have you listened to them say, how has the people been seduced by the media. Serbian citizens are intelligent people, adults, people who know what politics is, who have political experience, who have political culture, you can't fool them, you can't seduce them. If we had the opportunity to complete the lustration they started and who spent 12 years on all non-insistent people, we would only add that – political engagement is forbidden, candidateing in the elections, participation in any form of choice for all who do not belong to DOS parties. And that's all. There's nothing to be surprised about. We've been through it all. Serbian citizens do not believe they will allow themselves to survive again.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-27-0.u7216	Thank you. Gjorge Milicevic, replica. Is that right?
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-27-0.u7217	It's the only way I can thank the Minister for his reply, I mean with the replica's rules of procedure. I don't have anything to replicate, except to say. Mr. Minister, this is not your position and your impression, unfortunately, it is the reality in Serbia when it comes to calling the political views of this part of the opposition. Otherwise, the lustration would refer to exactly what you said, to every SNS voter, the SPS, and to anyone who is part of the ruling coalition, would finish that 6th of October. On October 5th, there was an SPS. You and I were in the same political option back then. I was 22 on that October 5th, and that December 2000 was my first candidate for MP. You know when I could get a job in the coming years? Very difficult, Mr. Vulin. So we've been through all this. We have absolutely no fear and you're absolutely right about one thing. I'm just going to do one dipression. When people like this say about the president of Serbia, that's what I was saying during yesterday, that he's half-witted or whatever, they're speaking to the legitimately elected president of the Serbian citizens. They tell Serbian citizens, they tell Serbian citizens, whose president has great confidence and support that they are foolish, and that speaks entirely enough of them, not of us. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-27-0.u7218	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Jahja Fehratovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-27-0.u7219	I thank the Members of the Justice and Reconciliation Party have been manifested by this law, as well as by these amendments, and we want this promotion to be only one in a row, so that security in every respect of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia is as they deserve. Dear Minister, you've said several important things today that have asked me to answer my word, to speak of the amendment, and one of them is that when the state wants to settle, there's no organized crime that can't fall, and that's the essence of all the facts. The proof of this is what happens here in the capital and dealing with one of the worst criminal groups that exist in our region. Also, it is very important that your idea about the officers that are necessary and as such important for the safety and security of every citizen and the encouragement for this project to be deployed throughout the country. Now I'm going to tell you something as a parent. Some time ago, when that shooting took place next to the police department in Novi Pazar, where an innocent victim was wounded, a random passerby, one and a half feet from that shooting was my own son, a boy, the fourth grade of the elementary school, and behind him my 70-year-old mother. I wasn't in New Market then, and I felt really terrible. After those things you took to the MUP, for a while I was safer for the safety of my family, however, now again, whenever I'm outside the New Market, I'm very insecure and worried about the safety of both my children and all the other children of this city. As you know, there was an attempted knife murder in the middle of town yesterday. Three days ago, there was a fight between criminals, where an innocent passerby was killed. Before that, only two or three days ago, a bullet fell at a recreational center where a large number of parents were gathered with children. All this tells us that it is really necessary for this fight against organised crime to expand, that the state has a strong response for every type of criminal group, wherever they are, wherever they are in the territory of the entire state, so that all citizens of the Republic of Serbia feel safe and safe for the lives of themselves and their families. I wasn't able to thank you at that time for everything that was done and, of course, to underline once again, given that there were different kinds of nicknames, that crime and criminals had neither faith nor nation, and that whatever criminals were doing, regardless of their rank, whether they were members of drug cartels, organised crime, whether they were common robbers, burglars, of any kind, must be sanctioned and that the safety of citizens really must be at the highest level, and especially the children, our old ones, so that we could enjoy all these things that go in a positive direction and that this country is going to be an example, not only in the region, but also in Europe, in every sense. Unless a strong action is taken by all authorities in the field of all organised crime groups where they operate, we won't feel that way. Right now I am very concerned about the fate of all the children in that city, because I know that outside and members of organised crime and various kinds of these various criminals, and I know that the capacities at the disposal of the Ministry of Interior are not enough at this moment to respond to all these demands, which is why they have spread out, and that is why they are so imperceptibly trying to do any crimes, or in the middle of the city, in the city's innermost center, murder in an attempt and wounding passersby who have not earned such a relationship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-27-0.u7220	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Alexander Vulin.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-27-0.u7221	Your Honor, I do share your concerns. You remember, the last time the violence escalated in Novi Pazar, the state reacted, we talked to all the political actors in Novi Pazar. If I'm not mistaken, for 54 days the King's gendarmes were headed to New Pazar, we were running traffic control, control of the facilities, work of the joints, we arrested a significant number of people on different warrants, we took away a significant amount of weapons, we found some narcotics, we took away more cars. What I am infinitely proud of is that there was not one single objection from the citizens of the New Market. No one said that anyone exceeded their authority or that there was violence or that religion and customs were not respected. Nobody. I'm really very proud of that. There were some politicians who tried to abuse it, but the citizens simply didn't accept it and that's what counts. All the crimes you're talking about in New Market are police lighting. All the perpetrators are caught, none of them are on the run. Of course, that's not the least of my comforts, because it has to stop. The atmosphere of violence in the New Market is what worries me. In every city you have thugs, you have gangs, it's being arrested, it's being processed, but in New Market, I don't know if you share my feeling, the government of the atmosphere that violence is acceptable, that it's a way of solving problems. Unfortunately, it's mostly young people. Some of them aren't even criminals. These days, there aren't any big files behind them, they're stabbing themselves with knives, and I really don't know why. Those before that were serious criminals and they were arrested, of course, as these children who were arrested will be prosecuted. It's not the solution to get the gendarme back. It can be and it's one of the solutions that we're thinking about, these days we're going to have a meeting at the level of the police department, to make a concrete proposal about what we're going to do, but it's not the solution to drag forces into New Market from somewhere. The citizens of New Market should live like anyone else, why should they keep living in the atmosphere that when they see a gendarme with long pipes on the street to say it - it's good. It's not good. I didn't feel good about sending the gendarmes to New Market. I felt good when the gendarmes left and everything was quiet, and then I felt good. The police administration in Novi Pazar must be able to control order and peace on its own and establish order and peace in Novi Pazar. Unfortunately, I share with you this feeling that it is not able and in the coming days we will have to come up with concrete suggestions, if there are human resources -- and human resources, but certainly something has to change in the New Market. This is absolutely unacceptable. It's no question of faith and nation, I'd be really offended if someone thought this was a question of faith and nation. This has nothing to do with it. They're criminals who are harassing people. That's more than anything, with criminals we'll deal with better than this, with the atmosphere that violence is acceptable, that it can. You know, when you have an organized criminal group, you work, you end up breaking it, you move on, but this is the atmosphere I'm talking about. Of course there are a lot of interests in the New Market, and there's a lot of things going on here. I think right now, I share this with you, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I share that feeling with you, the New Market Police Administration has no capacity to rule, to establish public order and peace. In the next few days, when I meet with the police director and the police department, we'll have to come out with concrete suggestions, see what we do. We have big plans for Novi Pazar. The idea is to make a new space, just for the counter, because that boat is really unacceptable, people are standing outside in the rain and in the sun and it can't be tolerated. We're gonna do it. We've invested a lot in cars, police equipment. I really care, honestly I care. But with this atmosphere, it won't work. You know, I want everyone to be able to take a walk on the beautiful promenade in New Market, hang out with people, get to know each other, have our kids grow up, get to know each other. This is not how it's gonna work. You really see this as a public commitment in the coming days. Now I have a chance to say it, otherwise it's all agreed. We're gonna have a meeting on the subject with the police leadership, see what we can do, because this is not acceptable. It's just a question of what else can happen. What if someone brings a bomb next time, they won't use a knife but a bomb? Of course, I say that and, of course, I will ask for support and I will ask for the support of all political actors in Novi Pazar, that they are all giving absolute support, no doubt, without doubt to the state of Serbia, because it is the state of all citizens and this simply has to be resolved. I hope you're satisfied with the answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-27-0.u7222	Thank you. Replica Jahja Fehratovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-27-0.u7223	Thank you, dear Minister, for all these exhaustive answers and I certainly share with you this observation that the gendarmes are not a permanent solution, and here I have looked more at this idea of increasing the officer. I think that would be a better solution. Let's say, today we don't have a situation in front of each school to have a school cop, and when we asked, why, because there's insufficient capacity for members of the MUP in that city or that we have officers who are assigned to all critical points. I think that would be the right solution, and this atmosphere really is what you described. The cause of this is not so much of the police, the cause is, unfortunately, those parts of the prosecution, which are specifically in the face of certain organised crime people and who are very lightly, all the hard work that the MUP does is throwing down the water, where very often serious criminals leave to be free, where very often serious crimes are not treated as they would have to be treated, where for attempted murder or murder in an attempt by people not to receive adequate punishment, but rather be looked kindly by prosecutors, by certain judges, and this is also known as prosecutors, judges. We've been talking about it here for years, and that's where an octopus needs to be cut down, really, because otherwise this feeling of a criminal will do whatever he wants to do, to behave so arrogantly, to grow up in young generations, and we can't save our children. What you're saying is true, all these crimes are lit up, but that doesn't mean anything to that lady who was a random passerby, who will remain with lasting consequences after that wound. These idiots who are in the middle of the street in the middle of town, where the masses and parents and children, and passers-by with cold weapons, guns, etc., and unfortunately, it's not a lonely scene. Indeed, a maximum effort must be made to bring order into this region, when it comes to fighting all types of crime and criminal workers, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-27-0.u7224	Thank you. The People's Messenger, Vuk Mircetic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-27-0.u7225	Thank you. The respected chairman, respected ministers, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, I reported to discuss the amendments to the amendment bill on amendments to the ID Act. These amendments are mostly technical, and in the voting day we will certainly support them. However, what is important and what is the essence of today's vote is the very proposal for a law that proposes more changes both in order to facilitate the exercise of citizens' rights and to increase general security. During this proposal, the proposed legislator sought to propose legal solutions that are appropriate to the people. The quality of services on the one hand, and public administration procedures are important factors in the quality of life of citizens, but also in the competitiveness of the economy. This creates a business environment where progress can be made. Given that red tape often makes it difficult for both citizens and businesses, the Republic of Serbia has adopted a priority plan for reducing administrative burdens, called "stop bureaucracy". As the name itself says the aim of these priority activities is to reduce administrative burdens in the Republic of Serbia. In this respect, the proposed amendment of Article 23(3) of the proposal for an existing ID card law relating to the regulation of personal card advertising is invalid. According to current legislation, if one person loses his ID card, or somehow disappears, it must be advertised in the Official Messenger and must pay a sum of 798 dinars for it. By adopting this amendment, citizens will not be obliged to pay that cost. If we look at the data, we will see that currently 599,031 is a personal card advertised invalid, or somewhere around 60,000 ID cards per year are invalid. It speaks of a great relief to our citizens. One of the proposed amendments to this law also refers to the entry into the ID card chip of the certificate for electronic identification and provides for the enrollment of a qualified electronic signature certificate, making the ID card a qualified means of creating an electronic signature. In this way, citizens will be able to submit requests electronically and sign electronically. This makes it easier, first of all, to use electronic portals, and first of all, I think of the portal e-government, because that way citizens can submit requests without going to the counter. That's important because of two things, on the one hand, there's a decrease in bureaucracy, what I was just talking about, and on the other hand, what's very important to citizens is to reduce waiting time. I have listed only some of the proposed changes, and it is evident that such legal solutions will allow for the creation of a business environment in which progress can be made, which I was talking about at the beginning of the presentation. In this regard, it is very important to remind the citizens of the Republic of Serbia that six priorities have been put before all of us here. One of the six priorities is the fight for the interests of our people and the preservation of the vital interests of the Republic of Serbia and KIM. Let's remind ourselves of the country's support plan for citizens and businesses, which was presented to us here at the tide by Sinish Mali. Because of the citizens, I'm going to show that plan one more time. We see according to the plan that a payment was planned in May for Serbs with KIM, worth 100 euros for each citizen, including children, and 200 euros in case the person is unemployed. We see here that it's not just about planning, we see here that it's also about realisation since it's just this week, and it's started paying off that 100 and 200 euros, respectively. This is clear evidence that the government of the Republic of Serbia, on the one hand, is planning to, but on the other hand, realising the plans. When we talk about KIM, all of our citizens in KIM, who have a valid ID card, could apply for 30 plus 30 euros, cash aid, and since 1 June can apply for 3,000 dinars, if they are vaccinated like all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, with any vaccine, at least one dose. Our citizens in KIM need continued assistance and support, and the aim of the Government of the Republic of Serbia is to improve the quality of their lives and create new jobs. With this in mind, I will also remind you of two other of the six priorities ahead of us, these are one, accelerated reforms and two, the economic empowerment of the Republic of Serbia. As we can see, President Aleksandar Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia are trying to provide a better business environment so that we can meet the goals and plans that we have according to Serbia's 2025 plan. It is important to note, too, that when Aleksandar Vukic, became prime minister, the average salary was 330 euros and the average salary in March this year was 555 euros. All of this couldn't have been realized if our citizens hadn't exhausted the heavy reforms that could have happened. Aleksandar Vukic had a vision that Serbia could progress in the long term, and we believed that story then. We believe that story today, we believe that vision today, and now Serbia is no longer a loser country, but wins in many fields. Serbia is not insignificant on the map of Europe, nor on the map of the world, and we have friends in both the east and the west, and we have the support to make progress. Now we have to work harder and harder, so that by the end of this year we have an average salary of 600 euros. I will remind you that according to the 2025 plan, much more is planned to be done, and that we are on the right track to have an average salary of 900 euros in 2025, as planned by the 2025 plan. And for all that we have achieved, so far, I congratulate, congratulate all of us and continue together. The citizens of the Republic of Serbia voted in the elections for their future, for new roads, for investments, for new schools, for Serbia's economic progress, for peace and stability. We are on the right track and for this future we need to work even more, and even harder to fight to be even more valuable and more diligent and to continue what is very important, to be in constant communication with our citizens. We have a big job ahead of us, and we all have to give our maximum. And therefore full support in the further struggle for President Aleksandar Vukic, in new victories, lived Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-27-0.u7226	Thank you. The word has the People's MP, Ugljesa Mrdić.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-27-0.u7227	I thank the chairman. Dear Mr. Minister with his associates, distinguished fellow MPs and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I fully agree with all these amendments concerning the Law on the ID card. What I would like to point out to this occasion is that it is certainly one of the most important issues, the issue of security in Serbia. I am very pleased that what the minister has presented and that my fellow Members, MPs, from the legislator group Aleksandar Vukic – for our children, that today the situation in Serbia, the security situation, is stable. So today, but that was not so, let's say by 2012, and today we had the opportunity to hear also the reminders of the haughtiness of Dragan Gilas, at the time he was Minister and while he was mayor, because you know what the citizens of Serbia, Dragan Gilas and his colleagues from DS and from all the parties that were with them then in the narrow coalition, especially during the period of DOS rule and the DS period, we had a situation in Serbia of one form of haughtiness and the rule of crime and corruption. It just confirms my thesis that the only alternative to the current government is the rule of crime and corruption. That's why it's a good thing we don't let it happen, that's why. Serbian citizens to recognize the efforts that the Serbian government is also making, President Vukic, the MUP and in the fight against the mafia and in the fight for the care of our children, for the future for our children. Because we just remember what Dragan Gilas was doing. Dragan Djilas was the calmest and happiest when he had security, and here is the minister to correct me if I'm wrong, he was provided by the specialties of the MUP, both him and Justice Minister Snezana Malovic, and then I have no information that a police officer provided both Mali and Belgrade Mayor Radojicic, nor Minister Selakovic, nor Minister Nelu Kuburovic, nor Minister Maja Popovic. So, those who were in power like Dragan Gilas and his comrades, they're used to, one to kidnap from citizens, to put millions in their pockets, to have vehicles with rotations and blinkers, not only them, but also their associates, secretaries and cabinet heads, and to provide them with the special forces of the MUP. What are they supposed to keep them from? From the people? From their colleagues from the world of crime? Of the tycoon that the governments were building with, by the ambassadors they were agreeing with? From what should they be guarded by the special forces of the MUP? Then it happens in 2012. Then it happened in 2014, when we had definitive changes in Belgrade and Dragan Gilas no longer fits. For a time, he was at peace, while he was president of the Kosovo Union of Serbia. I will only remind the public of all his statements where, as president of the Kosovo Union of Serbia, he came to the feet of both the president and the prime minister of Serbia and the mayor of Belgrade and came regularly here to join the City Assembly to thank the president of the state, the government of Serbia and the City of Belgrade for everything they do for the KSS, for the men and women's basketball team that then won World and European medals. The moment his mandate expired, the moment he was prevented from having his business combinations and put millions in his pockets, the moment he was discovered working with the SBB at the expense of Telekom, Gilas began to attack the current power, President Vukic, and to return to politics abruptly, because of one interest. The first interest is to return to power so he can hijack and steal again, and another interest to leave the authorities of those who began to investigate his murky actions and how he stole it and how he took it from Serbian citizens during his post. Then he starts, not only criticism of the authorities, but criticism and President Vukic and all his associates who fight hard against crime and corruption, and not only criticism of associates, but unfortunately in that fight, I must say unfortunately, because it is not normal for any politician to insult the family of his political opponent. That's Gilas, that's what Gilas does, I hope he doesn't want to do it anymore, but he and his associates do it, insult, attack, order texts, order blogs, order various types of attacks, of course, false accusations at the expense of President Vukic and his family. And now that the MUP not only cares about the way of the mafia, but it cares about the way and the hooligans that we had the opportunity to see the previous days when the minister and his associates went out on the ground, to tell them that citizens are protected today, that no one in Serbia can be boasted, that hooligans can no longer rule Serbia, that mangupaic phases and hooligans and boast about the way Dragan Gilas and his associates behave. He can do it, he can try it, but he has to answer in accordance with the law. I hope that all these affairs that we are talking about today and that we have talked about in the previous days will be seen by the court epilogue and then when I see the verdicts, and I hope that the judiciary will respond independently and that those who are guilty will be sentenced to adequate penalties, that those who have taken away hundreds of millions from Serbia's citizens, but also those who in any way have violated the Constitution and worked against the state of Serbia and worked against President Aleksandar Vukic, in any way. Because it has been confirmed on several occasions in recent months that there are no protected persons in Serbia, and if there are no protected ones in Serbia, then the judiciary must quickly and effectively respond just as the police are doing, just as the prosecution is doing, just as the security intelligence services in Serbia do, then the judiciary must quickly and efficiently, vigorously, courageously and courageously respond that these trials are swift, efficient and that people in Serbia and that the whole world is sent a message as to why Serbia is a country of justice and that the one working against citizens, that the one who acts hooligan, who behaves arrogantly, who wants to steal, whether the tycoon is a criminal, whether Velya Belivuk is a member or another clan in Serbia, will be in accordance with the law, because Serbia is a country of justice. Serbia is a country that has the government of Serbia and the president of Serbia that takes care not only of the economy and the economy of our country, not only of the fight against the mafia, but also of the future of children and the future and of the mentioned New Pazar, and of Novi Sad, Kraljev, Nis, Publishing and all those cities and municipalities located in Serbia's territory, because the Ministry of Interior is also committed and it is doing great and I hope that it will be, not only to fight the mafia, but also to fight the hooligans. It's very important when parents walk with their children, when they go to kindergarten, when they go to school, when they go to the park to feel safe, and they can only feel safe if the crime rate is minimal, i.e. If it goes down from month to month, if there's no drugs on the street, and if it continues with these great drug-dealing actions, it doesn't matter if someone's on him when he's arrested has one gram, ten grams, or one pound, because that one gram is sold to a child and it needs to be prevented. Let one gram be taken from a drug dealer, one drug dealer arrested today, it's prevented the threat of at least ten lives, at least ten children. That's why full support is also in the fight against the drug mafia, but in order for this fight to be effective, in order for the Ministry of the Interior to work at all, we must have one support for the citizens. So, media support, don't let certain media and individual NGOs, individual portals whenever some MPs and security services do well, they start attacking it because certain photographs are shown. Well, what if certain photographs of certain horrendous acts of a criminal clan were shown? This is shown not to intimidate Serbian citizens, not to make someone sick when they see these terrible videos, but to see who is the opponent of the current government in Serbia, to see who is running these organised criminal groups, to find out what danger lurks in both Serbia and the region, to realize that we have a serious mafia octopus with its tentacles all over the Balkans as one of the main opponents of the Republic of Serbia. So, of course, in the voting day, I will support these amendments, support this law and support everything good that the Ministry of Interior does and the Government of Serbia and we as MPs, as a legislative authority that we all together provide full support in the fight against the mafia that our President Aleksandar Vukic successfully conducted with his associates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-27-0.u7228	Thank you. The People's Messenger, Michaelo Jokic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-27-0.u7229	Thank you. First, gentlemen, I want to congratulate us Valjevs for finally getting a factory yesterday, a factory we've been waiting for months, not to say for years, a factory that will solve the most important problem in Valjevo, which is that young people who finish their technical colleges are returning to Valjevo. Why? Because a new factory of 305 workers will be employed in September 2022, over 60% of them will be highly trained. This is for Valjevo and for his development the most important and important thing. On the other hand, with increased salaries, we will raise the standard of citizens of Valev. That information is very important. Gentlemen, the budget of the city of Valjeva is 3.092 million, and 1,340 million is income tax, on salaries, and 77% of what remains of the city, and it is quite resiliently going, of course, to the Republic. By that very item, the city of Valjevo is getting, not to say we'll get a pipeline. We'll get the pipelines directly from Belgrade. What are we solving with that pipeline? Not just that factory, but we've been solving the problem we've been talking about for years, which is an environmental problem. The environmental problem is the big problem of the city of Valjev. We'll solve the heating problem in Valjev, solve the heating problem in Krusik. So this factory will solve a lot of problems. Of course we've given something, but what we've given isn't one percent of what we're going to get. Of course, I've never seen a happier president before, but at the moment he signed off on Valjevo getting a factory, because he was relieved, too. We've waited a long time for that. There's always something set up for Valyev to stay, so that the problem won't be solved. Now we've decided not to prejudge it, but we're expected to get another factory somewhere on June 23rd. If that happens and we get one factory again from Germany on 23 June, let me tell you, we will be the first city in Serbia. Don't be angry, but that's how it's gonna be. Once again, I thank the President and congratulate the citizens of Valev for winning. Now, Comrade Minister, let me tell you something about the identity cards, about the safety of the citizens. For the security of citizens and the confidence of citizens in the state, it is most important that those who work in the MUP, civil, means that the unbalanced and non-unformed are that 24 hours, not just, ministers, eight hours. So 24 hours is the inspector. What does that mean? His behavior in small towns, such as Valjevo, and in all places -- what does he do, who he hangs out with, how does he rule, etc., what does he do when he's not eight hours in the service? Once we have this under control, then the citizens will feel even safer, even safer. They can't accept that an inspector sits at the desk of a criminal or a troubled guy in his spare time, and that happens. That's what's going on. We make laws, but we have to control the enforcement of these laws. What do we miss about the M.O.P.? Surprised and more frequent control. I know the MUP has internal control, but that internal control needs to be increased, surveillance needs to be done more often and tighter to make it better. I agree with this for the officers and so on. So people have to know each other. Citizens need to know their cop, but it's very important what I've told you. So, as for judges - behavior, the rule of those who are in charge of ensuring order and peace. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-27-0.u7230	Thank you. The Committee on Defence and Home Affairs submitted to Article 6 of the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I would like the representative of the motion to make a statement on the amendment. The word is made by Minister Alexander Vulin.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-27-0.u7231	As we have said, all the amendments proposed by the People's MPs by the Government of the Republic of Serbia have been adopted, and so has this amendment. I will take the opportunity to refer to the presentation of the honourable MEP Jokic. When I became Minister of the Interior, my first act was to depecate all police stations, therefore, and all police officers themselves, to all members of the Ministry of the Interior, in which it is reminded of a binding instruction on police operations, where, among other things, it is particularly stressed that any contact with the person from the crime scene must be reported to the direct elder. As you know, there are police and those who have an obligation and a task to contact criminals. These are our intelligence departments, it's public order and peace, etc. When necessary. But every contact must be reported and approved. It was a practice to say – well, it's my friend, brother, cousin, what can I do when he's my cousin, I'll see you at glory, etc. That's what he has to apply for. That, then, was the first dispatch. The second dispatch I sent is in which I asked to be provided with a list of those who reported their contacts with criminals. All those who have not reported their contacts with criminals are then disciplined. So it's serious work. There's a certain number of people that we've recognized to be security guards in criminals, to use official weapons and official badges by providing various criminals after hours, so when you find them, they say -- that's my friend, he put me in the car, what was I supposed to do, where was the act? Now, after these two dispatches there is a being of action – you did not report this contact, you had to and, accordingly, there is disciplinary responsibility. It won't be tolerated. It's absolutely unacceptable for cops to provide criminals. It's, of course, a very small number, but that very small number is causing a problem to the whole mass of wonderful and honest people. Well, you read in the media every other day that some cop out of duty helped someone, prevented some robbery even though he was in a civilian, was unarmed, but he was always, as you say. So it will be strictly kept in mind that there are no police contacts with criminals on any grounds. So contact with criminals must be reported. If he hasn't been reported, then he'll be disciplined and then these people can't keep their badge, their weapons, or the status they have so far. That it's easy and it's fast, it's not, but that there's a strong definition within the MUP that that's how it has to be, if there is. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-27-0.u7232	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Bratislava Jugovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-27-0.u7233	The Honorable Chairman, Comrade Vulin with his associates, respected colleagues, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, of course we will support the proposed amendments and this law, but there is one misunderstanding among older citizens. In a conversation with older citizens who plan to change their home address, but do not plan to travel outside of this country for the next few years, they have a dilemma about whether they are committed and to change their passport, since they actually don't need a passport. So, the citizen of Chačka wants to move to the village, he's 70 years old, has a valid passport and he wants to know if he's bound to change his passport and pay that tax of 3,600 dinars. Speaking of ID cards, I would like to extract two items from Comrade Vulin's ID card, as well as from other participants' ID card on Serbia's political scene. In 2000, after October 5th, when many left the SPS, after a revolution that ate their children, he joined the SPS when it was most difficult, he actually joined Slobodan Milosevic's party. He left the SPS when she joined the Alliance in co-operation with the DS, which Slobodan Milosevic delivered to The Hague, past the will of her voters and membership. On this basis, if we were to look at Dragan Gilas's ID card, we would see that he left the DS after the DS enabled him to acquire an inappropriate wealth, measured by hundreds of millions of euros. So the DS took part in robbery privatisations, robbing Serbia to make Dragan Gilas rich, and then he left the party that allowed him to become rudely rich. There's a difference between them and us. Also, if we talk about Alexander Vukic's ID card, there is much to say, but I will say only one thing, that nearly 10 years over 50% of Serbian citizens support Alexander Vukic, despite an unremembered campaign of lies about him and his family. Serbia knows why it is and the citizens know why they vote on it and why it has so much support. Long live Serbia!
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-27-0.u7234	Thank you. The Minister tells them. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-27-0.u7235	I'll just have a quick answer. The obligation to change the travel document, if there has been a change of residence, is foreseen by amending and supplementing the Law on travel documents adopted some year, year and a half ago, do not hold me strictly to my word. So if you have a passport that you want to use and you changed your residence, you have to report a change of residence. If you don't want to, you don't have to, just don't use it. The same applies, for example, for a traffic licence, you have to traffic, you have to, that's where you sign up for a change of residence, you have to register it, but you don't have a driver's license, because the driver's license doesn't enter an address, you don't enter a residence. The same is true, for example, for armed sheets, the address is entered there. I know someone's gonna say it now. Now we have to do it. Wait, guys, but one thing we need to introduce to know where anyone lives is a legal obligation and it's a legal obligation older than this Parliament. Since the first Law on travel documents was passed, it has been regulated that you must report a change, or residence. I know it's always awkward when you have to tell people something -- come on now and you have to do it, but once it has to be done, we'll all have to sign up where we live. I mean, it's not that complicated. I know sometimes it takes some effort, but you have to do it sometime. Let's be realistic, how many Serbian citizens change every month or six months of their residence? Well, it's not that often, but if it is, I'm sorry, I'm speaking as Minister of the Interior right now, and I really care to know where whoever lives really, by the way, that he could deliver a call from the court or that he could get everything he wants from the state. You know, no one has objected, let's say, when they say, here's what the state gives this 100-euro aid, and then 50-euro, and then 30-euro, so all this stuff that's been given, no one has objected to applying, no one has objected to coming and saying, "I'm here, this is my address, my account, pay here, and now that he's going to change his passport, if he wants to travel already, that's the problem." Well, don't be a problem, I mean, finish the job. So, I understand that citizens always think and what's normal, nobody wants an extra job, but this is just an attempt to introduce one order, and when we're done, this question is never even asked again, it's normal and natural that where you live, it's written in personal documents and what's in the extreme line is unusual. There, nothing else, that's all. So, I think I've made myself clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-27-0.u7236	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Alexander Mirkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-27-0.u7237	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, honourable fellow Members of Parliament and fellow Members of Parliament, it is understood that today we will support these proposed amendments, as well as the law itself. Dear Minister, I am pleased that you have recognized the benefits of these amendments and that these amendments have been accepted, but I am also convinced that the last time you attended Parliament's session, you were able to see how much MPs are interested in everything your Ministry is doing and everything that concerns the security of our citizens. At the very beginning, I have to look back at the project, if that's what we're going to call it, and it's about officers in the community or cops in the community. I think citizens need to get closer to understanding what it's all about and explain it to them as soon as possible, because some generations older than me, of course, have had such an opportunity to grow up and have had the opportunity to feel safer in that way, by having in your neighborhood a cop you knew by name and last name, who knew you, who was able to recognize who was new in the neighborhood or who was there for some other reason. The fact that by the end of the year, correct me if I'm wrong, we'll have 400 such officers deployed just shows how much the state is willing to invest and take care of the safety of our citizens, but also how ready we are to keep security from that lowest level, to this greatest one, if we're going to view it as a crime scene in our country. The officer will be tasked with spending his entire working life in the area and will literally know, if not by name and last name, then he will know by character every man in the village. It's very important for the simple reason that even those who want to deal with crime will find it difficult to work, because in the beginning they will be recognized by that officer. The other thing that's more important here, I think one of the previous fellow MPs said that, is the safety of our children. The kids in that neighborhood will always have someone to turn to if they come across any kind of problem. It gives extra security and extra peace not only to parents, but also to children living in the village. This is something that is very good, and I am convinced that the results of applying this principle of work will be seen very quickly, because anyone who thinks he's dealing with crime will have to know that in that neighborhood or near that school, near that village there is a man who has a job to take care of the law and the safety of the people who live there. Speaking of security, life, and the security of citizens not only Belgrade, but also Serbia, after my fellow MPs who discussed the previous period, I want to look back on something that has somehow passed under the radar, and it has happened these days, and that is the fact that, by the old good rule applied by one part of the opposition, and led by Dragan Gilas, every chance when an incident occurs in our city, a show is made in which certain guests use this show to bring President Aleksandr Vukic and his family into a gear or connection. What's this about? This is where we mentioned what was going on after the Red Star Fan celebration, what was going on in the concrete hall. At the very beginning, I'd like to congratulate you and all the members of the M.O.P. for having responded with lightning. I followed that news. I had friends who, by chance, found themselves in one of those restaurants. The incredible rate of reaction was the police, and at the rate they were created there, they reacted, they arrested those prisoners. And it seems to me that over 130 people have been arrested. What concerns is the fact that as many as 17 people were underage. It's something we have to work on as a society. But I look forward to what you've been talking about, Minister, which is that it's not just a matter of solving this, but of seeing who the employers are and what's behind it. As that announcement came from you that evening, as already the next day, it seems to me, on TV under the direct control of Dragan Gilas, made shows in which some guests declared things that are difficult for a normal person to think of. Namely, the journalist who's been celebrated, whose name I don't even want to mention, I don't want to give him weight, but this journalist has been celebrated, you know everyone who's been involved, by saying that we should all be put in some camps, how we should be locked up, how we should be determined to be hanged when they come to power, he took advantage of his hospitality and stated the following – this wasn't the celebration of the Red Star football club and its fans, but this was the celebration of Alexander Vukic by the owner of the Red Star football club and the owner of the entire Red Star. At the first moment, when you hear that part you can, you can take it one way or the other, as some kind of a scarcity, whatever, you can't have too much understanding. But what's worrying is what he said afterwards, it's that he as such, as an organizer, bears responsibility for the incidents that took place. Now you can see what a paradox it is and I was saying from this place that it's going to blame Alexander Wolfie when it's raining and when the sun is shining, that's exactly what's happening. But if you look a little deeper into what they've been talking about, what's been going on in their media the previous days, you can see that this is just a continuation of that sick structure of criminalization and the Satanization of President Aleksandr Vukic's family. Why am I saying this? After that, if the celebration happened at the weekend, it seems to me Saturday or Sunday, let's not bid on the days, information has already appeared on Tuesday that the attack on certain sites was a battle with the remains of the Veljko Belivuk clan. So, in the second degree of such statements that Alexander Vukic organized it, you are again implicating his family and his children. I'll remind you just two weeks ago these same media, which so far has not been recorded, transmitted Instagram's post or Facebook announcement of a fan group where they directly targeted Danil Vukic. When you tie all these things up and close the circle, you see that the tendency of the media, which is directly controlled by Dragan Gilas, is that in every way, they satanize President Aleksandar Vukic's family, which is currently the first target of Danilo Vukic, and until recently was Brother Andrej Vukic. When the truth breaks all these lies, they only invent some new affairs to try to reduce all the results and successes achieved by both the Serbian government and President Aleksandar Vukic. I have asked you several times about the safety of President Alexander Vukic, and I am glad that you have always responded to this expressly. I would like to draw particular attention to the public of Serbia, because this is already a tendency for any cheerleading act or hooligans, whatever is going on past the stadium, so they are going to do it under the hooligans' reckoning, to tie and connect to the family, or to President Alexander Vukic. Don't remind you, you've made a good point, one of my fellow MPs, that when the promised promise of President Alexander Vukic started to be fulfilled that the state would be dealt with with by the mafia and crime that they were all that happened, when we went into that lawsuit against the mob, they seduced -- oh, well, somebody's fans are in the way. Turns out they have nothing to do with fans, but it's one of the cruelest, most cruel, definitely the most cruel criminal group in Europe that has not overcome anything. When it turns out that that sniper, which we've all talked about here long before, pointed at President Alexander Vukic, shows up in one of their heels or bunkers, as they call them, they're trying to pull some kind of joke or relativize it all. I just want the public to be aware of all this and that the citizens of Serbia understand well everything that people, who robbed this country, destroyed, reversed the spells and intend to do in the coming period, to collect for themselves some cheap political point or try to destabilise Alexander Vukic with attacks on his family. Your Honor, I'm going to finish with this, you said how a police officer feels when he reads in the media, in particular that it's a joke, a comedian, that it's nothing serious or whatever. They're trying to trick it. Be assured that in us, as MPs, and in the vast majority of Serbian citizens, you will have support for everything you do, because you are working in the general interest of all Serbian citizens, because you are safeguarding the security of all of us. I don't know if you've been able to track down the media today and something that's come up, and it's a scandalous video that came out a few hours ago, and so I'm asking you in particular to be persistent in this fight. On these social networks, I'm curious whether it's going to be broadcast by these Gilas TVs today, he's been playing a video where some partizan fans' page is playing a song again and they're all singing together – it's not like Vela went far, when someone comes back, they're going to get hurt. This, Your Honor, is a serious threat to all of you and to the police involved in this investigation, to all those involved in the fight against crime and the preservation of the security of all citizens. Therefore, as a People's MP, first of all, as a citizen of this country, I want you to endure in this fight and fight to the end, because we have no other country and we do not intend to move from it any clans, as Dragan Gilas wishes. In his struggle to cover up where 68m euros from in more than 17 countries, in more than 53 accounts, he also deals with such demagogy, but you, the next policy of President Aleksandr Vukic, persist in this fight, as there is nothing from Serbia, nor from the future of our children and generations to come. Thank you and live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-27-0.u7238	Thank you. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-27-0.u7239	Serbia is a legal state. In Serbia, the rule of law, everyone's family, everyone's children, every man has the right to protection, has the right to be protected by the law and the institutions of this country. Everyone except the family of Alexander Wolfie. That's considered allowed. Every evil, every hatred is considered acceptable. After all, people rank by how much they hate Alexander Vukic. If you hate him a lot, if you insult him and his children, then you're elite, then you're a member of the Free Serbia Assembly, then you can make fun of the televisions, then you're actually a role model, but if you don't hate enough, then you're asking the question of what kind of man you are, are you human at all, and of course there's no assumption of innocence for you. You mentioned Andrew and Daniel. You forgot to mention Vukan. It's a kid who's three years old, a kid who's a hologram, a kid who's pasture, a kid who needs to be arrested right away so he doesn't get through the airport. Do not forget that there is no member of the Vukic family, including his mother, his father, his three-year-old son, his daughter, who is not exposed to the outpouring of uncontrollable hatred. Don't say it would be just a story, a mere word. I won't let you see it turn into a piece. Making such an atmosphere serves to make it out of crazy and eventually become an act, to finally do it, because when you create such an atmosphere in society, you count on a man, a madman who will say that – a work that is welcomed by the whole of Serbia, welcomed by most Serbian citizens, I will be a hero if I do, I will be praised by Gilas, I will be praised by academics, I will be praised by actors, great, I will be famous. That's what it looks like. That's how you do it. That's how the media prepares for what's about to happen. It's not gonna happen. Of course we won't give it, of course we won't allow it, and President Vukic is the one who often refuses to accept how threatened his safety is, but that's why there are services in this country that will certainly work on it, so that it doesn't happen. What is the extent of their hatred tells you one example that I will now share with you. You all know Novak Djokovic, you all know that this is the best athlete of all time Serbia has ever given, probably the best tennis player in the history of this game, he came to me for a meeting a few days ago, we talked about what we should talk about, he and his family organize tennis tournaments in Belgrade. The interior ministry, among other things, provides these tournaments, makes sure that all participants are safe from the moment they land at Nikola Tesla Airport until the moment they leave the country again to make things right. We talked about what, you'll admit, I'm the real address for it, he's the organizer of something very important, of course, a person who enjoys great support for anyone who deals with sports. Someone who is the ambassador of our country and you have, therefore, had a meeting of two men who have discussed something that is good for our country and what is good for our people. After that meeting, the amount of hatred experienced by Novak Djokovic is amazing. In all those tournaments where they attacked him continuously, where they insulted him, where they tried to make his work harder and his struggle more difficult, it's nothing compared to what he had experienced in his country and his city. There were some academics, free congregations, who are no longer rooting for you because he met with his country's interior minister, a country in which he should organise a tournament and cannot organise it without the active assistance of the Serbian State, or the Ministry of the Interior. This amount of hate they have poured out on him says that they are not able to love or to root out for someone who truly loves, they can only hate. So, what's next? Will you stop your children from hanging out with our children? You will say these are the children of those who are children of those who support the Wolf. You want to teach them in kindergartens, schools, that there are different children, that you are something higher because you hate Alexander Vukic or because you oppose his politics. What's next? Are you asking us to use different public transports? Will our children sit in different benches? Would you stop rooting for the football team because you think Alexander Wolfich or one of his associates is rooting for him too? How can you hate your country so much? How can you hate your people so much? How is it possible that you who pronounce yourself an elite, hate all people who don't think like you? Novak Djokovic, by the way, I don't even know what political orientation he has and whether he has any political orientation at all. I don't know, let me tell you right now, and I don't care. The reason we see each other is to do anything to make sure that the tournament and its participants, the audience, are safe, safe, how can it be organised in the best possible way that others will talk to me? These Gilasovites, who suddenly hated him so much, could turn it around in another way, could ask their leader to pay for security, to pay for the tournament. He could pay for the Grenase of whatever he wanted, he could show us how unnecessary the state is and if he paid for everything from his means, he wouldn't feel it. They didn't think of that. They just remembered that they hate Djokovic because he came to his country to discuss ways to do something together that is for the benefit of all citizens. They're gonna ask for a tennis ban after this, I guess? They want to ban football? The incomprehensible conditions of hate give birth only to hatred. We can't become a part of it? I won't tell my sons - don't hang out with your friend because his father doesn't mean like your father. I'm not going to tell my family to take over the behavior of those who insult and hate other families. We can't let that happen. I apologize to anyone who has experienced this amount of hate, and I apologize to anyone who has had to testify to such reckless hatred, and I apologize to anyone who had to listen to it. I pray that the citizens of Serbia always know that such hatred never comes from anyone from this home and from anyone from this government.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-27-0.u7240	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Ljubomir Maric
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-27-0.u7241	Thank you, Vice President. Dear ministers with associates, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the ID card significantly facilitates and simplifies the procedure so far and is fully in line with the plan and strategy of Serbia, so that all needs of citizens are facilitated and digitised and cheaper. These changes are another step towards Serbia that will become a digital society and at which the time of each of our citizens will be the most valued. This amendment to the law is a continuation of the path to full digitisation and to the highest European standards. Thanks to strategic planning and long-term Serbia's 20-25 strategy as a vision of a successful and modern country, our government is achieving the goals that we could hear in this home's triumph just over six months ago, through the exposés of Prime Minister Ana Brnabic. Serbia is slowly but certainly becoming the leader of the region in many areas only thanks to the decision of our President Aleksandr Vukic to become a country in which only the results of successful work will be evaluated in which the world will only be spoken in the context of success. This year's forecast for GDP growth of 6% has already been confirmed, and if we continue strongly, as the year began, I hope there will be more. The average salary in Serbia has already reached a level of 555 euros and is certainly rising towards the promised 900 euros by the end of 2025. Our people in Cosmet have received 100 euros in aid these days for all employees and for every child, and for the unemployed at 200 euros, so that the average family has already received at least 460 euros. Our countrymen who have suffered the effects of the flood, especially in Pomoravlje and in central Kosovo, will receive 120,000 dinars of aid from the Serbian government. Not to mention dozens and hundreds of apartments for young couples, social cases, displaced and the rest of our fellow citizens over the past few years. It's a concern for your people, it's a fight for kim. It gives our people the will and strength to survive and remain on our holy earth, on our Cosmet. Schools, health institutions, new jobs are being restored, and every step of the way gets the opportunity to live and stay on its hearth. I must say that I am full of heart and confirmation that I belong to those who are fighting for the better tomorrow in our beautiful Serbia and the sincere child's remark of my son who turned 15 yesterday and just entered the IT course of high school in Kosovo Mitrovica when he said - the biggest birthday present I got from the president, 100 euros. All of this would not have been possible if there were others in power in Serbia who today's political programmes were referred to from the day after. A programme titled, without content and essence, except for a cataclysmic slogan, which can only drive most Serbian citizens into the bones, because it reminds them of the time when looting privatisations were carried out, the Serbian Army was destroyed, because the tanks were cut into old iron, the average salary was 300 euros, and when the country's main decisions were made after consultations with foreigners. The public shame had to survive and survive, and those who were then in state functions had their own day after which they meant to rob budgets and citizens so that they could spread the money into bank accounts in exotic destinations. The click was gathered today around Dragan Gilas and wants power, but the government without the support of the citizens, because if it did, they would have gone to the last election and today they would be in this tide. While Gilasu only cares about the return to power, our people at KIM are exposed to daily attacks, and our sanctities are being robbed, defiled and destroyed as a result of increasingly radical rhetoric by politicians from Pristina. Sometimes I wonder why Gilas's opposition and Pristina politicians are so much alike. Both he and they can't make sense of Alexander Vukic and Serbia. And Gilas and they do not tolerate the successes of Serbia led by Aleksandar Vukic. And Gilas and they don't advertise when there's an incident in which our youth or our sanctity is attacked, trying to take over the legacy and history of the SPC and the Serbian people. However, they prefer to be in Pristina, Vuk Jeremic, because he has given them the International Court of Justice's view that KIM's declaration of independence is not contrary to international law. He made it possible for them to get it back then, and they're using it today, too, rarely needed to justify unilateral independence. That so-called. The diplomatic victory of Jeremic, Tadic and Dilas cost and cost the Serbian people and Serbia more than all these over 600m euros in robbery teams. So it is possible to also build a monument to Vuk Jeremic in downtown Pristina. That wouldn't surprise us at all. They love Pristina and Borislav, now Borko Stefanovic because he signed an agreement to establish a physical border between Serbs and Serbs in Jarinj and Brnjak, so now they rarely search us as criminals for administrative crossings or arrest returnees and sentence us to 20 years only because they wanted to tour or return to their homeland. Afterwards, Borislav, now Borko has fled with his head regardless of KIM that the people do not lynch him down. Now he's at Gilas's house, and he's back in power to sign another harmful betrayal agreement. It is the click that is funded, as researchers write with over 50 foreign accounts, even in 17 countries and with 68m dollars. Although there are some 619m euros, this has been discovered by now about 10%. They didn't think of a day to mention that Pristina politicians had an obligation for eight years to implement the first point of the plan to implement the Brussels Agreement, which is to create a legal framework in the system of temporary self-government institutions to establish a community of Serb municipalities at KIM. You, Minister Vulin, know best what it was like in Brussels and what pressure President Vukic was under. Not thinking about his future political career has stood down one step and fought for each one, for every single letter, for every word. It is their issuing agreement that, if they were right today, there would be communities of Serb municipalities in KIM, not every agreement and every point of the Serb municipality community would be annulled by Pristina authorities. Why would they mention that both Gilas and Jeremic and Borko or the marinika megaphone? When they take care of the Serbs in Cosmet as much as Kurti, and they don't care about us for what bothers them and it hurts them that all of us at Cosmet support Alexander Vukic and the strong Serbia that is being built, it means GDP growth is becoming stronger and will soon produce vaccines against Kovid 19 viruses. There's the only difference between Gilas' team and Kurti's and similar. Gilas, however, received a vaccine provided by Aleksandar Vukic, was not bad for him, while Kurti and his like organised the whole vaccine hunt for Cosmet to confiscate and destroy them because it came from Belgrade. The doctors working in health care who organized the vaccination on that first day filed criminal charges. That is why it seems that those who attack us at Cosmet are threatening us through their extreme elements also have their parallel in Belgrade. These are some here from a circle of two who, if they can't break and bring down the Wolf, want to hit his family, his loved ones, those who have nothing to do with politics, have nothing to do with the personal attitude and struggle of our president, those who are part of us, because they are our family. So they attacked first, drew targets for the president, so they moved on to his brother, Andrey, and now they're focusing on the kids. Now they're in trouble with Danilo because he's Alexander's son, because he's a more suitable target. We'd like our children to be their punching pillow. Shame on you because you don't know how to fight. Shame on you, because you do not confess your ignorance. Shame on you because you're rudely disturbed by the wealth you've acquired by robbing the people. It's an endless shame for you because I can't understand and I'm never going to attack and draw targets for anyone's family, anyone's children. As long as you self-destruct yourself, you will never be able to get from any of us in the SNS to get such an answer, which will ever and in any way touch into anything around you, except yourself, because you are thieves and frauds. That's what bothers you the most. You won't hear or feel it from us. That is why strong and successful Serbia only bothers those who do not love it and in some sense understandably have such politicians in Pristina, but who are incomprehensible to have them in Belgrade and Novi Sad. It is also understandable that foreigners participate in the dialogue between Belgrade and Pristina, as the UN Security Council Resolution 1244 is in effect, but it is personally incomprehensible to me that certain opposition politicians led by Dragan Gilas in Belgrade need the participation of foreigners for inter-party dialogue and talks on electoral conditions in our country. That's all you're showing, my dear gentlemen, is that this isn't your country, but it's an honor to you. With this I will conclude, the comparison of one part of our opposition with the province authorities and politicians in Pristina, and I would just like to point out that I support the proposed laws and that it would be an honor to vote together with my colleagues from the SNS list Aleksandar Vukic – For our children, I am voting for the adoption of these acts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-27-0.u7242	Thank you. After we've completed the search on all amendments, before I conclude the search whether the minister wants a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-27-0.u7243	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, comrades and comrades, it has really been a pleasure for me to hear, respect your remarks, but also to hear all these thoughts and all the things that make political life in Serbia better. The debate would have to happen in this House, this is where we're conflicting with opinions, not making citizens fight in the streets. I am very pleased that the citizens of Serbia will get a modern law, which will be much easier to address their daily life needs, their life obligations, and for this they have to thank you first and foremost the honourable MPs, because you have taken this law as seriously as you have done, because you have made it better, because you have made it possible for every citizen in this country to end its daily needs faster, to end it cheaper. It's not just a policy of big words and historical moves, speech, action, politics that consists of everyday little work where that little ordinary man who is the essence of our politics can say, he made someone a little better. I thank you for making the citizens of Serbia a little better the next day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-27-0.u7244	Thank you, Minister. I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle, and on details, the National Assembly will decide on the bill in the voting day. According to Article 87(5), I hereby appoint the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on Thursday, May 27th 2021, starting at 19am and five minutes, as the days for voting on the 13th session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, in 2021. Honorable MPs, according to members 27 and 205. Rules of Procedure, I set a break until 4:00 p.m. when we continue to work in the session's session on asking parliamentary questions to the government on the last Thursday of the month. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-27-0.u7245	Dear People's MPs, we approach the question of MPs in time from 1600 to 19.00 hours, according to article 205. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Once again, I would like to remind you that the presentation of the MP asking the question cannot last longer than three minutes. Following an answer to the parliamentary question, the MP who asked the question has the right to comment for a maximum period of three minutes on the answer to his question or to ask an additional question. Upon receipt of an answer to the additional question, the MP shall have the right to state the answer, for a maximum period of two minutes. During the duration of asking questions and giving answers, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure are also applied accordingly by not allowing replication and indication of the breach of the Rules of Procedure. We're moving on to asking MPs questions. I would like to welcome the members of the government of the Republic of Serbia, headed by President Ana Brnabic. The first on the list to ask questions is MP Vladan Glisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-27-0.u7246	Dear Mrs. Brnabic, I would like to ask you as Prime Minister a question about these non peppers that have appeared in the previous days. One of them reportedly, Russian-German, predicted the return of Kosovo and Metohija in Serbia for 99 years, the return of the contingent of our troops, in agreement with UN Resolution 1244, and this prompted me to ask whether our government had a platform in all these negotiations on how to reintegrate Kosovo and Metohija peacefully in Serbia? So far, we have had the opportunity to hear reactions to various of these unofficial papers and somehow in our position, which is understood to advocate the stay of KIM within Serbia, we have not heard the proposal to make it appear in case of peaceful reintegration. Because, in the end, this could happen, with all the difficult circumstances that we have today, both in the international environment and in Serbia, and we all hope that it will, of course, happen in a peaceful way. These days, for example, the KIM Defence Movement in Serbia began to go public with such a platform, so since no one has commented from the current government, as I understand this "non-paper", reportedly Russian-German, the media reported that you were the only ones to comment and that you said it would endanger stability in the region. If that is true, if the media have correctly transmitted your statement, why would the return of Kosovo and Metohija in the region, and not all of these other actions, proposals and, say, the end of our borders, what happened, and what environment it wanted to forget, trying to explain that borders should not be crossed in the Balkans, and only when it comes to the borders of the Serbian people, then they can end, while in the case of borders bordering some other peoples and other projections that are not on international law, they are untouchable. In that sense, the fundamental question is whether our government and even our government have a clear idea of how they will seek on this negotiating platform peaceful reintegration of Kosovo and Metohija within Serbia and whether it is necessary to respond gently to some "non-paipers" that we favor in this direction and not by rejecting them?
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-27-0.u7247	Thank you. The word has a prime minister, Ana Brnabic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-27-0.u7248	Thank you. We have inflation of some non-paper and as far as I can remember and as far as I know, we have neither supported or disproved, because that's not the way we deal with politics. So, informal documents as government or as state we don't comment, because we don't know who the authors are. There are only speculations about them and whatever we do, I think we'd discover some of our own cards that we don't want to reveal at this point. As for crossing borders and stability in the region, I don't know what you refer to when you say my statement? I remember only my statements about the crossing of borders that we are against the crossing of borders and that we are generally against the change of borders, but those of the UN. So in that sense, we agree with all those who say they're against crossing borders. I think that is where President Vukic gave a logical argument that absolutely stands, on which those who have recognised Kosovo's unilaterally declared independence and Metohija have no adequate answer because it is not there, and that is -- how it is possible for you to let go of the border change in both the 90s and 2000s and those who have never had the borders and who have always been in the composition of the Republic of Serbia, and then just one day wake up and say -- e, there is no more change in borders. We also agree that any change in borders would raise the issue of regional stability. We think that those who have declared unilaterally declared the independence of the provisional government institution in Pristina, as well as those who have recognised that so-called. The state, that they opened Pandora's box which is extremely difficult to close and that such things directly affect not only stability in our region, but stability in Europe and across the globe. After all, we saw this in Georgia, and we saw it in Spain, and these are the consequences of opening Pandora's box, which is open by unilateral declaration of Kosovo's independence and recognition by some international factors and independence. So we are against the change of borders, we recognise the limits that the UN accepts. We haven't responded to any "non-paper", I don't see why they would react to informal documents that various parties have made public. As for stability in the region, of course, it is very important to us because all that we have achieved so far after fiscal reforms since 2014, the transformation of our economy, the launch of our economy, can continue to grow only if we have a stable region. So it is vital for us and for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Finally, do we have a platform? Yes, of course. We have a platform that's been adopted in this House, but we have to say that in the end, since 2014, we have to face some reality that we haven't cooked, and we have to tackle the consequences of some irresponsible and irresponsible policy before 2014, and we have to fight it, as we know and know it, the best we can. We showed, above all, Alexander Vukic that we can and can, because in 2014, the KiM issue was closed by the largest number of Western states, an ad act, and a lot of work has been made for those countries that have recognised Kosovo's unilaterally declared independence to say, a final solution must be made as a result of dialogue between Belgrade and Pristina. It's an incredible success, it's really something that I think at that point no one would think it would be possible, because it was a closed question, that question was the point. Well, Alexander Vucic then with his smart policy, responsible policy, managed to change it and turn it around, that now, today, absolutely everyone understands the globe, and those who have confessed, and certainly those who are not, so on and so on. Kosovo's republic, that without Belgrade and Belgrade's consent, there is no solution. So, we continue to lead, I would say, the peace policy of regional co-operation, peace, stability, in order to protect the interests of the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia, of course whose AP KIM, Serbs living on KIM, but also the possibilities for further prosperity. It's not a bit easy, I believe we'll be able to do it the way we've done it before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-27-0.u7249	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Vladan Glisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-27-0.u7250	I also understand the position of our government, that it cannot open up all the moves it will require in the negotiations. I also understand that the changed position in order to achieve something in the fight for the defence of KIM within Serbia, but in connection with this proactive policy that changes certain things, Zaznja made your statement, if correctly transferred from the media, that you said at the "Delfi" forum that the Prespa Agreement is a good framework for an agreement between Pristina and Belgrade. The prespanish agreement is an agreement between the two sovereign countries and has led to a change in the Macedonian Constitution, which was not supported by the Macedonian people. We are now entering a phase of a change in the Constitution that we hope will be tied only to the judiciary, although I personally think it is not good either, but we hope that there will be no preamble to the Constitution. In that sense, I would just like you to explain that statement to me, because it is not on the FON of the defence of Kosovo and Metohija in the Republic of Serbia, because if we change the Constitution in that direction, if we do what the Macedonians did in terms of concessions to Greece, it will not be good for us as a state.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-27-0.u7251	Thank you. The word is made by Prime Minister Ana Brnabic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-27-0.u7252	Thank you for two things. First because you are fair enough to say that much has been done since Alexander Vukic became Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia and since the Serbian Progressive Party and the coalition around the Serbian Progressive Party took responsibility for this country and that we have not only moved things from the dead points concerning Kosovo and Metohija, but that we have really changed the situation we had on the ground and the situation we had on the table, which is that countries like, for example, the United States, really didn't want to talk about it anymore, that was the end of the matter for them. So, that's a fair attitude on your part, and thank you for that and for asking me to explain what I said at the "Delfi" forum, but if you listened carefully to what I said in Athens at the "Delfi" forum and there is this video, I am there directly, unequivocally, clearly said that for the Republic of Serbia Kosovo and Metohija AP in our country, and that this is absolutely not a question for us, but that we are always open to dialogue and that we are always ready for dialogue, because dialogue is the only way to preserve and preserve regional stability, first of all, to preserve, and at least to some extent, guarantee the safety of all Serbs at KIM. In this sense, the dialogue framework, which led to some compromise solution in the event of a change in the name of Macedonia, that is, today of Northern Macedonia, seems to me to be a good framework, because it was a dialogue between the two sides that took a lot of courage and a lot of responsibility and in which the two sides reached a mutually acceptable agreement in which, then, the third party did not interfere. I will remind you that, as far as dialogue and Pristina were concerned, there is often a point today that, even if the two sides reach some agreement, and we are not close to that agreement, it seems to me that we may never have been further, because we in Belgrade have no one to talk to in Pristina, because in Pristina there are no brave and responsible leaders, unfortunately. So, even if that were to happen, then there are countries that think they have the right to accept or not accept such an agreement, which is at least a scandal. I welcomed it as a dialogue between the two sides. I think that dialogue is always good, I think that dialogue is in the interests of the Republic of Serbia, Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, but also in the interests of regional stability. I don't see another time, except for the dialogue, really. I hope that the political leaders in Pristina who represent the temporary institutions of local self-government in our AP and represent Albanians in our AP will find the courage and strength for this dialogue that is in the interest of all of us living in this region. We are always ready for such dialogue and always ready to talk. It's the only way we're going forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-27-0.u7253	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Vladan Glisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-27-0.u7254	Your Honor, thank you for your clarification. I would clarify the position, because it is obvious why I have admitted that some things have been done, it is obvious that 19 countries that have recognised Kosovo a great success after the situation you found when you took over power. It's obvious that some winds in geostrategic and geopolitical terms are moving and that by getting and buying time, we now have a better position than we used to have. However, I do not support SNS policy and I am the opposition, because I believe that the Brussels Agreement was a wrong move and that, thanks to the Brussels Agreement. Many elements of our state and state policy are abandoned both our sovereignty in Kosovo and Metohija. However, if it was a buy-in of time and we now have a position to view them as an uncreditable negotiator, not only Pristina, but also their intermediaries and protectors, which is the EU, which is a failure to meet the obligation of the Serb municipalities community, then it is a good capital, regardless of what I considered a bad path, the whole of the Brussels Agreement. What is very important and what I think could be done and what I would welcome by the current government, I know that it can have its price, but it is also important for the return of our sovereignty, is the question if we are negotiating with someone for so many years, if someone guarantees to meet these obligations, and Serbia is always meeting obligations, and the Pristina side does not meet any obligations, I think it is high time for whoever is the mediator to thank for the possession, because it has proved to be uncreditable. Here, first of all, I'm thinking of Brussels, and you know that when it's sovereignly negotiated, then nothing is over until it's all over. We abandoned that position and thus weakened our negotiating position, and in this sense I believe that the government's turn in this direction would be something that would be more credible in line with all the principles that both the government and the current government represented in the defence of Kosovo and Metohija in Serbia, so that, in that sense, until that happens, you will not have my support. I'm not saying I'm right, but time will tell. I'm sorry, but there's just one more thing...
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-27-0.u7255	No more, you don't have time.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-27-0.u7256	Just one moment. This is something important for Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija, and I will deliver people's names in writing. We have a lot of problems with people who are in the Special Prison in Podujevo, who are condemned by Albanian courts completely without a basis and in writing I will deliver what people they are and I would like you to deal with them.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-27-0.u7257	Thank you. The word has a national emissary, Misala Pramenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-27-0.u7258	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Presidents, members of the government, I ask my question primarily to the Ministry of Family Care and Demography, and since unfortunately, the resolution minister, due to the disease, is not with us today, I will certainly take advantage of the presence of the prime minister and other ministers. Namely, the Law on Financial Support for the Family with Children, which was adopted in 2018, states that women, families who have the right to receive maternity benefits based on the birth of children and child care, must pay compulsory insurance for at least 18 months, so for a year and a half, while in women who are engaged in agriculture, who work in the countryside and on this basis pay their contributions, the deadline is slightly longer, a total of two years, or 24 months. Since the draft amending and supplementing the Law on financial support for the family with children has already started, so at this initial stage, I think it would be necessary to correct this obvious injustice, I can say freely about this category of women, and therefore we should not miss the opportunity. I'd like to know if changing the law will mean this change? For what? Well, it's women who work in the country that are women who live and work in specific conditions, and they need additional support. They are, therefore, younger women who give birth to children. Therefore, any legislative regulation must not discriminate against them, but rather support, subsidise them, etc. In that direction, I would like to think specifically about this legislative provision, and I think that the Constitutional Court in December of the past year and decide that this provision is legally unconstitutional, which is another of the additional arguments to be made in this regard. I would like to refer my second question to the Ministry of Education, but certainly to you, the Prime Minister and the entire government, as far as education is concerned. In fact, the City of Belgrade has allocated funds for the purchase of tablet devices, and this is a very large contribution to digitalisation itself, the development of education, so that the younger basics will receive tablets from the first to the fourth grade, and will have the opportunity from September 1st to follow the course electronically, to access textbooks. My question is what about the rest of the country, is it specifically working to transfer this positive practice to other cities and communities, especially when it comes to the fact that children in rural areas, rural areas, face much greater challenges? This, therefore, is a way of showing a balanced development in the way of education in relation to relations with all environments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-27-0.u7259	Thank you. The word is made by Prime Minister Brnabic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-27-0.u7260	Thank you for both questions. They're both very important. As for the amendment and addition of the Financial Support Act to families with children, they are over. So, I expect that, here, they may be in the government's session next week and we'll send them straight to the Assembly. I can tell you right now that this is exactly what you were talking about. So, we're going to do that with the intended changes and additions to the laws that went through the public debate, so we're going to, in fact, reduce that time from 24 months to 18 months for women working in the countryside. We also predicted that there will be no change to which, after all, the Constitutional Court has pointed out, and that is where we have childcare with special needs, that there will be no either, or that you will receive either compensation or return to work, but both kinds of support will be provided. We have some more things to trade here for entrepreneurs, women who are not in a permanent working relationship, but in one way, you'll see what it's like when we send the law to the Assembly, to the procedure, to the discussion and adoption, how we addressed the problem where the women who had the highest salaries received a fee of three average salaries, not like the others, and there, together with the Ministry of Finance, we found a certain solution, so we suggested that since 01 January 2022, when all these extraordinary costs resulting from the crown of the virus, we and these women pay a fee of five average salaries, so this is fixed. I've just sent my cabinet a message to see when it's going to be at the government's session, but I think it's possible next week. As far as education is concerned, we have been trying to make it easier for parents and children since 2017, but also to prepare them for 21st century jobs, which is why we started digitising schools, so we started connecting all of our primary and secondary schools to the fast internet. We'll finish it by September 1st, 2022. Then we started introducing digital classrooms. We were going to introduce digital textbooks and we had two things in mind. First, of course, to train our children for 21st century jobs. Secondly, to make our schools in line with technologies that today are much more acceptable to young people. Third, of course, in the long term with digital textbooks, the Government takes over, or the Ministry of Education takes over the cost of all digital textbook licenses, so that we can keep the best possible way. We no longer have that cost of buying textbooks, which is the only way to do it, instead of having some irresponsible and irresponsible politicians, such as Dragan Gilas, who, by populist measures, has shown to the free print textbooks that they really have no idea what the future of education is, not only in the Republic of Serbia, but also in all Europe and the world. We've gone one five steps further than where he stands in his vision of education. At that point, we'll take over the purchase of a license for all those digital textbooks, so parents and families won't have that cost on them. Then the city of Belgrade went one step further and has already pledged that they will buy pills for all the basics, again some possibility that local self-government itself has. I would welcome this, indeed, seems to me, a significant and responsible and good move by local self-government in Belgrade, but it is something where we look through the Government Office for Information Technologies and eGovernment, which we re-founded in 2017. We're going to see if there's a way in the future that we can do this for all primary schools, and yet we can make some kind of strategic contract where we can keep renovating this ICT equipment that students use in primary and secondary schools. I can't promise it at this point, but it's definitely something that we're thinking about and we're going to watch how we do it and in what time range it's financially sustainable to do it. After all, in a project related to schools, digitising schools, we, and you approved it, have signed an agreement with the European Investment Bank, the EIB, signed a 65m-euro agreement only for the digitisation of schools, so that we really have access to it in the most responsible way possible. But here, I promise you we'll take a look at this and we'll go out with a proposal as soon as possible. Until then, any local self-government that can do what the city of Belgrade has done, I mean, these are some things some local self-government can do, some can't, but I'd like them to invest more, certainly, in education and support for the youngest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-27-0.u7261	Thank you. Misala Pramenkovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-27-0.u7262	I thank you for your answers, dear Prime Minister. I'm really glad to hear that the disputed, in fact legal provisions that were in the previous law were eliminated that way. I would also take advantage of the opportunity to appeal to local self-government, as you yourself said, to target all their resources and capacities towards improving the quality of education and, from this aspect, we all have an impact on improving the education system together. The next two questions I would like to refer to the culture minister, Mrs. Maji Gojkovic. In fact, we learned from the media that the city of Belgrade purchased a number of works of art, mostly to protect them and to keep the works of art owned by the city, so I'd like you to give us a little more information about it. The second question also applies to the Ministry of Culture. Namely, the question of preserving cultural heritage is one of the key issues for further cultural development and I wonder what the Ministry of Culture is doing specifically in this field, if you could inform us about it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-27-0.u7263	Thank you. Vice President and Minister Gojkovic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-27-0.u7264	I'm sorry, I thought this was the third question, or your comment, so I didn't listen very carefully. It seems to me that you have asked something about this last affair and the events surrounding the purchase of paintings, which is also the city of Belgrade, but also the Ministry of Culture and Information managed to save from an entirely unusual one, not to be a group to say illegal and illegal auctions. It is tragic that the state has learned about such a thing with the help of the media, that the media first received information that the preparation of the sale of 144 works of art and 25 works of art applied, for some, apparently, 80,000 euros. When we saw the list of images, of course, first we had to apply in general through the Belgrade City Museum, to allow us as a state approach. The paintings were in a very bad state, but the names themselves spoke about what was being prepared, because today on the market one Mica Popovic, a picture of Mica Popovic costs about 300,000 euros, not to say that there is Milo Milunović, Zora Petrovic, Lubarda, the great names of modern painting or painting of the 20th century of our country. The first time in history has happened, and this is about protecting cultural heritage, because it is our cultural heritage, it has happened that together the city of Belgrade, the museum, one institution of culture and the Republic of Serbia prevents the theft of works of art. We can only imagine today what's been going on since 2000 at the time of those cruel, looting privatisations, where social firms went into private hands, but we never found out, nor would we seem to find out who they belonged to and how works of art bought by the state's money, because none of these companies were private, so that they claim to be private purchases. It is also tragic that there are contracts where people rent certain business spaces, large business spaces where significant works of art are found, and they therefore believe that, if they have concluded a contract, they have concluded a contract to rent some space, that they become owners and cultural works. And we'll have to fight such a battle in the future. I say thank you to the media for drawing our attention to this well-prepared bid that we finally managed to break with common forces. We saw that one person artificially raises the price, we know which firm she represented, but we were determined to make this the first, but not the last time we resisted this abduction of our country's cultural treasure. A public debate on the Cultural Heritage Act has been concluded. We are now preparing to adopt remarks and suggestions. One of the remarks was that, which we are certain to adopt, or suggestion, to prohibit this kind of sale of art by bankruptcy and to prevent purchases from being required, because now a lot of the bankruptcy managers are turning their heads against the right to prevent buying, because when someone is already declared a national cultural good, the state has the right to prevent buying from others for that first price. If that were respected, today the city of Belgrade and Serbia would own these works of art for only 80,000 euros, not 300 and something, as much as we had to bid. But we continue to fight in court to prove that the real price of these works is 80,000. To get back to the law. We're going to install this mandatory, that it's going to be necessary for the bankruptcy directors of the state to report which cultural art treasures are owned by these companies that are in bankruptcy, so that we can buy them, not buy them from some of the persons for which these auctions were obviously prepared. There were a lot of attacks here when I prepared an exhibition called "Art Waiting for Justice in 2000", along with this building, along with ballots from that first round of voting, when Milosevic and Kostunica competed for the presidency, a hundred images of exceptional great value disappeared. I created this exhibition and catalogue to help us to find these cultural goods. They attacked me because they said I was identifying October 5th with the theft of art. It wasn't my intention, but on second thought, maybe I didn't do anything wrong. The most important thing is that from 2000 to today, apart from the parts of the furniture from this Parliament, no images were found, nor did it develop awareness among citizens to return it, which means it was an organized theft of art paintings in this building. Thank you very much for asking this question.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-27-0.u7265	Thank you. The word is made by Prime Minister Brnabic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-27-0.u7266	Thank you. Just to confirm that at the next regular session of the government, therefore, next Thursday, there will be a proposal to amend and supplement the Financial Support Act for families with children, so we will solve these problems as well. I just wanted to give you that information because I stayed in debt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-27-0.u7267	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Joksimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-27-0.u7268	Thank you. I only, in the meantime, consult with the prime minister, to supplement one part of the important response to digitization and in general what you have rightly asked as a question. One of the essential issues of equal regional development, namely equal education and availability of education to all children in rural areas, and one of the conditions of modern education is access to the Internet and that is why the Government of the Republic of Serbia has applied for a major project within the framework of an economic and investment package for the Western Balkans for the introduction of broadband internet in all rural areas. The total will be 76m euros. In order to get to that, we have previously signed 1.7m euros with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development to prepare the documents, which means that about 90,000 households, about 600 places or settlements in Serbia, means that about two thirds of our citizens who have not been available to do so so far, not just schools, but I am talking about households, will have the opportunity to come to what one of them is, I think, fundamental rights have become, which is Internet access, because there is really no competitive, no economy, no education system, and also these green and digital transitions for which big funds in the future will be allocated. I want to say that this really shows the additional determination of the government that all citizens in Serbia, wherever they live, have one important right, especially young, especially children, which is the right to access the Internet and I hope that this project will start to be realised from next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-27-0.u7269	Thank you. The word is Misala Pramenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-27-0.u7270	I really appreciate the answers. I believe that this is very important information for all of us MPs, but also for the citizens themselves, because it is really about concrete things, about visible progress, and I thank you for that, because in fact, the determination of the government itself at the head of the country's president is seen that all areas that are priority in the development of the state and society itself, such as the family, such as education, such as culture, but also every other segment of life, which are simply intertwined, are impossible to separate from each other, in that sense, in that sense, and a responsible attitude towards public property, whether from the field of cultural heritage, whether from the field of public finance, is the best indicator of responsibility in managing the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-27-0.u7271	Thank you. The word is given by MP Branimir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-27-0.u7272	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Prime Minister, respected ministers, I will ask two questions and both will be addressed to Prime Minister Ani Brnabic. In fact, the first question I planned to ask Minister Tomislav Momirović, but since he is absent, I will ask you. Several taxis from within Serbia contacted me and they have a particular problem, which is that they cannot find adequate drivers for their taxis. In fact, the law is such that in November 2018, a line was drawn, so all those taxi drivers who had worked until then were licensed to continue to carry out the work, i.e. to drive for taxi associations. Those who are then employed must meet some of the conditions, or three conditions. The first condition is that they have adequate professional equipment, a specifically completed traffic school and five years of work experience, or, second condition, that they have certain standards applicable to drivers working abroad and, thirdly, have a certificate of professional competence, and that certification is issued by the Agency for the Safety of Traffic, but is not issued for the B category, but for the C, D and E category. They have this problem that people just retire and they just see that it's going to be a problem. They retire, they change jobs, they miss drivers. He is particularly expressed in the interior of Serbia, in towns and municipalities that have fewer inhabitants, because there is a different rule – a taxi vehicle usually carried by two drivers. In Belgrade, it's different -- one driver comes to a taxi and now they say they weren't involved enough in the making of the law and we need to find a solution as soon as possible. If we don't find a solution, they'll only have a bigger problem as time goes by. The second question is about the crisis over the coronary virus and concerns the consequences we see every day. We actually see that the situation with us is getting better from day to day. I think 326 registered positive from the crown today. They encourage the results, of course, to close down the hospital code, that they return to a common regime, and I think we've done a great job with that immunization process. However, there is another problem in the world, and it will be safe in Serbia, which is that the demographic picture has deteriorated. What I am particularly interested in, I know that two and a half years ago, we adopted measures that mean that we encourage Natalie in Serbia, but since the world has changed the situation, the picture of reality has changed because of Kovid. What will the state do to us specifically to fix possibly that demographic image? I'm not just talking about the birth rate here, I'm thinking about population migration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-27-0.u7273	Thank you. The word is made by Prime Minister Brnabic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-27-0.u7274	Thank you. As far as your first question is concerned, I will tell you, I remember exactly that legal solution because personally, as Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, I spoke and negotiated with the taxi associations at the time about the amendments and the addition of the law of that time. At that time, the taxi associations were looking for solutions like this, which, if I recall correctly, we in the government of the Republic of Serbia and in the resolution ministry thought were too strict. They wanted such solutions to practically protect their profession from unfair competition, their jobs and provide, after all, which is legitimate, for educated drivers to drive citizens and take taxis somewhere. So, as Government, we've been trying to do it in collaboration with exactly the people whose law matters the most. I can now fully understand the problems that taxi associations have in smaller communities and smaller municipalities, that there is a completely different thing than, say, what we have in Belgrade or in Novi Sad. It seems to me that one law must be for the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia. In that sense, we never run away from opening additional consultations and I will recommend it to Minister Momirovic. I'm also willing to personally take part in something like that, because I know how sensitive these are. If they can give us concrete suggestions, but before they can agree with their colleagues from other cities and municipalities. It is something that, as a government, would make this job easier for us, and it seems to me that it would be the most responsible for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. So you can't always please everyone because legal solutions are such that they have to be applied to everything, but we're ready to open up additional consultations. Just do it. Let the taxi associations do it first with each other, so let them tell us what would be in their best interest, in the best interests of all the other citizens, and we'll actually sit down with them again at all times at a table, so we can see what we can do. As far as this second question is concerned, I will say that I am extremely pleased with what the epidemiological situation in our country is at this moment. She's getting better and more stable every day. Absolute numbers also drop the percentage of positive versus tested declines. He's about 3% today, which is extremely good. At this point, we have two million 464 thousand 701 people vaccinated, which is about 45.6% of the full-time population in the Republic of Serbia. Nearly two million people have been revaccinated, a million 963 thousand 486, and I am using this forum again and this place to invite citizens of the Republic of Serbia, especially those under 30 years of age, to be vaccinated, to end up with the Corona virus. At this point, we have enough vaccines not to receive any additional vaccines in the Republic of Serbia, to vaccinate over three million 115 thousand people, and we are now receiving an additional 100,000 Sputnik vaccines. So, please, we have vaccines, let me take advantage of that. Everyone wants to come to the Republic of Serbia to be vaccinated. I'm asking our citizens to really be responsible to the end and put an end to this pandemic. As far as demographics are concerned, you're absolutely right, it's getting worse all over the world, what can we do? Well, as far as Natalie is concerned, we're doing what we've already started to do and we're trying to improve it through these changes and additions of the Financial Support Act to families with children, who will be in the government next week, and right after that in the assembly procedure, you as MPs will be able to debate them, but also through the permanent opening of jobs and increasingly high-quality jobs. You know, a lot of people went back to the Republic of Serbia during the Coronal virus and it's a great chance for us, and it's a great chance for an additional positive impact on our demographic image. We must keep them in the Republic of Serbia. That's what we do, here's another thank you and the president for everything he does with his team and another 300 jobs for Valjevo, here's only yesterday's contract was signed. The average salary that is currently in March is 555 euros. I was looking at, say, a comparison with the region, and how important it is to tell you that Montenegro, which had significantly fled to us just a few years ago, in March had an average profit of 526 euros, BiH 506 euros, Northern Macedonia 457 euros, Albania 369 euros, that's what they had in the last quarter of 2020. We don't have any information for March 2021. Bulgaria 580 euros, so that's what our aspirations are, to reach Bulgaria in average salaries by the end of this year, and that's what we end up doing for migration. For people who have returned from abroad to the Republic of Serbia during Kovid to stay in the Republic of Serbia, to find jobs here, and to create high-quality jobs for people to stay and for people to return to Serbia. I'll tell you one more thing, today I've brought this information to the Kopalnik business quorum, an extremely important one. I think we should all be proud of it, which is that the Vienna Institute for International Research or International Co-operation, don't mind me not being able to remember exactly what it's called, and I'm pretty tired today of all the activities that we have as a government and I'm really proud of it, has shown that for the first time since 2015 to 2019, the trend of brain drains has been reversed and that for the first time in this period we have had a net inflow of people in the Republic of Serbia, especially young people in the age category in the population of 24 to 29 years, and in all categories of highly educated people. So more people have returned to Serbia than it has left Serbia. It's an amazing piece of information, and that information, I can guarantee it, not only remains that way, but that net inflow will only grow and I expect an additional inflow from abroad. So that's all we do to reverse our demographic image, but it's also a huge challenge for much richer countries. That's why Serbia needs to run faster than everyone else and we're doing it right now. We succeeded even in 2020 when we were, at least, falling in Europe or among the lowest rates of decline in Europe. In this year, when we are trying to make the biggest growth, and in 2020, under such extremely difficult circumstances, when unemployment grew both in the countries of the region and in the countries of Europe, our net employment grew. So it's a big fight, and I'm going to tell you this more information about the unemployment rate. In the Republic of Serbia right now, it is slightly above 9%, Montenegro 21.2%, BiH 16.6%, Northern Macedonia 16.1%), Albania 11.8%, so it is something that we fight for our people and for our people abroad to return to the Republic of Serbia. We continue this struggle on a daily basis, but it will take a lot more effort and work. I would like to thank all of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia for their support, for recognising this courageous and responsible policy in 2014 and since then, in a growing number, it has been supported by the honourable Members of the People's Republic of Serbia for working hard every day to discuss the legislative proposals that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is sending. After all, it helps all of us to change faster and to change the conditions for business in Serbia faster and faster so that our people are increasingly returning to Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-27-0.u7275	Thank you. The word is Branimir Jovanovic:
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-27-0.u7276	Thank you for your answers. It is very important that you, as Prime Minister, show one openness to discuss all issues and to solve everything and what you have called for to talk about to solve these problems that taxi drivers have inside. I hope that they will be included in the next period within the working groups on amendments and additions to the law. I'm sure we here in the Assembly will support all those good suggestions. It's also very important, and it's the right way to keep jobs that can be seen by increasing living standards and increasing wages from month to month, so I'm not going to ask any further questions. This will be my conclusion, of course, and because according to the Rules of Procedure, the largest parliamentary groups somehow always get the least time to ask questions, so I will give up the third round of questioning, or conclusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-27-0.u7277	Thank you. The word has been given by the People's MP of Life, Starcevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-27-0.u7278	The Honorable President of the National Assembly, the Honorable Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, about three now on her Facebook account, Marinika Tepic, quoted: "As we wait for Palma to be brought in because of the misleading girls and women, why journalists do not ask the prosecutor's office what she is doing, Dacic about the blinds for the arrival of girls or Vučić about the gatherings in Bokeljka, instead of transferring the psycho Palm. This is how this evil is buried," the end of the quote. Ladies and gentlemen, if it weren't for sick, this would be ridiculous, and it's certainly sad. Maybe it's good, because this Gilas village opajdara has shown that the only thing she knows is to spread insidious lies all over the village and nothing more. The question arises as far as the bounds of bestiality, insolence and corruption of this woman go? What's that bottom she can't reach? Well, we can't wait to hear from the D.A.'s office, to finally put an end to all the lies this evil has said. This woman makes fun of institutions, people, their families, Serbian citizens. There's no one this Gilas Pinocchio won't drag through his mud. Well, she recently told the Royal D.A.'s office that she was pleased with his work, and now, three hours ago, we see what they're doing. She made the same prosecutor's office deny her lies told in front of the prosecution's own building on the promise that the case would be transferred to the Prosecutor's Office for Organized Crime. It's clear to us that she lied, that she wanted to manipulate the King's prosecution, to mock him, to exert political pressure on this institution. She's raising the role of her poker game because she's got empty cards in her hands. No witnesses, no victims, because she made it all up. In doing so, she did not sue Dragan Markovic Palm, because she knows that she would be responsible for false reporting, but Dragan Markovic Palma, reacting to the disgusting lies, went to the D.A. and asked to examine the truthfulness of her lies. Palma sued all those liars, Gilas and criminals, and we're asking the institutions to handle these lawsuits. This woman gambles with gambling games not only with Dragan Markovic Palm, his family, she does not only gamble with the emotions and feelings of Serbian citizens who have severely upset her lies, she also gambles with the reputation of our institutions. She's muddying the president of the state, the president of the National Assembly, she's muddying every man who's not on Gilas' payroll, and every one of them wants to drag his mud through it. My question to you, Prime Minister and to you, Mrs Popovic, as justice minister, is - are there any elements of the crime in this statement on Facebook? Are there any elements of the crime in her lying statement before the King's Prosecution? And, once again, will the competent state institutions act according to the official December 2014 note on the report of Ivo Gilas that Dragan Gilas beat her and her father? There are victims here, there are witnesses, there's a culprit, and that if they made a deal, they don't release Dragan Gilas from the guilt of domestic violence. I also ask whether the competent authorities are investigating where Gilasu's accounts came from on exotic destinations, whether he paid taxes and whether he would be questioned by the origin of the enormously acquired assets. We of the JS believe that Gilas a bully and a tycoon should be arrested, that he does not influence witnesses, that he does not repeat the crime of domestic violence and should be taken away from his passport so that he does not go to countries with which we do not have an extradition agreement and that he has fed his hidden millions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-27-0.u7279	Thank you. The word is made by Prime Minister Brnabic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-27-0.u7280	You, honourable People's MP, ask yourself how far this is done by Marinika Tepic and says Marinika Tepic goes and if there is an end. I can tell you that I often ask myself the same thing. My answer to that question is that it probably doesn't exist, as long as the competent institutions don't respond. I, as an executive official, cannot influence these competent institutions, but what I know, I also know that everything that Marinika Tepic does has in one, second or third way direct implications for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and most often on the very health and safety of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Now I'm going to tell you just a few examples of how what Marinika Tepic is saying has implications for the health and safety of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. That's what I could think of, really, here in 20 seconds while I listened to you without going any further into it. So today, when we are fighting for the highest percentage of people vaccinated, to have as much protection as possible for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, to return to normal life, and to fight to do so as soon as possible, because the speed is crucial, I don't know, to return faster without the virus mutating and to be protected as a nation faster. We're talking about a person who was publicly on the media saying that the coronary virus was artificially made, that the vaccines weren't tested enough and that they weren't safe and that vaccination had to be a decision in the referendum. Now you ask what is the responsibility and if anyone has called that person to account. And did what she said directly affect health security, perhaps the lives of some of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia? No doubt, yes. When will the competent institutions react? I don't know and I wonder very often. It is a person who during some of the most difficult days, a pandemic of the Coronal Virus, on the same Twitter profile, posted posts that the Government of the Republic of Serbia introduced measures that protect the lives and health of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and the health system itself by limiting the movement, which was then done by all other countries of the world and Europe, in a much more restrictive way than the Republic of Serbia, that the government of the Republic of Serbia would do so to settle a migrant in Serbia and that everyone knows that we settle migrants on buses while we keep Serbian citizens locked up in houses so that we could do so. Was she called to account for it? No, no one called her responsible for this, so she practically directly called for a breach of measures because these measures are not necessary, because we cheat on citizens of the Republic of Serbia to settle migrants, and she accused us of taking money to settle migrants and thus directly accusing us of human trafficking. Has anyone called for responsibility? No, no one. Well, then why don't you lie further, and then why don't those lies become more and more monstrous and monstrous. Well, because no one ever responds to those lies. I can't influence that, unfortunately, as a representative of the executive government. But I am frustrated every day because such lies destroy this country, destroy it, destroy everything we do, undermine our fight for the security of health and life of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia in the most difficult times since World War II. It's a person, to remind you, who accused the army of the Republic of Serbia of growing marijuana. Did someone call for responsibility? No, absolutely no one, ever. It's a person who ordered his best friend, his closest friend, a drug dealer, a known and confidential criminal to move a reporter out of Panchev. Has anyone called for responsibility? No, it's not. He's got a face to talk about freedom of the media. The person where we have proof that she said that a man was moved out of that city because it bothers her. It's a person who, during the crown of the virus, but you see this is all in 20 minutes that I could remember, during our fight against the coronary virus, besides saying that the virus was artificially made, that the vaccines were not tested, that the vaccines were not safe, that vaccines needed a referendum, and then ran to be among the first vaccines, said that we imported vaccines through a private company. It's all written on her Twitter profile. All vaccines in the Republic of Serbia were imported through the Torak Institute, up to one. Has anyone called for responsibility? No, no one, ever. Then she accused us in the middle of the pandemic that we gave private labs permission to run PSR tests, but then it was in all its intellectual and any other hypocrisy, it didn't bother that two months after that, why we didn't give private firms to do PSR tests. So within maybe a month or two she put in the diametric opposite stuff. For both she accused the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the SNS, Alexander Vukic himself, that he must have decided who would do the PSR tests and then that we gave and why we gave to whom we gave and then without any shame, why we didn't give private companies to do PSR tests. Is there someone in one case or another who called that person responsible? No, no one. So let me repeat your question from the beginning. How far is this going? Here's what I'm wondering. I don't know. Until someone is likely to kill someone, physically remove them because they are lying and accusing one of us. Well, then maybe he won't react then either. Just so we're not pretending I think crazy that it didn't happen and that she's that beacon of freedom, honesty, truthfulness and democracy in Serbia, because as bad as that Twitter is and whatever the problems of that social network rule, you know what's good in them, what remains written down and every day she can pull out and say, excuse me, if this is you, this is what you've been saying. Let me ask you, is that true? But let's just find these institutions to ask one person of all that she wrote if it's true and if it's not true, then it's my people's answer. It is my request sent from this highest place, the temple of democracy of every country of the world, to the competent institutions of our judicial authority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-27-0.u7281	Minister Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-27-0.u7282	Thank you for this question. Here I am for the second time engaged in this lady's legal qualification of the work of Marinika Tepic, the person who left the prosecution and gave a statement five minutes later, agreed on what she was talking about with the prosecutor. If she can lie about what's going on in the trial, she talked to the D.A.'s office, I know what I'm talking about, and that's that she said that the Palma case is going to be taken over by the D.A.'s Office of Organized Crime, so she's done some damage, and I don't know what else we can talk about. The prosecution of high-tech crime should appear to create a special department for Marinika Tepic and only deal with her cases, because she absolutely burys the prosecution with her statements. There's a spread of false news, a false application in one stick that's already been going on for over a year, if I may say so, maybe longer. That's it. That would be the answer to my question. That's your legal qualification for her statements this week. In any case, a legal qualification and its conviction can only be given by a court in a particular procedure. I'm also part of the executive government. I can only give my opinion as a lawyer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-27-0.u7283	Thank you. The word has been given by the People's MP of Life, Starcevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-27-0.u7284	I agree with you, Prime Minister and with you, Mrs Popovic. There are no borders, and they assure us every day with their insolence, insolence and insolent lies, affairs that Marinika Tepic has, but designed by Dragan Djilas and who does so over and over again for a simple reason why he and his likes are not fit by a strong and stable Serbia, because they have nothing to seek in politics, in this and such Serbia. To them, Serbia is weak, Serbia on its knees and they do everything to undermine the system's institutions with their lies, to undermine Serbia's state, to undermine its reputation in the world, not to care, to harm public companies against working openly, and to protect their capital, business and profits. We know what we're talking about. These people don't mind even putting a target on the heads of the country's children to go personally, to target families of responsible people in Serbia, officials. And that's what's worst. That's the red line that was crossed, that they crossed. I deeply agree with you and your questions about where the end is, how is it going to end, and do you need, what you said, someone to lose their head because of someone's lies? What is the end and whether the goal is strong enough and good enough to end it, of course not and of course there are things that are not done in politics, and they keep doing them. In this manner of political and pestilence, one must once and for all stand in the way. They undermine Serbia's reputation in the world, which Serbia has been strenuously building and creating for years backwards, with intense and strong diplomatic activity, at all levels. The question that you Prime Ministers have asked is why our institutions tolerate their behaviour like this, and is the reason why the EU might not blame us for touching their public, so as not to stick to the label of a government that lacks democracy. Would this kind of behavior, I ask and ask myself and you and everyone the question, this kind of behavior and such lies have been passed in Germany or France or anywhere else unpunished? You certainly wouldn't. Yesterday, they threaten the media, journalists, all the poor workers, and all the party voters in power, threatening lustration. Gentlemen, Dragan Gilas and the people around Dragan Gilas, the only one who can do the lustration is the people in the elections and no one else. So I ask you, Prime Ministers and you, Mrs Popovic, as Minister of Justice, why have we decriminalized the libel in our criminal law, and how long will we suffer this destructive and pestilence, which undermines the reputation of the Serbian state? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-27-0.u7285	The word is made by Prime Minister Brnabic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-27-0.u7286	And why we've changed this in law, or we can talk about it. You know what, I think that everyone and every citizen of the Republic of Serbia is more than clear that the judiciary at this point, whatever the law is, has more than enough mechanisms to run some procedures to examine this information, so let's see if they're lies or not. Even if we don't prejudge, let's see that, if they are lies, then that person who lied like that puts health, safety and the lives of Serbian citizens directly at risk, which is why I guess it does. So, that's groundless. There are enough grounds for the judiciary to react. Why doesn't he react, I wouldn't really dare say anything about it in any way, because it would probably be a pressure on the judiciary. You know how, I can understand people, I can't support that, I think it's cowardly, I can understand people. They should stand up against Dragan Djilas and his team, of course, whose part, Marinika Tepic, who was eventually paid by Dragan Dilas and works, is employed by Dragan Dilas. There, a small man in that judiciary, should stand up against the most powerful tycoons, not in this country, but some of the most powerful tycoons in Eurupa, who, with their money, open the media, buy frequencies, have cable channels, which they know have at least 600m euros, have schemes and bank accounts all over the globe. Now, get up against them, well, you need a seriously brave person, but I also mean a person with special integrity. I expect that from people who work in the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, to be brave and to have integrity. Get up, people, and tell me if that's the way it's supposed to be, or if it can't be done. So I can understand them, and I understand their fear, but it can't. It goes directly to the harm of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Now, that part that the government can do and executive power and has the authority over it, I insist as Prime Minister that the government does, and do that, the Money Laundering Prevention Authority, investigates all the affairs of Dragan Gilas and all his companies, and above all, the Ascanius Limited company. That's what we can do and I promise the citizens of Serbia that we'll end up right because it's their money, the money they could give for schooling their children, the money we could invest for roads, for hospitals, for salaries of health workers, police, military, because 600,000 people were out of work, while he earned for himself, I wouldn't call it a profit, I won 600m euros, the transge-fange combinations, where he took seconds from RTS, then sold them expensively. Awesome manager, really, good job, well, nobody would think of that. Great art, really great knowledge of the economy. So what the executive authority can do, the executive power will do and I promise you that. For everything else, I think that each of us must insist that this country be a normal country, a country of strong institutions where all citizens are equal, whether they have six dinars or 600m euros, must be equal in front of those institutions. So, employees of Dragan Gilas must not be free to lie on any subject, on any subject, to say anything that comes to mind, and who cares, it doesn't matter. Today one lie, tomorrow another lie, what does it matter what the consequences of those lies are? So, we will do what we can as executive power, but ultimately, the power of a country is being looked at in the strength of all branches of government. Finally, I think that is why it is important that these topics are discussed in this House, as in the highest House of Legislative Authorities. Now, let's see if anyone else can pull the trigger and not prejudge the solution, but just to ask, here, just to ask, to run some investigative shop, so that we know who's lying. Well, whoever's lying is gonna answer. I'm the first to answer, if I'm lying and when we were in a state of emergency, we were inhabiting migrants. Here, I'm the first to answer. Here, I'll go to jail first if we settled migrants, but if we didn't, then let the one who accused us of it at the time our health system was kneeling in the run of the crown. That's the person who accused us and who didn't care about health workers and people who could get sick and what would happen to them and whether we could cure them. So, there you go, that's it. I wouldn't have lasted any longer. What we can do is we will do, so that this country will be strong and democratic and we will not be afraid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-27-0.u7287	Thank you. The word has been given by the People's MP of Life, Starcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-27-0.u7288	Just for a little while. We won't be afraid, I agree with you, and we're not afraid to be silent, to quote them, obscenity characters. We all together, including those famous institutions of the state, must understand that what Dragan Gilas is doing with his click is not opposition political action, but an open destructive action, against the interest of the Serbian state, and for the protection of personal capital and profit. This must not be tolerated by the state of Serbia, must not be a hostage to their capital and profits, and must be done by these famous institutions because it is the interest of the Serbian state. Unique Serbia will send a letter to the European Parliament and documentedly explain who Dragan Dilas and Vuk Jeremic are, or who people whose political destiny are so concerned and whose lies they put as a fact in their reports in Serbia. It must also be done by the state of Serbia as it successfully defends Serbia's interests towards the outside, so it must successfully protect Serbia's interests from these pests that put their personal interests ahead of Serbia's national and citizens' interests. They led Serbia to bankruptcy while they were in power. As Serbia weaked, they became rich. They are not fit by strong and stable Serbia, because they have nothing to ask for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-27-0.u7289	Thank you. I would add, if you remember that there was a story about how we, the money taken from arms dealers, funded the withdrawal of the recognition of the false state of Kosovo, etc. Here, after all, it doesn't matter whether any of us are personally called. It is about institutions, both the state of Serbia and our interests. Neither the armored cars are for that, nor "The Box" as the official residence of the Serbian state for that, they serve other, serious things. This kind of manipulation is, in fact, the roses of the entire state and the whole system. That's the worst thing. The word is made by the People's Messenger Balint Pastor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-27-0.u7290	Thank you. Mr. President of the National Assembly, Madam Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'd have a few questions, life issues, not about high policy this time, but about the citizens' life problems. The first question would be for the Prime Minister - when will the so-called "open" be reopened. A little border crossing? There's really no reason why they still don't work, to be locked up. First of all, I speak in relation to Serbia - Hungary, but of course, that applies to all other neighbouring countries, namely our border crossings with them. As far as the border line between the Republic of Serbia and Hungary is concerned, the Horgos 1 border crossing and the Kelebija border crossing, two times from 07.00 to 10.00 hours, and from 17.00 to 19.00 hours for the Bački Breg border crossing and the Bački Vinodravi border crossing, and not at all in the function of the Rastina border crossing, Bajemek, Horgos 2, Djala and Rabe. This suggests that there is no border crossing in the Banat area that would be operational and that our citizens must travel very much to cross the border. You know, but because of the public, I'd say this isn't about, in our case, travel trips, but people are busy there, traveling every day. And family ties are at stake. People are eager to talk about other citizens, travel. Immunisation is on such a level that it is now more than a year and more possible. I know that the answer to this question depends not only on the Republic of Serbia, but also on Hungary, but I would ask you to really do everything in the interest of these border crossings being literally immediately opened, because there is no reason for it to be different. The second question is related. After opening these border crossings, when can some of them be expected to work from 00.00 to 24:00 hours? We've been talking about this for years, first of all, for the Horgos 2 border crossing, or for the Djala border crossing, or for the Bayemek border crossing. The 11th meeting of the Joint Commission on Economic Co-operation between Serbia and Hungary will take place in a few days. Will this be the subject of that meeting, or that session? The third question regarding border crossings for you, Madam President, and perhaps also for Minister Momirovic - when will activities begin at the reconstruction and upgrade of the Horgos border crossing? Our budget has provided funds of 520 million dinars. Citizens expect these works to begin, because, as we know, in the summer months and over 200,000 passengers cross the Horgos 1 border crossing in one weekend, and trucks wait for more than 20 hours, so I would expect an answer to these questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-27-0.u7291	Thank you. The word is made by Prime Minister Ana Brnabic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-27-0.u7292	I'm going to launch an initiative to open small-scale crossings immediately. As you know, we have regulated it, or closed the crossings, and some have been cut off by working hours for better control of people's entry into the Republic of Serbia due to the pandemic of the coronary virus, to protect our citizens and our health system. Now, when the situation is really stable in the Republic of Serbia and we expect it to get better and better, but also in other countries of Europe, and certainly with Hungary, which I sincerely congratulate on the incredibly successful campaign of mass vaccination, the immunisation of the population, there is no, as you said, absolutely right, any reason not to open the border crossings, so here tonight I am going to start this issue, so let's settle it, that people can normally live, normally to function, normally to work. As far as mutual co-operation is concerned, I'll check everything on the subject of the meeting, but certainly that co-operation is never better. You know, both economically and in terms of joint infrastructure projects, joint energy projects, so we'll see. They're happy here. Whatever we can do together, it's always easy to deal with the government of Hungary. I hope that soon we will have our next joint session of two governments. With Hungary, we had absolutely the largest number of joint sessions. Finally, as for the expansion of the Horgos border crossing, it is extremely important to us, not only for our citizens, but also for our economy. On April 12th of this year, we issued a public invitation to choose a strategic partner for realization, reconstruction, modernisation... Subotica – Segedin. We've completed the project for a building permit. We expect to control the project, issue a building permit and start work in autumn 2021. With this dynamic completion of the project of reconstruction and construction of the 2023 border crossing. Also, within the meeting of the GDP Council, the Serbian Chamber of Commerce asked that we, in consultation with the economy and with our companies, hand over a list of border crossings that we must prioritize to allow greater exports of goods from the Republic of Serbia because we have, thank God, more and more investors. Industry is rapidly recovering, productivity is growing, and we now need to invest additional resources in the infrastructure of our border crossings, to expand them to allow for greater flow of goods. The priority border crossing is Horgos, so we expect the beginning of the work in autumn 2021. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-27-0.u7293	Thank you. The word is Balint Pastor.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-27-0.u7294	Thank you, Madam President. In my third address, I'm going to talk a little bit about data on the economic co-operation of the Republic of Serbia and Hungary, because that's what citizens need to hear. I think your data is commendable. Now I'd like to ask two questions. We are encouraged by what you said about border crossings. It would really be important for them to open up in the first step, and in the second step, to extend the working time of those border crossings that operate from 7 to 19 hours in the "Mirodotopian" conditions, as is important to do and to improve the road infrastructure of those roads leading to these border crossings. We've already talked about it. I'd only mention the road between Buck's Topola and Byamek. Thus, the border crossing would be connected by a quality route to the Horgos-Belgrade highway, and it is also very important for the citizens. Two questions I'd like to ask are next. The first question, and you mentioned earlier, would refer to the reconstruction of the railway Subotica – Segedin, and in the second step of Subotica – Baja. The question is – how long did it take to realize this project, because when co-operation is so intense between Serbia and Hungary and our citizens and citizens of the Republic of Hungary, then we should invest in railway infrastructure, not just in the road? When this project of reconstruction of the Segedin – Subotic track is completed, then we will be able to say that Segedin has never been closer to Subotics in the last hundred years than it will be after the completion of that project. The second question concerns whether the government of the Republic of Serbia is considering intensifying co-operation and not only economic co-operation, but also political co-operation with so-called. A multicity group with Hungary, Czech Republic and Slovakia? I would only remind you and the public of the statements made a few days ago by the President of the Czech Republic, Mr Zeman. We know that excellent relations are both with Slovakia, both economic relations and political. We've already talked about relations with Hungary with Poland. Me and as a member of the Friendship Group with the Republic of Poland, the move that the government has taken, namely Minister Selakovic, on the impeachment of our ambassador from Warsaw, shows that the excellent relations between our government and the Government of the Republic of Poland are. I think so, too, that the Republic of Serbia should step up co-operation with the multi-city group. There were such initiatives from both Mr. Zeman and Mr. Orban and that, of course, is not against anyone. We should work together with everyone, but I think the hardest we can and should cooperate to cooperate with those four countries, except for these other countries that are our neighbours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-27-0.u7295	Thank you. Prime Minister Brnabic has his word.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-27-0.u7296	I will answer this second question, so I will let Minister Momirovic talk about infrastructure projects and the line of Subotica – Segedin and give it to Baja. As for the Visegrad Four, therefore, we have launched a truly intense co-operation with the Visegrad Four. It's a regional format that I wouldn't be exaggerating to us if I said it serves as an inspiration, because we saw through the co-operation of Hungary, Slovakia, the Czech Republic and Poland, how much speaking one language and how much when they stand together about one message, they can be and are stronger than when they speak for themselves. So it was kind of an idea when, ultimately, President Aleksandar Vukic then launched the quadrilateral of Serbia, Greece, Romania, Bulgaria, when we now launched the trilateral of Serbia, Greece, Cyprus, but also when we think about possible trilaterals of Serbia, Greece, Northern Macedonia. So whenever we thought about regional co-operation, we had in mind what the Visegrad Four was able to do thanks to their co-operation and their connection. Then somehow, we set out for Serbia's insistence to connect to two fronts, both the Visegrad Four and the Western Balkans. The meetings of the Visegrad Four and the Western Balkans, both at the level of the government's president and foreign ministers, are now being held at the annual level. And I was the last time in a meeting in Prague, which was extremely useful for us, both for Serbia and for, I think, and for the whole region, because Visegrad Four is the group of countries that are really actively promoting the enlargement agenda. And in that sense, they advised us what it is that we should focus on in order to speed up our European integration, indeed, practical things, practical solutions, but we, in parallel with this, launched an initiative much closer to the co-operation of the Visegrad Four and the Republic of Serbia itself, in the format V4 plus one. Unfortunately, the crown got in the way. I believe that in 2020 we would do much more than we did, so I expect that by the end of 2021 and, of course, in 2022, we would see the results of this work and the efforts we made during the Coronal virus, which could not be visible, because we simply couldn't physically meet and have these meetings and summits. In parallel, we are working to improve bilateral ties with all these countries, both Hungary and Slovakia and the Czech Republic and Poland. I would once again, here in this home, take the opportunity to thank the President of the Czech Republic, Milos Zeman, for his apology, which means a great deal to me as a citizen of the Republic of Serbia, and I think it is addressed in the presence of a person, President of the Republic of Serbia Alexander Vukic, who has done the most for never closer bilateral ties and relations between the Czech Republic and the Republic of Serbia, thanks to what the politician Milos Zeman has felt the human need to apologize to all citizens of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia. I think it's a brave act, a human act, for us a historical act and that there are many changes in future talks on the crimes that NATO has committed against the Republic of Serbia and all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, whether they are Serbs or other nationalities. They attacked us equally. They have equally committed aggression and crime against us, and we have suffered equally. So we are certainly continuing to co-operate with Visegrad Four, something that is very important to us in every sense, both politically and economically. Once again, thank you to the President of the Czech Republic for what he did. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-27-0.u7297	The word is made by Minister Atanaskovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-27-0.u7298	Thank you. I'm just going to add something to my co-operation with Hungary, since I'm co-chairing with Hungary. I must say, we have excellent cooperation with the state of Hungary. From June 3rd to June 5th, we host Mr. Sijart. I will take the opportunity to propose these topics perhaps for our bilateral talks, and I must also say that it brings more than 60 businessmen who will be present in Serbia during that time and will have the opportunity for our businesses to report and take advantage of the opportunity for co-operation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-27-0.u7299	Thank you. The word has Minister Momirovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-27-0.u7300	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Thanks for asking. Of course, you have given through the question somehow and the answer to how advanced they have been and how high-quality relations Hungary and Serbia are, but somehow it always goes under the radar so that we and the Hungarian Government can carry out the biggest rail project in Eastern Europe. It's that fast track between Belgrade and Budapest. We are constantly focused, first of all, on this part of Belgrade to Novi Sad, which should be completed by the end of the year. At the end of the summer we start to invest from Novi Sad to Saturday. It will be the fastest and most modern railway in Eastern Europe. And that's something that will really completely change the perception of all the citizens of this country when we talk about rail traffic. It is something that we have not seen before in Eastern Europe, not only in the Republic of Serbia, and the real triumph of this project will be when we can go from Belgrade to Budapest on a fast train. Budapest and Belgrade or Budapest and Novi Sad, Budapest and Subotica will never be closer. Our conditions for economic exchange and for tourism, social and any other will be even better and I expect that all relations will be further improved, although, objectively speaking, it is difficult to be better. We really have the best historical relationships, I think, now, in our country's history. And within the framework of the project, we as the Government of the Republic of Serbia at the highest level, that is, in a conversation between the President of the Republic of Aleksandr Vukic and the Government of Hungary, committed ourselves to reconstruct part of the railway from Subotica to Segedin. It's a one-wheel, non-electrical railroad. Although Segedin and Subotica have a large traditional economic exchange, the railway is in very poor condition. We need to finish it, so that the Hungarian side can do its part of the fast track. We made a transparent public call to elect a strategic partner, which ended on April 12th. On May 7th, we chose a strategic partner. It is a consortium of three Serbian companies, one Hungarian and one Russian. We expect to move very quickly, or first sign the contract, into the works. It is our obligation to complete this by mid-2022, to allow the Hungarian government to make investments in its work. I say, we expect in five years to finish the entire fast track from Belgrade to Budapest. It will be a success that has not been seen in Southeast Europe so far. Maybe we can just compare to building Gerdap. It'll be a revolutionary investment. It's going to be something brand-new. It will indeed be a pride for all citizens and for Serbia, as well as for Hungary. Of course, the investment of Subotica – Baja, technical documentation has been made, it is with the Republic Reviszione Commission and I expect that we will open the space very soon for work. I mean, the investments that exist in the railway infrastructure, where, of course, here, first of all, I'm talking about high-speed railways in Vojvodina and communication with Hungary, it hasn't been seen for 50 years. It's something that will change the full communication of our two countries. I am truly very proud and thank you, of course, to the Prime Minister and the entire government for having the opportunity to be part of these projects that will remain recorded in history. You said yourself, the Horgos border crossing isn't enough to withstand all the inflow of passengers, we've separated 520 million dinars, we're going into realisation and expansion of that border crossing after the tourist season, is it crazy to go now, we'd just make an even bigger problem, we're going further into investment next year. We plan to invest an additional 1.9 billion dinars over the next two years in order to really enable even more quality communication between our two countries, and I think that's something that everyone must welcome in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-27-0.u7301	He's got a word, Balint Pastor.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-27-0.u7302	Thank you. I would like to thank Mrs. Prime Minister, Mrs. Angelko Atanaskovic, Minister of Industry and Mr. Momirovic, Minister for these answers. We really need to work to improve relations with the Visegrad Group countries, these are our friendly friends in political and economic terms, which has been proven on several occasions. As for these railways and investment in railway infrastructure, yes, I agree, revolutionary investment is a railway between Budapest and Belgrade, but, let's say, in Subotica and the environment of Subotica, it also makes this other investment in Subotica – Segedin because it will lead to maximum mobility. It will absolutely be possible for someone to live in a village in the area of the town of Subotica and work in Segedin or to study there, or vice versa, so absolutely open space. What happened in western Hungary between western Hungary and Austria in the early 1990s, and even more after Hungary joined the EU, will certainly affect the standard of citizens in both economic and other terms. What I said in my previous address, I would only like to present a few data at the very end about economic co-operation between Serbia and Hungary. Over the past 10 years, the value of the trade in goods has increased by 86% in the relationship between Serbia and Hungary. The trade exchange of the two countries was even last year, which was burdened by the curved growth and amounted to nearly two billion euros, and Hungary is Serbia's third partner economically from EU members. What I would also like to say about the joint session of the Commission for Economic Co-operation of Serbia and Hungary, for infrastructure projects since February 2018, which have been identified as priority, 1.2m euros have been allocated from the Hungarian side to the Republic of Serbia. Thank you again for your answers.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-27-0.u7303	Thank you. The word is Dragan M. Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-27-0.u7304	Dear President-in-Office of the Assembly, the respected Prime Minister with ministers, dear fellow MPs, respected Serbian citizens, I will ask three questions to Minister Krkobic. According to the country's Committee for the Revival of the Villages in Serbia, there are 150,000 houses that have owners, which are not used and there are 50,000 houses that do not have owners. You have announced that your Ministry will buy some of these houses and will share them with young people, and I would ask you to explain and provide us with more information on how and criteria they share these houses. As for young people, they are aware, they know that this country has invested a lot in the infrastructure now and colleagues have talked about and ministers, and they know that, in some ways, the villages are getting closer to the cities and far easier to live in villages especially the infrastructure that is announced, above all, I mean communal as well as this part of what Minister Joksimovic mentioned that the internet will be accessible to minorities in every village. But young experts ask whether they can have some benefits, such as a well-favoured job internship or increased earnings if they return to live and work in villages. Well, that's where my question is being considered. Is there even some possibility that it might be possible for them to meet at some point in time? As far as the third migration issue is concerned, not only Serbia is facing it, but European countries are meeting and they have taken certain steps to stop emigration and bring young experts back to rural areas. In Germany, it is a similar situation as you want to do here, namely local self-government grants to young experts to buy houses and rebuild these houses. In Italy, let me say, perhaps that is the most and the most done, namely there is both state and private companies and to say young farmers, experts have somehow joined together, first of all, about ethnic tourism where they have developed to say all that is needed for a life where, in fact, from young experts, doctors, engineers, educators live in these villages, they work and stay. So my question is, are you considering the possibility of launching a dialogue involving business operators, so that they can also be involved in the restoration of the village? That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-27-0.u7305	Thank you. Minister, here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-27-0.u7306	Mr. President of the Assembly, Mrs. Brnabic, honourable MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, the honourable MP asked three questions, but if he would allow me to speak briefly about all three issues so that I would not take the time. Before him, MPs were asking exactly the same questions, and they concerned the position and improvement of the quality of life of people in the country, especially women. We have heard from the Prime Minister encouraging things about new legal solutions aimed at certain gifts for women in the country, especially young women, to equalize themselves in those rights with those in the city. At the same time, I am happy, but it means one and a financial commitment but also our obligation to realize it, to expand the Internet and mobile signal, if I have heard right here at some 600 settlements in Serbia. It's an important and powerful step. When we talk about the quality of life of people in the country, especially women, we have to bear in mind a simple fact that in Serbia today, these very women in the country are the most endangered. They do not have regular and safe earnings, they are not nearly covered by pension and disability systems, and the social benefits that are directed towards them are very restrictive. Rightly so when we go to Serbia, when I talk to you, we're going to meet up with questions like this. The quality of life, respected MPs and citizens of Serbia mean a regular and secure profit, but a profit that allows a decent life. The quality of life implies a large number of people and a regular and secure pension, but a pension that also allows decent life. There's nothing less important than that roof over your head, which you were talking about, but also the infrastructure. The quality of life means both the road network and the water network and the sewerage network and the electricity voltage. The quality of life includes education, means health care, but also the cultivation of cultural traditions. It's highly interlinked and conditioned. All this together requires a well-designed approach, I think we have it, from what we could hear, and it requires a lot of money. We need to be realistic, to change, major changes that are heading towards analizing differences between urban and rural areas require extremely large funds. Is the state of Serbia ready? They'll be as ready as we can to keep this economic activity going at this pace. If we talk about these rates of six and more percent, then we can count on that president's investment plan, which is very ambitious, of 15 billion euros to be realised. Why am I talking? You mentioned, I'll be right back on the subject, local roads. The plan envisions 5,000km of local roads. Three billion euros for water and sewerage for 80 local self-government south of Sava and Danube. It's an extremely large investment. To get to them, the rate of growth has to be adequate, but let's take it in order. We've got highways, the minister's here, he's saying it, he's explaining it. Whether it's historic or not, it'll show time. I'm mostly stopped on the ground by people asking about these local roads, access roads, asking me about the Atharic roads. It's a pain that bothers them, and we have to pay special attention to that. At the same time, in the concept of the houses you mentioned, there is alarming, in my opinion, an extremely worrying data presented by the Academy Committee for the Village of the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts. What do these people say? Nearly 200,000 houses are empty in Serbia, 150,000 houses have owners, but there are no residents, and 50,000 houses do not even know who the owners are. Slowly, but surely the houses are empty in the edges, and that's the answer to the third question. The security aspect is extremely important and in the next period, we are now giving one legal answer to this, we will make an effort to make these empty houses in different parts of Serbia available, first of all, through a programme to help buy such houses. This will be interesting precisely for those people who will participate in that public call. Who are we counting on? These are primarily young farmers, young couples under the age of 45 who live in joint households in the country. This is a chance to get their roof over their heads. At the same time, this is a single call. Another piece of information that will be interesting for Serbian citizens. Once again, the Academy Committee data that 250,000 young men, conditionally put, up to 45 years old and 100,000 girls, again conditionally, up to 45 years of age, are unmarried. This will be a chance for them to try to start their own households. It's the first group of people we've assigned these houses to. Another group of people, these are people of knowledge, people of skill, people who want to go to the country, and these are people of medical, veterinary professions, technologists, agronomies, but I also said people of skills and certain crafts. It's another group. The third group of people we count on is a group of people currently living in cities, and they intend to go to the country to deal with some basic interests related to the village, but I'm going to expand it here a little bit. This is also directed at young people who work in Belgrade today, Nis, in large cities and are engaged in so-called "The New York Times". Homework. So I don't list them -- programmers, and so on. We're going to try and get these people to buy them houses, and they're going to do these jobs from those houses. The project is ambitious, worth half a billion dinars and will soon be in front of the Serbian government. We expect that together we will all make these first houses the first tenants. In this first cycle, we count on some 500 to 1,000 houses. Value, and this is very important to mention to these people, the value of these houses will be somewhere up to a million and 200,000 dinars. Of course, these are the funds that are enough to buy the largest number of houses currently in Serbia. As for the second part of the question, MP Markovic, who you cited, and you rightly touched him, in what way, in border areas, to bring young, quality people into the border? Of course, regular, safe profit, and a good profit. We need to respect some experience from Europe, to allow these people to make that profit double or even more. At the same time, I expect that in some discussions with the Ministry of Finance we will open a story about the so-called a system of positive discrimination, to influence certain measures of fiscal policy, to go on certain releases of these people taxis, companies, all those things that further burden business and allow those people to, if they wish to perform their work under more favourable conditions. A set of all these measures that I'm talking about today requires that we be defined, I repeat, organisationally, that we have precise plans. When we talk about infrastructure, I advocate the establishment of a fund for infrastructure to have a mapped Serbia, where we would have precise agendas to realize these things. The third part of it is all the financial resources that must, I repeat, be extremely large. It is the only way to improve the quality of life in the country, to slow down the migration of the village-city, so that these powerful roads we have made are not roads in one direction, but to be two-way. I don't want people from the village to go to cities and abroad on these big roads. I want those roads of people from Europe, what the Prime Minister said, to return to Serbia, to their places, and that some people living now in large cities decide to return to Serbia's interior. It is a job that implies a precise law established partnership between Serbia's urban and rural parts. A big, big job in front of the state of Serbia requires, I would say, a consensus, because there are few issues in the state of Serbia that need to reach a consensus on this issue. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-27-0.u7307	Thank you. The word is Dragan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-27-0.u7308	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. In addition to all these things we talked about, if they happen and if the state has the means to increase the wages, I'm sure these migrations that you spoke of and the Prime Minister will now be from the city to the village, young people, experts. I'm sure they'll have the motivation to work in a small environment for double the salary. If we consider all this infrastructure that we are talking about, surely their lives will be easy and accessible to reach the city if they want to meet some needs they don't have there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-27-0.u7309	Dragan, you're not going to keep up? Is that right? (Dear M. Markovic: No. Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Justin Pupin Koscal.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-27-0.u7310	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear government representatives, fellow MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I ask my question to the minister of education, science and technological development, Mr Branko Ruzic. In view of the fact that children today are incomparably less moving, leaving lasting consequences for their development, health and working ability, is there any possibility that the physical education fund can be increased in lower grades of primary school, from first to fourth, to five times a week, as well as that with preschool and younger children, besides teachers, water teaching and physical education teachers because it is very important that the youngest work the most professional when? This has already been discussed at the level of the Association of Pedagogical Culture and the Union of Teachers of the Republic of Serbia and a principle agreement has been reached that it is possible to implement the idea without reducing the teacher's fund. Talks on this subject were also conducted with SANU in time. Physical activity has great importance for each of us, and for children of preschool, younger, or primary school age is invaluable. And why is that? Because in child development, there are times when physical abilities develop, and that's so-called. a sensitive period. This sensitive period lasts up to 12 years, or 13 years of life, when daily exercise is necessary for most abilities, and if we miss that period, the damage is irreparable. In addition to biological, physical exercise has a positive effect on the psychological and social development of the child, which science has long proven. In the near future, the state will have a big problem, given that our children are getting more and more overweight, increasingly inactive and with an increasing percentage of physical deformities, scoliosis, cyphosis, flat soles and other malformations, and this problem will be manifested through reduced working capacity, both mentally and physically, as well as through high costs for the health care of the state. That immovableity is the main cause of type 2 diabetes in children is the latest research by scientists who have won the Nobel Prize for their discovery in genetics. The best way to prevent almost all diseases, starting with a common flu through degenerative changes, elevated cholesterol, increased pressure, diabetes, depression, and to heart and malignancies is precisely physical activity because it contributes to strengthening immunity as well as quality of life. The Corona has shown us in the best way the importance of a strong immune system and the strength of our need for movement that we often do not even realize. If we look at countries in the region, we will see that Hungary has introduced daily physical exercise and that Hungarians are the world's first sports nation by the number of medals won at Olympic games compared to the number of inhabitants. It's a historical responsibility on us to create a healthy and working nation and to create a system that will provide it. The sooner we do that, the negative consequences that are now extremely visible will be incomparably less. Because this is not a temporary question, but a permanent question of the nation's vitality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-27-0.u7311	Thank you. The word has the first Deputy Prime Minister, Minister Ruzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-27-0.u7312	Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you for this very constructive question and suggestion. What is institutionally important on our part is to point out that the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development in the adoption of new curriculas, therefore, new curricula and learning programmes in the framework of education and education reform, had in mind health and proper development of children and students, and I think that is something that is a priority in every sense. Physical and health education, as a mandatory subject, has a tradition that, as a result of new life habits, changes its goals, structure and content, and you have, of course, spoken highly of it, but it is our task to have a student through education and education experience this mental first but also physical progress and become as useful a member of society as possible. Because what it isn't, I'd say, is just one sentence or a parole, but it's actually true, and I think it's our intensity, which is that a healthy child is the foundation of a healthy state. When we look institutionally at what we are doing so far and what is this concept that has been applied, therefore, in the first cycle of basic education and education based on the teaching plan, students have three hours of mandatory subject, physical and health education, and this subject is next to the Serbian language and mathematics practically with the maximum weekly number of classes, and thus the annual fund of classes, which comes at about 100-108 hours. Within the framework of, of course, extracurricular activities there are certain forms of work such as sports-recreative activities, Sundays of school sport, activities in nature, such as crosses, sports days, summering and wintering, and what is also important is that teachers are firstly directed and educated to, in this case, talk naturally about teachers who, in the context of their initial education, had a method of physical education, through the regular teaching of physical and health education, provide simple regular physical activity of students. Teachers of class classes, i.e. teachers, also cooperate with teachers of physical education, and the next 21/22 school year is the fourth year of the application of new courses and learning programmes. We're going to run an analysis, and based on the results obtained, we're going to use the plan and program in the best interests of the students, because what follows us is the fact that, in addition to this physical activity that used to be, and hopefully now was a priority, we have a parallel with it and the use of various digital content, commitment to many apparatus, equipment, tablets, laptops, various games that practically take time. In a way, they also degrade what is the intensity of a healthy educational process. So I really thank you for this question and certainly that the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development is taking great care of this and that we will respect this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-27-0.u7313	Thank you. The word is Justin Pupin Koscal.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-27-0.u7314	I thank the Honorable Minister for your reply. I would use the next three minutes to refer the next question to the culture minister, Mrs. Maji Gojkovic. Lately, we have witnessed the adoption of cultural heritage of Serbia, which is preceded by representatives of temporary institutions in Pristina, who first defiled, burned and destroyed Serbian monasteries and worms throughout the KIM, and then took them in, wanting to prove that they were here before us, that they were actually building the duties of Serbian rulers. This kind of attempt to falsify culture, and thus and history, we witness daily, and this is a blow to our history, origin, culture, national identity. On the other hand, thousands of Serbian relics, manuscripts and other examples of immaterial and material heritage from different periods of our history have been scattered around the world. There are different reasons. I'd like to give you some examples. First, the disappearance of two cases with the 56 most valuable Serbian manuscripts held by the National Library in Belgrade until then. In World War I, they were to be evacuated, but they disappeared at the railway station. There was also the Hilandary Krisovola, two of the only writings in September, four Gospels in Prague and St. Petersburg. Then, the Ilovic copy, by the law of St. Saves from 1262 during World War II took Ustashas from the monastery of St. Archangela Michaela on the dress and take her to Zagreb, where she is today. It is little time to list all examples, but it is clear that with the disappearance of cultural and historical documents, it does not accidentally erase part of our identity and facts about the history of the Serbian people, and that is to be acknowledged, forging our history. For these reasons, I would ask the Minister of Culture – does the Ministry of Culture plan activities to ensure the return of our most valuable artifacts to Serbia? Earlier, it was said that the Ministry of Culture would form a fund from which the activity would be financed. Whether the Ministry is considering forming a single register of material and immaterial cultural heritage of Serbia, to prevent the falsification of our history and culture and to preserve the legacy of our ancestors from all historical periods, as well as traces of cultures that existed in the area of today's Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-27-0.u7315	Thank you. The word has the vice president and Minister Maja Gojkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-27-0.u7316	Thank you very much for this extremely important question for the Republic of Serbia, above all for our people and for preserving our national identity. To begin with that the idea was once to form a fund within the Ministry of Culture and Information that would be used for ransom, when we have already found some of our work from a legacy located outside the borders of the Republic of Serbia or located in Serbia, but it is not in the hands of the state but sold, as we have recently had an example of these bids by bankruptcy managers or some private person wants to sell some significant piece. I think that this may be a way of taking into account the protection of cultural heritage, to seriously consider and form a commission at national level, therefore, the state commission as many countries have found themselves doing and are in a similar situation as our Commission is now at national level, for the return and purchase of important artifacts for the history of our people. That was what Melina Mercury used to do when she was the minister of culture in Greece, in her own time, later and European Commissioner for Culture. She was remembered for fighting for the return of the Greek treasure, which was all around Europe, which seized their artefacts in time. And today this battle is being fought, not to say war for the return of the Greek treasure back to its queen. We can only, on this positive case, one of the countries that is close to us, learn something and really form a commission at national level, a state commission that would deal with and vomit, but also buy out cultural heritage. You mentioned the last event and the event and the attempt of the temporary government of the so-called. self-proclaimed Kosovo states to steal part of our national identity by writing letters to certain statesmen, presidents of states, mostly European countries, but also to the leaders of UNESCO and other international organisations dealing with the protection of cultural treasures, claiming that something belonging to or belonging to the Republic of Serbia, the SPC, above all, and to our cultural heritage, belongs now magically to one of them, falsely representing and falsely presenting that they have some kind of cultural institution, erasing our name or prerogative Serbian. It is very interesting, and there is a dangerous intention that those in the last letters began to abandon that prefix of Serbian Orthodox monasteries and began to use only Orthodox monasteries, which can be seen already, because we had such practices in our region, that they might try or intend to create some kind of church that would replace the SPC in the territory of our southern Autonomous Region of Kosovo and Metohija. Of course, we should share all the concerns about this last event because we see from day to day that they are islanding and throwing away, having some new tactics and dealing only with culture, cultural heritage, their attempts to build some identity or national and cultural identity by stealing what we all know to belong to the SPC and Serbian cultural heritage for centuries. And the president of the state made such statements and the Prime Minister, all members of the government, the Ministry of Culture and Information. Each such attempt will be equally and even more strongly answered because we do not allow someone, when trying to steal a piece of our territory, to allow us now to steal SPCs, to steal monasteries, to steal our icons, to steal our sacred ones. They work here and write letters across Europe that destroyed thousands and thousands of our relics in that terrible pogrom in 2004. None of us in Serbia, as long as he's alive, forgets that scene when one of the Albanian terrorists and secessionists climbed to the top of the SPC, one of the saints, manasted and tried savagely to take off that cross. That's the concern the Pristina provisional authorities are talking about, how they allegedly care about cultural heritage in KIM territory. They are not members of UNESCO and are trying to communicate with this important international organisation. Calling on Ahtisaari's plan can only make fun of us to challenge because Ahtisaari's plan has never been adopted. We have to remind them that when they write something, there are those of us who live in the same country where they live in the Republic of Serbia, who know much more than they do, and we can teach them something, which is to tell them what was adopted, and what wasn't adopted by international acts and it's only our territory in the Republic of Serbia that now has some sort of temporary status. I say, they are not a state, they are not members of UNESCO, they are all artifacts, cultural heritage in the country of origin, they are located in the Republic of Serbia. Therefore, the colonel has no one to write. I think they've completely missed the topic, but we need to be careful, because there is no stronger and greater political intention than that they have now, every day, a topic of culture and the cultural heritage of Serbia located on KIM territory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-27-0.u7317	Thank you. The word is Justin Pupin Koscal.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-27-0.u7318	I would just like to thank Minister Maja Gojkovic and Minister Branko Ruzic for his answers, and I hope that both the Ministry will find a way to implement those ideas in the works that benefit the Serbian people.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-27-0.u7319	And the last MP, the People's Parliament, Jelena Žarić Kovacevic. I don't know if I made a mistake, and I probably did, but I haven't got a manual yet whether I should say MP or a letter. The word is Jelena Žarić Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-27-0.u7320	Thank you, President Dacic. The Honorable Prime Minister, the Honorable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, what always bothered me was the deception of the public, deliberately or out of ignorance or lack of information, does not matter. I think it's without a foundation to place a title like that -- only the rich will be able to sue, or litigation will take longer in Serbia. It certainly isn't right, because they bring unrest amongst our citizens, the least of all. I'm saying this, first of all, because I don't know if you Prime Ministers or any minister have had the opportunity to explain and give some answers at the invitation of certain media or portals. So today I want to ask the question, primarily Justice Minister Maji Popovic. As a rule, of course, these are always the media that are under the control of Dragan Gilas, it is amazing, you will agree that there is such a coincidence that absolutely every topic is used against the work of the Serbian Government, against Alexander Vukic, because now we can see how the President of the Republic is even getting in touch with the alleged bad changes to the Law on Prosecution, which are being prepared. So, first of all, because of the citizens of Serbia and the interested professional public, I would like to ask you, Mrs Popovic, how do you assess the demands of the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on Prosecution, from the public debate, which began on 19 May? Are the draft laws which are in line with the practice of the European Court of Human Rights, the Constitutional Court and whether similar or similar solutions exist in parallel law, i.e. in parallel practice? What strategic framework was important for draft laws and is the adoption of this law a condition for progress in the European integration process? Today I have a question for another minister, and this is Mrs. Marija Obradovic, Minister of State Administration and Local Self-Government, when I mentioned earlier certain media controlled by Dragan Gilas and certain portals, when we are talking about the untrue and malicious allegations of these media, but also of Gilas' fighters, I would like to ask you – how do you comment on media announcements that a marijuana farm has been found on some of your property in Gakov? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-27-0.u7321	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Maja Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-27-0.u7322	Mrs. Žaric, thank you for this question. It is about the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on litigation. They showed up in these media headlines that this law was made only for the rich, that poor citizens would not be able to exercise their rights. They're absolute lies, untrue allegations. We have just launched a procedure for its adoption for reasons under 1 - because this is foreseen by the Action Plan for Chapter 23. The most important reason for the launch of a working group to draft this law was the overload of courts of litigation departments, first-degree courts, especially in Belgrade's First and Third Court, as well as the Court of First Instance in Novi Sad. In practice, we've come to believe that the courts are buried. Each judge has 2,000 or 3,000 cases in his work, so the first next hearing can be scheduled for a year, or even two years. The state had to react in a certain way, to prevent this situation, to say, the suffocation of the courts. And I have to say, the fact that this suffocation of courts has occurred precisely because of these actions that are so-called. Massacres, which have been launched due to bank disputes. At no point do I want to challenge the citizens of the right to seek the annulment of certain parts of the contract, the provisions of the contract, however, this is about the abuse of the rights exercised by the citizens, and on the basis of one loan agreement, they place more claims through several lawsuits. They work in a way, by completing one litigation procedure, and only after that they initiate another procedure, in order to prevent the court from bringing these proceedings together for reasons of the economicity of the proceedings. So we came to the situation that the Supreme Court of Cassation had to delegate, carry out a delegation of more than 95 thousand litigation cases and assign other courts to Serbia. Also, the aim of this law is the even burden of Serbia's courts. The idea is that judges who receive the same salary are evenly burdened. So the draft law also provides for changes to the provisions of jurisdiction in the sense that they will now be in charge of those courts by the prosecutor's residence. The proposal for the working group was such as to lead to a easier and more economical and certainly cheaper procedure for the parties. I must also point out that this working group was formed by me, as minister of justice, that it was made by the judges of the Supreme Court of Cassation, the President of the Commission, the President of the Civilian Department of the Supreme Cassation Court. That the task force is also represented by lawyers who have been delegated by the Bar Association, as well as other institutions. The fact that the lawyers didn't know who their delegates were, it's not the state's problem, it's the Chamber itself. We are also aware of the fact that there are different currents in the Chamber itself and that they are causing problems for each other, to say, these are some political bickerings within the Chamber, in which I do not want to participate, but I just want for the sake of the citizens' knowledge to announce that every citizen will be allowed access to justice. Since 1977, our law has provided for an institute of poverty law, so that every citizen who has no funds he will certainly be exempt from paying a court fee. There's also the possibility of paying a court tax on wars. What I heard in those media -- they can enforce courts by forced payment of court fees. It is true that they can, but it has been missed to say that this enforcement process also carries certain costs, which would mean that citizens would pay more in these executive procedures. I must stress another fact that the payment of the court fee is currently 35% in Serbia. I think it's normal for everyone in every country to pay a court fee. We don't have the opportunity to do it now and in some way commit people to doing it. For these very reasons, I want the citizens to know that the court fee hasn't been changed in the last ten years, that the legal tariff has changed, for example, a month ago at 30% has been increased. It is also very important to stress that the 75% tax in Serbia is 1,900 dinars, which you will admit, is not small. I also want to say that what was presented on TV "N1" in various stages of the lawyer is that the new provisions on the revision provided for by these amendments and additions will slow down the work of the Supreme Cassation Court, which is not true. He's about to speed it up. In the end, let me get this straight. We have a situation when the public debate in this law began on the same day that the public debate began certain lawyers went out, stopped traffic outside the bar. I think it's not a public debate on the street, it's a place where their arguments, where public debate is scheduled, and where lawyers, if they're unhappy with their arguments, will point out what they're unhappy about. I think we should put that back in the legal framework, not demonstrate force. I had talks with the President of the Bar Association, where we agreed that the public debate would last as long as we reached a consensus in favour of all of us.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-27-0.u7323	Thank you. Minister Marija Obradovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-27-0.u7324	Thank you, Chairman. Mrs. Žaric, thank you for this question. It is not pleasant for me, but it is certainly convenient, although it is not a matter of the government's concrete work, and in this three hours we should check the work of the government and ministers, it is good to explain some of the inscriptions about a Serbian government member, about the State Administration and local self-government, the vice-president of the Serbian Progressive Party's General Committee, and I believe that many people in Serbia have been led astray. I don't think they're confused, just mistaken. Namely, what Gilas is, and Marinika Tepic, and Jeremic and everything they have been doing lately, which is one fantastic lying contest. Whoever lies harder, fatter and worse, who will do that lie more damage by generating fake affairs, they think the SNS is doing damage. They are causing damage to Serbia. You don't like your country when you're generating affairs that reduce the work, effort and results of the president of the state, the Prime Minister, all of the members of the government, and you're also in parliament, who are deeply and seriously working in the interests of all Serbian citizens. So one Jeremy's errand boy comes up with, but I can't say he's made up, they've brought him finished material, a finished story, there's an interesting group, composed of different politicians, security guards, some other people who have an interest in me and the likes of me falling out of politics, and it's upside down, so we never think of coming back here. What they say is, if you thought politics was yours, so the political scene in Serbia is few of us, all of us who participate in politics, well, we'll have more. A few years ago on a farm in the Gakovo Agricultural Association, the Gakovo Border, a marijuana farm was actually discovered. The perpetrators are arrested, convicted, prosecuted, some are serving sentences, some are still out of the country on the run, and it is well known, the police are well aware, the security departments are determined to know that the whole story of the marijuana farm is over. The story was finished a few months ago. Minister Vulin in one apartment, which has nothing to do with this Gakov, also finds some amount of marijuana, but it's a story for something else. Then remember that some interested group that Mary, or some members of the Maria Obradović family and current ministers and vice presidents of the party, have one hectare, but ten kilometers from that farm, the Borderer Gakovo, where a farm was found a few years ago and they say – which we would not say that she was brought into contact, she, the people close to her, her family, so until she explains, we finished our work. In any case, they gave me a great deal of credit personally, to my family in particular. They upset us all and I apologize to my political organisation, certainly the Serbian government if I did any of them harm. In fact, this fake affair and this big sleaze that's been inflicted on my name, my work, my professional career, which has always been spotless, is immeasurable. I run the process against Miroslav Aleksic. After yesterday's hearing, where we also proved that truth is everything he says, but I haven't talked about the process for two years, I am silent, because I respect the court, after the hearing, Alexic came out with his willing journalists and, N1, Nova S and a bunch of their lying portals, conveyed that I admitted to owning the property. I said at that hearing that we really have a hectare in the village of Rastina, in the village of Gakovo near Somboro, which is ten kilometers from that mentioned farm or from any house where marijuana was found in Gakov, in this notorious now Gakov, otherwise there live wonderful people, indeed. I don't really have anything to hide. I'm sorry for the damage I've done to anyone, but I wanted people to know to be safe. I also know that some people in Sombor have also been led astray, so some other actions have produced, thinking it's true what I'm talking about, but it's a political game and I'm aware of it. What matters is, I'm not giving up on this. Alexander Vukic taught me everything I know today in politics and what I will ever know. I have earned my position both as an MP and as vice president of the party on his proposal, i.e. I was appointed to his proposal. I love the party very much, 13 years of honest political work. Many of you know me. I've helped many of you better understand politics and do your best. We don't have to give up. They lie, it's ours to tell the truth. True, hard work, dedication, love for the state, that will help you whatever stranger you belong to. I welcome my friends to the SNS, there's a lot of serious struggles ahead of us. You know, there's a lot of decent world in politics, even though politics is a very dirty business. Don't let them drive you out of here, let the truth be your guide, and we need to think about where we agreed to go, and then ask ourselves how long do we get? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-27-0.u7325	Thank you. The word has a folk emissary Jelena Žarić Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-27-0.u7326	Thank you for your answers. We are here to get the truth right now, because I know that you are sitting here in front of both the MPs and the citizens of Serbia are absolutely aware of the responsibilities that your seats bear and absolutely determined to introduce the citizens of Serbia to the truth. I'd like to continue with the Law on Prosecution, if Mrs Popovic doesn't mind. I, myself, have repeatedly talked about the results we have achieved in the area of justice and the rule of law. These results were, of course, primarily done to ensure equal and secure access to justice and that the application of the law would be unreserved, effective and appropriate, particularly in terms of expertise, so in this regard we discussed here both candidates for judges and prosecutors. However, the reaction of individuals who are directly or indirectly interested, so interested factors for the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on a litigation procedure, ended up on portals like returning our judiciary to the Middle Ages, as something that can seriously question the efficiency of our judicial system and the quality of the work of judges and all of this can cast doubt, in fact, on all the results we have achieved in the area of justice. For this reason, I want to ask you, since it has been carried out in the media that, let me say, a sentence that some proposals or objections will not be taken into account, once again, whether the proposals and objections or suggestions and everything that reaches the Ministry of Justice, or the working group, and that it is related to the draft law that we are talking about, therefore, to all interested persons, which I am also stressing, will be considered by the Ministry of Justice and the working group that has drawn up the draft of this law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-27-0.u7327	The word is made by Minister Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-27-0.u7328	As you know, public debates serve, to be respected, to hear reasoned suggestions. Of course we've just started a public debate, so we'll be open to all of the lawyer's proposals, if they are, argued in the right way. What you mentioned earlier, the fact that in some media, they've been telling stories that we're going back to the Middle Ages with this law, they're absolutely not standing. I can say that this law goes directly to the 23rd century, given that it also has provisions on court, on computer delivery, on video-conferencing, on e-mail and written delivery. Indeed, the application of these provisions will be postponed in two years, if this draft law passes, that provision. It will not be automatically for eight days from the entry into force of this law, given that both courts and judges have to get their equipment and dress properly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-27-0.u7329	Thank you. The word is Jelena Žarić Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-27-0.u7330	I thank you, Mrs Popovic, and thank you, Mrs Obradovic, for giving answers to my questions and for meeting some facts with the citizens of Serbia. I, too, want to thank you, above all, Mrs Brnabic and the entire government and ministers, for the support you are now providing in the process we are conducting, which are constitutional changes that are very important to us, but are not only important to the members of the government and to the MPs, they are most important to the citizens of Serbia. I want to thank you for always being there to, of course, with the President of the National Assembly, conduct a transparent procedure that hopefully leads to an absolute consensus and that we will be able to carry out these constitutional changes to the end as, above all, the citizens of Serbia deserve. You will always have support for Serbian Progressive Party MPs who, of course, follow the policy of Aleksandr Vukic, who is not only at the head of the Serbian Progressive Party, but also at the head of our countries. We have also shown in this mandate how we are working, in what way we are working, to support the laws coming from the Government of the Republic of Serbia and to present sometimes criticisms, but above all, the reasons why we support these bill proposals, because we believe that the positive effects will affect, above all, that the citizens of Serbia will only strengthen their support for Alexander Vukic, which they provide to him and to the policy that he, we, and you, together with him, because we want, above all, a stable country, we want the country in which the rule of law will be first not only because we have taken over certain obligations when we join the EU, or when we want to be a full member of the EU, but because we want to live in a modern country, in a regulated country, where absolutely every area, above all, will serve Serbian citizens to raise their standard of living and to be better in our country, but not only as in EU countries, but also to be better. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-27-0.u7331	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, since we are running out of time and the list is over a few minutes before 19 hours before we finish our work, I would like to thank the members of the government of the Republic of Serbia, Prime Minister Ana Brnabic not only for today's participation in the session, but also generally since this meeting is working. We're finishing our spring regular session today. During the extraordinary session, depending on the situation of the extraordinary session session, we will also look at this dynamic to address the MPs on the last Thursday of the month, but before that we will see each other at the special session on the basis of the vote on the amendment of the Constitution. I thank you. We are now finishing work in this part of the session on parliamentary matters. I thank you all for your participation. We're moving on. Now we have to vote. Thank you. [[After a break.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before we move to a decision on the agenda points, we need to determine the quorum. According to Article 88(5), The Rules of Procedure, a quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the voting day, exists if most of the total number of MPs are present at the National Assembly session. I ask the Members to insert the cards into the MPs' units. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 191 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and therefore there are conditions for decision-making. We're moving on to a decision. First item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law amending the ACCIAS Law I remind you that the National Assembly has carried out a search of the bill in principle, and since no amendments have been submitted to the bill, the National Assembly will, in accordance with Article 160(3) of the Law. Rules of Procedure, to decide only on the draft law in general. I put to the vote the bill amending the Excise Act, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. Stopping vote: total - 198, for – 198. I find that the National Assembly unanimously passed a bill amending the Excise Act. The second item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Complementarys of Personal Cards I remind you that the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, and since the amendments of the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs to Articles 1, 2 and 6 have become an integral part of the Bill's proposal, the National Assembly will decide only from the draft law in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the ID card in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. Stopping vote: total -199, for -199. I find that the National Assembly unanimously adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Personal Shorty. Third item of the agenda – Proposal for a LAW on the Protection of Business Secrets I remind you that the National Assembly has carried out a search of the bill in principle, and since no amendments have been submitted to the bill, the National Assembly will, in accordance with Article 160(3) of the Law. Rules of Procedure, to decide only on the draft law in general. I'm putting the draft law on the protection of business secrets in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. Stopping vote: total - 200, for – 200. I find that the National Assembly unanimously adopted the proposal for a law on the protection of business secrets. Before the end, I'd just like to thank everyone again. Today we are at the conclusion of the spring regular session of the National Assembly in 2021. I just want to tell you that since the beginning of the year, we held 17 sessions and discussed and adopted 108 agenda points. I want to thank everyone for my work, and I have to tell you that we're going to keep working, regardless of what's the end of the regular session, the truth, through the extraordinary sessions, as always, but especially because we have a fourth special session waiting for us, which I scheduled for 8. The proposal for a change of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, and will be met by our Committee on Constitutional Affairs, as well as the work related to the alignment and writing of concrete amendments to make this change to the Constitution appear, which means that in the next few months we will have another decision on the text of the amendment, and later the referendum. I also want to remind you that the amendment of the Constitution requires a two-thirds majority, which I have no doubt, of course, will be. I would also like to tell you that I called for the next session on Wednesday 9 June, where there are several laws concerning national databases for preventing and combating terrorism, several contracts, i.e. guarantees related to the construction of regional pipelines and reports of various regulatory bodies, the Commission for State Aid Control, the Republic of the Commission for the Protection of Public Procurement Procedures, the monitoring of the Public Procurement Office, the Report of the Securities Commission. Now, in the end, since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and decision on them, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the 13th session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2021. Given that we are finishing this first regular session this year, I invite you to welcome the Anthem of the Republic of Serbia. Intonation of the anthem. I thank you. I'm finishing a regular session. Thank you.
