ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-27-0.u2576	Thank you, Chairman. Dear President-in-Office, honourable Members of Parliament, you are presented with a proposal for a decision on the election of judges who are first elected to the judicial office, adopted by the High Council of the judiciary at meetings held on 11 and 16 December 2020. Since the High Council of the Court has announced the choice of judges in the "Official Messenger" and the daily list "Politicals", the procedure for verifying the expertise and competence of the candidates for the first time who are elected to the judge has been carried out, in accordance with the Law on Judges and the Rules on the Programme and the method of laying down examinations assessing the professionality and competence of the candidate for the judge to be elected for the first time. The high council of the judiciary is, on the basis of Article 13(3). Law on the High Council of the Judiciary, and on Article 51. The Law on Judges, established the motion for a decision to elect judges and proposed to the National Assembly the choice of judges by proposing to the Judge in the Administrative Court, Snezana Bjelanovic, a judicial assistant at the Administrative Court, to elect a judge in the Administrative Court, Ljiljan Korug, a judicial assistant at the Administrative Court, to elect a judge in the Administrative Court. Then, Srdjana Ostojić, a judicial assistant at the General Court in Požega, proposes to elect a judge for the General Court in Ivanjica, Sladjana Popovic, a judicial assistant at the General Court in Požega, proposes to elect a judge for the General Court in Ivanjica, Dusica Lekić Burlic, a judge at the General Court in Požega, is proposed to elect a judge for the General Court in Ivanjica. Here I would just add, you may have noticed that all the candidates from Požega, and that is because the Court of Justice in Ivanjica did not have its associates and its candidates from their ranks, which is the same district, the same area, so that they were selected judicial assistants from the basic court in Požega. Now we're going to the business court in Kragujevac. The election of a judge for the Business Court in Kragujevac, the High Judicial Council proposed Gorica Rasic, a girl's Božovic. Then, Snezana Bozanic, a judicial assistant at the Court of Appeal in Kragujevac, we propose to elect a judge for the Business Court in Kragujevac. In the end, Sanja Tomic, a judicial assistant at the Business Court in Nis, we propose to elect a judge for the Business Court in Nis. The detailed biographies of all proposed candidates are given in your materials, so I'm not going to burden you now, and you've probably already met their biographies. In the end, all I have to do is ask you to support VSS proposals for the election of judges who are first elected to the judge's office in the voting day. Thank you for your cooperation and your attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-27-0.u2577	Thank you. The committee's reporter is Vladimir Djukanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-27-0.u2578	Thank you, Chairman. First I'd like to congratulate everyone on the holiday. Judges who are elected today, I think they have a special honor because they're just choosing on the day we celebrate the saint who brought us the first legislation. Is there more honor for these judges and, of course, is there a bigger call for one legal responsibility, since they should in some way take some of what the Holy Sava left us. Now, I'm always glad to have some new young people, and I'm always kind of worried when I see that some older colleagues, who probably think they're supposed to be in court positions for life, fight so hard, to the point that they go more into politics than they really are judges. Then we have today, and it obviously bothers them when I sometimes turn around, I guess because they can't go through justice anymore as they've done until now, and then you see exactly, you have a play of certain characters from our judiciary, one by one in various obstructive media and the portals give statements, they're more concerned with politics. Then you just ask yourself, what are these people doing? Has anyone ever asked a question about their results and what their judgments are? Or how many times, for example, have some of them been brought to an appeal or before the Supreme Casation Court? If we took to watch those results, I think we'd grab our heads. The problem is that these people have managed to ensure to themselves that they are the only apologists of an independent judiciary and that only they can tell us what an independent judiciary is and that no one else has the right to accidentally oppose. You know, honest and honest judge, the one who does his job, it's one of the most important jobs in the country, he doesn't go on television to take pictures and not give interviews at a working time when the judge should work, but he sits in court and works. Especially today when we have constant complaints that we have as many items as you want that aren't solved, and it's all thanks to one scandalous so-called. The reform of the judiciary that someone did in Ms Malovic's period and what he left us today to have in some courts judges who have thousands of cases on their backs, in three lifetimes, they can't solve it. You know, that honest and honest judge sits and works, and whoever obviously decided to deal with politics and who wants to secure his own political position through the judiciary, he goes on TV, he paints, gives interviews, constantly criticises the government. Looks like you're here as an independent and just judge only if you spit on the authorities. If you happen to have said something somewhere - wait, there is a correct law, then you are the Wolf's judge, shame on you, etc. By the way, of course, the judiciary is independent, but every few verdicts are made against us because we have been sued by some of our fellow opposition colleagues. I don't mind, it's the right of the judge to judge, but I wonder if in their time it's a bold and single verdict to make against one of their political officials? We have a situation today to reach a verdict against the president of the state, to rule against the minister, to rule against the crowd of our MPs here. All right, the judiciary is independent, but I'm just interested in when it could have been in their time and what are people talking about today? What I will always be against, and I may be a minority, but I really can't and I won't accept that the Assembly has absolutely no connection to the choice of judges. It's a disaster. I will fight against it barbarously, because the congregation is part of the people. If a verdict is made “in the name of the people, ” there must simply be a connection, at least the first time a judge is elected must be here in the Assembly. Let's not make sudocrats. They don't mind that. Why? Because they want to go through this judicial authority that would be completely out of state, that they're harassing this country, because whoever controls the judiciary controls the state. We are required by abnormal demands, especially these foreigners, that they have full insight into our court proceedings, that they even have in prosecution investigations. Guys, how far does that go? Is that what they have in their countries? So let's get something like this started in their countries, and then they can talk to us like that, and not here they've found some judges who are allegedly marketing themselves, and that they're independent, they're going on television, and they're just making up affairs and targeted through these affairs, they're attacking power, I'm not saying that individuals and judges, and maybe even the presidents of the courts are obviously delivering some data from various investigations that are being conducted or from various court proceedings. I have to ask a question here, since I am also a lawyer in a particular case – how is it possible for certain media to first know about this case? I'm talking about N1 and Nova S. The entire indictments are quoted in the media, that I, for example, As a lawyer on this case, I haven't even been informed that the indictment has been filed. So what does it look like? What does that look like? And then they tell us how to put pressure. Anyway, here I am, I'm just gonna see if I can talk today and when there's a debate, but here I've used these five minutes simply to point to all of this. Congratulations to the future judges. Of course I'll vote in voting day. I urge all of you to vote for the election of new judges.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-27-0.u2579	Thank you. I just wanted to point out that the estimated time was five minutes after you overstepped it, and I realized that you've expanded a little bit, that it doesn't apply to these judges that we now have to choose. Let's move on now. These are the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups. As you know, the order of giving words is vice-proportional to the number of members of the parliamentary groups, so we're on our way. The word has been given to the People's Messenger Muamer Zukorlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-27-0.u2580	Thank you, Chairman. There's no need to justify what I say first. I think that procedure is familiar. The Honorable President, the Honorable Representatives of the Government, the Honorable People's MPs, ladies and gentlemen, the theme of the election of the Judges is very important and always challenging, whether it is as specific as today when we treat the selection of new judges, where we certainly need the main word, or concrete information about candidates, to bring out the MPs who come from these localities, but also our obligation is to address the issue of justice, i.e. the subject of justice and justice, because it is always, as I said, challenging, inspiring. That's how it's been since the ages and the world, and that's how it's gonna be as long as the ages and the world... My SPS colleagues, I'd like to ask you, if you can, you're too close. Thank you. So the notion of justice through human history is very inspiring to philosophers, artists, theologians and scientists. That's right today. That's why this subject needs to be approached as it deserves, certainly with an analysis of the candidates themselves, but as long as we don't achieve it, and I believe and therefore, in this way I participate, we're on our way to achieving what we wanted, and that's justice and justice in which there won't be an actual story that we had in the elementary school of Ere and Kadiya, where there was one law and one cytap when your cow stabbed my cow, and another law and another chitap when my cow stabbed your cow. It seems very simple, perhaps proselytic, but unfortunately it's not. Here, and after a few decades since I first met that story, it is still current and it in one very simple way actually represents what is the key problem and the key challenge of the judiciary. It's no coincidence that the very symbol of justice and justice is the scale that symbolizes fair scale, but what's the essence of this symbol is that the measured right when it's balanced, when it doesn't go over one side, then it's measured right. That actually means that those tases are representatives of certain extremes and never on extremes or in extremes or living truths, and especially not justice. There's always truth and justice in the middle. Where those languages actually meet, there's actually justice and there's exactly where we and as a society and as a state should be looking for our way. Every inclination towards an extreme means curvature, and one German proverb says that everything that is curved one day must fall. They know architects, builders of large towers, builders of large factory chimneys, builders of mundanes, builders of tall buildings, know well that building, that building, that skyscraper that is right, it is thin, it is also a motif, it is flexible, it swings and a way to check the verticality and regularity of a high object is actually looked at in its swing, so in its flexibility. So yet another aspect of truth and justice – if you are firm and exclusive, then you are not righteous. Where rigidity and exclusion are, there is a curve, and no matter how rigid and exclusive it may seem, it seemed firm, in fact its rigidity slowly tends to fall and such a phenomenon, such a structure, such a society, such a community, such a state, such a judiciary cannot survive and it always collapses. Through human history and experience, all empires lasted as long as they managed to maintain certain principles of justice in their system. The moment these empires began to give up certain principles of justice and to apply evil and injustice to people, according to citizens, they began to collapse, and eventually there was no salvation, despite military, economic and any other power. It was also confirmed through human experience that one system, an empire, one state, could never maintain control over one territory in the long run if they committed injustice or allowed injustice in that territory. It's a legality that's both historical and sociologically confirmed and that's why it's very important that we learn from these great historical and civilizational lessons. There are certain shifts, they should always be supported. True, we have a certain legacy, it is very difficult to achieve fully, to achieve the principle of judicial separation from the state. First in principle, even when you want it, it's very difficult, because it's very difficult to define that line where it's shared, because the judiciary of the state's constitution and because the constitution of the state is very difficult to make it completely separate and completely autonomous on one hand. On the other hand, the issue of judge control, so, if we want to apply to the extreme the principle of the autonomy of the judiciary? What's going on with the judge's control? What's the control mechanism? Now it's potential on the principle that judges are elected by judges. It is one of the fluids or one of the norms that the EU also prefers and which is treated with certain civilizational progress that we can agree on in principle. However, in practice and this can have certain anomalies and cause some negative consequences because they are judges and people, they are not some robots and some numbers, some machines that you can program and be just, they are people, they have personal interests, and they have both statistical interests and what is a mechanism for protecting justice, and justice of judges if complete control is left to control itself. If a man were to be the most perfect creature of God, a human being, he would be able to only have control, then there would be no need for other mechanisms of control, so we can't completely give up other control mechanisms. Certainly, that professional aspect should be assessed by the profession, but justice and the quality of the judge are not seen only in its expertise. Professionalism is important, but ethical quality and justice itself does not live exclusively in expertise, it lives in humanity, in dedication, in the determination of the judge to be just. However, experience teaches us that it is not always so, experience teaches us not only from the aspect of political information, but also from the aspect of our daily relationship and experience that we have in the places where we live. Experience teaches us that there's a lot of corrupt judges, a lot of corrupt prosecutors, a lot of judges who have their sponsors. Unfortunately, in Novi Pazar, we are still far from having a predominantly just judiciary. We have honorary judges and it is not fair and it is not good to put them all in the same package, but a lot of judges in the New Market Courts, both in the basics and in the higher with all these tributaries from Tutina, from Sjenica, we still have that practice which has unfortunately been established in the last decades, that there is known who is the judge, whether it is the criminal clans, whether it's local, political, tycoon or some other powerful people. That's the facts. Of course, someone's gonna say, so you keep talking about it, so nothing's going to happen. We're going to talk after all, we're MPs, we're executive power, we don't have mechanisms here, we have a realisation, but that's why we actually have a role not to be quiet as long as some anomalies don't correct themselves. That is why I call upon the Ministry of Justice, as well as the competent bodies of the judicial system and all other control mechanisms to engage in solving this problem. And I repeat what I've been saying and for some other segments of government, it's not possible that an ordinary citizen knows all of this, that he knows which judge is corrupt, that he knows which lawyer is the connection for certain judges. I'm very sorry that, here, I have a problem when I need a lawyer, so we don't have that lawyer anymore, we have a lawyer who has connections and has a price, and you know how much money it takes to save yourself from a serious murder, to get rid of this as much as it costs. Well, people it's a price list, it's a mess and you're living in that system where you actually have counters, you have gigs where you just weigh your own power, not more justice, and actually, the more powerful the rich can buy their freedom, and when they're guilty of this poor thing just so something doesn't happen to her, when it's best that she never gets sick and best that they never come to court. These are facts and they may sound pathetic, but these are facts and we must not be silent before them. Of course, in order for the whole story not to be at the level of title or the level of theory itself, we also have concrete indicators. I cannot overcome the issue of 20-year-old government in the municipality of Sjenica. So now that that power has been changed, I know it sounds strange, that it's hard for you to believe that if someone told you that the previous president of the municipality without any municipal decision, without any decision of the municipal authority, has, therefore, signed a contract for a gift of 800 acres of land on a cave, a certain tycoon, I don't know from where. So, no paper, no procedural decision. Yeah, now you're gonna be surprised. Now we're going to say -- is it possible, anything, dear God, but we can't lock that topic up on that. So, these people, this man, that government was, uh, running the municipality, usurped the municipality for twenty years. All right, they got the election they got, that's one aspect of the topic, but where was the state? Where was the judiciary? Where was the surveillance? Where were the inspections? Why is the state mechanism, the control mechanism, the police, the prosecution, the judiciary allowed it. What does that really mean? That whoever manages to usurp one piece of territory from citizens and state, therefore, on their mechanisms of political electoral mechanization, manipulation, abuse, and we already know what it was like there. This means that there is no more protection and control mechanism. We can't go through with it. We cannot say that it is normal for a municipality that has just over 30,000 inhabitants, or citizens, to leave the previous government five million euros in debt. Well, to pay back a million euros a year, they do not need one mandate to come to zero. We cannot say, well, my God, it has happened. But understand one more thing, that no one in that ruling oligarchy has been detained or heard. So, the prosecution of the moment she hears me talking here, when she hears anyone say this, it's up to her to process this issue, to open an investigation into this matter, and then to prove it. If I'm not telling the truth, or anyone's saying it's his fault, but these are just some parts of the truth. The Ministry of Trade and Tourism awarded Sjenica a year and a half ago to the Žari ski resort ten million dinars. It happens, I've heard it happens in various municipalities unintended spending of funds, I've heard of it. So, the funds that were given for something, they were spent on something else, but these are gone, there's no sign of them, people. There's no sign of them, they haven't gone for anything else, they're gone, ten million's gone, no one can, there's just a lead that's been paid into the account and there's more to be lost. How can we talk about normal justice, about normal prosecution, about justice, about us step forward? All of this that's done at the central republican level with regard to saving the economy in this difficult state, in terms of help, support, it's all good, but you know, the state with all its municipalities and parts is like one big family. You can't leave some kids hungry. You can't let some kid eat your beasts. So you can't have different parameters, different chitabes like Era and cadiya, so for one cow one law, for another cow another law. It's something that makes me actually treat the question of justice much deeper and much more seriously. So, what's the law? Otherwise, the law with the idea of coercion, with the idea of sanctions, is not made for the majority, because statistics don't require police either, the majority don't need prosecution or the judiciary, most of them are willing to act normally, but the minority actually needs legal repression and therefore the relationship to any form of crime, according to any form of crime, is not just a matter of relationship with the perpetrator, it's a question of relationship to the future and it's a question of relationship with other potential perpetrators. If it is allowed in the Chamber that this blasphemy, the mob president of the municipality, who held as a hostage, and that people for 20 years, to go unpunished, so it will be a message to others, it will be a message that it will be much better worth robbing the people, kidnapping them, destroying them, destroying them, stealing them, being corrupt, than being professional, honest, being it, being a service to the people. That is why it is necessary to shed light on these questions to the end, but not only to help this municipality, to give it additional resources, to enable these people to come out of debt and to show that it is possible otherwise, because we will actually have on stage, therefore, in that municipality the possibility of people comparing whether it is better to be a thief, like this previous one or not, like this one. If we leave this current or current government alone to leave them unprotected, we leave them where they still have connections because they obviously half drink, half of Sarcu gives, share with individual judges and individual prosecutors, because if it hadn't been so they'd have been processed long ago, because in that small municipality, we know who's having breakfast, let alone who's dealing with crime and who's robbing. Therefore, if we do not help those who did this to be processed, we will tell the citizens, that they should not choose those who will work honestly, because it is overcome, stupid, it is not in, but that they should choose the other ones. So these are messages that the judiciary should keep in mind, especially us here who choose judges. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-27-0.u2581	Before I give my word to Parliamentarian Sanja Jefić Brankovic, allow me to congratulate everyone who celebrates the school glory of St. Sava, congratulating the father of Serbian spirituality, culture and founder of the Serbian church and the enlightener, who is celebrated as a protector of schools, teachers and students. Also, I would like to remind you that tonight will be the opening of a monument to his father Stefan Nemanja, founder and founder of Serbian statehood and the leadership of the National Assembly will attend the act. Also, I would like to inform you that according to the relevant members of the Rules of Procedure, the National Assembly will work today in the event of a need and after 18.00 hours, with the intention of bringing forward the acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. The word has a folk MP Sanja Jefic Brankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-27-0.u2582	The Honorable President, representatives of the VSS, colleagues and fellow MPs, in accordance with the Law on Judges, concerning the decision on the number of judges in the courts, the VSS sent the Assembly proposals for decisions to elect judges of the administrative and economic court, which were first elected to the judicial office. A similar decision on the number of judges in the courts found that the administrative court has a president and 50 judges based in Belgrade, and operates through the existence of three departments outside Nis, Kragujevac and Novi Sad. Although the election procedure is very clear and precisely defined, I don't think it bothers us to repeat that the National Assembly is choosing on a proposal from the VSS judge who is first elected to office, with a term of office of three years. Under the Law on Judges, judges of the Administrative Court may be elected a person who is a citizen of the Republic of Serbia, who fulfils the general conditions for working in the state authorities, of course, has passed a judicial exam, completed a law school, has 10 years of working experience in the legal profession after taking the judicial exam and what may be most important is that he is professional, trained and worthy of judicial functions. The High Council of the judiciary, as you could see in the explanation, has made the motion for a decision very clear and tax-based, which are the procedures that were carried out in the election of the proposed judges, and I think there is no interference in this regard that these decisions, the motions for a decision, be adopted after considering today's session of the Serbian Parliament. However, I would take this opportunity to briefly address the current problems that arise in the Serbian judiciary, as well as what needs to be addressed in this regard, especially if we take into account the fact that the development of the judiciary is presented as one of the key, strategic priorities of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Very often you can hear the term of an inefficient judiciary, thus creating a complete wrong picture of the fact that the efficiency of the judiciary depends on and exclusively on the independence of the judges. On the contrary, I think that the efficiency of the judiciary depends largely on the factors that each action should carry out, so that judges can work independently and that the judiciary is ultimately effective. I mean the D.A., the inspection authorities, the police, etc. In response to the question, which are still the problems that we have with regard to Serbia's judiciary, I think that there is also a need to single out and unsatisfactory or inconsistencies of the laws that this intensive work is, here is the Assembly trying to coordinate, as well as the uneven burden of judges and judges and the absence of adequate professional training of judges. I think that the personal work of each of the judges, and how important and how important it is to perfect any business you do, even in the court business, is, in fact, the key to the success of each of the judges, individually. In addition to this, I personally believe that the continuity of a judicial call may be of paramount importance for the establishment of one harmonisation in relation to the conduct of the proceedings itself and that, as such, it must be guaranteed by law, but on the other hand, that it must also have taxed cases in which it may be the reason for its termination. We are witnessing that in the past 10 years, Serbia as a country has done a lot of work on judicial reform and reform processes, and they are largely, it can be said, conditions and difficulties in terms of the functioning of the courts, and here above all I mean the transfer of the case from one court to another, because of the new organisation, but all of this had one unique goal, which is that the new organisation of the courts can bring all the burden of these reforms in terms of improving and removing shortcomings in the work of the courts themselves. Another of the problems that occur very often in courts and which is also often mentioned is the existence of unresolved old cases and too long the duration of proceedings. I would mention a saying that is very well known to the lawyers, and she says, "Whoever judges quickly is in a hurry to repent." I don't think the essence of justice is at speed. Speed is expected from some other bodies that, in fact, by their rapid actions, can be conditioned further in a series of effective actions by the courts themselves. This is no excuse for the existence of old cases, it is no excuse for delaying certain cases, but it may be one of the reasons that condition the ineffectiveness of the courts mentioned earlier. I would say one example, since I come from Nis, an example of the Court of Appeal in Nis, which has been fully fulfilling its programme of solving old cases for several years back. In Nis, there is no, when we talk about the Court of Appeal, the old cases, if we count the duration of the proceedings from the moment they were admitted, to their final resolution. I can't say that such a situation is also at lower levels when I talk about Nis, but for that very reason, the Court of Appeal took responsibility for solving these old cases in the context, at lower levels, to help them overcome all the problems they have and their resolution, and we can proudly say that the results of such actions are good. Now in the basic courts in Nis, in a large number of basic courts in Nis, there are no older cases than four years counting from the moment the initial act was filed and I think it is one good thing and it should be commended. It is true that in the Supreme Court in Nis we have a drastically increased number of cases in work and it can be the result of the inflow of a number of cases, but I would also mention the existence of repetitive disputes. I mean those mass disputes that appear to be some kind of new dispute that the courts have never faced before, that simply have their own uncertain end. There is a possibility of their resolution and they are resolved in the usual law envisaged, but their completion simply cannot be predicted in advance. I think it's a matter that needs to be taken into account and to be looked at when finding a way to better function the courts in terms of decommissioning from the old cases. Another aspect to be mentioned in the context of improving the efficiency of courts is the unification of court practice, and it appears very often in cycles, and for this there are several reasons. All of us who deal with the legal profession know that the Anglo-Saxon legal system is largely based on judicial practice and that their judicial decisions depend largely on how judges act in the same or similar situations were and it helps them to create some uniform legal practice and, as such, create one legal certainty for those who seek justice and justice in court. Therefore, by adopting new or amending existing laws, it is no doubt that the need to agree on issues in question is being updated, because certain laws are being passed too quickly, due to the necessity of urgent response due to certain social events or as a result of changes to existing laws containing certain legal gaps which could not be observed at that time. I would also mention the emergence of a brand-new type of dispute, which, in fact, are not naturally answered by court practice, because the case-law with them has not met and has no appropriate answer to them, which also makes it difficult to resolve certain issues of law. Personally, I think there are a lot of mechanisms for equating court practice and that it can be one of the ways that we will agree on the conduct of all judges in the same or similar procedures and that it will create greater legal certainty at the level of the entire state. I also have to mention the High Court's contribution to this context, as well as its decisions and conclusions from its sessions, the session of the department in unifying court practice, they can be a good indicator that, in fact, we can solve problems where they belong. Therefore, there is a sufficient number of mechanisms to bring the issues in question into line and to bring court practice into line. Finally, it is not necessary for us to institutionalise the need for judges to sit down and agree on how a particular legal issue will be resolved, take a certain position and apply it accordingly, or lower levels. Finally, in the context of the efficiency of the courts, it is necessary to mention the Institute of Peaceful Dispute Resolution, in particular labour disputes. It's an institute that's relatively new to us, I can tell. Here, let me give you an example. Nis as a regional centre, as a university city, as a city of nearly 300,000 inhabitants in a recent survey, it has been found that a large number of subjects, in fact, do not need to settle disputes peacefully, which is because they are afraid of consequences, lack of trust in institutions, as well as their fairness in deciding. I remind you that Nis as a regional centre participates in the country's total GDP with about 5%, i.e. the district's GDP with 84% and it is a devastating fact that as many as 80% of the entities, in fact, and there is no intention of resolving a particular dispute before it actually becomes slow, that is, to solve a particular problem peacefully. I think that by working on informing the subjects in this context, we could do a lot of work, largely relieve the judiciary, relieve the courts of some procedures that simply take place in everyday practice and are very common, and they burden the court more than is necessary. And finally, I will tell you that the Social Democratic Party of Serbia parliamentary group will support the proposals of those decisions with one saying, which I hope will be our leader in the work of the court in some future period, which is that the laws are dangerous when they lag behind their lives but become even more dangerous when they want to get ahead of him. Let's not get ahead of him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-27-0.u2583	Thank you. The word has been given by the People's MP Mihajlo Jokic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. I beg you to state which member of the Rules of Procedure has been injured and to explain further. Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-27-0.u2584	A member of Rules 27, 103 and 105 has been injured. What's the agenda theme? The choice of judges. So we can discuss the persons who are proposed for judges and the way judges are chosen. I think the subject has been missed. We work under specific conditions, in terms of epidemics, pandemics, rationally, useful to all of us, is to be in this closed space as short as possible. I ask you not only to watch time but to watch content. I repeat once again, the topic and the selection of new judges, so we need to talk about the criteria on which judges are elected, whether something can be improved, whether something can be improved and specifically, about the persons that are proposed, whether we have or have no objections. The problem with the judiciary is another topic. I'm asking you not only to look at time as chairman but to follow and what he's saying, because it's been repeated three times and I just had to intervene. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-27-0.u2585	Thank you. I don't think I hurt the Rules of Procedure. We'll try to direct the course of the discussion. All authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups have 20 minutes at their disposal and the previous one spoke about the agenda. The assembly has taken all epidemiological measures. We all wear masks, you have plexiglas. If it's decided that we're going to work, then we're going to work, I don't see any reason to shorten the debate. The basic question is do you want to make the Parliament's vote in the day to declare the breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-27-0.u2586	I'm telling you one thing, you're talking the other. It's not worth it. We can't find a common language. I want to help all of us. I know we have conditions, but I'm saying, we need to be rational, that's what the Rules of Procedure is talking about. This has nothing to do with the subject. Talk about the court. Not everyone has to use their 20 minutes, talk for five minutes, but make it right.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-27-0.u2587	Thank you. It is not for us to shorten the right of the Messengers of the people to speak. The word is made by MP Branimir Jovanovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Export the correct member of the Rules of Procedure, quote it, explain if it is a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-27-0.u2588	Article 107(1) that the speaker may speak only of the item on the agenda. So when are we gonna talk about the judiciary if we don't do it today when we choose judges? We all need to understand that this is a parliament, a place to discuss. We can talk about concrete judges, but we can also talk about some of the principles on which the choice of judges is based, or our obligation is to as political parties, i.e. the representatives of the people to express our views on what we expect about the judiciary. So I urge you to allow the debate when we talk about the judiciary in those frameworks in which it is possible, of course, that no one goes off topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-27-0.u2589	Thank you. I really let it happen, as you saw it, and I thought there was absolutely talk about the topic of the agenda that is extremely important. I just pointed out that I do not want to shorten the right of MPs. The Rules of Procedure regulated how much time they have and so far they have discussed the subject of the agenda. I chaired the President of Parliament at the half-exposure. Do you want to make a statement in the voting day? (Branimir Jovanovic: No. I thank you. People's MP Life Starcevic as an authorised representative of the Single Serbia Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-27-0.u2590	That's what I was about to say, third time. The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, representatives of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, today we are in a position to discuss and elect judges who for the first time are running for the holders of judicial functions and it is an honor for me as an MP to be able to support these proposals and will certainly support the Single Serbia parliamentary group in the day of voting. Namely, the choice of judges is one of the constitutional powers of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia given by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia in its Article 99. We have been witnessing that a debate has been held in recent years about the need to give a higher degree of independence to judicial authorities and judicial officials than the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The debate took place several years ago and resulted in the government of the Republic of Serbia making a draft amendment to change the Constitution in that part when it comes to selecting judicial authorities and holders of judicial functions. The draft was analysed by the Venice Commission and gave its opinion. The opinion of the draft was also given by the High Judicial Council. I wouldn't like this opportunity to deal with the details of that debate in detail. I said, the point is that it was the intention to maybe give a higher degree of independence to the judicial authorities and legal holders than the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. More than once recently, the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has announced the possibility of launching procedures for amending the Constitution in the work. What is certain, Unique Serbia will take part in this process, as it takes active participation in all other social processes, but I must say at this time that the current Constitution in its Article 4 guarantees the independence of the judicial branch of power and this present constitution guarantees the continuity and immutability of the holder of judicial functions. This Constitution also gives constitutional right and jurisdiction to the National Assembly to choose the holders of judicial functions and the National Assembly is a reflection of the electoral will of the people, so this analogy itself is a reflection of that will of the people, but that is not the essence I want to talk about today. In fact, we can make here an ideal system of selecting judicial authorities and bringing judicial functions. We can also provide the highest degree of autonomy to the same, and make that system unthinkable. Why? Because the system itself doesn't mean anything without people. What does that mean? This means that it is not all the way to the system, but to every single holder of judicial functions, to his expertise, to his training, to his commitment to work, to his, ultimately, personal, moral supervision and integrity. I also talked about it when we talked in the assembly debate on the Code of Conduct of People's MPs, when I said that no code, no Rules of Procedure on Labour can make 250 of us ideal MPs, because neither the Codex nor the Rules of Procedure mean anything without people and that many things to people, to their expertise, to their moral and other qualities. That's the way it is with the judges. A good judge is the one who is dedicated to the oath he has made to judge by law, by law and by law. The judge who holds on to his integrity and some general social and moral principles has been an independent judge so far. Such a judge will be independent in the future. Again, on the other hand, those whom, thank God, are very little, who have put their personal or perhaps political interests ahead of the general and interests of citizens, states and societies, they have never been independent before and they will not be independent in any system, because they simply have attached themselves to personal or other interests, not to the general or interests of citizens, society and state. Even more, Ivo Andric, whose board, is on the board, is proud to watch in this assembly hall, our Nobel Prize, wrote in his section "Signs by the Road": "They say that there is a place of true justice and full justice. It is a place where truth shines like the sun that never sets, where justice reigns." When it comes to skeptics – where it is and if there really is such a place, he wrote: "This is between us, where we stand. Be courageous, honest, steadfast, humanitarian, reasonable, and just, and such a place will be everywhere your foot steps and your voice echoes. ” Of course, Ivo Andric said it much better, what is the essence of this story and, of course, much depends on the holders of the judicial functions themselves. Namely, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, in its Article 152, says, "The political functioning of judges is prohibited." We have a situation where, in certain political shows, every few people call a judge who does not express his legal interpretation and opinion there, but makes a political point, and it may be a good example that it is not all about the system, but that it is about the individual. We of Unity Serbia believe that the independence of the judiciary is a central, fundamental postulate of every democratic order that relies on the legal order. Also, we of Unity Serbia believe that independence of the judiciary cannot and must not be of value to ourselves, the purpose and independence of the judiciary cannot be viewed as a privilege of one branch of power, nor can we and can we view it as a privilege for the holder of judicial functions, but only as a means to defend human rights and freedoms. In order to achieve this goal – an independent means aimed at protecting human rights and freedoms, each of the holders of judicial functions must give their maximum work in relation to their expertise, in relation to their commitment to work, in relation to their training, in relation to their best human character traits. Of course we need to shape, coordinate the system, including the judicial system, coordinate it with time and space, monitor currents that are current in the world, but we need to do it, first of all, because of us and because it is our need, not because someone tells us that we need to do it or impose it. Why? Because this someone on the side, these centres of world power will certainly impose on Serbia the right to force, and Serbia can and must only respond by force of law and should not be underestimated by the force of law, because it is very durable and we can see it in examples in the process that is happening in our southern province of Kosovo and Metohija and in many examples within our country, but also in many examples in the world. Let me get this straight. There's no government without people, so there's no court. There is no prosperity without justice and good politics. Unique Serbia stands for Serbia with the will of the people, not the will of individuals who want to impose their will on the people with the help of some on the side. A unique Serbia advocates Serbia's prosperity. A unique Serbia advocates Serbia's justice. That's why we're voting for these proposals in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-27-0.u2591	I thank the People's MP, Life Starčević. The following reportedly is the authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group, MP Tom Fila. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-27-0.u2592	Madam President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues representing all nations living in this territory of Serbia, as an MP and authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group in the voting day, we will support the choice of all these proposed judges. I trust the High Council of the Judiciary that he has spent everything he needs and that we have received suggestions for the people who deserve that function. Of course, I hope we never question these people's dignity again in three years, because that's a provision that shouldn't exist. As for the election of judges, I hope that it will remain the authority of this assembly to have the first choice of judges in the Serbian Parliament. I don't think it's a good idea for ten people to decide later who will be and who won't be the judge. About everything else, about the composition of the Supreme Judicial Council, about changing the name of the Supreme Casation Court, because these are grandmothers and frogs, can't the Supreme and Cassation together at all. That's all the formal stories we're going to do, I hope. What fell into my eyes and what stings when we talk about the judge's choice. How is it possible that there is no one interested in Ivanjica? He is not worthy to be the judge of the Municipality of Ivanjica. Imagine your Valjev coming from Belgrade to be your judge, because there is no interest and there are no employees in Valjev who deserve it. (Mihailo Jokic:...) from Baja's Garden. That's not good.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-27-0.u2593	Please, no throwing or addressing each other directly. Go on.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-27-0.u2594	I just said what I said. That's one remark that hurt my eyes. I'd imagine myself at the Department of Justice, and also in your High Council of Justice for such phenomena. The European Commission has made objections to Serbia's judiciary. I didn't come up when it was the agenda issue of the session, because the previous MPs spent their time and then I won't go back. But one piece has been accepted and it is the government's re-proposal to decide on a change of constitution. What I want and what I think I'm saying on behalf of all the lawyers here and all of us who want the good of the judiciary, that the sooner we get on the agenda here, let's see if you government think you're making any sense of that initiative of yours, or that we on the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, where I have the honour of being a member, and to arrange for us to change the judiciary, but just the judiciary, because then the referendum doesn't have to. If we push and change jurisdiction, then we have to go to the referendum and it'll take a lot of time. As the Romans say - Ad candas Graecas. It will never be finished, in any case not at the time of the meeting of this assembly. That is why he would like us to resolve this matter as soon as possible, for it will also depend on the authority of the congregation and what we will do in the future regarding justice. I remind you, in the 18th century, in 1740 and some years, Montesquie wrote a piece of De l'esprit des loix, which means in translation - the spirit of the law. In it, he proposed a change of power to legislative, executive and judicial matters, and stories immediately began. We have fair elections with the government, whether the ministries are large enough, they are not, whether they should have this or that. But the only thing that matters so far is whether the judiciary is independent. I stand for independent justice, but it can't be in heaven or on earth. We all depend on someone, we depend on voters, government on us. The judiciary must depend, at least in the first election, on this assembly. I want to remind you of the people who listen, the less they listen to us, but anyway, let's take advantage of the fact that in this room we no longer have the upper hand with the opposition over some things that don't matter. We can arrange the judiciary completely right, make the judiciary worthy of us, because we won't have obstructions from various statements and various ideas about ministries of unnecessary actions, etc. I expected that in front of this assembly, expecting that we have a single story Kosovo, one question I asked myself, the answer was according to Nusic. He has that in his autobiography, when you ask what someone's name is, he answers you -- my aunt plays the violin. I asked for something to be formed for Kosovo and to monitor the court's work in The Hague. They answered something I didn't even ask. I hope this is where the Department of Justice is going to bring it in. The Code of Criminal Procedure, which is unspoken and has some judge for a previous trial which was some investigative judge, now has some jurisdiction in custody, so something decides on laws, evidence, here or there. So it's a living clan - unpronounced. Do we need to see if the U.K.P.P.P.D. should be in the D.A. or whether he should be in the D.A. or at least at the Department of Justice to do his job, and the I.P.P. is sufficiently uniform police. That's all it takes to work effectively, to choose the right judges, because these judges have to be interested, to be there, to compete ten to one, not to import from another city to Ivanjic, because there are no interested. The justice ministry has a chance that they will never have, to take advantage of this parliament, to clear the laws, to clarify certain matters. I'll just name you as a lawyer, so I don't use more than half the time, so the Valjevac doesn't get mad at me for wasting my time. Let's see the problem of determining and holding in custody without a foundation where it grows to the measures of repression. It's like that all the time. You've got the public, arrest the man. Why are they arresting him? There's an extension of custody so no one knows why. He says - that's what the public is looking for. Well, it's not wax populi, vox dei. It's just a story, in Latin, not a public voice of God. We need to be expert. One DNA is being extracted today for months. It's a matter of hours. Instead, it's months. The presence of the defenders – where is the presence of the defenders when a confirmation of the seized items is issued? You can put whatever you want in there if there's no defense. How is it possible that the defendant has no insight into the case before giving the defendant's testimony, and that's what the prosecutor has? Look at the objects in the second degree. I'm telling you the remarks of my office, there are 14 lawyers there. Everyone wrote one comment, and I'm counting it on you. In the second degree of catastra, cases are resolved for two to three years by appeal. Where's the fit in the welfare centers? Where are the psychologists? Where are the pedagogues? It's all gone or not in enough numbers. In the end, the overload of Belgrade courts is abnormal, and that is why the gaps between the trials are twice a year and then someone postpones and ends. I won't hold your attention anymore. I want to say something very important. Either we fix the judiciary here or no assembly will ever arrange it, because now we have the opportunity to talk about the judiciary, not to talk about this and that and to solve it. And the Code of Criminal Procedure and Criminal Law to see if 15 to 20 years should be pronounced, 16,17, 18, not just 20, 40, then a life sentence. We need to see all of this, and once it's done, then we have to stand behind it and have a regulated legal system where the judge will be well paid not to be corrupt, because at a time of this failure, that's the nicest word I can say, judicial reform under DOS, because yet these people are going to retire slowly and now it's up to us to choose young people and people who aren't burdened with it, but to pay them right and to be apolitical. Thank you very much. I've saved eight minutes, Valjevac. I've cut it down.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-27-0.u2595	I would like to thank Parliamentarian Tommy Philly, the mandated representative of the SPS parliamentary group. Next, the last authorised representative of the parliamentary groups is the representative of the Electoral Group Aleksandar Vukic – National MP Gjorge Komlenski for our children. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-27-0.u2596	Thank you, Chairman. Comrades and comrades, ladies and gentlemen, distinguished colleagues, citizens of Serbia, respected representatives of the Supreme Council of the judiciary and the distinguished future judges we are talking about today, and I hope that tomorrow we will choose them, the topic is very delicate and the topic we are talking about today is extremely important. Most of the time, my colleagues who spoke before me made it clear what the importance of the judiciary was for the state. When I say justice, I mean both the judiciary and the prosecution. A state that does not have a stable judiciary, which does not have an effective judiciary, which does not have a sufficiently trained judiciary, which judges honestly and makes sure that the judgments are fair in accordance with the law, has no spinal column of the state, and then slowly threatens to bring down the justice system, regardless of all the other factors that are being worked well, the state is beginning to lose. It is obvious that a lot of efforts in the last 30 years have been made to make Serbia disappear from the country's face, that Serbia as a state has no stability, has no independence, has no independence and has no neutrality. I'll remind you, even though everyone already knows, that we have so-called. The division or balance of three branches of government and my opinion, which was lonely, I must say, three or four years ago when aggressively moving issues of constitutional reform are, I see that today is getting more and more, so to speak, support, i.e. fellow lawyers, first of all, but also ordinary citizens who understand the attitudes I have spoken of. If there is no balance of power, then that power loses any contact with citizens in whose name it should judge. If we allow constitutional changes to be arranged the way the judges choose judges themselves, decide on their progress, decide on the election of the president of the courts, we have not provided the courts with independence and independence in work, then we have completely alienated one branch of government from the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I honestly believe that's not going to happen, because I wouldn't repeat what the distinguished colleagues said. The President of the Republic is subject to citizens' control in the elections, MPs are subject to control and their work in the elections. We are talking today, and soon on behalf of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, we will transfer some of the government into the hands of new young judges, expecting them to be absolutely conscious and ready for what awaits them in their future work. If being a judge or prosecutor was enough just to finish law school, pass a judicial exam, then everyone would be judges and prosecutors. So, everywhere in the world, including in the Republic of Serbia, there must be something else, which is that citizens trust you through orderly procedures to exercise power. No matter how many lawyers want to be a judge or prosecutor, he doesn't get his wish, maybe even unjustly, but it's just the way it is. Those who are judges and prosecutors and those who will be elected judges or at another session for prosecutors should understand that it is not a job. Being a judge, being a prosecutor, and even being a lawyer isn't a job, it's a way of life. When you become a judge, you have not only subordinated your life to the state, to the citizens and to the fact that you are honest, honest, capable and worthy of using the authority that citizens give you in your hands, but also practically your families. Judges must be worthy, respected and respected. Honestly, I may have, not so many years old, but more old-fashioned education, so how did my teacher teach me at school, when she wants to say I shouldn't do something, she says – don't be like that and that. Since it is obvious that young colleagues should be told what they should not be, they should be told that they should not be falsely solidarity. What does that mean? The power you will exercise until your retirement, unless otherwise decided or something unexpected happens, you must act on behalf of the citizens. you must take care of the Constitution, the law and the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, not protect the failures and mistakes of your colleagues, because it is no ordinary business. Who is not capable of personal emotions, personal knowledge separates from decision making, is not capable of being a judge. I believe that this synchronization in establishing a balance of power where the Assembly, on behalf of Serbian citizens, practically creates, allows the existence of a third branch of government by transferring and giving it the authority to exercise judicial authority, where the High Council of the Judiciary proposes, and the Assembly chooses once and for all, the future judges, is a good balance. Citizens need to know that the Assembly cannot choose someone who has not been proposed by the High Council of the Judiciary. He can only possibly not choose someone if she feels that there is no reason for someone not to be elected, but also, the High Council of the judiciary, in which a large number of judges are by composition compared to other branches of government, should not choose, at least at this initial stage, judges. So, all the dust that is thrown into the eyes, when it comes to parliament and trying to take away Parliament's right to not transfer powers to the third or first or second branch of government, to the judiciary, but to choose itself, is actually alienation or corporateisation of that kind of government. The false elitism that has crawled into our society simply wants to say that it is more valuable than the rest of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. We can't let them do that. We can't allow them in any way. I am truly pleased because our colleagues today who spoke before me, and I will try not to do so, have not given in to a kind of hysteria and talk about justice or about specific problems related to the judiciary in the way the media does. If any of the MPs had commented on the promil one of the ways in which media trials are being conducted, media has been conducted, that through the media, judges and judges are being tried and pressured against the judiciary, not informing, not reporting, not dealing with investigative journalism, but putting pressure on one of us for one moment, so the same media would have crucified us. I don't know why, those who haven't been given the authority to do something, are persistently trying to take the opportunity to decide something that isn't their job. Good criticism through the media, good information through the media, but not crossing the border that threatens an independent procedure, is something that is inadmissible. In the past, this was a problem in the smaller environments, where judges knew everyone in the territory of the municipality they lived in, and perhaps even personally had knowledge of some disputes, some of the works that had happened, had a problem removing it from their heads so that the verdict would be based on evidence, and in accordance with the law and what was found during the proceedings. Today, with an absolutely uncontrollable way of reporting court proceedings, all the judges, all the prosecutors are under serious pressure. Then we here in the Assembly are in a position to measure what can be said without putting pressure on the work of the judiciary, and what is not, and I will try not to cross that line. When we talk about false solidarity, I hope that these colleagues, one of them being a member of the VSS or acting in some other cases, will never, because of false solidarity, allow criminal proceedings against the former president, now retired from the Second OS in Belgrade. That woman was covering up her colleague who buried the living 47 criminal cases in court. That, even without knowing, not to say the involvement of one part of the prosecution, couldn't have happened. What happened? Almost nobody did anything about it. On 14 addresses were sent criminal charges with an exact list of items, if I am not mistaken, in 2012 and the only one who worked there, were worked by people from SBPOK. However, the Prosecutor's Office of Organized Crime has done nothing to this day, and I think it even dismissed that criminal complaint. I'm very responsible for the facts because I know them personally and I'm standing behind them. That's what's ruining the judiciary. The colleagues who have been solidarity with that president of the court, with that judge who did it, and it is unacceptable, and also their colleagues from the prosecution, are something that judges and prosecutors cannot afford. As far as I know, the VSS hasn't taken appropriate measures either. What a citizen will do when for seven years, here is today with a certain point, the Second OS, a mistake, I will say the name of a judge because he no longer acts in that case, Tatjana Petrovic, who then worked for executions, has been unable to correct himself with great effort, which is because of negligence, which is because of the attempt to keep quiet about it. That's not good. Anyone can make a mistake, but you can't say that there's no violation of the right to trial within a reasonable period of time. Be assured, this will come before the VSS with other names, last names and we expect you to decide in the right way. I am glad that the representatives of the VSS recently agreed, and I hear the ministry, to re-examine the number of judges who judge by certain courts, because precisely on the basis of the incorrect data that this former president who has now retired from the Second OS has given when the Second OS, which is, I apologize, but we lawyers have called the "traveling circus", where the judges have been walking from one courtroom from Mladenov, Obrenovac, Lazarets, that they did not know where they are tomorrow and where their cases or what is happening, when someone finally realized that it was impossible for this to work, based on the incorrect, untrue data on the number of changes that each court is concerned, Obrenovac was drastically damaged. The citizens of Obrenovac have been damaged, and fellow judges have been damaged, because they are overloaded with a huge number of cases. The young man and Lazarus are not. Why? I don't know. Brkicka probably also knew where the initiative for reviewing her responsibilities started, so she made amends to Obrenovac. It is not only the problem of Obrenovac, it is the problem of both the Great Plane and some other small, very good courts, but it is also the problem of citizens living there because they expect a fair and fair decision as soon as possible. There's a lot to be done, but we can't even see that the High Judiciary Council is seriously pushing in that direction. So we've been talking here for a few years about the trials being recorded, about not wasting time making up a record where every word spoken in the courtroom would be more precise. At least 70% would make it easier for the judges to do their job. That way, they could work more efficiently. The overload of Belgrade courts tells us something else, which must be the subject of a good analysis of the High Council of the judiciary, the Ministry of Justice, as well as the Justice Committee of the Republic of Serbia's Assembly, and is this the network of courts that we now have good and proper? Let's not forget that we were just correcting something that was radically set up in 2010. What's born, time doesn't right, and it can't fix it. Personally, I think that the old network of courts, municipalities and districts with clearly defined powers, was far better and more efficient and that it was precisely that the Supreme Court in Belgrade became both first-degree and second-degree at the same time that it was a real suffocation. I don't see that the solution in the long run is that the cases in this court are delegated to some other courts to decide in this way in some way, so to say, a turnus solves the problem, that the problem is being accumulated again. This problem must be systemically, systematically and well assessed. The pressure on Serbia, which is obvious, is that I wonder and measure it with the 1914 ultimatums that Austria has set Serbia. What Austria asked Serbia, what the European Union is asking Serbia today for in terms of estrangement of the judiciary from citizens and the state in 1914 was a much smaller requirement for me, and Serbia said "no", because it was not in Serbia's interest. It was not in the interest of her sovereignty, her independence, her independence, fully aware of the consequences that followed. One more thing. To put pressures on, to submit to the pressures of the non-governmental sector and allow the World Bank to finance research into possible corrupt things or irregularities of the work of the courts that were in the previous period is something that is absolutely inadmissible, something that cannot be allowed. Serbia is capable enough. This parliament, the High Council of the judiciary, the justice ministry is capable enough to look at all this and put it in place. Dear colleagues who will be judges soon, in Ivanjica, the Business Court in Kragujevac, the Court of Commerce in Nis, in the Administrative Court, I will support your choice as well as this parliamentary group and once again I want to tell you, take care, you have unlimited power in your hands. Being a judge isn't a job. It's a way of life. Be honorable, worthy, for we as MPs, as well as the citizens of Serbia expect from you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-27-0.u2597	Thank you. I would like to thank Parliamentarian Gjorge Komlenski, authorised representative of the Electoral Group Aleksandar Vukic – for our children. Is there any other authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups who want a word, since I don't see anyone in the system? We move to the order of MPs according to the application for a joint single search. I give my first word to Professor Misali Pramenkovic. Your parliamentary group has six minutes at their disposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-27-0.u2598	I thank the chairman. The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have a very important issue ahead of us, the issue of the election of judges who for the first time enter into this very important and important function, and certainly on the proposal of the High Council of Justice. What my colleagues were saying before me was absolutely agreeing that the choice of judges who first came to this important function by the Assembly, or MPs, to make a lot of commitments, which certainly does not mean that in their subsequent work they should not be aware of. Since it is cities and places that not all MPs know, the composition and structure of the courts themselves, the judiciary in general, as well as the people who are ultimately elected as judges, I wish that this is exactly what the future judges have ahead of them, that the issue of the judiciary and the functions of the judges is very significant and very responsible and that this function should be held accountable, honestly, in the interest of the citizens, in the interest of those they actually judge. Apropo, what we have heard so far, what has been said, is that, in fact, if it is possible for an independent, unsumptive and just judiciary to be a prerequisite for a democratic society, that is, it is a good indicator of the democratic capacity of a state, but in fact I would disagree with colleagues who say that today should not speak out broadly about the judiciary because it is a very important issue and the consequences of it, whether positive or negative, exactly the citizens feel the most. Therefore, we have had the opportunity to hear earlier, and today from the MPs of the Justice and Reconciliation Party on the state of the judiciary in some parts of Serbia, specifically on Sandzak territory, in particular in Novi Pazar. These are the problems that citizens face on a daily basis, and we, as directly elected by the citizens themselves, have the obligation to bring out everything that our voters, citizens and simply all those who come into a particular situation to ask for justice before these honorable institutions actually feel very uncomfortable at times. To talk about problems in the judiciary, and to work too hard to solve these problems is something that is very important, and any information that comes from that aspect should be used in the best possible way and respond adequately so that citizens have confidence in institutions that once, it turns out, indeed, by the fact that certain people who represent them and perhaps in an inadequate way, are actually giving rise to citizens' confidence in the institutions themselves. On the trail of justice and justice and everything that means a non-discriminatory relationship actually towards citizens today I will take advantage of the opportunity to point to a very important fact relating to the actual achievement of the right to children's add-on students and pupils of the Middle Matress Gaza Isa-Exit based in Novi Pazar. Namely, Medresa is a school, a high school operating within the Islamic community in Serbia and I think this is the second year, if not full of two years, that her students are being discriminated against on the basis of which, whether they belong to a particular religious community or to a particular people, but they and their parents are directly discriminated against because they do not have the right to achieve a child's allowance as well as all other high school students. I don't think that this problem is a problem for high school students in other religious communities, and I certainly agree with that, and I don't think it should be, but I would like to take advantage of the influence and position of the MP to point to this discriminatory relationship. In fact, this act kind of brings institutions, educational institutions like Medresa Gazi Isa-beg back to the position or status that they had at the time of communism. It is a time that we do not remember for certain positive effects on the exercise of certain rights and therefore I would appeal to the competent ministries, the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Social Affairs, the Ministry of Justice to react. We've been looking for it before. In the previous session, we had promises that this would actually be regulated and that discrimination would be removed. However, this has not yet occurred. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-27-0.u2599	Thank you. Next is Vladan Glisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-27-0.u2600	The day when we choose judges to function for the first time is a good opportunity to remind you of your respected coalition colleagues, that this may be one of the last times we're going to do it, because it's just these days, that's why. These months, you've entered the procedure of your government's proposal to change that. That is why I am glad that many colleagues from the SNS and the ruling coalition have just noticed what I want to talk about, which is that we are introducing what counterpart Djukanovic said nicely in Serbia in this way. And we are introducing it under the pressure of the EU, Brussels, the Venice Commission. The Venice Commission has its full name on the European Commission for Democracy through law. What democracy it is, we have seen how the Brussels Union, because it is not the EU, and it is best seen through the right that it is not the EU, but rather the display of Washington in Brussels, as it referred to the violation of the referendum of our neighbours in Greece, as it referred to the violation of the referendum in Macedonia. How she ended up keeping this mess and the shame that happened with the U.S. election theft. So, they're willing to tell us about how we should regulate our judiciary, and at this point when everything that makes us worthy of a legal, orderly democratic civilization in the west falls, they're silent and silenced by putting pressure on our country and our people to change their judicial institutions. First of all, 30 years ago, when the Berlin Wall fell, and when it was opposite that city hill, as Washington liked to call itself, it stood a decomposed Soviet empire, we could believe that it made sense to go towards it and go towards Euro-Atlantic integrations and go to Europe, to go to the EU, which is, to remind you just in the legal system of an Anglo-Saxon law, which has been destroying the most beautiful liquids of European continental legal civilization for decades. In Europe's continental legal civilization at the centre of justice and is the right man and state to help the people control their judiciary. So, the idea of Montescue to divide power into legislative, executive and judicial ideas is no time to exclude the republican establishment that all authorities must be controlled by their people, by their citizens. The story of an independent judiciary is the same as the story of independent media. They must be independent of their people and their society, and become dependent on native and decadent groups of oligarchs who then decide what to do. The kind of justice that exists in the United States, which, with its Anglo-Saxon principles, destroys the European judiciary with the help of the Brussels Union, and now wants our legal assets to be destroyed, is what when in a referendum in California, the people voted that marriage was a community of men and women and thus abolished gay marriages. Then, under the pretext of an independent judiciary, it challenged the referendum, trampled the people's will and returned everything to the way it works against the will of the people. Watch what happens in a country where 74 million voters, after brutal theft, are excluded from their media advertising, have no right to freedom of speech, in which the Constitutional Court, which was once the basis of the judiciary as represented in the world, this Constitutional Court votes to support this election theft. I've been fighting various election thefts for 30 years, and as an opposition, I often have objections to our authorities. So I have a comment now on the electoral process in Serbia and what has been happening. I think this assembly is in this system, where I repeat myself again, the only opposition MP of the Serb people. So, if the SNS colleagues hear well, I didn't say I was the only Serb people's MP, but I am the only opposition MP of the Serb people. It's not normal and it's the product of a degenerated electoral system. But never in Serbia has so many people been stolen in elections like it did in the United States, and it has never happened that our courts confirm such brutal theft. With these changes that your government wants to introduce to the judiciary, we're pushing our judiciary in that direction. So I hope that when I vote against these constitutional changes, that fellow MPs from the ruling structure who spoke earlier against the judiciary will be prepared not to listen to party and coalition discipline, but to support the defence of our judiciary to be a national judiciary rather than the judiciary in the hands of some oligarchs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-27-0.u2601	I thank my own MP, Vladan Glisic. I would just remind you that the electoral system in Serbia has not changed since the 1990s. I don't want to defend anyone, but to attack those who are in the National Assembly because they participated in the elections and won the votes of the people because of those who decided to boycott the elections or who weren't able to skip the 3% censorship, it's not right. Let's keep going. I assume that MP Gjorge Komlenski, as an authorised representative of the legislator group, Aleksandar Vukic – applied to our children for replication, for mentioning the party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-27-0.u2602	Thank you. Part of the answer through the replica, the one you said, I won't say. I won't repeat it, although the good part of what you said was my intention to say. What is inadmissible, and you have missed it is to call that the result of the elections made in 2020 is the result of a degenerated electoral system. I didn't want to react through the breach of the Rules of Procedure, but I can't help but react. This is a valid electoral system, this has been a valid electoral system against which no one has spoken in this way while he was in power or while the will of the citizens was different. The citizens of the Republic of Serbia have shown their will in a legally prescribed way in the electoral procedure. We cannot change the people because the people said what they thought and did not want to vote for those whom Honored counterpart Glisic would prefer to see in parliament, rather than us. There are no privileged seats in parliament except for those privileges, conditionally said and made possible by representatives of national minorities, and when some serious opposition or some serious group appears that will enjoy at least a little confidence in the citizens of Serbia in relation to the trust enjoyed by the Alexander Vukic coalition – For our children, then the picture in parliament will be different. It doesn't give for the right to call this system degenerated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-27-0.u2603	Thank you. The word is Vladan Glisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-27-0.u2604	I have to keep my SNS colleagues reminding me that I'm not part of that authority that you've been replacing, and by the way, we've been replacing her together. We fought together against that authority that preceded you. Yeah, we've had the same electoral system for 30 years, and that election system's been bad for 30 years. And when I say that it's degenerated, because it doesn't apply to a man or to a person, it can't be offensive, I remind you that it's not what it's supposed to be in its nature. This means it brings to the Assembly of the People's Tribunal, representatives of the people, not filtered through a party leader's decision. It's one topic we'll talk about, if God will, in future negotiations on changing the electoral system. What's the big deal? I don't choose here who would suit me better or I wouldn't be fit to be in this assembly. I'm not the right address for being honored vice president told me that just in addition to always criticizing and criticising this electoral system all the time, I'm not one of those who's been to boycott the election. No matter what the electoral system is, it's always better than being violent or any other way, and one can violently take over and that's why I took part in this election. That doesn't mean this is good and you know it's not good. In the end, the president of your party and the president of Serbia alone has put the value of this parliament on the table. It means that he sees that there's something wrong here, and it's not good, and he needs to change it. But here's the theme, and it happens all the time when I come up with some reasoned remarks, that you're bringing me back to something that wasn't at all the subject of my conversation. I wasn't talking about the boycott of the election, nor was I talking about boycotting the election, nor was I someone who defended this electoral system, ever, for 30 years I've been fighting all the electoral thefts that were happening. What's most interesting is I said that such an election system is even better than what we've seen with those who are now preaching to us and who want to change Kostunica's constitution through your Prime Minister, which was better than what they want to bring. Not because Vojislav Kostunica is incomparable, but because it was a defense of sovereignty in a way that could have been in difficult times. (Chairman: Time! You now have a much better chance of helping this people, and you do not want to defend that sovereignty, but you want to turn an independent judicial authority into a power born of the people.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-27-0.u2605	Thank you. Replication time is two minutes. I do not want to enter the controversy because of the mention of a list or a parliamentary group, I will give my word to George Komlenski for the replica, but just to say that I mentioned a boycott, as one of the vice-presidents of the National Assembly, I am trying to raise the reputation of this institution and it is not right to attack those MPs sitting here, legitimately elected, that it is not a legitimate Assembly because you have a variety of comments and that there is only one representative of the opposition of the populace people, several representatives of the opposition. So it's not about us, it's about those who either didn't participate in the election or couldn't skip the 3% censorship. The word is Gjorge Komlenski.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-27-0.u2606	Thank you. There is no ideal electoral system in the world that can be found through parallel legislation and that would ensure absolute representation of the people's will in a way that would be 100% good. Anyone who believes and an MP is in the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, regardless of which group he belongs to, to the political party and the rest, has the opportunity to make an effort, sit down, write a proposal to amend and supplement the electoral law, or write a proposal for a new electoral law, and then get the opportunity to discuss it. The criticism itself, without a concrete proposal from people who are otherwise trained in doing something like this, simply shows us that there is no will here for any serious change, but only for collecting petty political points without spending energy on the benefit of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-27-0.u2607	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-27-0.u2608	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as one MP presented, I thought I was in the American Congress. My message, regardless of how much I liked Trump, which I think a lot of rights have been violated there, primarily by the US voters, is my recommendation that we worry, solve our problems and scratch our itch, and America is probably able to solve it in its own way. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I disagree that the electoral system is bad. The electoral system is almost ideally depicting the political will of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. It's not our fault that there have been 10 parties from one party since 2004. Those who invite us to dialogue don't speak to each other. As anyone was getting a party with them, it meant that at that moment he was the bearer of the highest function. So, for example, it was Tadic, so it was Gilas, so when Gilas fell, he was Pajtic. Whoever had a wallet in the public sector was their party president. Those who lost the election in their parties founded other political parties. Thus, one party has raised nine political parties, and now alone within that small dwarf political party there are two factions or two political parties or two presidents, etc. The political will of the citizens has been expressed. Thirty percent of citizens are opposition-defined. By their disunity, that they shared with each other the electoral opposition body, that they couldn't stand with themselves, and that they wanted to have dialogue with us, is not a fault to the government or to the electoral system. The electoral system when you take it, look at the polls since 2000, no matter who was in power, always the elections depicted the political will of the citizens. Now, it was the census that prevented any political parties from articulating before these last elections. Let's say, if that were the case, today the DSS would probably be present in this House, if the censorship was 3%. If it were a natural censorship, as in some countries, it seems to me in the Netherlands, then the National Assembly would be ideally depicting the will of the citizens. I'm inclined to, if we want to make many concessions, and we've already done, to do so, so that natural censorship applies to them, so that this assembly is filled with opposition politicians. It's not the citizens' fault, they're oppositional, but they don't have a choice because they're divided, one recommend a boycott, the other split, the third fight, the fourth fight. I don't think it's the election system. It's people's fault. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since the judiciary is on the agenda and the judges, I ask these judges who will be elected will they respect the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia? Is that an obligation? Do the oaths we take on the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia also come from judges? If that's true, and I think it is, I ask everything, especially because of opposition politicians, why has he tried to judge me for the fourth time for the words spoken for the pay phone? The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the Law on the National Assembly say - the MP cannot be called to criminal and other responsibility, he cannot be called, he cannot be called to criminal and other responsibility for an opinion or vote when performing his post. If someone's called me for the fourth time, they're breaking the Constitution. The violation of the Constitution and the Law on the National Assembly is the reason for the opposition of the political judge. I'm not defending myself here. It was entered into the Constitution to protect opposition politicians, so that the authorities could not possibly pressure the court to bring opposition politicians to answer for the words they have spoken here or because of the votes they have cast here in this courtroom while performing their post. If I am not in the Hall of the People's Assembly a People's Messenger, then I do not know where I am a Messenger of the people. So if someone attaches the video as evidence of a speech from the National Assembly or a stenogram, as Radulovic in the previous procedure, I now hear that it is Nikola Kojo, a famous actor, if someone attaches the video and the stenogram as evidence, it is obvious that the judge violates the law by calling itself. To make evil even bigger, they sent the police to bring me in, but that didn't happen because I was in the hospital, 21 days I was suffering from the crown. So much for the oaths we made here. I took an oath on that constitution, and the oath was made by the judges. Apparently, the judges who should be first in respect of the Constitution and the law are not among the first. The law is for every law, even for me. All citizens are equal in court, so am I. But the judge can't break the Constitution and the law when he's doing his job. Ladies and gentlemen, I have a sacred obligation to defend the victims. I hope that the judges, first of all in Ivanjica, that the judges who are also in the Administrative Court, which is very important in the Administrative Court because of the elections we have talked about, because this is the final finding that, in the event of conflicts between political parties, electoral lists and the Election Commission, whether something is credible or not, they are making the final decision and I believe that after each election, they will make a fair decision. I'm asking these judges, and I'd like this never to happen again, and I'm talking about the crime that was committed, about the murder of 80 mostly Serbs, the non-Albanian population of the so-called. A gjilan group. My sacred obligation is to defend the victims, and therefore again, for the second or third time, at the risk of being criticised again by those televisions that are not registered in Serbia, which cannot be sued and which do not have a PIB here, to ask – what will be taken against Judge Majic, who has reached a liberating verdict against, seems to me, 11 Albanian terrorists who have been convicted, and by the decision of the Court of Appeal are released? I think it was a classic judicial setup. I recommend these judges never do that. I think it was done in a triangle - the Republic Prosecutor, the Supreme Court of Cassation and the Court of Appeal, with the support of the High Council of the Judiciary who pretended to be dead. Namely, the court ruled with 116 years in prison based on the testimony of two raped Serbian women and based on the testimony of an Albanian who took part in a crime declared "Boljure 50", a co-worker. He confirmed that 80 Serbs were killed, 34 were missing, and 153 prisoners were tortured, following KFOR's arrival, or US forces, with the introduction of the UCK in Gjilan. So it was done in the basement of the boarding school, applying the method of easy taking longer. So, torture, until he who is tortured exhales. In doing so, women, not only raped them, cut their breasts and burned on a hot floor, little bodies, put them in bags, urinated on prisoners and martyrs, and all that was not enough, because the Court of Appeal ruled that since it happened after the Kumanovo Agreement that it should not be punishable. For me, it is the highlight of injustice and the reason for the judges who have passed such a shameful sentence to be punished. The Prosecutor of the Republic has applied for the protection of legality. The Supreme Cassation Court has declared the verdict illegal. Am I right? But the trial is not repeated, because it is a case where they were pardoned in a certain way and there is no repeat trial. Only when damaged by a verdict is the trial repeated, and in this case it is not repeated, because there was no damage to the injured, but there was damage to the victims. That's when the law doesn't repeat itself. I think it was arranged and I think it was damaged in the triangle – the prosecution, the Supreme Court of Cassation and the Court of Appeal. It's about Judge Majic. This judge, every judge must have permission, and I recommend that these men always ask the court's chief's permission when they perform in the media. It's an obligation. Someone here once said, I think it's the President of the Supreme Cassation Court, that it's an overruled rule. I don't know about the overruled rule in the judiciary. Either the rule applies or it doesn't apply, but it can't be overcome if it hasn't been lifted yet. He went on several trips to classical political missions and politically interpreted the speeches of MPs who criticised him for this and another verdict. It thus rose above parliament and proved that our judiciary, since it still stands as an expert of the judiciary, etc., is thus imposed, thus proving that our judiciary is not mature to be independent of parliament, or to be completely independent, because at this point it is independent of this authority, but not of the former. He has hosted several political shows, politically performed and, in my opinion, spit on the independence of the judiciary, because the judge who performs on political shows is not an independent judge for me, he is proof that the judiciary is not independent. Let's move on, is the pedophile a pedophile? Do we have a rule that all people are equal before the law? Is segregation forbidden? I recommend to these judges that they do not discrimination against individual minority groups, nations, etc. No way! But this judge did it. I ask – is paedophile a pedophile? If it is, if the law is the same for everyone, we have a new violation of the law by that judge. He released the paedophile in a complaint procedure saying, and I recommend that these judges do not do it, that it is the Roma, and therefore it is not punishable. So the victim is the victim. Whoever did the pedophile is not punished, so you protected the guilty, you punished the victim in fact, it's like – it's about the Roma. He has done some segregation, discrimination against the Roma, because the law in this country is the law for everything. "The law is the law, however much support it is," Valtazar Bogisic said. It's a second violation, which I recommend to these judges not to work, another violation of the law by the judge. I am now asking the High Council of the Judiciary, who is the only one empowered to dismiss such a judge in situations where a violation of the law occurs. Why did they stand in corn, why did they pretend to be dead, why didn't they punish this kind of illegal behavior? I won't say it was the American Congress, although that judge may have been courting there, but you've had to protect the victims and in the case of the Gjilan Group and the world is the obligation of all of us to protect all the victims. This time it's victims of non-Albanian origin, it's mostly Serbs, it's 80 people killed, it's 34 missing and 153 tortured. It's such a big crime. Then we marvel at the UN tribunal's decisions. We in this way, with the conduct of our judges, have no moral right to interpret the UN tribunal's decisions, since we in Belgrade were unable to punish criminals and in some way correct justice against the victims who were victims of the most brutal crimes. This witness says: “We bound the victims high to the hands to hang and just toss them on the floor when they came to order. We cut off women's breasts, and for fun, we made it after. The room smelled really bad 'cause they were doing the job here, and there was a big sewer where we threw waste. There was so much blood that we had to strip ourselves naked while we tortured them and cleaned up afterwards. We would cut off all their heads, cut off their bellies, and tear them apart, and carry them out in sacks. People were screaming as we tortured someone, we threw their cousins' heads in front of them. We raped whenever we could. Our favorite way of torture was to hit someone, which means we break their heads, and then we hammer the lighter in that place." This is the statement by the Albanian, "Božur 50". Who gives us the right as Parliament to remain silent about it? And who gives the High Judicial Council the right not to relieve judges who have freed such criminals, and in doing so, the Supreme Court of Cassation found the verdict illegal? Ladies and gentlemen, I also suggest these judges not to introduce censorship. You certainly know that recently, look at the wonders, the Supreme Court, and that higher court there in Timoko, when I complain about suing journalists, then I get 40,000 dinars, no matter, after six years. When she sues Gilas, she gets rid of it in six months. That's weird. Probably his lawyer's faster at putting up with it. I'm not sure. It is likely that, in 2008, instead of reform, a judicial deformity was carried out. That is yet another proof that the court is independent of this authority. He even abuses that independence, and he's addicted to his ex. That's another piece of evidence. The court has made a decision, let's say that Gilas was the mayor of Belgrade. That Belgrade had a contract, so it served as a public office, mainly in favour of its private businesses, with 400,000 people out of work. But there was work for him, bread, money, etc. He fell into a man's honey, okay. In doing so, a consulting contract that was at the expense of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, as well as of Belgrade, a bridge on Adi's consulting contract. The court, an unheard decision -- not to write in the media and report and tie the case to Dragan Gilas, regardless of what he was in the public sector in charge of Belgrade, where such a million-dollar contract was concluded in a fairly illegal manner. I suggest to the judges that they do not make such decisions in any way, is this decision not to write and report about it and tie it to Dragan Gilas, who was a public official, he did not just work in a private business, because this will violate the presumption of innocence. The law is the law. The law is the same for everyone. We all have to be equal in front of the judiciary. Now I'm asking you, and lately that presumption of innocence has been massively broken. I won't even talk about my examples. When I enter Google, when I type in my name and name, I think I'm Osama Bin Laden. I don't want to talk about myself, but I'm talking about the last events right now. Does the assumption of innocence now apply? For someone, that assumption of innocence applies, but not to someone. It's almost outrageous for someone in court to imagine that Gilas would be damaged by media reports and in advance banning texts to write and broadcast news. It's classic censorship for me. Then we wonder why someone censored the American president? Well, our court comes and tells the media they can't report on Dragan Gilas because it's going to violate his presumption of innocence. Now I wonder why the media who favored him didn't write or talk about this censorship at all. That by some chance someone in the government said, they got such a verdict and it was concluded that we should not be written for the presumption of innocence, even though we do public work. Let's say we're the president of the municipalities, ministers in the government, etc. I think there's a revolution on those Luxembourg media. Finally -- why are these Luxembourg media, which are not registered in Serbia, why can't they be sued? When you sue that media, they just send you a memo, that they will not participate in the process because they are not registered as a media service provider in the Republic of Serbia and therefore cannot be a defendant. When will once the judiciary and the prosecutor, we don't have prosecutors here right now, but when they consider it, that they're considering it in such a way, when one day they're going to take the case and see if there's a crime of money laundering? Because the SBB's cross-border TV is paying you. The money's pumping out for the alleged re-emission service. There's no re-emission. Why is there no re-emitting? Because the Luxembourg regulator claims they're registered there, but they don't broadcast the program, and the re-emission is the download of the broadcast programme at the same time without any changes, etc. Will someone try to judge United Media? Will someone try to bring you to justice? Will someone say, "Why does N1 have no FIB?" Why is N1 using PIB other firms, like "Adrija News" doo Belgrade? When "Adrija News" doo Belgrade is neither the founder nor that it is the founder, if you start a new company, we all know that, this new firm must have a PIB. Believe it or not, N1 television doesn't have BIP. There's nothing. He's working wild. And they're constantly complaining about freedom of the media, and they're so free that in the Republic of Serbia they're not even registered, they're lying about broadcasting the programme from Luxembourg and how it's only being re-emissioned here. That's just not true. When one of the judges, when one of the prosecutors will say stop – stop the people, then a few million euros will pay for cross-border channels, pay for re-emission, and there will be no re-emissions. So you pay for a favor that wasn't there, pump up profits, do money laundering, pump up profits. That's a tax evasion. There are more crimes they do. No one in the judiciary has the strength to try to punish it. You don't think we're judging them. It's only then that we do censorship, press free media, etc. You're the ones who need to decide whether they're breaking the law or not. Apparently, there are friends in the judiciary of these Luxembourg media, because, behold, the very judge who has passed such a shameful legal verdict is a happily seen guest in these media and usually when we comment now someone will appear there again and say – well, they comment on the MPs of the verdict and so on. The verdicts can't be commented while they're in the process phase, according to me, and otherwise we can't even comment on Dragoljub Micunovic's verdict in 1968. Then we can't comment on the verdict of Draži Mihajlovic after the war, unless the verdicts generally comment. I think these verdicts are being made to comment. I think because of all the victims and those who have suffered the damage, we have to talk about it, and it's a real shame, and I don't think it's too late for the High Council of the Judiciary to solve a few judges and thus show them that they have to share justice, not to share injustice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-27-0.u2609	Thank you. The word is Daniela Veljovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-27-0.u2610	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, not this time, as was the case in the previous presentation when the subject was the choice of judges I will not speak of the proposed candidates, considering that they are actually the choice of their colleagues who know their work and their expertise. What I would like to talk about is the continuation of the issue of judicial independence, and in this context the main issues to be addressed is the solution to the problems of the network and the jurisdiction of the courts, the inequality of judicial decisions, the slowness in dispute resolution, the unequal approach of citizens to justice. The priority requirement that SDPS also advocates is that judges deal with integrity and securely in line with Serbia's legal order. I think it's the only real definition of judicial independence. Thus, independence of the judiciary is a guarantee of the rule of law in a democratically regulated society, but it is not a guarantee of the irresponsible behaviour of judges and of the unhappiness that is covered by a bunch of unresolved disputes. Each judge is responsible for promoting and protecting judicial independence by respecting professional ethics. The Republic of Serbia is not an isolated island ruled by the climate of judicial organisations. On the contrary, both at the European level and the presence of struggles and great efforts to maintain, establish the rule of law and judicial independence. I think it is very important to strike a balance between all aspects of citizens' rights to trial within a reasonable period of time and the right to a reasoned court ruling. The judge must be an expert, constantly improving his knowledge, respecting his expertise, is an important defense of independence. I believe these were the main criteria for selecting members of the court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-27-0.u2611	Thank you. The following has been reported, Master Djordje Kosanic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-27-0.u2612	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Representatives of the Visa Council of the judiciary, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is before us today the choice of judges who are elected for the first time today to this high office and, of course, the JS parliamentary group in the voting day will support all these proposals that are before us today. At the very beginning, I would like to say that JS has maximum support for strengthening the independence of the judiciary, strengthening the independence of the prosecution, as the basis of the rule of law. On the other hand, what is very important, which I want to point out here, does not mean that the maximum strengthening of the judiciary represents alienation from the people, but rather, alienation from inappropriate influences on judges. The independent judge on the other hand is guaranteed that the laws are applied equally, impartially and that there are no privileged influences regarding the trial. Now, on the other hand, I want to say, I'm throwing an accent on something that's very important, especially that I come from Kragujevac. Why I say that and what is important is investment in judicial infrastructure, building significant justice facilities. I say, I come from Kragujevac, and a modern palace of justice is being built in Kragujevac today. So it seems to me that this is the most significant judicial infrastructure facility in the last few decades that has been built in Serbia. When I say in the last few decades, when I mention Kragujevac, it is certainly a very important thing for Kragujevac, but also for the whole region, when I say that Kragujevac is recognized as the capital of the region. The funds for building such a significant infrastructure facility were provided by the government of the Republic of Serbia. Why do I say that? Because, and this is another indicator that Serbia is taking big steps forward, that it is recognised the importance of this segment when we talk about the trial. The town of Kragujevac has secured land, about two hectares of land, on the other hand road and every other infrastructure around the Palace of Justice has been provided. I'm also going to say something very important here, something that was a problem in Kragujevac in the time behind us. All the courts in Kragujevac were placed in several buildings, which certainly affected the quality of the trial. Today we're choosing a judge of the Court of Commerce, especially we had a problem in Kragujevac with the Commercial and Criminal Court. Now, by building this modern Court of Justice as it is, I say, the most modern in Serbia, we will no longer have these problems, especially because it is from scratch, from the foundations built only for the needs of the judiciary, and we have not had such an object practically with us so far. This object responds to the importance, certainly, which the judiciary has for the town of Kragujevac and of course will reflect on the quality of the trial in Kragujevac. When I talk about this palace of justice, she'll have 11 judicial authorities, and then there'll be the prosecution. When I say so, therefore, business courts, courts of regular jurisdiction, administrative court, mistrials, escorting prosecutions, so about 800 employees. On the surface, this magnificent facility will have 25,000 square meters, so 24 courtrooms, 74 cabinets. Finally, this is all about how much Serbia thinks about each segment, about the importance of one such object, not just for Kragujevac, but for the whole region. Of course, all these 11 judicial authorities that will be placed in this facility will affect the quality and speed of the trial and the even greater availability of justice as regards the citizens of Kragujevac. At the very end again, I would like to congratulate all the judges who will be elected today to this high office and, of course, the JS parliamentary group in the voting day will support all the proposals that are before us today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-27-0.u2613	Thank you. The word has a Deep King.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-27-0.u2614	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the honourable representatives of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, please don't mind that I begin my presentation with just a few sentences about the vaccine against the Corona because I believe it is an extremely important matter and a huge success, primarily the President of the Republic of Serbia and the result of the solid diplomatic foundations in which the construction took part and now our President of the Assembly, Mr Ivica Dacic, which we are proud of. Last week my grandmother was vaccinated. Yesterday, my mom, who works at school, was vaccinated, and we look forward to her being able to hang out with her students safely. I believe it's somewhere and most important to all of us, to keep our loved ones safe, safe and sound. I'm going to vaccinate myself, not just because of these two women I mentioned and whose health is most important, but because as someone who's passed the crown, I know how important that vaccine is. Unfortunately, it is much better than I know those whom the crown has forever separated from them dear people. That's why the vaccine is necessary and it's a huge thing that we have a vaccine against the crown. I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, are there any vaccines against rapists, maniacs, paedophiles, murderers, drug dealers, criminals, corrupt politicians, corrupt officials, tycoons, clans, arrogant drivers, con men, thieves, employees and similar viruses? I think it exists and it's an effective and independent judiciary. We here in the National Assembly are making laws, but can laws inoculate social relations and make them immune to endangerment? I don't think so, not without their consistent application and without sanctioning any of their injuries. It is the court that, by applying the law, all disputes, all disturbances in social relations, all injustices should be eliminated as a vaccine virus that threatens our economy, our economy, our social security, our stability and our style. That is why I believe that in that section of the state government, which other MPs have spoken of today, the courts are given the most difficult, most complicated, most sensitive role, because the courts are expected to establish a balance in the once so deeply disturbed relations. Judges are able to decide in specific cases whether someone will be free or not, whether the parent will see his child and how often. It is the courts who decide who is right and who is a liar. At times, the question raised before the court comes down to whether someone will live after a court ruling as a happy person or as an unhappy man. That's why judges must have enough judge's courage and courage to make righteous decisions that no one will ever like. Therefore, judges should neither seek to be loved, but only respected, and in order to be professional, they must possess knowledge and work securely and consecratedly, in any case, and not only in those cases which become subject to public interest. Because not everyone has the same chance of their trauma becoming news. Not everyone has the same courage to share their trauma and thus get the support and cheerleading of the nation, which doesn't mean they won't get the support of courts and other competent authorities, because everyone has to have the same legal protection. And an actress and a cleaning woman, and a politician and a farmer, and a professor and a student, and a rich father and a poor father. Therefore, judges must be resistant to all kinds of influence, political, party, media and interest, because the judge must not be lobbyed. The judges have already been given great confidence in the Constitutional and Law through the guarantee of independence and through the principle of free judicial conviction. The proposed candidates today will also get the SPS's trust, because as Mr. Fila has already said, we believe that the High Council of the Court has adequately assessed the expertise, competence and dignity of the candidates and that the opinions of the judges, with whom the candidates have worked, are a sincere recommendation. I must say, I believe that a failure has been made in the making of the proposal and in the composition of the biography because there is no average rating with which the candidates have graduated, and no record of how long they have studied. What, though, could be concluded on the basis of the year of birth and the year of graduation, where the conclusion does not have to be true. When we chose the presidents of the courts we had that information. I think it's because of transparency that's important. I'm from Zrenjanin, I don't know the proposed candidates, and biography is the only way I can judge them. I think these data represent significant indications that we don't see here. What we see is that candidates have more work experience than is necessary. First of all, I think of those who choose for basic courts. In this context, I would say that in the area of justice, young lawyers who are ambitious, who have knowledge should be able to come to terms, make easier progress because, in this slow passing in courts and prosecutors, I see the main reason why young people are increasingly opting for a lawyer. The reason is certainly also this material component, and I therefore believe that the work of judges who play the most important role in the construction of the rule of law should be more adequately evaluated and stimulated, just as I believe that as soon as the situation allows, it should work to improve the spatial and technical conditions in which judges perform their work. In any case, as I said, the SPS parliamentary group will support today's candidates. I wish them a lot of success in their work, that after three years by the High Council of the judiciary they would be elected to a permanent judicial office and that then each day they would first bring one court about themselves on whether they were better than they were yesterday and that they were constantly perfecting. The Socialist Party of Serbia expects only courage and courage for fair decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-27-0.u2615	Thank you, Mrs. King. The word has been made by MP Alexander Mirkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-27-0.u2616	Dear Chairman, the honourable representatives of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, the esteemed fellow Members of the People's Parliament and fellow Members of Parliament, I will agree with the previous colleagues of speakers who have pointed out that today when we talk about the choice of judges we cannot just look at the subject as a narrow humane solution, we already have to look at the issue of the judiciary from more angles and talk about this topic from every aspect of our lives. Although this is my first term in the past few months, I have used every opportunity to talk about what in our judiciary, in the judiciary, in the prosecution's work is good or not good, and what is it that bothers, above all, the citizens of our country who voted for us and who we represent here. All that was happening, and I think a lot of other people from your profession and profession have been saying, somewhere as the root of the problems see that reform of the 2009 judiciary, you correct me if I'm wrong, when in two days more than 1,000 people are out of work without any valid explanation, excuses, and then some of these people have been returning to jobs and somewhere rooting problems, they say, that they've been starting ever since. If we consider that the Democratic Party viewed everything in the state during that period as its private property, whether it was a municipality, a city, a republic, whether it was the province's budget, or whether it was the budget of the city of Belgrade, the question is whether what some of their former officials said about judges decided and lobbyed on their party bodies within the DS municipal boards. This legacy found in certain segments can be seen today. When we talk about justice, we can't help but look at situations where some of them are being put in place that we expect to get a court epilogue, but they still don't happen. Everything that has happened in the past, and as far as the monstrous and threats and campaigns and calls for murder and rape, that Prime Minister Ana Brnabic or the murder of President Aleksandar Vukic, has not received any judicial epilogue or anyone who would have had to protect citizens' rights. To look at only those two men, Ana Brnabic, prime minister, and Aleksandar Vukic as two Serbian citizens, no one has found themselves to protect their rights so far. I have to look back at things that have been going on for a few weeks, where on social networks people are racing who are going to choose in a more monstrous way an act to take the life of Alexander Vukic or his son Daniel Vukic or some other member of their birth. No one cares about that, no one reacts. Although you're telling me that it's not your jurisdiction or that someone can't solve it, or whatever it is that goes on then let's find a universal solution, some proposal to change these things so that all citizens in our country can be saved from such kinds of threats, violence, endangerment of life. From this room and from this place I discussed along with my colleagues the fact that it appeared in our media that was transferred from Hungary where no one was paying attention again, and the fact is that the hit man for whom he was killed is no longer aware of how many people he killed and how many processes are being conducted against him that even in two criminal groups he received an offer to kill President Alexander Vukic. For days no one has considered it, for days no one has talked about it, for days no one has talked about it, and only after my asked question from this place, which I have the right as a MP, I have received two shuras of answers from the prosecution that I want to believe as, first of all, that a Serbian citizen will do something on this plan, on this issue. The answer is – regarding the notification request and the explanation that MP Aleksandar Mirkovic presented at the National Assembly session on 8 December, I would like to inform you that the Prosecutor's Office of Organized Crime is taking certain actions to obtain certain information on the statement given by Caba Der. I believe that there is secrecy in the process, I believe that some other information and we cannot get in response, but I only hope that in the next period without insistence or me as an MP or any other MP we will get concrete information about what is happening in that case and what is done in that case. What concerns me as someone who belongs to the Serbian Progressive Party and is a function of the Serbian Progressive Party, if we view the parliamentary mandate as a function, is the fact that we are like clay pigeons, and that my colleagues talk from session to session. So in this room, the people you see sitting behind me or around me, or on my left, you can't find one MP who wasn't the victim of some kind of violence. So violence isn't just physical violence, it's also psychological violence, it's threats through social networks, on the street or whatever. I don't know what time you're in the O.R., but I believe you're in this term for the first time, and here, when I'm crossing the view of this room, I can't find a colleague who hasn't suffered it, but no one who's sent them these threats is sanctioned. It's kind of a rule in our society that if you are against the Serbian Progressive Party, against Alexander Vukic, you are protected, and everyone who supports the policies of the Serbian Progressive Party and Alexander Vukic are a legitimate target. We have to agree that it's not normal. I'm not asking for special justice for any of us, I'm just looking for equality for all of us, and I'm asking for any of us, whether it belongs to the position or to the opposition not to endanger fundamental human rights, the right to live. When we talk about this, and why we're talking about double arches, I've also discussed from this place several times the affairs that rocked the city of Belgrade. I am the city councilor, head of the Serbian Progressive Party's committee group in the Belgrade City Conference on the topic of affairs, I am very familiar with each, from embezzlement of funds, 1.2 billion euros in debt left behind by Dragan Gilas, to the affairs we talked about and spoke loudly and which, after three, four or five years, did not receive a court epilogue. From this point on, I was also talking about an affair of underground containers, where six million euros were embezzled, for which no one was ever responsible, there were some court proceedings, it's been running since 2016. In 2017, it was silent. What method we come up with is that after three years we still don't have a solution and we don't have a situation to be responsible for it with consequences and consequences. It's not the only affair that embezzled that much money. In the reconstruction of King Alexander's Bulevar, sixm euros were also embezzled, all the media wrote about it, even people were arrested, the process took place, but here, today in 2021, there is still no judicial epilogue. When citizens rightly ask us, you're right. That's not how your money was going to evaporate. You even have a revision of the DRI that shows that the procedures have been clearly violated, that money has been clearly embezzled. When citizens ask why someone has not been arrested, it is very difficult to give a reasonable answer and give the right answer, an explanation of why. I absolutely agree that the judiciary is independent and I don't want anyone to think of this as a pressure on the judiciary, but if we're already here in Parliament and we're discussing such very important issues, we have to pass on what the citizens are asking, because we, first of all, represent them here. In addition to what I'm saying, the fact that in 2017, it seems to me, during one of the protestes of the Dvora Boško Obradovic movement outside the TV Pink, two journalists, Gordana Zelec and Mara Dragovic, were unfeelingly attacked and beaten. The man who was arrested in various ways tried to save himself, to get out of the process. Here, and today, if I'm wrong, I'd like someone to correct me, is anyone convicted of beating up those two journalists? Unfortunately, he didn't, and I wonder when he'd be on how much punishment? During a protest of a part of the opposition and incidents that caused the attack on both the police and anyone who was on their side on the opposite side, many people were arrested, but, behold, to this day we have not received any information as to who is and to any prison sentence, if it is a prison case, and if it is infraction, how much money is it. We have to set things up so that the people who represent the opposition in Serbia today don't feel like they're being given God and they can do anything and they can't bear any coincidences. Not far from here, they crashed a construction site in the square, fought traffic signs, attacked city workers, lived above them, name, last name, photographed, proud of it, and none of them was literally sanctioned. In July of the month ahead of this house, catastrophic things were happening, and we must first of all as a society, as a state institution, first of all, to take care of how some work is defined and what is the weight of that work. In front of this house, more than 120 officers were physically injured, which is easier, which is more difficult. One cop broke both his legs. Those cops were attacked with rocks that weighed more than five kilos. If you're telling me that a hooligan throws a stone at a man who weighs more than five kilos, you define it as a riot or as some kind of protest or a disturbance of public order and peace, I can't agree with you, because when you throw someone with such a rock, the only thing you're trying to do is take his life and if it's not an attempted murder, I don't know what it is? Now, it's been so many months and I still don't know what happened to it I still don't know what the final court is and what's going on in the processes that have been going on and whether they've been led against the people who have done it. We also spoke on several occasions about the violated rights of the children of a man who, by his will, is legitimately elected president of our country. I want to know what's going on with the child rights of Alexander Vukic, Danil Vukic, to start with who they're stalking, tracking, spying, abuse, painting and satanicizing him from day to day. Let's just do it on social networks, it's a matter of some man, although it's absolutely unacceptable, but when you put a picture of Danil Vukic on the media that is directly influenced by Dragan Gilas and convicted criminals and people who are only recognized by the crimes of some from the criminal mile, what's going on here? Does anyone feel the need to react then and protect his right? These things are very serious, and the more we pretend we don't see them, the bigger the problem is. These days, i.e. yesterday, it seems to me, or yesterday, I read the news that journalist Olivera Jovicevic of the protest withdrew the lawsuit against Sergei Trifunovic, who on his social networks, along with his followers, has made an awful accusation that is difficult and repeated, but I will quote that woman, I don't know, only works for some money or whatever, alluding directly, talking about some prostitution. After 15 months, nothing happened to that question. No process started either. It has been explained that they have failed to find the address, that they have failed to file a complaint, and he has shown this lawsuit on his social networks and continued to insult her and disrespect her in this way. A few years ago, we had the entire race of the opposition's more insulting Prime Minister Ana Brnabic, openly calling for the rape of Prime Minister Ana Brnabic. What happened to that? With the name and last name, it was Zeljko Veselinović, the errand boy Dragan Gilas, who has such an affair behind him that looks more like the Monti Python circus than something more serious. A man bought a broken car from his father-in-law to keep the money in the house. Yeah, yeah, union money. He made up that they needed a car, and then he bought a broken car from his father-in-law. Such a man openly called for the rape of Prime Minister Ana Brnabic. Is it sanctioned? Did he have any consequences? For the past few days, our country has been shaking a very painful and very ugly subject, one that is inadmissible and difficult to grasp with common sense. It's about raping an actress and everything that's been going on in that acting school or whatever it's called. Unfortunately, we have a part of the people in our country who, fortunately, are a minority, but who definitely make the victims guilty and wonder why it wasn't previously reported, what was there, why this girl kept going and what was going on. Such monstrosity only justify the actions of the even greater monster who did it. We all have one thing to understand. As long as we tolerate in our society the behavior of people who today or tomorrow tend to lead both Belgrade and Serbia, as long as their calls for rape and murder are pushed under the carpet and pretend we don't see, and the judiciary, the prosecution or anyone else is not responding to it, don't be surprised what some people in our country have that awareness and wonder – well, then what do I expect, what are my rights? This is no longer a matter of politics or different political parties. It is no longer a question of position or opposition, nor whether we will continue as SNS in the coming period to be in power at the level of the Republic or whether Alexander Vucic will be president, but now this is a question of society and the country that we leave behind for generations to come. With this I will conclude, my former speaker spoke about it, you know, if it is necessary for some media or for one of us MPs to point to an affair where the city of Belgrade and Dragan Gilas directly paid for consulting services of more than two million euros to a company that deals with the construction of ships, selling spare parts without having anything to do with the construction industry. Is that what we should say and suggest it without any of the competent institutions reacting to it? And then the court forbids us to talk about it. Such things are not good, and such things only make everything that we want as a society, which is to make it even more beautiful and even better for our children and generations to come. I am confident, and I end up with this, that these judges we choose today will do their job well, but the topics that we've all talked about here and who will talk about after me, show us that the spread of all the branches in our country must be stronger in the interests of our country and in the interests of our citizens, because the state is there to take care of every man in our country wherever he lives. That's what I'm done with. Thank you. I hope that in the next period we will have less needs for these discussions and less need to remember all these things where we had to react much better, because this is what our country deserves, this is our children and our generations coming deserve. Thank you. Long live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-27-0.u2617	Thank you. The People's MP, Dejan Kesar, has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-27-0.u2618	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected representatives of the High Council of Justice, respected citizens of Serbia, I believe that my colleagues in the previous part of a special session in a very detailed and exhaustive manner have explained their proposed laws in the area of security and traffic, so that I, in my special satisfaction, will take a special note of the motion for a decision on the choice of judges. At the beginning of my presentation, first of all, I would like to point out that today we are talking about judges who are elected for the first time to serve as judges of the Administrative Court in Belgrade, economic courts in Nis and Kragujevac, as well as the General Court in Ivanjica. Today, we are also talking about judges proposed by the High Council of the Judiciary, and this is the case after the law has been implemented, all in accordance with the Law on Judges and the Law on the High Council of the Judiciary. This procedure, which I consider to have been carried out in a very transparent manner, clearly found that it is about persons who possess, above all, expertise, dignity, and that they are qualified to perform one of the most demanding functions in the field of justice and justice, which is to be the holder of the judicial functions. First of all, I have to say that the judges are persons who, by their active actions, decide on someone's right, decide on someone's freedom and decide in a legally established procedure whether someone's right has been violated and whether the norm that the legislator has anticipated is prohibited. But also, with their active action, the judges decide on the private interest, private property, as well as the interest of the state and its bodies and organisations, and everything in accordance with the Constitution and the law. Why do I mention the Constitution? I would like to remind the citizens of Serbia that the constitution provides for a horizontal division of powers involving legislative, executive and judicial authority. And this particular judicial authority is the third branch of government, which aims to protect all rights and freedoms of citizens from violations of power, and the main tool in this is the Constitution and the law. But what's most important is that the judiciary and the holders of judicial functions are independent and that's what all democratic states are trying to do, and that's an independent judiciary. But what is very dangerous is when the state tries to suspend the division of power, when the state wants to directly control the judiciary and holders of judicial functions, which was the case at the end of 2009 and early 2010, when the regime, led by the Democratic Party, carried out one of the most discreet judicial reforms in Serbia's modern history. Under the pronunciation of judicial reform, a never-seen cutting of judges has been carried out, cutting down over 800 judges, which has resulted in disastrous consequences both for our judiciary and for the reputation of the Republic of Serbia in European institutions that monitor progress in the area of justice and justice. The then Ministry of Justice and then the heads of the Justice Ministry, under the orders of the then Democratic Party, are discussing a competition for the general selection of judges in the present basic, more and more appeals courts, a contest that was neither necessary at that time, nor was it in accordance with the Constitution, which left behind 800 judges without a job. Dear Serbian citizens, the 800 judges at that time remained on the street and all of them had the same very embarrassing explanation of the Supreme Council of the judiciary at the time, which was that they were unworthy, unworthy, because their expertise was not discussed on the basis of all documents available to the courts at the time, their working impact, but was taken into account by the members of the Supreme Council of the judiciary at the time, and then the members of the VSS and then the leaders of the Justice Ministry were, above all, people who were indoctrated by political ideology and the programme of the then DS how to place the judiciary under political influence. Why did they need it, everyone wonders? There was little for them to have a majority in the National Assembly at that time. There was little for them to have in their hands the government, so they wanted to control the judiciary and the holders of judicial functions, i.e. judges and prosecutors. At that point, they didn't think about the consequences of the careers of these judges, by the family relations of these judges, by their health, and most importantly, by the judiciary, which had disastrous consequences. I must point out that some judges, unfortunately, passed away during the reelection and did not welcome their moral and professional satisfaction to be returned to the job that belonged to them under the law. Some judges suffered from various diseases, which were, above all, the result of their stress and their concerns about the existence of their families. I must remind you that there have been cases where both spouses who were employed in the judiciary have been characterized by the VSS as unworthy. And also, some judges have progressed in the course of re-election by even two degrees, or progressed from basic to appeals courts, although it is a rule by nature that the judge progresses from degree to degree. Now I have to read you something that I want Serbian citizens to pay special attention to. In 2010 a document published by the Serbian Judges' Association appeared in public with the daily list "Politics", which clearly shows judges' lists in the Municipality of Vlasotince, based on the recommendation of the local DS board. Then it is clearly seen from the same document that they had the advantage of the choice, and please pay attention to, which DS officials considered as sympathisers of the party. In the end, more tragically, that the same document was certified by the seal of the Municipality of Vlasotince. Imagine, then, how the choice of judges was conducted in major cities, such as Belgrade, such as Nis, Kragujevac, Novi Sad, etc. Afterwards, a very long and uncertain struggle of 800 litigators with a system that had already made decisions at that time, and these decisions were mildly disastrous. A new judicial network has been introduced, which instead of the municipal and district courts then introduced more basic and appeals courts, and only one basic court for the city, which has two million citizens, was established on the territory of the city of Belgrade. The judges in the litigation departments at the time receive over 1,000 cases. Due to the existing large number of cases and due to the inflow of a new number of cases, hearings are scheduled two or three times a year, two or three times a year, and the parties are waiting for a verdict over 10 years. At that moment, there is a collapse in the judiciary, a collapse from which no justice can come out of today. The lawyer's profession at that point was completely blocked. Due to the inflow of a new number of cases, not of their own free will, they were suspended in two or more years. You know what's even more tragic? More tragically, we have paid 44m euros on behalf of the damage to all present citizens of the Republic of Serbia on behalf of the damage, and based on differences in earnings, wages in earnings and compensation for various grounds, 44m euros in our money because of the desire for someone's biography to say that he reformed the judiciary and all the time of re-election from 2009 to 2012, when the Constitutional Court had the hearing to return those same judges to work, the European Commission, the Venice Commission tells the people of the Ministry and the High Council of Justice that the procedure was non-transparent. Non-transparent because the data available by the courts at the time of the reelection were not used, some other documents were used. I say again, fortunately, in 2012, the Constitutional Court heard that these judges were returning to work and were doing that job that belonged to them by law. After that, the leaders of the then DS, the heads of the Justice Ministry, say that these returned judges have SNS membership cards, and those who directly influenced the place of individual judges in the then basic, senior and appeal courts, because at that moment they forgot to make judgments on behalf of the people, already wanted to make certain judgments on behalf of the DS. Also, I would like to point out, which is a big difference between the current and previous authorities, which we have chosen in one transparent way all members of the Supreme Council of the judiciary and the State Council of Prosecutors, and in one of the previous sessions of 50 court presidents, we have chosen as Presidents of the Courts to carry out all the affairs in accordance with the law. In the end, I would like to ask the citizens of Serbia never again to allow us to see such a devastation of justice as that in 2010, that we do not allow justice and justice to be told by those who directly wanted to control the courts and judges, as well as the prosecutors, and you gentlemen of the opposition or what you already call yourself under these obscenity media - never again talk about reforms, because for you the reforms are a polygon for the achievement of personal frustrations, and the leaders of the Ministry of Justice and the High Council of the Court of Justice of 2009 I would ask, after this, dear judges, do you consider yourself worthy? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-27-0.u2619	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Bratislava Jugovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-27-0.u2620	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable representatives of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, the respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, or the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to take the opportunity to congratulate the Serbian people of the country and the secession on the school glory of the Holy Sava and to choose judges today in the Holy Sava, and that is some symbolism. However, do we actually choose judges, formally we choose them, but I think we just confirm the decision of the High Council of Justice. Dear fellow MP Vladimir Djukanovic, a professional lawyer, a type of lawyer, the chairman of the Justice Committee, conducted a survey on the Telegram social network, and I have the results of the survey. Of the 206 surveyed, most were MPs, MPs were representatives of the people, just to remind the public, the verdicts were made on behalf of the people, so I'll tell you the results of that poll. When asked -- do you trust in the judiciary, in part I trust 44% of the respondents. I repeat, most of them are MPs. First it goes: I don't trust 33%, and it's partly 44%, and I have trust, worst score, 23%. So, citizens and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the MPs living with these citizens, this is a meeting where MPs come from the people, and not from some tycoon cabinets, above all, we know how the people breathe, do not trust the judiciary. We can thank Snezana Malovic, Gilas and Tadic's minister for that result. A former speaker explained all of this nicely. He's also a lawyer. He was so taxing, he explained everything that was actually going on. Although we have the will and desire to correct all of this, to make these results different, to actually have citizens' trust in the judiciary, such damage has been done to the Serbian judiciary sometimes to wonder if we can correct it, but every rule has an exception. I think that this congregation majority is an exception to a lot of things, so we'll make it right over time, but it's our turn to remind ourselves what the situation really is. The other thing is, we choose judges. A colleague from the SPS Dubravka King said, I don't think we have any insight into the biography. Who's supposed to be the judge? I think the judge should be someone who's a respected lawyer with a 20-year career and that they're people of experience who can meet these challenges, because the judiciary is a pillar of an orderly society, one of the pillars of the state. The judge is a higher authority, dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, than any MP. The judge is immeasurable. Why won't lawyers with a 20-year career compete to be judges? Maybe we'd pick them, right? I would object here and ask for such judges, I would vote against your proposals if you had such proposals, but you don't have them, gentlemen, because the salary of the judge is 1,000 euros in the basic court, and in the less developed countries in the context of the judge's salary in the basic court is 1,700 euros. It's a demagogy when we say that judges have some decent salaries. The people responsible for ordinary citizens, that's true, but if we want to have an effective judiciary, the judges can't have a salary of 1,000 euros. Also, Ministers, come on, I don't want to talk about us people's MPs, let others say that, but also ministers, the president, the head of state, don't have salaries that are adequate tasks that need to be done. By having representatives of the people, ministers, and even the head of state, if they make a bit of a mistake somewhere, they experience a great condemnation of the people, they pay an expensive price in the elections, and the judge, if wrong, pays the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. We can talk about this as much as you want and I can talk about it here and I can be wise, but it's not my part. However, there is no one who is a decent man who will not agree with me that the salaries in the judiciary are very small and that they are actually competing with people who cannot earn those benefits in law, and we all know that lawyers earn more than 1,000 euros a month. We need the best for judges and the judiciary, not only with knowledge, but the best for morals and character. So, I've read you these results. I hope they get better. It is up to you from the VSS to fight for the status of a judge in a financial sense that the competition of those running would be stronger and that we would choose the best. I would like to thank Ambassador Vladimir Djukanovic for doing this poll. He did this on the Telegram social network and what we actually have insight, no MP has done so far. You know why he didn't do it? Well, because the MPs from previous calls, or previous authorities, not from previous calls, I apologize, from previous authorities, are MPs representing tycoons, not people. So, I'm going to vote for this VSS proposal because I believe that they chose the best of those who applied, but in order to have as many candidates as possible, judges must have incomparably higher salaries. Thank you very much. Long live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-27-0.u2621	Thank you. National MP Rajka Matovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-27-0.u2622	Thank you, Chairman. Dear representatives of the Council of the High Court, honourable fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, we have before us decisions on the election of judges who are first elected to office. I hope that they will perform the function of security and honor that we choose them to do. The judiciary, as the third branch of government, is independent and must be the pillar of one rule of law. It is one of the priorities of the SNS - a very stable and independent judiciary. Unlike the previous government, we choose judges based on their biographies, not on party books. Also, I'd like to appeal to the prosecutor's office on this occasion. I also believe that these institutions should react when in some media, which are mostly under the control of one tycoon, they bring out the most disgusting lies and falsehoods about the president of the Republic of Serbia about his family, about all of us sitting here, about having to react when someone is being targeted, when Srdjan Nogo says that both the president and his family will have a tragic end, that he must react when a daily newspaper publishes a headline station with a picture of the president of the Republic of Serbia and a gun pointed at him, that they must not be silent about insulting Angelina Vukic. And not only Angelina Vukic, but to mention anyone's mother, sister, child, family for political purposes. Like us, you're here for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Our duty and responsibility to the citizens obliges us to respond to falseness, not to tell lies about public deception. Is it normal that at the moment of the global crisis caused by the pandemic of the crown of the virus to bring unrest for cheap political points. The whole world grabs on medical aid and vaccines. We were able to get the vaccines first and begin immunization of the public. Instead of being normal in any country to get commendation, we get criticism, unfounded, based on the quality of the vaccine. Speaking of perplexing the public, it's inadmissible that one day it's being propagated by the opposition media, that one day it's propagating vaccination, and the other day it's not necessary to vaccinate, so why isn't someone in power being vaccinated. When the prime minister does, they accuse us of wanting us first to be inoculated by the government and the party belonging to us. If all the bells ring out how we're supposed to put in a state of emergency, shut down schools, because we're all going to be on fire, when we introduce a state of emergency for objective reasons, they're accusing us of violating human rights. Well, gentlemen, decide which attitudes you represent. Are you aware that you are directly jeopardizing someone's life because someone may not vaccinate or follow the measures recommended for you? A lot has been done for these eight years in Serbia. They're in pain every foot of the highway, they're in pain by every new factory, every new job, every new salary and pension increase, two new hospitals, renovation of health homes, big capital projects. Serbia really has something to be proud of. We have secured vaccines. Countries in the region don't immunize because they don't have vaccines, and we donate to them. Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic presented a new package of measures last night to help businesses and full-time citizens of Serbia. Each pensioner will receive 110 euros in anti-indarian value in the coming period. Those who were the loudest in criticising the previous measures brought by the Government of the Republic of Serbia were the first to take 100 euros from the government of the Republic of Serbia. The same ones today are the loudest in criticising the quality of the vaccine, and the first ones reported being vaccinated or standing in line for vaccination. Today at St. Sava we are opening an impressive monument to Stefan Nemanja, founder of the Serbian state. All of these pains and frustrations and every day are increasingly blinded by the hatred of Alexander Vukic and his family who are truly no longer hiding and publicly threatening and wishing for the worst monstrous scenarios for Vukic and his family. For all this, I urge you to deal more closely with the opposition leaders' statements for the protection of the interests of all Serbian citizens, and you will always have constructive support for your work. I would like this opportunity to congratulate all the students, the educators and all those who mark today the glory of the Holy Sava. I will support the set of these decisions in Voting Day, together with my colleagues from the "Alexander Vukic – for our children" parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-27-0.u2623	Thank you. National MP Jelena Žarić Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-27-0.u2624	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Mr Dacic, distinguished guests from the VSS, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, today we also have a choice of judges who are first elected to the judge's office, and this gives us space not only to talk about the choice of judges, but also about the state of justice in general, the results achieved in this area, above all, about ways to ensure the rule of law, and I would say what is most important for creating citizens, a sense of trust in our judicial system. That's why I'm gonna start fighting corruption. The fight against corruption is a strategic plan by the Serbian government that I have been proposing measures both preventive and repressive for years. The National Assembly also played a certain role in this fight against corruption because in the previous term we also had a lot of changes and additions to some legal acts and participated in the adoption of some new solutions that appear in our legislation for the first time. When we talk about the results achieved in the area of justice, we make the difference between the stable and secure justice system we have today and the judiciary that failedly resisted the political influences we had until 2012. Very often you can hear me making comparisons of this species and I'm going to say that my reasons are actually very simple. Someone had a chance to do a lot of things, so let's see who did what. There we immediately see the difference between those who were in power until 2012, who either keep quiet or insult you when you ask them about the results and us from the SNS who can bring at least one result to any of their insults or criticisms. First of all, I mean those who didn't even want to take part in some pre-election inter-party negotiations on improving electoral conditions. These have left us with the disastrous consequences of the worst judicial reform implemented in Serbia in 2008 and 2009. They are the same ones who passed the electoral laws by which the SNS beat them convincingly in 2012 and won all elections convincingly to date. I have no doubt that this will happen and beyond, that they would, of course, hypocritically object against the electoral legislation they have passed, of course blaming Alexander Vukic for not being able to win the election. So while I was still in the field of justice and the election of judges, I want to put an emphasis on the impact of politics on the judiciary, which was huge by 2012, was immeasurable. I want to tell the judges whose choice we are talking about today to be aware of their independence and to put first and foremost on the profession, because the citizens of Serbia have already lost their trust in the judiciary in 2009, but they have also borne the costs of this radical reform of the judiciary we have had the opportunity to witness, unfortunately. Today, on the other hand, we will witness the discovery of the Monuments to Stefan Nemanja, the founder of Serbian statehood and spirituality, and I would like to congratulate all Serbian citizens on that. On the other hand, what is the most important news in those media that are funded by Dragan Gilas – should Stefan Nemanja hold a sword or a cross in his hand? And when it comes to good things and when it comes to good things and when it comes to something that will represent our desire to preserve our state-of-the-art history, we are doomed to listen to lies, spins, malicious claims, etc. Unfortunately, I have to tell you that I was not surprised at all because at the beginning of the coronary virus, at the beginning of that epidemic, they played with the health of people or for reasons to be present in some public life, in some public discourse or for reasons to collect cheap political points, because simply the people led by Dragan Gilas and his party don't know what else because they can't talk about results. They provided half-information or misinformation on our health care, on our health system, or on the number of respirators. Now they're doing the same thing with the vaccine news. Yes, and here I can say, without the pawning of Alexander Vukic, we wouldn't have enough respirators, and we wouldn't have any vaccines that we can talk about today, or this kind of population immunization organization. We've vaccinated about 320,000 people by yesterday and we've arranged as many as 6.5 million vaccines. In the end, I want to finish my address with what the President of the Republic himself was talking about yesterday. He announced some good things for Serbian citizens. So, in a situation where large and developed countries are in a loc-down, in a situation where the most developed countries of Europe and the world are in a major problem concerning population health, and this applies to both the economy and the economy, when all is concerned, the citizens of Serbia can expect a new package of assistance from their country that will be worth 2.5 billion euros and it is actually about four groups of measures. It has been a direct support for the private sector since 1 March, so three times 50% of minimum earnings. As for fostering consumption, citizens will receive twice 30 euros each, and pensioners will receive another 50 euros. Transporters in road transport, which will receive 600 euros per bus, are also assisted and will have 500m euros for a new guarantee scheme for businesses. In this way, I remind you, while we are in the process of fighting the coronary virus we will have the best economic growth in Europe and that is what our country can be proud of and that is what the citizens of Serbia need to know that we will always put the health of our population first, but that we will never, for that time, talk about any problems concerning the economy or the economy or the closure of our country or the loss of jobs, as it was until 2012 even though they did not fight the coronary virus. So we fight in all fields. We are fighting for the rule of law, but also for our economy and economy. We are fighting for the health of our citizens, but also for their better living standards. We remain that Serbia should continue to develop, because we all deserve a regulated, legal state, a financially strong and politically stable country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-27-0.u2625	Thank you. Given that there are six, seven speakers left, I will use my parliamentary right to set a break by 15.00 hours. Thank you. [[after breaks]] The next is National MP Dr Vladimir Marinkovic. I'm sorry if I made a mistake in the order, but there's been some kind of change, which is why. I apologize to Mr. Arsic, he's next. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-27-0.u2627	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Dacic. Dear guests, ladies and gentlemen, a few sentences about this very important topic not only for us here in the National Assembly, but also for the topic which is one of the key for the future of our country and for the development of what may be crucial for the good realization of economic, political, social and all other reforms, and that is what is called the rule of law. In order for us to have a rule of law and an ambience where, of course, the law will be the same for all and citizens and businessmen and all those who participate in social life in our country, we must choose and always talk about it and try to choose the best, the most qualified and qualified people for positions that involve judicial positions, therefore, those people who, like all other civil servants, and that is what I mean by the President of the Republic, I mean also members of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and us here are the MPs, who are representatives of citizens, who represent the people. I think that they should be chosen by the principles that just mean that they are the main aspect of their actions, which is to be representatives of the people, to work for the people, to work for the citizens, but also to assess their work on the basis of what is called measurement or to simplify and to express myself more peoplely, as they would say, and that is to say, when it comes to assessing the work of every judge or court or judicial authority or judicial authority, we are handling what is called a traffic light, we are handling what is called results. This is something that President Aleksandar Vucic introduced this principle of metrics in 2014 to completely remove from politics and political life, if possible, demagogy, from some excessively large theoretical debates, rather than from what really defines what the work and the executive bodies of the government but also from the National Assembly that this is the result, that how many kilometers of highways we have built, how many airports we have built, how many jobs we have provided for our people and our citizens. This applies to you, President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, to us sitting here in parliament whether we will vote and pass the best laws possible and create the best possible legal framework for the functioning of our economy and our state, whether we will make it as good and attractive for domestic and foreign investors, for domestic and foreign tourists or not. I think we have succeeded in these jobs in the past few years thanks to this very vision and precisely this clearly defined strategic goals of President Vukic, because we have made the economy such a good business environment that we recognize from the world's greatest players as the economic leader of this region, but many at global level recognise Serbia as well as the political leader not only of this region, but of course the entire Southeast Europe and recommend the results. For this, it is not recommended that I speak to more of my colleagues from the SNS today or from the parties of our coalition partners, that we are beautiful, good and that we praise ourselves, but that for that we are recommended by economic growth, for that we are recommended by the level of foreign direct investment, for that we recommend how much we have succeeded in this massive immunization of our population. How far we have succeeded in this intention to preserve the health system, to preserve the social protection system and, of course, to make preconditions for a better future for all our citizens and our countries. As far as the court is concerned, there's only one fact I have to say. Of course, here in the National Assembly as representatives of the legislative authority, we do not have the right to interfere and comment on the work of courts, court decisions and court proceedings, but as someone who should vote for the election of judges, as someone who should control and, in my opinion, although I am not a lawyer, my colleague, Dr Aleksandar Martinovic, who may be one of the best experts of constitutional law in our country, I take myself as a representative of the people in this country, to give an assessment of the work of the courts, and to say that the work we do and who do public work is the interest of the people, the interest of the state, the interest of the citizens. Our job isn't to deal with propaganda, our job isn't to do marketing, our job isn't to do PR, so the younger ones say. Our job is to work for the people and work for the citizens. The fact that we may be fascinated by our colleagues in courts is that they will go to a foreign embassy, which will make co-operation with a foreign international organisation, so that is excellent, that is for every praise, but that is no reason to forget that you are chosen by people chosen by the people and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, not by the embassy and not by international organisations. We accept co-operation with everyone, we have open hands, open arms to cooperate with everyone, but it seems to me that some judges, some representatives of the judicial authority, are more concerned about how many times they will appear in some media with print or electronic, than they will take care of how many cases they have solved or whether their superior courts and you so-called. the second-degree bodies in which the percentage cancel their decisions. When you mention it, God forbid here in the National Assembly, then the media says, our MPs attack, we are protected. I guess we're some kind of special species, so you're not. Far from being protected in this country. What we're looking for here is measurement. What we're looking for here as MPs primarily of the SNS is efficiency and efficiency in the work of the courts. I read the other day an interview by a judge who says dead is cold – I don't have any communication with the justice minister. You know, I doubt her in advance, because she comes from the BIA. Is it a shame that someone's working at the BIA? And that, in my opinion, is the focus of this whole story on the independence and separation of the work of the legislative, judicial and executive authorities. Exactly what he said. Have you ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament ever seen the CEO of BIA on TV, in the media doing his PR, talking about what he did and how he did? Have you seen this same minister of present justice, Mrs Maja Popovic, talk about it in the media and inform the public about the actions of a serious institution that should work for the benefit of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and this state? Well, you're not. You could only see Bratislav Gasic in one of the crisis situations, when he needed this people, when we fought for equipment, when we fought for masks, when we fought for gloves, when we fought for every vaccine, when there was a flood, when there was an emergency situation. It should be a personification of the behaviour of someone who works in the state institution, who works for the citizens and who should work for the people in the Republic of Serbia, and not to say I'm more equal than others and is elected here in parliament, to vote here for him and then go to work and say – well, I have nothing to do with you, you can't say a word to me. Well, it's not like that. We're all here together at work. I don't think it's heresy, and I think as MPs, we have the right to ask daily questions -- results, results. What's done? How is the economy satisfied? How are domestic investors satisfied? How is that small manufacturer satisfied if he has any litigation or claim, does it last a year, two or three, and in the meantime, because of the ineffectiveness of a court, he had to close his firm, his little workshop? I take care of these people. Our party takes care of those people, who pay this country taxes, who hire people in the Republic of Serbia. I don't worry much about those who, as soon as they reach a position and pay, say, we are a particular species, a special strain that no one can say anything about. So my message here as a MP is that we should cooperate, that we should work together, but that everyone must bear their responsibility and that, even during his term, as independent as he is, to tell this people and these citizens what he has done, how much he has done and what his results are, because maybe some average citizen can't judge it, he can't even know it. So, instead of marketing, ladies and gentlemen, MPs and dear citizens, instead of PR, turn to work, turn to the serious service and serve this country and these citizens. I would like to say that there are no untouchable ones in this country, that President Aleksandar Vukic has succeeded during his work and activities as prime minister and president of the Republic to make this country a society of equal odds, but not a society of equal opportunities that means egalitarianism. No, we don't advocate it at SNS. We are in favour of rewarding those who are the best, who are the most valuable, who are the most qualified, who produce the best results. These people are pulling this country forward. We're in favour, and I think we've created conditions for everyone to have the same chance of schooling, everyone having the same chance to work, everyone having the same chance to start their own company, everyone having the same chance to get a job at a state or private company, no matter what political party, religion, union organization or any other organization, the institution belongs. That is what is most important, which is the greatest value of what this party and President Vukic have done over the past few years. After all, let them see something small, who wants to read, who wants to see, let them see a little something from it, let them see that traffic light, let them see 250 km of highway, let them see a million vaccines and let them say – wait, let me do something for my country, something that is tangible, something that citizens can see, as we did. A job, a salary, a family, an opportunity to go somewhere, to educate your children, to help your parents. The future of young people, for our children, the future of Serbia, SNS Aleksandar Vukic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-27-0.u2628	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-27-0.u2629	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. President, I would like to ask, as far as possible, the next time we discuss the bearers of the judicial functions, that at the same time we discuss the bearers of the public prosecutorial functions. It's very difficult to conduct a debate, not to confront those two sides about what's going on in our judicial and state structure. I know that wasn't possible right now, but whenever there's a chance, I'm asking you to suggest the agenda. We can't choose judges, we can, but it's a little questionable because these two types of functions are very connected. There's always that dilemma that's an older chicken or an egg. It seems to me that, with regard to the National Assembly, there is always this dilemma for prosecutors and judges. It is somehow forgotten that today, I suppose, it is in the verdict that it is being brought in the name of the people. So when a judge makes a verdict, there is some sovereignty of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, that people. These sovereigntys have MPs, above all, who have been elected in direct elections. Then, part of their sovereignty is passed on to the holders of judicial and public prosecutorial functions. It is a bit strange that the work of the judicial authorities is not subject to evaluation and condemnation by the public, since it is reportedly disrupting its independence and independence. When the case is closed, so when the verdict brought by a court on behalf of a nation is justified, I don't know in what sense the independence or independence of a judge is violated? I suppose that condemnation or commendation is something that the bearer of such a function needs to endure, to see if he may be right. Don't surprise us with this poll that was conducted amongst the MPs. These younger polls may not even know things, and I don't take that for evil. What can I tell you, when the previous regime here was elected by the President of the Supreme Cassation Court in this room in an unconstitutional manner. How did the MPs have confidence in the judges who were the same Supreme Council of the judiciary propose to the National Assembly in that term? When the Supreme Council of the Judiciary violates the Constitution and even the National Assembly. Does anyone know that the source of the election Nate Mesarovic was hidden, that when the National Assembly acted according to the Constitutional Court's assessment, there was no original document that was not in accordance with both the Constitution and the Law on the Implementation of the Constitution? He wasn't in the National Assembly, people. Gilas' dikes were hiding it, too. The source doesn't even exist in the archive today. We managed to get to him in other ways, because one document when it travels through the Assembly has multiple copies, so they couldn't get all the copies removed and destroyed. We know how the President of the Supreme Cassation Court is elected. We know it has to be in full composition. We know it's proposed to the relevant Justice Committee. It is proposed by the incomplete Bosko Ristic as chairman of the Justice Committee, hides the paper and enters the direct application of the constitution beyond the law. There is no direct application of the Constitution, the Constitution is implemented through the laws. We are now investigating why there is so much mistrust between both the MPs and the citizens when it comes to bearers and judicial and public prosecutorial functions. Why do MPs always hold back when they have to vote and ask themselves whether the Supreme Council of the judiciary has done its job properly? We had a situation recently, perhaps a little over a year ago, that the candidates for judges had been passing through the whole triage provided for by the court's procedure, the whole triage of procedures that the High Council has, and that later in the debate, it turned out that these people were not worthy of being the president of the courts, because they had ties with various criminals, seen with them in contact, etc., which is not worthy of being a judge, let alone the President of the Court of Justice of any, basic, higher, appeals or god-given. We all forget, when we're talking about the independence of courts, and they really need to be independent, and they are, as far as possible today, as far as we're concerned from the political mile that we're responsible for running the country, but the judges are probably judging by some law. The law brings the National Assembly here, and he cannot come out of that law. He can decide and his discretionary right is to which witness he will trust more, to whom he will show more faith to give, define whatever you want, but he can't go beyond the law that we're making. It is still a shame for the Serbian judiciary what Judge Majic did. It's a shame. A minor's face, a promise. Liberation, annuls the condemning verdict and states in a statement that it is in the habit of a group, a population, in the ordinary law of that group or population. You know what? In normal law, you have some lands where, say, a woman for adultery whips or stones to death. If we have such a group in Serbia, should they kill people? No reaction from you as a competent authority that has the ability to initiate a certain procedure before the National Assembly. Here, we don't have to solve it, but at least let's talk about what he was doing here, what he was doing when he was a judge. At least the public finds him unworthy of his judicial functions. It's just one, let me say, out of the circumstances. Is it not a shame and a humiliation that the People's Messenger for a spoken word or a voice in the People's Assembly corresponds to that before the court? He has absolute inviolability, for what I'm saying, the Assembly can't lift my immunity, according to the Constitution. Such a judge tried counterpart Marijana Risticevic. It is a humiliation to the function of the People's MP, for an opinion expressed in the National Assembly. That means we can't talk, because we're going to be the subject of a lawsuit or even a criminal trial. That's impossible. How can the citizens believe, that's why I said they should be both prosecutors and judges at the same time, to choose, how will the citizens believe when, say, our prosecution releases Philip Koraq and says - in lack of evidence? He's been running the procedure for three years before that. They couldn't begin the procedure if some evidence wasn't in some pre-examination. How can we citizens, and so should we Members of the People, believe? How am I supposed to believe this because the D.A. has dropped the prosecution for assaulting Marijan Risticevic here in front of the National Assembly? So we watched as they attacked him, we people's messengers. We're not supposed to believe our own eyes? Trust someone else? These are the problems of our society. That is why there is one concern that when we go into full reform of our judiciary and the National Assembly, the MPs transfer not part of the sovereignty of the choice of holders of judicial functions, but the complete sovereignty to one organ. Then that organ has to be up to what's expected of it, it's got to come out of some, how can I say, staring and giving in where it's not supposed to be. It's always said that public prosecutorial and judicial officials are under some pressure from various authorities. You know what, the sovereignty and independence of a judge or prosecutor's office, however, is a matter of individual integrity, not a system, and a system exists, so if any judge-holder is pressured by anyone, he has the right to seek protection from you first, but he has the right to seek protection from the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's competent committee, in the following text: the National Assembly. I didn't notice that. No one's asked for it yet, no one. It means that there is no systemically, but it's always a good story to attack the President of the Republic or anyone else, MPs, anyone. Of course, there's this mistrust, and because of everything that's been going on, what some colleagues have already mentioned, and what was happening in July and the threats to the president's family and not to list everything. You know, we've come down to one story in the system that when a man is a criminal and a thief, he is until he comes to the former regime. The moment he bows down to Dragan Gilas and the former regime, he becomes a victim of power. Judges have to deal with it, prosecutors have to deal with it, not MPs. They're the ones who have to cross over in their heads once and say, "Be politically defined as you will, you'll be responsible for what you've done, and point." Then we're all equal before the law. Of course, we have to wonder if we in the National Assembly have done everything right. A few years ago, during the former regime, the notion of extra-conductive punishment was introduced. I agree. So we've made some restrictions, and only those who are sentenced to prison for up to a year can do so. Do you know what that turned into? Inconceivable acts that have been threatened with punishment from one year to ten years will be subject to a plea agreement and a suspect or accused, however you will, for a one to ten-year act, means a premeditated act, wanted to do it, gets a year in prison, but in out-of-conduct conditions. Well, he can't do it anymore. Well, it's a source of corruption, in fact, both in the prosecution and in the judiciary and in the judges, because the judge has to accept such agreements. I think that practice should stop. Come on, I get it. He didn't want to, but he didn't want enough attention to happen, but someone wanted to commit a crime for which a serious prison sentence was threatened to be sentenced for a year, and he's carrying a nano for eight months, so it's a bit much. It's really a lot. I think it is the problem of the system, but with the Supreme Cassation Court, the High Council of the judiciary, the competent congregation working bodies, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the Ministry of Justice, of course, we can set all of this up the way we should, to use this kind of abuse and to make it possible to play the law in a certain way and to achieve corruption to prevent as little as possible. So, one idea that was essentially bad, that persons who have milder crimes and who are not socially dangerous don't go to jail, because they're going to have other problems out there, now this other story appears that, in fact, those persons who are doing socially dangerous crimes, they're using benefits that, essentially, when we passed that law, they weren't, and the conveniences, in mind that these people are doing it. I believe that this time, the High Council of the Judiciary well measured and proposed candidates for judges who were elected for the first time in court. Of course we, as MPs in accordance with the law and the Constitution, will follow everything that is happening in our judicial system, but all I ask, means starting with members of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, the Supreme Cassation Court and all the holders of the judicial functions to finally make a serious contribution to the regulation of the Republic of Serbia and the protection of all its citizens throughout the territory.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-27-0.u2630	Thank you. Thank you. The word has the People's MP, Ugljesa Mrdić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-27-0.u2631	Thank you. Dear President, honourable representatives of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, distinguished fellow MPs, I would first like to, at the beginning of my presentation, to congratulate you all on Savindan, school glory, the glory of all students and employees in education. The Serbian people and Serbia were still on the move, in the beginning, in the middle of the Middle Ages, in the path of the Holy Sava and today we are on the path of St. Sava and today we are going through Serbian progress and Serbian victory, and the image of Serbia's progress and Serbian victory is Stefan Nemanja. Tonight we will have the opportunity to end this wonderful day with the opening ceremony of the Sava Square and the discovery of the monument to Stefan Nemanja, which will be done by our President Aleksandar Vukic. So that Serbia can continue on the path of St. Sava and Stefan Nemanja, i.e. By means of justice and justice, we must have an orderly judiciary. Is the judiciary arranged today? No, but it is much better than it was before. If I were to talk about the shortcomings of the Serbian judiciary, especially during the former authorities, i.e. The authorities led by the DS, I think I could use a whole day here in the Assembly and several hours of exposure. I would just remind myself that the crown of the bad situation in the Serbian judiciary has been in the period since 2009, when it was a shameful reform of the judiciary until 2012, but before that, the situation was no better. We have a situation as the Serbian judiciary acted, i.e. A good number of judges and prosecutors during the five-octobaric changes. Then we had a situation that the judges and prosecutors were involved in political heifers, in the arrests of innocent people. We had a situation where our authorities and state leadership then allowed the extradition of the former president of Serbia and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, Slobodan Milosevic, to The Hague tribunal. We then had a police action called Sabela, over 12,500 people arrested. The authorities subsequently found that a number of those people who were detained or arrested in Sabela were innocently arrested. Afterwards, we had several years of court proceedings where most of these people were compensated by the state because those who were appointed by the DS in that period from 2000 to 2003 have done so much harm that they have also caused more millions of damage in the euro state of Serbia for illegal arrests and illegal treatment, both the judge and prosecutors. Then since 2008, we have been preparing a shameful reform of the judiciary in 2009 which has so destroyed our judiciary that even today the judiciary has not recovered properly. A huge amount of energy since 2012 has been invested by the government here in the presence of our Assembly President, then as Prime Minister, Mr Ivica Dacic, and the first Deputy Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic to fix what can be fixed and to save what can be saved in the judiciary. This was followed by the government of Alexander Vukic since 2014 and this is done today. It wasn't easy for those who ran the Justice Ministry from 2012 to 2020, neither is Justice Minister Maji Popovic today. I fully agree with everything my colleagues said, and Arsic, and Risticevic, and Marinkovic, and Djukanovic, and Mirkovic and many others, as far as the judiciary is concerned. So that I don't repeat myself, but it's really incomprehensible that individual judges, individual presidents of the courts today, appear to be politicians, and when a politician comments on the work of a judge, it's a pressure on the judiciary. I'd like judges to deal with the judiciary, do their job professionally, not to cooperate as during the two-thousands with the criminal clans, the tycoons and the foreign embassies. The job of the judge is that when elected, and I believe that all the proposed candidates are decent people and of course I will support the election in the voting day, because I believe in the Supreme Council of the judiciary, as well as my colleagues from the SNS parliamentary group, but we have one situation that individual judges, from the Majic judge and some other judges, appear in public as analysts, as politicians, thus putting pressure on other colleagues in the judiciary, when it comes to some judgments. They can meet with tycoons, they can meet with foreign ambassadors, they can meet with co-workers of foreign, Western and regional security services. And when BIA, as counterpart Marinkovic said, becomes justice minister, Mrs. Maja Popovic, attacks immediately go – well, she worked at the BIA. So what if she worked at the BIA? The security information agency is a security intelligence service that protects the interests of the Republic of Serbia and its citizens. But that's why even today some judges can meet with criminals and tycoons and go to foreign embassies and receptions, and then we have situations where the whole public in Serbia, the honest public knows that someone is a drug dealer, knows that someone is a thief, the court releases him. And what counterpart Arsic said, we should discuss a little more about the work of certain prosecutors. So, on the one hand, we're trying to have an orderly judicial system that's independent. We MPs here do not interfere in the work of the judiciary. We comment, we choose here, we are chosen by the people, judges judge on behalf of the people and judges should judge on behalf of the people. No judge in Serbia should judge on behalf of tycoons, foreign embassies and criminals. Well, that's what I'm fighting for from the SNS. I'll just tell you a few examples from the past where we had a situation where the minister in the Government of the Republic of Serbia acted on the orders of the Minister in the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The judge of the County Court in Dubrovnik, Marija Vetma, in the case of former Mayor Trebin Božidar Vučurević, who was arrested here, seems to me to be with Mali Zvornik at the border crossing, under the orders of Justice Minister Snezana Malovic, she made a statement that she expects the extradition of Bozidar Vučurević to Dubrovnik because it was agreed with Justice Minister Drazenko Bošnjakovic who told her, and Judge Marija Vetma told the media publicly. So, Judge of the County Court in Dubrovnik, your Minister, Snezana Malovic, will do everything our Minister Dražko Bosnjakovic tells her. We had such a situation in our judiciary, that the Serbian State Minister worked on the orders of the minister of justice. Today is not the case, but it's worth reminding what happened so it doesn't happen anymore. As far as judicial proceedings are concerned, what about the malfeasance of Dragan Gilas and Vuk Jeremic? Whether we can talk about it or as counterpart Marijan Risticevic said, or we MPs will be punished in front of the same judicial authorities for building the opinion of the MP, for having an opinion on what the whole of Serbia knows about, about the criminal activities of those who were in power until 2012, honour of exceptions, or in Belgrade by 2014. So, when it comes to lawsuits against drug dealers, against Dragan Dilas, against Vuk Jeremic, against the leaders of the criminal drug clans in Serbia, there is nothing. When someone threatens the president of Serbia and his family, slowly. You know what, it's okay for judges to be independent, judges should be independent, both judges and prosecutors and cops, and all members of the security services, but don't let one number of judges who cooperate with tycoons, criminals and foreign embassies lead us here in the main word about the judiciary, and then we have a situation that criminals and murderers are at large, and that honest people, like Alexander Vukic and his associates, are daily exposed to attacks, to the worst possible attacks, and what are the worst possible attacks, are attacks against the family. Everyone's family of the world. Therefore, I expect all judges in Serbia to be independent in this period, to work honestly, to work under the Constitution and the law, not to participate in media attacks, we have had opportunities these days to see interviews against President Vukic, the government of Serbia at times of difficult fight against the crown of the virus, when we have great results regarding vaccination, I will remind you, we are eight in the world, when we have the best economic indicators in Europe, as regards this difficult year from us in 2020. So, on the one hand, the state led by Alexander Vukic is fighting for all citizens, regardless of the nation, political or religious confession, or which foreigners belong to and whether they criticise or do not criticise the government. But that's why we have one number of judges, or one good number of judges in Serbia, working on orders from tycoons, criminals and foreign embassies. In the end, please, from the High Council of the Judiciary and fellow judges, once again, you are acting by law. Judge on behalf of the people, according to the Constitution, and be a partner to the state of Serbia, be a partner to the state of Serbia with all the good that the state of Serbia is doing, led by our President, Aleksandr Vukic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-27-0.u2632	Thank you. Prov. Dr. Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-27-0.u2633	The Honorable President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, of course, will vote in favour of this decision on the election of judges, who are first elected to the judicial office, because they are proposed in accordance with the law and all candidates meet certain conditions prescribed by law. All candidates meet the criteria and criteria for selecting judges, both expertise, such training, but also dignity. I will not explain this decision more widely, because my colleagues and colleagues before me have explained it, but let me still compare the situation of the judiciary before the SNS comes to power and after the SNS comes to power. Former regime party Boris Tadic, Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic, Borko Stefanovic, did not adhere to the criteria and criteria prescribed by the legal acts, but adhered to only one criterion in the choice of judges, which is the party membership of DS. That's not just me, that's what the union in the judiciary said last year, which is what I just said. That is why, during their rule, the judiciary was the worst in Europe, according to the European officials. The judiciary during Dragan Gilas, was in a desperate state, moving, as you recall, from unremembered scandals in the staging and exorcising of 860 judges to unbalanced crimes. Respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia had some judges dying of injustice, and some committed suicide. Let me say that five judges during Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic, Boris Tadic, and Borko Stefanovic, committed suicide at least 20 got sick and died because of re-elections, which they experienced, with no function were 837 judges and 200 deputy prosecutors, which is over a thousand. Respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the Gilas judiciary made one of the biggest scandals in the history of the judiciary in the election. Look at the wonders, whether they choose and believe or not, but it's true, a dead judge. They chose the late Ljubish Ristic, from Požega, as judge. Despite the fact that the VSS, which was presented and miraculously, Gilas's VSS President, Mrs Nata Mesarovic, said that all candidates for the election of judges were checked out in due time and that it had been discussed with candidates for the election that they had spent 200 hours, meaning more than one month. Not to this day, Mrs Mesarovic explained how she had talked to dead Judge Ljubisa Ristic, how Mr Gilas and his associates scattered in many miniature parties could explain to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia that they had chosen with Judge Sonja Brkic, who violated the Law on Judges because she was at the same time doing the duty, the judges of the Supreme Court and the duty of President RIK, although the Law on Judges, expressly prohibited it. Mrs. Sonja Brkic in RIK thus illegally took two million and 673 thousand dinars from RIK. Respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia refused to return that money. This was done by the judiciary during Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic, Boris Tadic and Borko Stefanovic and other smaller parties and scattered from the DS. Believe it or not, Mr. President of the Assembly, but in the EC Report, for 2010, it was written, quote – a reform implemented by the government in Serbia, which is a special concern, completed quote, the book "Court Reform in Serbia from 2008 to 2012", p. 96. The President-in-Office of the European Commission continues the process of re-election of judges, he was untransparent, risking the principle of independence, completing the quote and adding, what is most tragic, I quote - the reforms carried out by the authorities were as the worst possible thing, the completion of the quote, and this was the judiciary in the previous regime, and this was published by the Belgrade Policy in 7.07.2012. As you know, by arriving for Minister Selakovic, as justice minister, the situation is changing dramatically, and this has continued during Ms. Kuburovic. Respected Serbian citizens, it will take a lot of water to drive the Danube to bring the judiciary to an envious level, because in the justice system other judges were brought in, most of them brought in, the 837,200 prosecutors who had no basic conditions for selecting judges, no expertise, no training, and the least dignity, whose consequences today Serbian citizens suffer. According to the President of the Justice Union, please pay attention, at the end of 2008, before Gilas reform, Tadic and Borko Stefanovic, Jeremic were 780,000 unsolved cases, in addition to the daily cases they solve, and in 2012, when they implemented, there were more than three million, and it was difficult to replace it with a regular trial, and in 2019, that number was halved by a million-and-a-half. That was what the judiciary looked like during Dragan Gilas or Europe, Vuk Jeremic, Borko Stefanovic and Boris Tadic. They worked more against the judiciary than they did for the judiciary. That's the point. While I'm at Dragan Gilas, let me say that on 2 December 2018, right after he returned from the United States, because he went to the instructions where he arranged for the destruction of power and Alexander Vukic in Serbia, not in the elections, that he had agreed, but on the street, and now, as you've seen, two days ago, he announces that blood will fall. He collected these unfortunates from the Alliance for Serbia and told them, pay attention, respected citizens, so you'll see what this unfortunate man is doing. I quote: "If we throw out dialogue from the Serbian Parliament, then as a society, we have a problem. The assembly is where the talk is, if you stop it, stop the media, they'll explode somewhere. Who needs a parliament? Give it some sense. “ A quote has been completed. Here, honourable citizens, who pulled the MPs out of this high house and who destroys the system of the Republic of Serbia, and who only takes care of his buttocks. Gilas withdrew opposition MPs from parliament. He, as he said himself, is not interested in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, he is only interested in its 619m euros, boycotting parliament, respected MPs Gilas also boycotted parliamentary democracy, because the boycott of the election is not a democratic act, every law student in the first year knows it. Gilas is constantly accusing us of some non-democratic act, and he acts undemocraticly every minute of every day and every day. Gilas pushed her into a boycott... Pushing into a political party's boycott, killed all parties from the Alliance for Serbia, and now wants to degrade and liquidate their leaders, to keep him alone, that's his intention. Gilas teamed up, miraculously with Prime Minister Gligori, who is building wineries, hotels, ergels, instead of hospitals in Herzegovina. Does the Honorable citizens of the Republic of Serbia look like a priest to you? According to Professor Vojislav Seselj, who I trust, because he has verifiable data, Gligori has a wife and children. It's about an immoral man, and here he is running for patriarch and president of Serbia. Both Prime Minister Gligori and Gilas, he best outlined Sergei Trifunovic, with whom I have nothing in common, and I have no opinion in common, and who was right when he said, quote: "Gilasu is the main weapon of money, which solves everything and buys political favor. Gilas is urging Prime Minister Gligori to run for president of the Republic of Serbia in 2022. The Alliance for Serbia never existed. What is it now, Janko Veselinović? Nothing. What are these others? What is Zeljko Veselinović from the union? Nothing. They're being held by Gilas, who has his own flirting party, the Alliance of Freedom and Justice, who comes in for money, they take two, three, so, well, he goes to the bishop of Gligori. The deal with the people is a difficult fiction, Jeremic is an untalented politician, and Djilas has ruined culture in Belgrade. “ A quote was completed, said Sergei Trifunovic on July 16, 2020. I think he's got a pretty good picture of each other, even though I'm not Trifunovic's like-minded man. Dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, as you have seen and heard, Gilas is constantly trying to try us, the state of Serbia, to fight with the Chinese, and he wonders, quotes: "Are we going to receive a Chinese vaccine that no one else in Europe will receive? “ He said August 17, 2020. On the day that Serbia as the third largest country in Europe after the UK and Switzerland began the vaccination of its population, which was 24 December 2020, it was sent to Brussels, believe it or not, a letter complaining that there was no reliable data in Serbia on when and what vaccine the citizens of the Republic of Serbia will be vaccinated, which was not true. From this letter to foreign factors, you can see, respected citizens, how evil Gilas is for Serbia and the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. On 16 September 2020, Gilas also sent a letter, which repeatedly writes, every seven days, this time to the European Commission, urging Serbia to become part of the Kovaks mechanism at the moment we and Kovaks agreed to pay an advance on the purchase of vaccines. Prior to this, Mr. Gilas sued Serbia, believe it or not, and President Alexander Vukic for his gratitude to the Republic of China for the assistance the Chinese sent to Serbia during the first attack of the Koron virus. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, what Mr. Gilas is doing and his fellow Members, the Honorable President of the Assembly, it's called the disgrace of his country and his country, the state of Serbia, it's called autoschuvinism, if you will. As for the EU, and the Gilasovites, they did not make it to Serbia for a decade until the date for opening accession negotiations, but that's why Gilas's companies were incometing 619m euros while in power, but, behold, wonders, before entering politics was a common nudist. Respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, in the end, the Republic of Serbia, as you can see, has been implementing the process of accelerated modernisation of the Republic of Serbia for several years, and is also implementing it in these difficult pandemic conditions. The engine of Serbia's accelerated modernisation, as well as the fight against Kovid 19, is our President of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Aleksandar Vukic. Dear citizens, I call on you to continue following the policy programme of the Republic of Serbia, and the President of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic, based on the programme of modernising the construction of "Serbia 2025", and thanks to the possibility of our children and for the future of our country, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-27-0.u2634	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Serbia's Filipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-27-0.u2635	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, another important day, another important topic -- the choice of new judges, I would say something that is often a topic in our public, justified, because we have witnessed so many times that we hear that the public in Serbia, that an ordinary citizen has no confidence in the justice system, that he has no confidence in the judge, that he has no confidence that when a criminal comes to court and is convicted, he has no confidence that the drug dealer who dared to enter the school yard to sell drugs to children, that he has no confidence that the politician who steals money from the state register, who steals money from Serbian citizens, will be convicted of what he does. Of course, the citizens of Serbia are right. It often happens in Serbia that such people are released in lack of evidence, but what remains? There's a lack of money left in the state register, and there's still sick kids from drugs as a result of that. Well, where are you going with more evidence? Where will you get more evidence than when you see that someone without a day's work experience, without, let's not say without school, but from school there's a big vacation, probably, or a reader, that with such a modest education he reaches a villa on Dedinj, a car of several hundred thousand euros, a yacht, I don't know what? Is it necessary to give more evidence to a prosecutor or judge, to know what to do and how to do in such cases? Is it necessary for citizens to feel more anger and anger when the judiciary is mentioned? Don't judgments come in the name of the people? I know, there's probably gonna be some headlines that they're going to say tomorrow -- we're criticizing how judges can't, for God's sake, do that, but we're part of the people. We are representatives of citizens, we are here to convey the opinion of the people in Parliament and to defend the interest of the citizens, to defend it by the power of our beliefs, the honesty, the truth, the struggle for honor, for the interests of the people, and not to be like those who, instead of dealing with the problems of the citizens, the real problems, make plans in their media, and to inform the citizens that one day, when they come to power, will bring down the monument to Stefan Nemanja, because it is too high, too expensive, it is not in the right place, as they say, that it is an urban mockery there, and it was great. It was a picture and opportunity of their Belgrade, as they see it from Serbia -- a snakefish, a rat house, a wreck museum. It is a picture and an opportunity for Serbia led by Dragan Djilas, Boris Tadic, Bosko Obradovic, Vuk Jeremic and other bandits in the opposition gathered in such a form or such. Whoever wants to judge others, he subjectes himself to even more severe judgment, the court of the people, the court of the citizens. What's more difficult than going out on the street and people know you're a judge and they know you released a drug dealer, that you let some criminal gang boss loose? Well, the image and opportunity of that government, the yellow authorities, the tycoon, the criminal, the mafia, best showed their light was that they led and edited the institution exactly on the case that hurt them most at the time, when the late Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic was killed. These institutions were the ones who created them. The mafia in all the pores was the institution and so they continued. The model by which they function is to kill a political opponent. They're still working on that model today. Nothing has changed about them. Once again, the mafia would be in Serbia's institutions. The day that Aleksandar Vukic was no longer on their agendas in power and the president of Serbia as they wish, that moment, the mafia would take over Serbia, at which point Dragan Gilas with criminals in the streets and institutions of Serbia would command what, where, who and how he should hang himself, to kill himself, to whom to dig caves along with their cartoonists. When you say that such a cartoon can only be made by a sick person, they accuse you of being against an artist. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Couldn't they have thought of something more creative? No, of course not. They say we are against reforms in the judiciary, that these reforms, and when implemented, are implemented for the sake of party interests. What party interests? We are for reforms not to satisfy anyone, anyone's interests, but to satisfy the interest of our people. All reforms carried out by this government, led by SNS and Aleksandra Vukic, have brought interest only to the Serb people and other peoples living in our territory and so we will continue to work. In the fight against the mafia and crime, neither those who let drug dealers go free will prevent us from being prevented by Majic, Đilas, or Obradovic, or anyone else because we want a peaceful and safe future in Serbia for all our children, for all those generations that should stay here, not to flee to other countries, because they feel safer there than in their own country. Well, just the largest number of people in Serbia left during their rule. It was this tragedy in 2003 that produced an avalanche of youth leaving this country because they said, "What am I supposed to do in a country where the president of the state can be killed, what am I going to do in such a country?" In a country where you can steal in privatization everything that's come to pass for decades, what am I supposed to do in that country? In a country where a drug dealer is respected and respected, what am I supposed to do in that country? And today, both artists and finished students and businessmen and doctors are returning to Serbia. They are looking for the future to create, to give birth to children and to stay in their country, because they see that Serbia, and in such a difficult situation, when we have a pandemic of the coronary virus, has been able to economically help both the economy and every citizen and pensioner, to make it easier for everyone to have this period of crisis in which the world is located. A new package of assistance for citizens and economy is ahead of us and is being talked about by Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic, where we will help not only the economy, but every citizen individually. Every man will get out of the budget money to help him get as much, as this difficult time in which we live overcome and overcome that difficult time. We are among the best in the world precisely thanks to Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic's policy. Today, thanks to this responsible policy, we also have vaccines in Serbia and we achieve fantastic results in this regard. We have more hospitals today, more roads. There were never any kindergartens in Belgrade ever again. Today all schools are renovated in Serbia. Today is not a question of whether our children will go to a bathroom like this or a toilet like that. Today our children have the most modern schools and it's not funny. I can see some people laughing at that. I don't think it's funny when I send a kid to school like he's going to go to school, when I think he'll have a place to wash his hands. What? Dragana Gilasa doesn't care about clean hands. He doesn't have his hands clean or his cheek and he doesn't care if he has anything to do with it. It is we who are responsible for the citizens and who, before every election, think about what we have done, what may not have been done so far. Rest assured, the year in which we are now will be the year in which you will see Serbia's serious progress in every sense and that is not a random result. It's not something that happened to us in itself, it's the result of the years of hard work of every official in this country, every man, and these people worked hard because they saw that they had honest and honest people at the head of their country. They didn't say - I don't care what I do when I have the president I have. No, we have a president we haven't had in Serbia in decades. We have a statesman headed by Serbia, which we have not had so far, who has brought Serbia together with its tradition, back to himself. For eight hundred years, this country has not been able to build a monument to Stefan Nemanja, the founder of Serbian statehood, and then it bothers Aleksandar Vukic, because Serbia is returning to itself and then it needs to remove Stefan Nemanja and Vukic and everything that has been done in this country. Then the hospitals should collapse and all of it collapse. The only policy we have heard on the other side – we will when we come to power to bring down everything that has been done in the Republic Square, when we come to power, we will destroy all those facades on Karadjordjeva Street, we will destroy all of the more than 300 facades in Belgrade when we come to power. When we come to power, we'll put our hand in your pocket again. We're not gonna put the money in your pocket, we're gonna take the money out of your pocket. That's the only thing we've heard from them. They say there's going to be a platform. It's going to be a pamphlet, which, when you take, throw in the trash, because it's just written on it -- I hate Wolf, I hate, I hate, I hate. It doesn't say - our economic programme is like that, our plan is like that, we plan to go from year to year to year to improve, help agriculture. No, you don't care about agriculture, you don't care about school, you don't care about business, you don't care about jobs. Who cares about them? They're in pain that they don't have a job in the state right now, that they're getting paid again, and they're not coming to work. Remember in the previous term, we had some of those sniffs across from us, at twelve, one, when their turn came to speak, afterwards bye, we went to a cafe or to Maldives some of them. And then they're surprised they're going through the election. People aren't naive or stupid, people see who does and what they do. What is the indicator of a man once in Serbia when a MP in his work does not see? What would he expect from a man like that? What's he gonna do for him? I also ask people how it is possible that those who broke into the National Assembly this summer, who tried to burn again, who tried to break down the doors of the highest legislative home in Serbia, how did these people just go through all this, how did none of them get any punishment for anything and will they get? How did those who, I dare say, lynch in front of our colleague Marijan Risticevic's parliament are not punished for anything? Well, Bosko Obradovic was told in court that he was not a bully. Well, what is violence than when you call for the beating of a people's messenger, when you rip his jacket, when you beat him in front of the congregation? What is it, violence? Is that a peaceful dialogue, democratic? I don't remember any of them condemning it, anyone saying no, that's not how we should communicate with each other. It is democratic when SNS MPs are attacked, when they are beaten, when their personal property is destroyed, when SNS rooms are broken all over Serbia, when their beatings are doing it, it's democratic, it's civilized, it's, for God's sake, some kind of fluid they've been growing since October 5th, when they burned this same Assembly, when they burned down RTS, when they carried out an unprecedented persecution through crisis headquarters in state and social enterprises of all those who didn't think as revolutionaries at the time. Do we ever have those who announce and those who, in practice, here, say, remember Mark Bastac, so the man strangled his godfather with a bag because he denied him some sort of bribery envelope on Old Town Municipality? How far did that go? In addition, the investigation is under way, the authorities will determine. Well, it's been a year, a year and a half since that knowledge. His best man testified, the man said he was the victim of the ex-president of the municipality I live in. What was done to that occasion? Who's to blame? Who's convicted? What's the penalty for that? Not at all. And what message is that to the citizens of Serbia? But I have a message as a folk MP, as someone who lives with those citizens every day, who communicates with them, that can no longer happen to us. He who is a convicted bully, not said to be a bully, but a witness, fought fences in the Republic Square, with traffic signs, crashed, savaged, threatened, fought, a man who tried to strangle his godfather with a bag, who took the money there. A lot of witnesses talk about it. Nothing's been done about it. That's the kind of guy they have to answer to. Whoever took 619m from Serbian citizens must also answer to the origin of his property. Where'd you get it from, master? How could you, as mayor with a salary of just over 1,000 euros, acquire that great wealth or run private companies and the city of Belgrade at the same time? How did you do that? Come on, look, we're not all so smart that we can do it at the same time as him, or we're not so mean, so corrupt, we're all raised differently, so we're the laughing stock of their media. Then they can't wait for one of their portals to drag out counterpart Atlagic, Risticevic, whom not all of our colleagues, a colleague of Martinovic, who himself was the victim of Bosko Obradovic in this assembly. Former Parliament Speaker Maja Gojkovic was beaten in her cabinet. Imagine how someone in the German Parliament, in England, in France, in Spain, would go through the cabinet of the President of the Assembly and beat him and walk him out of there, nothing. It's a little bit in some media that can write about it, most people can't, because Gilas said it's not written about it, because it's not about them, because we're people who need to be crushed, who need to be killed, hanged, who you can do whatever you want because the mob said so. Then he makes fun of the fight against the mob, corruption, crime. Another message to both citizens and those on the other side and criminals. You will not scare anyone, at least you can scare Serbian President Alexander Vukic and Serbian government officials and SNS MPs, at least you can scare all of us. We will endure, support and speak, but first of all, our president, our Serbia, for all our children, for all those who will live here. And those of you who stole, kidnapped, ask yourself how you'll get by when you get hit by the institutions of the state, how you'll get through. And to the citizens of Serbia, be calm, be calm. Come to Sava Square tonight, to discover the monument to Stefan Nemanja, to attend this great act that we owe Stefan Nemanja 800 years ago, to finally bring Serbia back, to connect it to its Middle Ages, not to return it to the Middle Ages, because the monument to Stefan Nemanja, when we raise it, is opening Serbia a place in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-27-0.u2636	Thank you. Last on the list of registered MPs, Vice-President of the National Assembly Dr Vladimir Orlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-27-0.u2637	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, whenever in this house we talk about judges, which is the case today, there is always a good opportunity to say something on the subject of that famous issue, the famous issue of judicial independence. You've heard, we've paid attention to this question and to those of us who have addressed it today. And you know why it's important, because it represents one of the constant fronts, one of the platforms that are simply meant for, above all, the political reckoning with the people who care about Serbia today, firstly with President Alexander Vukic, then the members of the Serbian government, the people who are in this Assembly, but also to everyone who cares about their country today just because, as it turns out, it seems to be doing it in a good way. And it will be that this is the essence of the problem of those who have resolved that the results that Serbia is showing today are incomparably better than that of grief, misfortune, and misery, which we have all been pushed into by some 2012, the city of Belgrade and a little bit longer, to respond to this difference in response to hysterical campaigns and constant attempts to harm this country, to defamation, to firstly defaminate those people who are responsible for this positive difference today. Among these slanders inevitably, the famous one also falls -- the judiciary is not independent, but allegedly under a strong press, under a terrible pressure from the executive authority. And then we can't help but ask: Is it possible today in Serbia that certain obvious things are not seen only because they have decided not to see them? Let me ask – what is the matter and what is it like and where is it that it is allegedly under some terrible pressure from the judiciary authorities in which it happens, as in Serbia, is the case for the president of a court, a senior court in Belgrade, who is called Aleksandar Stepanovic, saying openly the most deficient things against his own state, against the people at his head, gives himself the right to this luxury to comment recently on even the humane solution for the justice minister and insinuate, the illusions of some real, totally inappropriate for any place, let alone incomprehensible, in a place that is allegedly under a terrible press and pressure of the executive authority? He says that what it's about is a woman who's come to the head of the Justice Department, right from the BIA where she worked, that she represents, imagine this meanness in words, a way that the executive government sends a message, a threat to the judiciary, to make it clear, that they're all subject to their control, control by the executive authority. When you hear something like this, and this is not the only day or the first day that you can hear something like this, you can't not smile and ask – well, then where is this terrible, dangerous government that doesn't let the Justice Department breathe, under which the President of the Great Court speaks in this way publicly, is it something he's blackmailed, so he has to keep his mouth shut? God, not to be silent, but to say things that are a complete scandal. This is as good proof as anything in this country can really do, how much freedom there is. They didn't consider her appropriate here, she's basically got one. It's like a little place in the world, if we're gonna tell the truth and put our hands on our hearts. To completely ignore what this man is, this Aleksandar Stepanovic just by the intelligence circles placed in a place not now in place, which happened during the former regime. No one, it seems to me, has ever told him, ever, ever, so now he finds out he has the right, has given himself the right to reason and comment on where anyone has worked and makes totally unacceptable illusions at the expense of the executive's relationship with the judiciary. Where's that terror, where's that dictatorship that this is happening under, anywhere in the world? Give us an example, find one. It's not a question, whether or not it has an impact on the judiciary, which needs to be taken lightly. Everyone knows that, just for the reasons we talked about today. Yes, Mr. Risticevic and you and the others, because we all know very well and we remember well, no matter how hard we try to get the former regime to show up as someone who came yesterday, nothing did in this country, did anything wrong, didn't do any harm, didn't ruin everything he could, like he did, but there was nothing and no history there, but we remember very well what they were talking about here today and other MPs. We have documented, with all the signatures and stamps, that the ruling party in the past regime has taken direct action both when it comes to judges and when it comes to prosecutors. They weren't ashamed to take the paper and sign it. On the one hand, the president of the municipal or other board, then the ruling DS, in which, yes, were both that Dragan Djilas and that Vuk Jeremic and that Borko Stefanovic, although he did not call himself that then, was a little different, but that was him, Tadic and the others, to sign the president of the party on the one hand and the stamp, on the other hand to sign their president of the municipality, the mayor of the municipality some hit the stamp. For what? On the list of names of those people who have to be chosen in their fantastic reform, which, by name and last name, with an additional feature, and all in spirit and words – this one is loyal to us, this one is our member, this one helps us get away when we get caught in crime, this one puts us in a drawer cases against us, and that's why he should be a judge, and that's why he should be a prosecutor. They weren't ashamed to do that. Everyone in this country knows that. Now, just because they know we can't be calm or calm when it comes to the question of whether there's an impact on the judiciary, because these people, a significant number of these people, and today they're in that justice system, and everybody knows that, too. When you look at a little bit of what these, who are allegedly terribly pressured by the executive authority today, are just lying to us that so, what do they say themselves? Well, here's this Alexander Stepanovic. He himself, to boast, I don't know, he thinks it's a fantastic line in his biography, in an interview with KRIK, talked about a man in the long and broad how, among other things, he's a happily seen guest in the Western embassies and how he's making plans for what he's going to do and how he's going to do it, how he's gossiping about his own country there, how he's slandering about his inspiration at the moment and boasting about it. He boasts publicly. When you hear something like that, you can't spread your hands and say, "if it's an indication of whether it has or doesn't have an unacceptable influence on the judiciary." Looks like he's got it. And that's great. That's where we should be decided and influenced by representatives of the white world embassies, and you're still boasting about it. You say that publicly, that you are not ashamed to say it, and here you are attacking your own country with lies, nonsense in a way that is completely unacceptable, to repeat, in any country in the world, any country, any country that is completely impossible in a state that is under some terrible press and pressure from the government. So, this may be the best indicator of how things stand, whether there's pressure, if there is pressure, where it is, and that the lie is the most common, the lie is the most meaningless to influence Aleksandar Vukic, the Serbian Government, anyone who today in the state is ageing at the representatives of the judiciary, any judge, any prosecutors. This is clear evidence for you. Just as we ask for the media – well, if every day your mouth is full of stories of alleged torture over the media, and how do you people explain that every day of God, from morning to night, you have in these media the most disgusting things, the most ground floored things, things completely inhumane directed directly at the expense of Alexander Vukic, at the expense of his family members, at the expense of people who, once again, take care of this country? How can he do that? Where did you see it in a state where there's supposed to be a dictatorship, some autocracy in which they allegedly put their paws on the media by representatives of the government? It doesn't work with each other. That's beyond logic. That's beyond reason to say things like that. The judiciary under the supposed control of the government. Is it possible in such a justice that a first-degree verdict on the lawsuit that Bosko Obradovic, the leader of the Fascist movement of the Dvora, is one of the veda of the late Alliance for Serbia, was now in the late, united opposition, it fell apart in the meantime, I don't know, but it doesn't matter, but the man who stood by Dragan Gilas, the yellow tycoon, hugged and kissed both him and Vuk Jeremic and that Borko Stefanovic, I don't know whether at that time, when they were kissing, Borko called so much or otherwise, that man, and with everyone else, their feather, their amber, sent here to the National Assembly, is physically calculating with all the people who are on the other side, so with us... This man was found, imagine, allegedly offended by the words he spoke of him, Alexander Vukic, president of the state, and what happens? You get a verdict like this that says, yes, in the name of the people, and the people know what they think of this and what this represents. He says in this first-degree ruling, judges – he has the right to Bosko Obradovic, who felt that his dignity, honor, etc. was violated. Okay, let's ask you one more time, slowly if you don't understand if you're talking faster, how do you think it's possible that it's possible that in the state where the executive authority allegedly took control of the judge, the prosecutors? How can something like this happen? Guys, it's got nothing to do with brains. That can't happen with each other, and you see in Serbia. If you want some proof completely clear, visible, tangible that they're the most common, most meaningless lies of all stories on whether there's a dictatorship here, whether there's autocracy here, whether the government is affecting the judiciary, here's proof, whether you need a better one. The second topic is of course, but it is not less important, which is the most common lie, that Bosko Obradovic, a fascist by his character, by his methods, by everything he represents. So there's nothing wrong with Alexander Wolfie. That he found himself allegedly offended. It is not really said to be offended by Bosko Obradovic. If so, when he sued his political associates, his former regime comrades who say the same, who say that Bosko Obradovic is a fascist, because everyone in this country knows that he is? They still asked to ban his organization in due time, Mr. Risticevic. What happened to Marijan Risticevic is one of the evidence that you don't need a better one. What is the nature of this Bosko Obradovic, what are his methods? And what is it, people, if it's not pure naked fascism. To come here as a rational gang, in front of the home of the National Assembly, to make a literal ambush for the MPs, for people who do nothing else until they come in peacefully, normally, politely, at the main entrance to the home of the National Assembly, to start with a session that day. People are coming to their jobs. No one, or Bosko Obradovica, or those of his angry dogs, including convicted drug dealers, people who sold drugs to children and long-time slaves were convicted earlier because of this wonderful society, all the nice and democratic things that Gilas had made and sent here at the helm with Bosca Obradovic, to attack a man, to physically attack him, to put his life at risk. I can't understand that this case comes down to-- they tore up the jacket. They broke a man's head. Marijana Risticevic's head was bloody that day. I saw it with my own eyes the moment Marian Risticevic entered this room. There's no one ever to explain to us what it was and how it was, we know very well how it was. Isn't that pure fascism? It's fascism. If it's not enough or it doesn't sound convincing to you when we tell you, and then what bothers you to understand and understand when you say it yourself, when you tell yourself? In January 2020, it wasn't so long ago, the official of the DS, its first vice president, it was Dragoljub Micunovic, he literally said of Bosko Obradovic - it's just a fascist. So, the political hooligan, said Micunovic, not any of us, the anti-European, etc., the man who brings tabloid prostitution into politics and everything that is already well known to everyone. Micunovic says -- he and Boška Obradovic differs from what Micunovic belongs to democratic liberalism, and this second, and Bosko Obradovic is an example of Muslim fascism. These are your words about Bosko Obradovic. Did he sue? It's not. Why not? Everyone knows it's true. He wants to sue those movement parties and the other gods he's in the coalition with as long as until yesterday? He won't. Well, he's so really hit when he's told in the face what's true and what is, that fascists are the most common. It's been made public. It was published in public that January, and here you can see what it looks like in the paper. He writes beautifully in an interview with Dragoljub Micunović - Bosko Obradović, a fascist of the most common, fascist Muslim type. So it's true, like the truth and the other, that Bosko Obradovic is a thief. And again, if they don't like it when we tell them, let them see how well they explained it themselves. They always explain it much nicer than we can explain. They say the best things about themselves, they describe the best, they give the most information, and they need to be trusted when they're talking about themselves. The fact that Bosko Obradovic is a thief, that's what his fellow Members of parliament said earlier today. As he stood next to Dragan Djilas on the right side of the lap, so with Obradovic on his right sat people like Zoran Radojcic, he was also an MP here in the previous assembly. According to Zoran Radojčić, a man from the immediate environment of Boška Obradovic, his closest associate, witnesses - in the Dvera movement, which leads at that time Boško Obradović, and this is about March 2019, listen now, financial malversions and serious crime are happening in which everyone is involved. The Dvori finances are hidden from both the state and members, and from the officials, different reports are sent to internal control, the state, and the third, the real one, only a few people are known. No one knows the real flow of money, and many are involved in crime, and on God's justice, some are dragged through the mud through the media, questioned by the police, because they didn't know about it. He says, "Who's in on all this?" Who, by manipulating the State's financial flows, pumped the money and thus damaged not only them, their account, their problem, damaged the state, damaged the budget? This is exclusively about the funds allocated from the budget to that political organisation. So they pump out budget money, the money that belongs to all the citizens of this country that the state intended for something that should probably be in the public interest, which is to finance political life, and they took and stole. They say themselves – they steal. (Marian Risticevic: By law he must return to the budget. Yes, what was stolen should be returned, but here is the essence of the thing that was stolen, they say themselves. Here's the point of the fact that these are thieves that are most common. (Marian Risticevic: Money laundering. ) Prota Radojićičić - where is the money and who also stole the state budget but also the Dvori? The name, Radojićic, says: "It was discreetly decided by a few people." First row Bosko Obradović. He then lists some other names, Slobodan Dimovic, Jugoslav Kyprijanovic, etc. So, thieves are the most common, they say so themselves. They were stealing money belonging to all the citizens of this country and there was no slander when it was told to them in person, because once again, they admitted it themselves. First of all, says the witness, Bosko Obradovic. So, a man who is a fascist, a man who is a thief, and everyone in this country, to repeat, knows perfectly well. Again, you come to a court decision that doesn't go along with the story of the court being controlled by either Alexander Vukic or anyone else in the state. It won't be. So it's directly contrary to these claims. When you look at what's going on and what's going on and what's going on, we have to fight all the time and explain them all the time, you can't help but wonder, why? What is it that bothers you so much about the state of Serbia today, is the fact that it is more incomparably successful than it was in the past regime? Do you mind? Who's everybody? Say nicely once openly and honestly – it bothers you, in Serbia, being out of Serbia. Which, for example, is Serbia today in a situation where it actually has the best economic parameters when you look at the whole of Europe. How we pushed through the difficult 2020, so GDP indicators at the annual level say -- Serbia did the best, most successful, most efficient of all in Europe. Do you mind? Are you not satisfied with this, which is the result that the state achieved just at the time of Alexander Vukic, at the time of the government we support, chosen from the electoral list "Alexander Vukic – for our children"? Are you sorry, is it wrong for you that Serbia managed to provide such a strong economic base thanks to Alexander Vukic's policy, that it could help the economy with state measures, to preserve jobs in this country last year? Look, that's not what we're talking about right now. That's what international organisations say. The IBRD, the International Labour Organisation, together in its official report, says the blow we suffered when measured by jobs would be over 500,000 jobs, but we did not lose those jobs. We were able to shock that blow. So they're literally telling us we made over 500,000 jobs in this country last year to save thanks to our country. Isn't that a valuable result? Is that why it bothers you that he is so good and valuable, is it a problem that the state has not only preserved jobs while as "good day" flies, on all sides disappears, worse literally all over Europe and the world, and we have managed not to allow it? We managed to defend ourselves, preserve ourselves, that we have this annual GDP indicator of the best in Europe, to be something better than the minus one, while the whole euro zone is in a worse, worse position than minus seven, not to talk about others, bigger, more powerful, richer than us. Of all of us, we were able to be more successful thanks to this Alexander Vukic and his politics. Is that a problem now? Is the problem of Serbia that succeeded during that year to secure three earnings for all who applied for the first-round state aid programme in the spring, then twice a month for all those who applied? Is it a real problem that we're gonna do this now? Again and this year there are two days as announced by the president of the Republic of Aleksandar Vukic, we will provide two more, three more months of programmes -- support for companies that apply, support of this type and will again be measured by billions of euros, as measured by billions of euros last year. Do you regret that Serbia is so strong today that it can finance and support it, that it can help its people in this way? Do you mind, that's why you lie facelessly, attacking every day of God? You lie about justice, you lie about the media, you lie about everything you put in your mouth. Are these the problems that bother you and which sea you, so you have to act in such a way, the lowlifes most common in the former regime, and to engage in personal campaigns directed not only against the man who is an impenetrable barrier to your insane ambitions to return to power and to steal again as your associates have explained that you have stolen always, but also against his family? Is there a lie you haven't already told, invented, spoken to the burden of your own brother, the President of the Republic, starting with a lie about allegedly having some restaurants, wineries, having bakeries, having land in Vojvodina? When Alexander Vukic tells you openly – come on, show me, take me to see this one place, to see a single ar, because there is no place or an ar of one that is in the name of my brother, shut up and pretend like nothing was there and shows nothing, because there is nothing and there is nothing. That doesn't mean they're ready to stop their dirty campaigns. No, on the contrary, they continue them. The latest, two days ago, directed at the son of Alexander Wolfich. They lie again – Danilo Vukic became the owner of land and vineyards in Leskovec. You know what kind of effort you need to see that lying is the most common thing? Efforts of two, three fingers to open the APR site and read there. So it's the Agency for Business Registers. They keep records. None of the members of the Vucic family owns the vineyard they talk about, he owns the company "Milenium Team". What's it worth? Again lies, again faceless slanders, the resuscitation of poison and bile and the question again -- in which dictatorship, the autocracy can happen? There is no such thing, and here happens every day from morning to night, and only one lie comes to one another and only the new ones line up that you can't answer everything. It's an indicator of how much freedom there is in this country for everyone, even for the worst, and for those who are willing to do the worst. Is it your problem that Serbia today, when it comes to fighting Kovid 19, is as successful as it is? Is that possible to bother you? Is it possible that you are not satisfied with the fact that we are no longer infected, that we are no longer deceased, that you are not satisfied with the fact that we have succeeded in the lives and health of many to preserve? What kind of people does that bother you? Obviously, it bothers you, because if you didn't mind, you wouldn't be campaigning against Alexander Vukic and on this subject and on the topic of hospitals that we literally built out of nothing. Where the ice was most common, we managed to make fantastic objects, huge, with a good space, fully equipped, where people's lives are saved. If someone had said - Serbia could do such a thing in four months, probably everyone would have just laughed and said, "You have wronged the country." We've seen it in documentaries somewhere, China can do it, and Serbia could never. You see, Serbia can today. Serbia is doing it today and everyone can see it with their own eyes. The vultures, the political, the simplest, are playing video games for their Facebook around these objects and they're slandering again -- look, there's a little bit of concrete here. How are you not ashamed to say such things to someone whose family members are closest at that moment in that hospital and are saved? Is this a problem, that Serbia is so successful, that, as President Aleksandar Vukic announced, it singles out 40 million for the best, most qualitative, most expensive medicines for our people, how does Germany still work today just maybe? What this Serbia, when we talk about on this topic, is spending more than 32 billion dollars on its health budget for this year, for this year that has begun. Last year, the same 32 billion and more. Yes, Mr. Risticevic, by these parameters it is more successful than 14 EU member states. Do you know what that's different from the time these liars were most common, these thieves and fascists headed the country? The health budget was not 10%, 20% lower, it was four times smaller, and on those rankings where Serbia's health performance was not measured. The last place, in the best case, and most often no place, is usually not for us on the list at all, because we do not exist in a health sense, because we are a black hole, as far as health care is concerned, and no one knows what would be measured about Serbia, what would be shown here, and today it is more successful than, again, 14 EU member states. That's the direct result of Alexander Vukic's policy, is that what's bothering you? Is that why you're acting like this? This is news from yesterday, in the middle of the day yesterday -- Serbia first in Europe by the number of vaccines per million inhabitants. Today I heard, Mrs. Christmas follows it precisely on a daily basis, 350,000 people we managed to vaccinate on today. Imagine, what a fantastic result, how good, how valuable amongst other things, and that thanks to the fact that we have the best possible relationship in many countries large and powerful in the world, thanks to the reputation that Alexander Vukic himself provided to this country. Everyone knows it's not his personal reputation and the kind of relationship he has with the leader of the People's Republic of China wouldn't happen if Serbia got a million vaccines. What's proof of that? The fact that it didn't happen to anyone else. We know Serbia never before Alexander Vukic, but no one else in the environment, and that's the problem today that Serbia is by the number of people vaccinated per million, these are official things, these are verifiable things, first of all, when it comes to the region in the convincing first place, and when you look at how the others stand, as long as they arrive, it's quite clear to you how much the difference between Serbia and others is, but also Serbia today and Serbia as it used to be. A lot of people don't mind hearing it, but it needs to be heard because it's true. Besides, they admit it in the region. Take a look at, say, Croatian media. "Free Dalmatia" brings the title – while Croats struggle with vaccination Serbia is an absolute regional champion. People really recognize that. They don't mind admitting it. Although we know we don't expect to be praised even when we deserve it, but you see today that's what's happening. A little less than 70,000 citizens have been defined in Croatia so far. While Croatia is struggling with the vaccine, Serbia is an absolute champion in the region. These are their words. The words of their media. So far, they've been vaccinated four times more than we have and here's how they've done it, explaining further in the text, compared to these 350,000 people in Serbia. Croatia 70,000. Look at what's going on with the others. In Slovenia, only about 48 thousand people, and they do not fall to the number of newly infected, although they have a bowdown. No single citizen has been vaccinated in the Federation of BiH. The organized vaccination has not yet started in Montenegro, and in Northern Macedonia you have seen this, I believe, all of you personally, Zoran Zaev thanked Alexander Vukic personally for the fact that they were able to provide some vaccine for Northern Macedonia, thanks to Alexander Vukic, there was no other way. They didn't have any until he personally provided support and assistance on our part in this regard. Does that bother you? Look at a little Europe. Today they say things that Aleksandar Vukic spoke of several months ago and many resented it in those words, but today in politics, in the magazine and the portal "Politico", in European sources say – the fight for vaccines has begun, officials are angry. They say there will be major problems due to reduced delivery of vaccines and say -- officials are angry and say there is no solidarity and say that there is literally a war being waged because everyone sees themselves and their own to protect in the first place. That's what's going on with them today and they're not mad, let me just say, officials, there are a lot of angry people. In the Netherlands, mass riots, in the Netherlands, violent protests, say – apparently police violence and brutality, water cannons are used, and you remember in July of this month, the hooligans, the hordes most common who broke in and managed to break into the House of the People's Assembly, who, today, talked about it very well, harassed some for hours, not five or ten seconds, for hours the police, poured stones, and that the police had not responded in any way until they broke their legs, and they broke some of them by both feet, until people had their heads broken down, and there were many bloody heads in those days, until over a hundred police had ended with serious injuries, until they broke into the House of People's Assembly, and that house had broken the torches on fire in order to set them on fire. Back then, our police didn't use water cannons, nothing. You see, in the Netherlands they use and with everything else they say, it's a fight not against the protesters, it's a fight against the simplest bandits. It's normal there, acceptable to protect state institutions, and here...? Here when it happens, something at a much lower level when it comes to the state's reaction, the police reaction, and with much greater problems that we've had, than the Dutch have, because here, too, to remind us, they're destroying public property, as they are destroying them, and here, to remind us, they're destroying private property, as they are destroying them, and here they're burning cars, but with a lot more violence against security forces, with a lot more violence against institutions. We reacted milder. Then they say you need to show understanding of what you call bandits in your home, in America, terrorists. If you're in there with bandits and terrorists, your right to criticize them like that. What happened here in July could be much bigger bandits, much worse terrorists when you compare those acts. But, it bothers, apparently, Serbia, which is to this extent strong today. It seems to disturb Serbia, which is capable and powerful to protect its people's health. Then Serbia can be told everything, and everything must be allowed in Serbia, and yet we must suffer your pointless accusations of everything and everything. Finally, Serbia seems to mind that it is able to treat itself with dignity, with respect, to its people, to its country, to its history and to its tradition, and this has been said today, and I want to share with you a few words on the subject. A country that today, just today as we speak, prepares and tonight will open, reveals a monument to Stefan Nemanja, President of the Republic of Aleksandar Vukic. So, the monument to the birth of our most significant dynasty. A monument that every nation could desire, such a history that it has and thus demonstrates its relationship with it. Such a state that he built and that such things could be proud and raised. When we say today we take care of ourselves, take care of what they've done, and how much we've been owed by those who've created our country, and it's only expected for the bayonet, it looks like the same ones who don't care that there's no more dead in the land than the birds. By the same ones who are bothered that there are no lost jobs, so the former regime, Dragan Gilas, the first among them, have shown how capable they are of taking care of this people by throwing half a million people out on the street. Today, none of what Serbia is doing is right, so among other things, the fact that we are revealing the monument to Stefan Nemanja, with everything we experience from their tabloids every day, we are now going to look at these things. So, this should be a joke most common, to show that the fact that we are raising a monument, a wonderful, fantastic monument to Stefan Nemanja is an indicator of our stupidity, I guess national shallowness along with the illusions of gold forks and knives that the monument should certainly, as they suggest, bring it down publicly, to remove it, according to Dusan Teodorovic. Otherwise, one of the people in charge of thinking about everything and everything on their side, and I see others talking about it. To crash, to ruin. Why? Is it just because the state does it at the time of Alexander Wolfich? That's why it bothers you. Which you've never had a chance to do anything like, but you've never cared about Serbia and the people and history and anything but you and your pocket. Your most insatiable pocket, em, and if you wanted to, you had nothing to do with it, because your most unsatisfactory pocket sucked pocket, 619m euros in revenue on only four Dragan Gilas firms in the period when it was headed by the fictional office of the President of the Republic, as minister, as mayor. While he was doing it, as he rocked this country, only four of his companies sucked 619m euros. So what's left for any monument? It couldn't have been him. Then what's left for any hospital, couldn't even be. That's why she wasn't here. Then what's left for anyone else in this country? You want to salt our brains again while you're taking pictures of the convicted drug dealers, criminals, members of the famous clans, from the Japanese government to that unfortunate man in Kursumlje sitting in the front row with Dragan Gilas at their party rally. These are their officials and their Dicks. Or the one from Pančev, which followed Marinika Tepic from one party to the other, as many as were, six pieces. I was helped here last year by N1 reporters together, six parties changed it, but on each side of her right, there was this dealer, this man who was selling drugs to the kids. It was all wonderful and wonderful, and it's not good for Serbia to vaccinate, so today we're going to ask to organise a referendum, and then maybe we'll vaccinate while you're running a shameless campaign against both China and the Chinese vaccine and everything that's good and smart in this country, and also against Stefan Nemanje. Do you know what bothers them about Stefan Nemanja according to their official statement, Mr. Risticevic? It bothers them, if you thought you heard everything, you didn't, now you're going to hear everything, it bothers the party of freedom and justice, it's this party that Dragan Gilas bought, which Stefan Nemanja doesn't hold the cross in his hand. You know, they have a lot of respect for the cross and it bothers them that no proper respect has been shown for, now you're going to smile, for war fighters from 1991 to 1999. So, these people who have all the worst and most unspeakable words at the expense of their people, and regarding this period, against all the fighters who fought for the Serbian people anywhere in the former Yugoslavia, are now reportedly concerned about these fighters, but also about the church of which they were most disgusting, most insolently pronounced. Among other things, because the late patriarch once said that Aleksandar Vukic fought for Kosovo and Metohija, no one had ever done it that way before, so he also lived to be the target of their hickeys and harangi. Now they're supposed to be worried about the cross. So now you know, and now you've heard everything, but they weren't disgusted at getting money for everything, even for monuments and for those people who had nothing to do with our people or with that cross that they cared about, but money was always the essence of things. This is what Serbia needs to see. This is what this beautiful, fantastic monument and this is what Serbia and Belgrade have, its capitals today. With all those clear, strong, obvious, eye-observable results of that policy, and that includes the highways we've been waiting for decades to have them now. And hospitals we didn't have until a few months ago and clinical centres where we started to do something, to invest something 15 years ago, so now we have them, and now we're finishing them, Belgrade on water. So, with all the results seen in the economy, in jobs, in higher salaries, in the larger pensions and this monument, this wonderful, fantastic monument, is a clear indicator of how different it is in a positive sense, of course, different Serbia today compared to that dark, scary period when the head of this country unfortunately led by thieves, seciks, fascists and what they say about themselves, is Serbia's Alexander Vukic is dramatically different in a positive sense and this monument to Stefan Nemanja will certainly be one of the strongest, most loving evidence of how different things are. Not to forget the temple of St. Save. You see, in order for Serbia to continue to be this successful, in order for Serbia to continue to carry out the task we have given ourselves, to be even more successful, to move the scale a little bit more every day, to take a new step, to record a new victory, we need good, honest, safe people, people who are primarily guided by love for their people and their country, everywhere we need such people. Everywhere, not just in politics, not just at the head of different companies, we need people in courts, and that's the thing I wanted to end up with, it's one of the messages for you, by the legislator group Alexander Vukic - for our children. Love for your children, the need to fight for it every day and show that we are not condemned to be forgotten periphery somewhere at the end of the world in which they pushed us, such as Gilas, Jeremici, Borko Stefanovici who were not Borko, who are such marines and their drug dealers who poison children. So, that's the thing that we can provide and show every day, and that we'll do it with great will, so maybe it's the most important policy set by the President of the Republic of Aleksandar Vukic himself, and what is the obligation of all those representing the legislator group of Alexander Vukic – for our children, which is the obligation of all who care about those children of all of us, all of our children, therefore, to provide a better future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-27-0.u2638	You may proceed, you have an hour, if you will. I thank the People's MP and Vice President Orlic. No more reports. I thank all the debaters because we've completed the debate an hour earlier than predicted by time. I ask: Is there anyone else who has not used his right or wants a word from the representatives of the parliamentary groups? The word is Gjorge Milicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-27-0.u2639	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Representative of the High Council of the judiciary, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I want only a few sentences at the very end, given that the authorised representative is not at the very end of the session. I don't want to go back to the past, but I'm encouraged by something that a colleague said during a few years ago, and it concerns the justice system and what happened in Serbia, I say, I don't want to go back to the past and the SPS rarely speaks about the past, and we think that lessons and lessons are being learned from the past, and affirmed what is good and that we need to look at the present and build the foundations of the future. But when we talk about justice, a colleague who spoke a little bit was absolutely right. The Serbian judiciary, although not a lawyer, has been on the move since 5 October 2000. Because when we talk about October 5, 2000, one fundamental question arises – was someone responsible for burning and breaking into the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the disappearance of 156 works and 60 paintings in the National Assembly? There's evidence today. Yesterday we talked about data protection, you go to YouTube, look, there's so many videos, they're boasting about breaking into the Assembly. Is the president of the then Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, Slobodan Milosevic, also arrested in a legal and legitimate manner to The Hague tribunal? Later, Serbia's judiciary's solar system was continued through judicial reform, where out of 3,000 judges, correct me if I'm wrong, 800 are out of work. I was just talking about the year 2000. I will mention another incursion at the National Bank of the Republic of Serbia. How did he break into the National Bank of the Republic of Serbia? How many works of art have gone missing from the National Bank of the Republic of Serbia? So was anyone responsible for it from 2000 to today? According to our information, according to the SPS parliamentary group, unfortunately not. You know, when there's an incursion at Capitol Hill, we condemn it as a state and it's a responsible and serious relationship between the state of Serbia. Joe Biden says, "It wasn't a disagreement, it was a mess, it wasn't a protest, it was a loose mob, domestic terrorists." When former Serbian MP Obradovic tries to break in, break in, although we have no reason to, because he is a national MP, with a few people trying to break into the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, it is said to be the defence of democracy in Serbia. Did anyone answer for that? We don't criticise anyone, we don't criticise the judiciary, we exchange opinions, we talk about it, we don't judge anyone, but someone just said, "They can't do it to citizens," and we're parliament, we're the voice of the people, we have this obligation and responsibility to talk to you through these discussions and to give specific suggestions and suggestions. A colleague Marinkovic said: "result", and I fully agree with it, they are the most important, regardless of the independence, but the responsibility and obligation that has been taken is measured only through results and not marketing. Because when they attack Borko Stefanovic, then it's a coup, although investigative authorities are doing their job in a timely manner, but then it's a coup and a reason for mass alleged protests on the streets of Serbia. When they attack Marijan Risticevic, then it's literally political marketing and it turns out that man attacked himself, although there are valid recordings for it, and we expect both results from both competent authorities and competent institutions. I'll be back on the subject very briefly, just a few sentences. So at the beginning of today's debate, our authorised representative, Tom Fila, spoke of proposals for a first choice of judges in several courts. By electing judges to serve as first judge, the National Assembly holds its electoral office, with the support of these proposals proposed by the High Council of the Judiciary as an independent body to the National Assembly. I'd like to look back on a few more things. Namely, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, making the first choice in the judicial post, is fulfilling its electoral function, and although it is not a direct proposing candidate, it has the right and obligation to give its opinion. We think, looking at candidates' biographies, it's good to give young judicial assistants and associates a chance to become judges, to fill in and strengthen the capacity of a judicial system that is burdened by a large number of court cases, which has already been discussed. Let me just mention how much the litigation departments of the basic courts are burdened with and how long the litigation takes. Serbia, therefore, is seeking to achieve good results in all segments of society, to achieve high standards, to implement high standards both of course and in the area of justice. To remind the European Commission's report, which discussed the National Assembly in December 2020, has just found that the rule of law sector, and thus the judiciary should continue to be strengthened in the direction of implementation of EU legal flows. That is exactly what this National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia does together with the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the President of Serbia. As regards the holders of the judicial functions, it is necessary to highlight their significant role and great responsibility that arises from independence in the performance of the judicial office and, therefore, it is an important expertise, dignity, experience, but it is also an important courage to make difficult judicial decisions, i.e. judgments. By selecting these judges, as I said, so at the first judge's office, the National Assembly performs its electoral function. The SPS parliamentary group will, of course, support the day to vote on this proposal. In the end, I want to once again, on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group, to all citizens of Serbia, to all educational workers, to congratulate Savindan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-27-0.u2640	Thank you. Since no one is answering from any of the parliamentary groups anymore, and I assume the motionary's representative will not address it, I want us to bring an end to this joint single search. I just want to point out that here the chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has spoken about this item on the agenda, but we will be waiting for this topic for a serious debate in the coming period, and given that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has proposed a proposal for a change to the Constitution. This issue of election of judges and prosecutors will certainly be a serious subject of consideration in the coming period. Given the different opinions that have been heard here, I think it is very important that we coordinate our views on all of this, so that we do not come out with 10 different variants and views on this very important topic, of course in line with political consultations between the parties that have also proposed such a proposal for constitutional change. I just want to remind you that we're moving on from the other three points of the agenda tomorrow. It is also a joint single search on two regulatory bodies and on one staff issue to change the decision on board members. And to remind me that this afternoon it is time for the government to ask parliamentary questions, namely that the Serbian government will be headed by Prime Minister Ana Brnabic from 16:00 to 1900 hours, and that we will hold a vote afterwards. So it's gonna be a term as it says in the Rules of Procedure, a day to vote. So for February, since it is February, I think there is a lack of understanding in the public how the Assembly works in January and February. And now someone thinks we don't work because we don't want to work. There are two, as you all know, but I think we should always repeat, that there are two regular sessions, i.e. from March to June and from October to December, that the rest of the session period is extraordinary only on the proposal of 84 MPs or the Government of the Republic of Serbia in case we have agenda points. Also, I want to remind you and to commend all of you and us that everything that has come so far has already been put on the agenda by all the promoters. So I'm calling on everyone who thinks they're proposing something, in order for the Assembly to meet at all, we need to have points that we're going to put on the agenda. Maybe sometimes we shouldn't have finished before, maybe it was common before. I would like to thank the representatives of the promoters and therefore conclude a joint single search and call, of course, on all those who can open the monument to Stefan Nemanja. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the session of the First Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 12th Assembly. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the sitting is attended by 87 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the MPs' units. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, it is found that at this time 130 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that there are at least 84 MPs present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Since it is Thursday, does one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wish to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? I remind you you have five minutes. The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic.
