ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-19-0.u9832	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the Third Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2021. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 97 MPs. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, when adopting the minutes and setting out the agenda, exists if most of the total number of MPs are present at the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., I ask the MPs to insert their cards into the parliamentary units. Thank you. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 143 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly within the meaning of Article 88(5). Rules of Procedure. Before we move to requesting information or explanations on the basis of Article 287. Rules of Procedure, let me just say a few words. On the very day of yesterday 85 years ago, this building of the National Assembly, then the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, was solemnly avenged, and on the morning of October 20, 85 years ago, the first session was held in this hall. It is a very important jubilee that speaks of state continuity and speaks, unfortunately, of historical merits, but also of the delusions that Serbia and the Serbian people have been going through in our history. The then president of the National Assembly Stevan Ciric gave a speech and he said – we have avenged the building today, but in that people's help himself, God will help you, the true blessing of God will be poured out upon it when all the brothers are consecrated with their own style. He finished his presentation - a complex Yugoslavia lived. I want to invite all of you to today 85 years after that say - lived in a complicated Serbia and to mark still jubilee on the line of our people. Thank you very much. We're going to work. According to Article 287, MP Jahja Fehratovic reported.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-19-0.u9833	Thank you, Chairman. My question was addressed to Interior Minister Alexander Vulin. Is it true that the minister has instructed that the documents of members of Bosniak nationality in the section intended for the native language should be entered Bosniak instead of Bosnian? If this information is correct, then it is not correct and then it goes into both the legal and constitutional categories of malfunction, as well as the language and the terminology. Bosniaks, like any other people, have their own native language, which is accepted, which is modified, which has its own name and it is called the Bosnian language, and the Bosniak language is something that is invented coin and does not belong to any scientific category, nor to what is written in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, nor in those laws that treat the language identity of all the peoples of this country, including Bosniaks. So, the Bosnian language is a constitutional category, the Bosnian language is also a category of those laws that treat within themselves the rights of members of minority nations and national minorities and any termination of its name is neither in accordance with the law nor with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. That's why this information that has come has upset the Bosniak people, because by disrespecting the name of a nation, you don't respect that people either. It cannot be treated or altered by something that is not existing, such as the name of language. If you deny language to one nation, you also deny its national identity. If you deny his identity, then you deny him yourself. The Bosniaks are a people who are indigenous to these areas, who have their own cultural identity, who have its own duration and who have all the specifics that make it a nation, including language, which, like any other people, represents one of the most important components. The name of that language is Bosnian. It has existed in the continuum of many centuries, or thousands of years, and as such is present in all the monuments that remained as a written trail of the duration of this people in the areas of the Balkans, including the Republic of Serbia. The name of the language is a name founded in scientific categories, the language is described both grammatically and lexiographically and through the art and culture of the Bosniak people and it is something that the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia recognises and that is something that is implemented in the education systems of the Republic of Serbia as such. Therefore, no institution, and especially one that has the opportunity to bring something called the identity card or the identity card of a nation, must end neither the Constitution nor the laws of the Republic of Serbia, nor change the name of one language of a nation, as in this case. Therefore, our question is by means of this information, that the instructions have come from Minister Alexander Vulin, to all those who issue documents to members of Bosniak nationality, that instead of the Bosnian language, there is a Bosniak language in those documents. This is, of course, something besides the language and the political question and where they existed and formed those who long wanted to contaminate everyone else, including Bosniak-Serbian relations by denying the name of this people, denying its existence, denying its native language. It is something that has been overcome in scientific circles, it is something that has been overcome in both legal and other frameworks, and there is no reason for no one, especially one who has a responsible function, to re-rule the constitutional order of the Republic of Serbia in any way, or to reduce those rights that are guaranteed to other peoples and minorities, as in this case Bosniaks as autochton, domicile people and in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-19-0.u9834	Thank you. The word is Nandor Kish.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-19-0.u9835	Thank you very much, Your Honor. The Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, on behalf of the SVM parliamentary group, I would like to refer the question to the Ministry of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure, and the question is about the catastra system. In the past few years, thanks to the digitization process, we can safely say that waiting on counters has been reduced and that the benefit of this is felt by every citizen. The possibility of using e-government and e-katstra services has contributed to the simplification and transparency of the work of state institutions, as well as the collection of information related to the daily needs of citizens. Although digitisation has been a useful and popular novelty lately, I want to draw attention to the fact that office affairs in some cases continue to last longer than necessary. I'd like to share a few interesting cases from my closer environment from Ada County. In fact, the Catholic Church of the Holy Trinity bought a building, and it took two years for it to do its job, or to move onto the church’s name. A similar example is when the land that has been returned to the restitution is sold, many items are still in progress for two and a half years. Another example, after carrying out desert procedures, participants should wait for weeks, and often for months until they get a solution to the registration of property rights based on an inheritance solution. These labour problems cause a constant delay in the execution of procedures and represent unnecessary waste of time. I would mention that the Municipality of Ada belongs to smaller municipalities by size, but the population is very active and therefore the cadastre always has a large number of objects waiting for processing. I believe that this is why the number of employees in offices should be increased or otherwise ensured by efficiency, because unnecessary waiting leads to inconvenience and financial damage to the state, since owners cannot even continue to work, nor to pay taxes, taxes and other taxes. Since there really is a problem in the catastra system, if there are not enough workers for so many items, I would like to ask the Minister of Construction, Transport and Infrastructure, when planning to expand the work capacity of the Catastra offices, or how will the problem of waiting too long for the documents and decisions of the cadastras? I am convinced that the minister will do everything possible to solve these problems and for the benefit of all citizens. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-19-0.u9836	Thank you. The word has Stefan Krkobic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-19-0.u9837	Thank you, Honorable President Dacic. At a session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on July 29th, I asked the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs – how will the state encourage the launch of social enterprises and the employment of the most vulnerable categories of the population, and when can we expect the adoption of the social entrepreneurship law? In the second half of September, I received an answer from the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs that I quote "recognise the importance and role of social entrepreneurship and set up a Working Group to draft such a law". Since the second part of this response was given only in the context of the proposed government law in the fourth quarter of 2021, as a representative of the PUPS parliamentary group, which protects the most vulnerable categories of population in the focus of action, I was obliged to ask the Ministry for a more precise answer to the question – when can we expect that law to be adopted? So on September 21st, I asked the Ministry again if now two months after my first question could more precisely answer me when the draft law will be on the government's agenda, since the fourth quarter announced as that term starts in 10 days? The answer to the additional question I received on 13 October can only be seen as a reflection of the non-compliance of the institution of the parliamentary issue, i.e. the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, as the highest representative and legislative body in the country. I quote this answer: "The Working Group on draft social entrepreneurship laws has been formed and given that it is a system law, representatives of competent ministries and other state bodies are involved in the work of the Working Group, as well as a large number of representatives of the NGO sector. The ministry also recognised the importance of social entrepreneurship and continued the intensive work of the Working Group in drafting the text of the law, as a comprehensive regulation that would be the basis for all these types of entrepreneurship in the Republic of Serbia. After establishing the text of the draft law by the Working Group, an internal procedure will be implemented in accordance with the regulations of the Republic of Serbia." In response, as you could hear, not a word about when the draft social entrepreneurship law will be established, although I remind you again, in response to my first question for this quarter, whose first month is nearing its end, was promised even to lay down a proposal for that law at the cabinet session. Therefore, I once again warn that this topic is so urgent that there is really no time to wait. Since the New Year's, we are entering an election campaign, and then the government will be in a technical mandate. Then, after the elections, the formation of new institutions of executive and legislative authorities and this can go deep into the second half of next year. Dear colleagues, when it comes to hard-working categories of citizens, I remind you that I am setting an example of Belgrade only this way, living about 100,000 people with disabilities, is just as many beneficiaries of social assistance. I therefore remind myself once again that this category of persons of employment who would be subject to this law includes all those citizens who need our help and support for a independent and productive life in order to overcome social, material and life difficulties, which are workable. Social entrepreneurship, as part of the social economy, is exactly the kind of entrepreneurship where social problems are solved using entrepreneurial skills. That is why, most well-intentioned, once again expressing our willingness to include ourselves in the work of this law, we are asking the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs for a concrete answer to my specific question – when can we, MPs, expect a bill on social entrepreneurship in the National Assembly? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-19-0.u9838	Thank you. The People's Messenger, George Milicevic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-19-0.u9839	I thank you, dear Vice President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Orlic. Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would first take advantage of the opportunity on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group to congratulate on the election results achieved by the Serb list in Kosovo and Metohija. We believe this is very important for the Serbian people in the Kosovo and Metohija area, which is despite the unremembered pressures it has been experiencing all these years since the Albanians self-proclaimed the state "Kosovo", wants to remain on their centuries-old hearths. We were already talking about an unremembered terror that occurred in northern Kosovo and Metohija last week, when armed members of ROSU, along with a car, gas bombs and tear gas bombs, entered the northern part of Kosovo's Mitrovica and Zvecan, under the pretext that they were only implementing the law, that it was about fighting crime and corruption. Apparently, their law was in the topuze and what concerns all of us is the question - what can be expected further about Pristina, which obviously wants to implement the ethnic cleansing of Serbs through clean apartheid methods? However, our people are determined to stay on their hearths, to fight for survival on their hearth. The Serbian people in Kosovo and Metohija have the full support of state leadership and the entire Serbian people, because Serbs from Cosmeta are more than two decades the most endangered part of our people, but also the most endangered national community in Europe, and Europe is unfortunately deafening it. The Serbian people in Kosovo and Metohija are determined to fight for their future in KIM, showing up for the elections and supporting the Serb list, which won nine out of ten seats of the municipality's president in the first round. For the tenth place, they're fighting in the second round. Congratulations to the Serbs in KIM on the unity shown, because only when we are unique then we are strong, at the agreed, and we can freely say that they are currently the bravest part of our people. The result is extremely important for the continued fight to meet the Brussels Agreement by Pristina, which avoids any obligation and insists on violating everything agreed in Brussels. Mr. Goran Rakic, president of the Serbian List, also told Pristina and the international community after Sunday's elections that unless the Serb municipalities from KIM are formed by the end of the year, all Pristina institutions will leave. Serbs with KIM have the undeniable support of their state of Serbia and the promise of the President of the Republic that we will not allow our people in the KIM space to be abused, expelled and killed, to be shot in the back. Today I want to ask about all the events in KIM, which preceded the local elections and the position of our leadership, the clear position of our leadership, the state leadership that we are always and at all costs with our people, to ask the Government of the Republic of Serbia - whether the government is considering other and new activities and measures in case Brussels does not provide a continuation of dialogue, and Pristina refuses to form a Serb municipality within the time limit given by Serbs from Cosmet, which is until the end of this year? In the event of the failure of this part of the Brussels Agreement, does the intervention of Brussels and the continuation of the dialogue make sense at all when Pristina rejects everything, and Brussels is powerless to force Pristina to sit by the table? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-19-0.u9840	Thank you, Mr. Milicevic. The word is made by MP Marko Parezenović.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-19-0.u9841	I thank the Honorable Chairman. I will take the opportunity before I ask a parliamentary question, to join the Serbian list congratulations on the extraordinary result in the local election in KIM, to win all ten municipalities with the Serb majority and to express an absolute admiration for the endurance and tenacity of the Serb people in KIM to preserve its hearth at all costs and to stress, that once again it has proved that this unbreakable link between the Serbian state and the Serbian people is of paramount importance, that at a time when the Serb people at KIM suffers terror, as probably no people in Europe, the unity of the state and the Serb people in KIM is an absolute prerequisite for Serbia to preserve its people and their country in the KIM space. I will ask the Ministry of the Interior of the Republic of Serbia, and regarding the recent arrest and launch of an investigation against the former state secretary at the Interior Ministry, Dijana Hrkalovic, which is another indication that no one is protected in Serbia, if he has committed any crimes and was part of crime, corruption or trade in influence, that anyone found guilty will have to answer whether he is in any position or is a member of any political party. However, here is another important question that the citizens of Serbia have long expected to answer, and the question is: who has been listening unauthorizedly to the president of the Republic of Serbia and to the members of his family, for which purpose and for whose interests has this been done? Also, the question arises – was there any interference of a foreign factor here, and I am asking this in light of the recent recognition of former opposition leader and presidential candidate Sasa Jankovic, who openly admitted that he was recruited by a foreign factor to find an ally within him to destroy the president of Serbia. This also applied to a time of four or five years ago. However, we now clearly see that this plan never gave up and that definitely Sasa Jankovic is not the only one who has been recruited for these dirty jobs, and when we hear the information we learned last week that opposition politicians along with opposition media are more than six thousand times in the most negative sense of mentioning the brother of Serbia, when we know how many times his son and father and all the members of the family have been negatively mentioned, and we know that it is not about public figures or holders of any function, but it is also clear that none of it happens by chance in the Republic of Serbia, that none of it is spontaneous and that it is a very well-developed plan that has been implemented for several years. What is absolutely clear is that this was not an attack on one politician or president of a party, but only an attack on the state of Serbia, that this was an attempt at a coup and that those who carried out the plan were doing so solely out of personal interest, and these were not the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. It's also important to know who the individuals from the crime scene are, but also the state apparatus that are so-called. to research, objective, independent media, all of which were not objective and independent, providing information about the movement of the son of the president of the Republic of Serbia and thus directly endangering his life, who were the people who provided them with the finned photographs that they later used as part of the so-called research work. These are all very important issues that Serbian citizens expect to receive an answer. When I mentioned a foreign factor, another reason why I said this is that we have been hearing certain calls lately from part of the opposition that are constantly calling on either foreign ambassadors or different international organisations to engage in the internal political issues of the Republic of Serbia. So recently, Marinika Tepic was visiting Croatia rather than talking about the rights of citizens of the Republic of Serbia living in Croatia, who are certainly not at an envious level, she spoke of some civil war in Serbia and called on the international community to interfere with our country's internal political issues. Indeed, not only as a politician, but as a man, I also disgust those politicians who every time they go out of the state of Serbia all the worst talk about their country and ask representatives of the international community to bring them to power and what is probably one of the greatest successes of Alexander Vukic is that today the state of Serbia is a sovereign state leading an absolute independent policy and in which foreigners, international organisations and foreign ambassadors no longer appoint prime ministers and ministers and do not determine what the sessions of the Republic of Serbia's government will look like. I think that's what we all, together with the citizens of Serbia today, must at all costs preserve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-19-0.u9842	Thank you, Mr. Parezanovic. Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, answer for word, we continue to work. I would like to inform you that he has been prevented from attending the session of MP George Komlenski. Your first session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia was delivered to you in 2021. As most of the total number of MPs attend today's session, I find that there is a quorum for the adoption of the minutes from that session. I would like to inform you that by verifying the tasks of the Committee on Administrative Budgetary and Delegated Immunity Issues, it has been established that none of the Members of the Parliaments has been sent to that Committee in writing to make an objection to the said minutes, and that is why we are moving to a decision. I am voting on the minutes of the 1st session of the 2nd regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2021, held on 5 June and 7 October 2021. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I conclude the vote and declare: total – 154 for – 141 did not vote – 13. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the First Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2021. This session, which has been delivered to you, contains the draft agenda. Before the sitting agenda is established, pursuant to Article 92(2) and Article 93. Rules of Procedure, it is necessary for the National Assembly to decide on proposals to supplement the agenda and the proposal to merge the debate. National MP Enis Imamovic, based on article 92. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point – a motion for a resolution on genocide in Srebrenica, submitted to the National Assembly by MPs Enis Imamovic, Shaip Kamberi, Selma Kučević, Nadia Beqiri, Mirsad Hodzic and Ardjan Bajrami on 9 June 2021. Enis Imamovic answered the words.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-19-0.u9843	Thank you, Chairman. After all the verdicts of war criminals in which even two international courts have confirmed genocide in Srebrenica, we believe that all conditions have been obtained for this resolution to be considered and adopted in the Serbian Parliament. This is a mature step that is necessary for the sake of peace and good relations between the current and future generations of the Bosniak and Serbian people. Had there been political wisdom and courage before, Serbia would have been in a much more favourable position by adopting the resolution than it is today, especially because Serbia is the first and only country in the world to be found guilty of violating the United Nations Convention on the Prevention and Penalty of Genocides. The relation of the civilized countries today to the Srebrenica issue is completely unique. The goal of the Srebrenica genocide resolution is to condemn the strongest, but also to ban any denial of this genocide, the splendor of convicted war criminals and the denial and splendor and announcement of new genocides over the Bosniak people. We are increasingly public to hear the splendor of genocide in Srebrenica and the excelling of convicted war criminals, from sports events, through various gatherings, and even at wedding delights. The last such case happened just last week at a handball game when they were so-called. Red Star fans, at the game against the New Market, celebrated a convicted war criminal, celebrated genocide, insulted, threatened Bosniaks. Have you wondered maybe what our sports competitions are turning into, what this society is turning into? For this great responsibility is borne by the congregation. The handball club has made a decision to step out of the competition, to step out of the league and state instead of reacting it with silence approves the promotion of such ideas and such genocideal intentions and genocide at sports events. I honestly wonder what other Sandzak sports clubs are waiting for someone to lose their head. This is the result of the encouragement that the state summit of the Republic of Serbia itself gives, by denying genocide itself, and often glorifying convicted war criminals. This resolution should be the response of civilised society to these phenomena, but also the prevention of regaining consciousness, genocide, war crimes, ethnic cleansing over one nation can be achieved by the interests of their own people and their own state. Those who are today the loudest against this resolution and the loudest grandeur of genocides are carrying out the greatest collectiveisation of guilt. I expect us to put it on the agenda and adopt this resolution as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-19-0.u9844	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: total – 158, for – 8, versus – 10, did not vote – 140. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MPs Ana Karadzic and Bojan Torbica under Article 92. The Rules of Procedure proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point – a proposal for a decision on the education of the Commission to investigate and determine the number of victims of NATO aggression in 1999, submitted to the National Assembly by MPs Djordja Komlenski, Marijan Risticevic, Ana Karadzic and Bojan Torbica on 16 November 2020. The word is Anna Karadzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-19-0.u9845	Thank you. Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, for who knows which time I suggest that the agenda be complemented by a point relating to the formation of a commission that will determine the exact number of killed in NATO aggression. I'm going to be very brief today. I'm going to bring just a few facts you've heard a long time ago, but I really want you to think a little bit deeper about the moral responsibility that we have when we talk about these facts. So nearly 23 years ago, without the approval of the Security Council, Serbia was bombed. About 2,000 people were killed and who knows how many children. We don't have that data today, almost 23 years after NATO aggression. Imagine a situation where a student comes to a history class and asks a teacher – how many people died in NATO aggression. The teacher has to answer that - I don't know, there's no exact number, I don't even know how many soldiers died then, I don't know how many civilians died. We don't have that information. What does that mean? That means that we don't want to write our history to facts, so that means we want our history to be made by someone else. We have a moral obligation and responsibility, but also responsibility as MPs, because here we can educate this commission that will determine the name and last name of the exact number of people killed in NATO aggression. If I just go back to my previous presentations when I mentioned how those before us, two thousand, weren't ready for this step, and if everything I said, and the truth is, what they were doing and what they were doing, and they didn't want to honor those who lost someone and those who gave life to our country, do we want to feel the same way when in 23 years someone pointed a finger at us and said you had a chance, but you didn't want to do it? You didn't write history to facts. I ask the MPs to consider the moral obligation that we have on this subject and to consider how by voting the agenda would be complemented by this committee and to restore dignity to the families and honor those who have defended the country and for whom we are here today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-19-0.u9846	Thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: of a total of 155 MPs, in favour of the 9th, did not vote 146. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Miodrag Lint, on the basis of article 92, suggested that the agenda be complemented by the act on amendments and additions to the Law on the Rights of Fighters, Military Disabilities, Civil Disabilities of War and members of their families, which he submitted on 12 May 2021. Does the MP want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-19-0.u9847	Dear Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, today I propose that today's session agenda be complemented by my draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Rights of Fighters, Military Disabilities, Civil Disabilities War and members of their families. With this bill, I demand seven amendments and additions. My key requirement is to finally correct the great injustice and to recognise all members of the Republika Srpska Army and police as a war effort throughout the dual-term war. I would like to remind you that the existing legal provision is recognised by the Krajina fighters only until 27 April 1992, so until the day the SFRY ceased to exist and the SRJ was created. On the other hand, I would like to remind you that the country's officers and sub-offices, namely the active military faces of the former JNA, have been recognised, or have been recognised as a military internship for the entire time of the double-term war. A legitimate question arises with whom did these Krajina officers and officers command when they were granted military service for the entire time of the war, and their fighters did not? The Krajina fighters are bitter, disappointed, discriminated against, and especially because of the fact that even in practice they do not respect a recognised military internship until April 27, 1992. Namely, hundreds and thousands of Krajina fighters have filed demands for defence centres across Serbia to at least be recognised by the period by 27 April 1992. All the troops received negative solutions with scandalous and shameful reasoning from the defence centre that the territorial defence of the Sava-Ukraine and the territorial defence of RSK were not part of the former JNA. It is well known that the SFRY armed forces consisted of two visions, of JNA and of territorial defence. I call on the Ministry of Defence to correct this great injustice, to change that shameful scandalous rule, and at least to begin with, to recognise the war effort of the Krajina fighters, that is to say, to respect a legal provision that clearly states that the Krajina fighters are recognised by April 27, 1992. Also, I call on another National Assembly to accept that today's session agenda is complemented by my draft law and, I repeat, to correct a great injustice and to recognise all members of the Army and Republika Srpska Police during the double-term war.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-19-0.u9848	I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote: a total of – 155, for – six, did not vote – 148 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Dr Aleksandar Martinovic, on the basis of Article. Items 2 and 170 and 157, respectively, of Article 157(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed that a joint single search be carried out on: a draft law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina on common locations at border crossings, a bill confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina on the border crossings, a proposal for a law confirming the Memorandum of Understanding on military co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Arab Republic of Egypt, a bill confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina on border traffic, and a proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Austria on cooperation in the field of protection against disasters. Does the promoter want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the corresponding key on the voting system. I conclude the vote and declare: total – 155, for – 147, it did not vote – eight MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this proposal. Since we have agreed on proposals for the completion of the proposed agenda and of the proposal for a merger of the debate, pursuant to Article 93(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I put to the vote a draft agenda in general. I ask the MPs to vote. I conclude the vote: total – 156, for – 150, did not vote – six MPs. I find that the National Assembly established the Agenda of the Third Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2021 as a whole. Dn e v n i r e d: 1. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina on common locations at border crossings; 2. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina on border crossings; 3. Proposal for a law confirming the Memorandum of Understanding on military co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Serbia, represented by the Ministry of Defence and the Government of the Arab Republic of Egypt, represented by the Ministry of Defence; 4. Proposal for a law confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina on border traffic; 5. Proposal for a law confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Austria on co-operation in the area of disaster protection. We are going to work on the established agenda of the session. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that the sittings have been called: Dr Nebojsa Stefanovic, Deputy Prime Minister and Defence Minister Aleksandar Vulin, Interior Minister Predrag Bandic, Deputy Minister Zoran Lazic, Secretary of the Ministry of International Law, Colonel Nebojsa Light from the International Military Co-operation Administration of the Department of Defence Policy and Mirjana Matic, a graduate lawyer from the International Legal Affairs Group of the International Military Co-operation Administration. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs, in accordance with Article 96. In accordance with Article 170, and in accordance with Article 157(2), Rules of Procedure, I'm opening a joint single search. Do the representatives of the motionor want a word? Yeah. ) The word is made by Minister Alexander Vulin, whom I welcome. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-19-0.u9849	Dear Mr. Chairman, gentlemen and Madam Vice President of the National Assembly, honourable MPs, friends and comrades, ladies and gentlemen, it is my great pleasure to be able to defend today, perhaps not the right word to defend, to explain, to explain five important agreements ahead of you, five important agreements that, without your support and understanding, will not be possible. It is the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina on border crossings, then, the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina on common locations at border crossing points, but also the Agreement on Co-operation in the field of disaster protection between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Austria, as well as the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding on Military Co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Arab Republic of Egypt. Every agreement we reach with countries in our environment, and not only with countries in our environment, is an agreement that opens up opportunities for our citizens first and gives them the opportunity to carry out their daily obligations better and simpler. The agreements we have with Bosnia and Herzegovina are agreements that regulate our border crossings and, among other things, what is particularly important to us, along with the existing introductions of another new border crossing. It is about Ljubovija – Bratunac, that famous bridge Serbia had built long ago, and we waited for the government of Bosnia and Herzegovina to fulfil its obligations and enable the citizens of BiH and the Republic of Serbia to use the bridge. Bridges bring people together, and politics can get in the way of them. Here, with this agreement, we'll solve that problem anyway. We have, of course, a border traffic agreement that will allow, which is very important for the citizens of our countries to solve their daily life activities in a facilitated and accelerated manner. Em doesn't have to wear a passport, that they don't have to explain every time where they're going, the more they go, simply, people live on both sides of the Drina, and the logical thing is that the better, faster and easier they go, the more they cooperate. By opening a new bridge in some places, we'll cut the road short in 60 kilometers. In 60 kilometers! Do you know how big it is and how important it is? Otherwise, you know, there'll be our first common crossing point on the bridge. This means that the citizens of Serbia or the citizens of Republika Srpska, or Bosnia and Herzegovina, when crossing the bridge will not have to see two customs officers, will not have to show twice the travel document, will not ask them twice what you are carrying in that bag, in that country, but will only once come to a common point, say hello once, present himself and have a happy trip, do what needs to be done and how it should be done. Of course, it is also very important that we have an agreement on co-operation in the area of disaster protection with the Republic of Austria. You've seen the whole of Europe burn last summer. You have seen the problem found in countries that are richer, some say even more organised than the Republic of Serbia. The Republic of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen, friends and comrades, had more than a thousand fires in the open last summer. But thanks to the work of the Emergency Sector, thanks to the work of voluntary fire companies, none of them were catastrophic, and anyone could have been catastrophic. In northern Macedonia, in Republika Srpska, Greece, we had catastrophic fires. The Home Office Emergency Sector has helped all of these locations. According to what those we fought with together against the fiery verse, if there were no Serbian firefighters, the verse would have been much more devastating. I had the honor and pleasure of being with our firefighters in both Northern Macedonia and Greece, and I can tell you that where the Serbian firefighter left off, where we set the line, the fire didn't go through. No tree died where we were. On Evia, entire villages and cities were saved because Serbian firefighters were there. Such an agreement is now being reached with the Republic of Austria, where we will be able to help each other in such situations, to pass on knowledge, to carry on experience, simply to serve each other. When we plan our capacities to defend against the various natural disasters that can affect our country, we think about the region. We, thanks to the decisions and the endless support of President Alexander Vukic, will quickly buy two fire-fighting helicopters, the best in the world. Do we need both of them? Of course they do. But whether with those two helicopters, with existing helicopters, with the Super Pumas coming to us, we'll be the most equipped country in the region -- we will. When it comes to fighting disasters, we will certainly be the most equipped and able to help the entire region. Serbia is thinking regionally. We also think about other countries, other people, whether they will need our help. We're not just thinking about ourselves. When we put out the fire in northern Macedonia, if we hadn't done it, Prohor Pchinski would have burned because the fire would have been carried across the hill. We had to help our neighbours from northern Macedonia, our southern neighbour, Northern Macedonia, because if we hadn't helped, the fire would have spread to Prohor Pcinjska. It's a good thing we did it and were able to do it. Egypt is a big, powerful country, with an extraordinary army, a country that buys a lot in the arms market, a country that has a tradition of co-operation with us, and this is a great opportunity to talk, this is a great opportunity to introduce them to our defence industry and to everything our country can offer. Many generals and many officers from Egypt have been educated in our country, remember their youth, love when they come here, love when they remember, everyone likes to remember their youth and so do they, and have an extremely good relationship with the Republic of Serbia. That's why this agreement is very important. There's another opportunity for us to work better and work better together. If we had these agreements anymore, we wouldn't have been recognised by Islamic brothers who brought in any kind of "Arab Spring" from Kosovo. Egypt is an important and great country. If it hadn't been for those Islamic terrorists on her forehead, maybe Kosovo wouldn't have been recognised by Egypt either, and it might be up to us to work on having Egypt reconsidered its decision and to go back to where it belongs, which means the side of international law. Ladies and gentlemen, friends and comrades, I draw your attention to these five agreements. I hope we have a good, fruitful debate. I believe that, like every time, we will do something that is good for the citizens of Serbia, something that is good for those who voted for each of us, of course, and for those who are not, although there are not so many, but I hope that we will have the opportunity to talk, work together and spend this day in a constructive and successful debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-19-0.u9850	Thank you, Minister. Do the officials of the committee want a word? The president of the Defence and Home Affairs Committee, MP Aleksandar Markovic, spoke. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-19-0.u9851	Thank you. Dear Ministers of the Interior, Mr Vulin, the distinguished representatives of the Ministry of Interior and Defence, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I would like to point out at the beginning that the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs in today's session discussed the proposed agreements and unanimously decided to propose to the National Assembly to adopt those agreements. The importance of these agreements that are before us is primarily reflected in the geographical importance that the Republic of Serbia has, as well as in the fact that it is known to all of you, which is that the travel and traffic network across Serbia is built and restored, which will continue in the coming period, primarily thanks to the policy of Aleksandr Vukic, which will make the flow of people, goods and services significantly easier, and which will indirectly lead to increased foreign direct investment, namely new jobs, thus increasing the standard of living of citizens. It is therefore important to regulate border crossings, their locations, border traffic from BiH in an adequate and comprehensive way. Agreements with Austria and Egypt are no less significant, but are primarily aimed at building the Republic of Serbia as a reliable and secure partner on an international stage that is ready to provide necessary assistance wherever it is needed with its resources and knowledge. This is particularly important when it comes to the agreement with Austria on co-operation in the area of disaster protection, given that any kind of assistance in this regard can reach a vulnerable location within just a few hours, which can largely contribute to the rescue of human lives, property, as well as the removal of the consequences of disasters. I pointed out that I am personally very proud of all our police officers and soldiers on peacekeeping missions, firefighters, medical workers who are staying, working and helping endangered areas have contributed and strengthened the reputation of the Republic of Serbia in the world. Therefore, I am convinced that you, MPs, too, will have the understanding of the arguments presented and that in the day of voting, you will give support to those agreements. Mr. Minister, Madam Chairman, allow me to step away for a moment from what is the subject of my report from today's committee session. In fact, somewhere these days in October, it ends a year after the current assembly of the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs of the National Assembly has been established and I would take this opportunity to thank the Ministry of the Interior as well as the Ministry of Defence for the extraordinary co-operation we have achieved so far. In fact, we have had a number of activities, and I mean not only committee sessions, but also more field activities that we have achieved in co-operation with the Ministry of Defense, despite the pandemic of the virus's coronary. We've visited the Special Anti-Terrorist Unit, we've visited the Police Squad in Novi Sad, we've visited the Serbian Army Guard, and there are several other similar field activities planned. I believe that this brings a new quality in the work of the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs, because MPs, members of the Committee have the opportunity to get acquainted directly with the work and activities of members of the Ministry of Interior and members of the Serbian Army. Mr. Minister, we are extremely grateful for this co-operation and I hope that we will further step up this cooperation in the coming period, because I think it is very important that we all work together to further strengthen and strengthen our defence and security capacities. The military and police have always been and will be a guarantee of the protection and defence of the state and of the citizens and of our national interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-19-0.u9852	Thank you. The word has a rapporteur in front of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, MP, Dr Ugljesa Mrdic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-19-0.u9853	Thank you, Chairman. I would like to say that at today's session of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, we have assessed that all the proposed agreements are in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. It is quite clear the importance of all these agreements and we have had the opportunity to hear from both Minister Vulin and my colleague, Aleksandr Markovic, but what I would especially like to do is look back at the agreements between the Republic of Serbia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. Every agreement between Serbia and BiH has great importance, especially those concerning borders and border crossings and border co-operation. What you said, therefore, is that Serbia and BiH in each segment should have as much co-operation as possible because of the good relations between Serbia and Republika Srpska that have never been better in history. I would add that Serbia and BiH have never had better relations in their history than it is today, and this is certainly because of excellent policy, primarily because of the excellent policy led by the Republic of Serbia and its President Aleksandar Vukic. I would also like to refer to this agreement between the Republic of Serbia and friendly Austria. On several occasions, Serbia has also shown about relations with the surrounding countries and relations with other European countries and when disasters are and when floods are and when fires are provided help, let us give a hand to help which is only a continuation of long-term friendship. This was also the case when catastrophic situations occurred both in Greece and in Northern Macedonia and Albania and in all other countries in Europe. Serbia has always been there to help. Serbia has not only helped because of various agreements, but has helped because it wants to build friendly relations, because Serbia and these agreements confirm that it is what it is, a guarantee of peace and stability throughout the Balkans and Southeast Europe. Serbia is also the case when it comes to internal affairs and defences and other agreements, because Serbia wants to build as many friendly relations as possible in Europe and worldwide. I would like to say something beyond these agreements, and it concerns the Ministry of the Interior, to use the presence of Minister Alexander Vulin, to congratulate him on all the results of the Ministry of the Interior and himself in the fight against organised crime, in the fight against economic crime. In the past year, members of the interior ministry have shown an exceptional professionalism, courage, tenacity, consistency both in the fight against organised and economic crime, as well as in the cleaning of their ranks, the cleaning of their ranks, of those who co-operated with organised crime and who contributed to the violation of the constitutional order of the Republic of Serbia. I want the members of the Ministry of the Interior and the Police Directorate and all the organizations of the MUP to continue to work professionally, to have new results, to have even better results in the fight against the mafia. I'll be corrected by Minister Vulin if I make a mistake, we don't have any mob killings in Belgrade for 10 months. That wasn't the case for decades. It's just saying that both the MUP and BIA and others in the security system of the Republic of Serbia are doing a great job, resulting in these excellent results in the fight against the mafia. In the end, I would like to take the opportunity to congratulate the victory of the Serb list on KIM. The Serbian List's victory is also a confirmation of President Aleksandar Vukic's proposal to go to the KIM elections. If it hadn't been for that proposal and these initiatives, we wouldn't have won the Serbian List today. Also, to congratulate my party friends and our coalition on winning the local elections in Negotina and Mionica. The elections in Negotina and Mionica showed and confirmed that the people absolutely trust President Aleksandar Vukic and that the people believe the SNS, which is well led by President Aleksandar Vukic. We have concrete results and citizens see it, both in the local and the republic. I hope that in the voting day we will support all these agreements because these agreements are just another confirmation of the good co-operation of the Republic of Serbia and with BiH and with Egypt and with Austria. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-19-0.u9854	Thank you, colleague Grouchy. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? Dr. Muamer Zukorlic picked up the phone. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-19-0.u9855	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Vice-President of the National Assembly, respected ministers with an associate, respected representatives of the Ministry of Defence, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, has several important agreements today, three of which with BiH and all three have ties to the border. At first glance, the border represents a one-banal phenomenon that divides two territories or two spaces, but if we look at this deeper the border is much more than the border itself between two territories or two spaces. The border is a point or a line that separates two spaces, but it's also a line that connects two spaces. In the same place, on the same line or we split up, either we connect or we culturally and civilizedly and legally and legally separate and edit the relationship of two spaces, but also edits the line of encounters. In the same place, we can crash, and we can also meet. It's not about the border or the space, whether we meet or crash, it's about actors who, with their culture, with their own consciousness, with their civilizedness, in one word, choose with their quality, determine whether to crash or meet. In a metaphysical sense, the border is also much more than a line of separation, and even a merger and border is some kind of standard or measure of freedom, there is no freedom without borders, freedom without borders is anarchy. The border is a kind of principle, on which the quality of freedom is measured, or from which the measurement and calculation of freedom itself begins. Therefore, the issue of regulation of any borders, relations towards borders above all ethical, or moral boundaries, and here in this case, and in this case also territorially political borders and distinctions, in fact, in relation to our borders, is measured by our personal collective, cultural, ethical, and in general civilizational quality, and therefore I am pleased that today we have three agreements that treat this topic, and very affirmative and quality, where we will make a very significant step if we hear and receive it in materials, but we have heard in the explanation that this border will actually raise, the border with BiH, or the border between the Republic of Serbia and BiH, will be raised to a higher level, order, in fact respect of these frameworks or principles that I mentioned, or where we will achieve a higher degree of encounter, and reduce the possibility of collision, or the possibility of misunderstanding. Every border is important, every border editing is important, but if you have a border that separates and connects, two countries, which have a certain, unfortunately very significant and difficult burden, from different periods of our past, then the arrangement of that border is actually a very important step and becomes more important than the arrangements of some other points, at certain boundaries, or demarcations. So, in some subjective sense as a Bosniak, as a man who follows further the development of relations between Serbia and BiH, as a man representing a political party, a Justice and Reconciliation Party, four MPs representing the programme of that party in which the relationship between BiH and Serbia is placed on one of the highest levels, our interest and actions, in that programme also the relationship between the Serb and Bosniak people from the position of the Justice and Reconciliation Party, and its MPs in the National Assembly, also treated as one of the most important and essential, not only rhetorical. So, not only important in the relationship between these two peoples, but we also consider this relationship very important in terms of possible reflections on overall stability in the region. All of this in the light of various and positive, particularly negative experiences from closer and further past between these two nations and these two countries, therefore these agreements are of paramount importance. On the other hand, when we consider everything that has happened recently and these days been happening, especially in terms of the arrest and detention of certain BiH citizens, who have traveled to Serbia and have been arrested, or brought to the border, which has actually raised a certain degree of anxiety and produced some tension between the two countries, and especially between the two peoples, because it is a very serious inconvenience that does not contain a legal dimension, and not just a political dimension, but much more so, where the question is actually being raised -- who is next, who can travel, well, who can't travel, because it wasn't that we have transparent information about who these people are, possibly, can be sought on a certain side. So all of this was burdening our relationship and any of the points of our active interest. I have personally had several conversations with the President of the Republic of Serbia on this subject, and I am extremely pleased that the very fact that the decision has finally been made to place the cases that exist in the Republic of Serbia with the competent authorities, as regards the citizens of BiH, is being given to the authorities of BiH, and that actually puts an end to the issue. Of course, we also have a concrete case of Edina Vranja, which was also the reason that these questions were reopened again and in this way, which, or which was already released, or, in fact, announced to him such a decision. These are all unpleasant questions, but they can still cause certain joy when it comes to the willingness and ability to look at them with more humanity, with more sense, of course, respecting legal norms, or procedures, but it's always a question of what kind of approach we have. So the question of state relations is the same as the question of the relationship of two people, or two people. If you want to corrupt and tighten relationships, you'll always find arguments, if you don't find arguments, you can find excuses to spoil relationships. So, if you want to fix and build good relationships with someone, whether it's a neighbor, whether it's a colleague or someone with whom you have any other form of contact and communication, you'll always find a lot of arguments to build these relationships. That's why intent is the foundation of everything. So, the works are priced according to intent. The intention is to form the basis for our movement in an individual sense, family sense, but collective sense, and ultimately, in interstate relations or interstate terms. That's why this intention is very important and it depends on where we're going, whether we want to remain hostages of certain painful, bloody events from our past, certain periods of our past, bloody, painful and tragic, or whether we want to use that past, even if they are very tragic, bloody and difficult events, as a lesson on which we're going to build a different future, therefore, without the hostages of that past, but using it as a lesson never to repeat it again. So that's the question of intent, the question of an ethical podium for that purpose, and ultimately the question and the size, width and depth of the actors who make those decisions, who have or have no vision, which are statesmen or are not statesmen. The difference between statesmen and politicians is huge. The statesman is a politician who has the capacity to devote his own personal interest, his own party interest, his any particular interest to the general, state, national interest, or the interest of the people and who has a vision in the future and who subscribes his entire activities and capacities to those interests and to that vision. So, these people, these politicians who have such qualities, you can call them statesmen, no matter what function, the hierarchical scale is. Unfortunately, these first ones are so few, but on the other hand, ordinary politicians are so many, I can say some kind of inflation of politicians in the time in which we live and in the space we live. So these are most often people with very many demagogue flossules, large messages, a lot of patriotism on certain proclaims, demagogue formulations and messages. However, the most common decisions are made, real decisions are made solely in the personal interest, in the interest of the party, in the interest of a particular one. That's the basic difference. So I say that I was happy after so much talk and activity, that first of all the President of the Republic of Serbia had the understanding and the strength to actually have some personal or particular views, views, demands of his own environment, and to actually make a decision to make what is a vision of the future of Serbian-Bosnic relations, the relations of two very important peoples in this area who despite all the bloody wars and crimes that have taken place continue to be directed at each other. Some other nations have managed to leave or manage to set the borders in ways of separation and have few points of meeting and contact with the Serb people, however, the Bosniak people despite everything that has survived and what has happened has remained to live together with the Serb people and in Bosnia and Herzegovina, despite all the burdens, but also in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, more precisely in the Sandzak area. So, despite all this, these are realities, these are facts, and it's just a question of whether we're going to choose to be smart and to turn all that and negative energy, and turn negative experiences into fuel for a positive, different and good future. So what this decision represents, and first of all it initiates with full responsibility by the President of the Republic, is actually this. What is very important is that the gaps between the country's leading policy, i.e. at its top and the policy that we can hear in the rhetoric of certain members and government and some other political officials and officials, are actually being reduced to a minimum, i.e. eliminated, because this leaves a very ugly picture, especially when we know that we have a system that is not quite so flimsy politically that it can be concluded that someone is willing to decide on a different political rhetoric compared to the president himself. So, in order to be a serious country, a serious state, what is declared a policy, in this case towards the environment, according to neighbouring countries, to neighbouring nations, in fact, other officials and other people who have long-determined responsibilities in the hierarchy of the state apparatus would be obliged to actually follow that course and implement it in their discourse, that is, their political message and political rhetoric. On this occasion, I would also like to thank the Republic of Turkey, which is its officials and representatives, who also played a very constructive role in this matter, to finally find a solution, to find a solution to the fact that these 15 items that existed in the Republic of Serbia in its state bodies have gone to the prosecution, or to the competent authorities of BiH, which finally puts an end to this issue, and which we can finally say, communication at the border of the free flow of people and goods at the border, without fear of who might be on a list or who can be arrested, or who can be arrested, which is actually throwing a sort of burden off the door that burdened us. He may not have burdened someone, but he did, because one of the strategic points in the programme, in the political programme that I stand for, or within which I act, is a policy of cohesion, a policy of reconciliation, a policy of opening up a new page that is not only a party-political declaration, but it is a matter of persuasion of deep, ethical and political conviction that we have been hostages of various forms of hatred, various forms of enmity, various forms of antagonism, that there are enough years of experience on which we have learned what the consequences of such policies, such antagonisms and procedures of antagonist procedures towards neighbours are indeed so many lessons over a century, and that we no longer have time, no space to remain hostages of such policies. Certainly, the other two agreements are very important and should be supported, and when it comes to the agreement with Austria on co-operation in various disasters, but also the Agreement on Military Co-operation with Egypt. Egypt is one of the most important Arab-Muslim countries and certainly we need to develop relations, truth, with those countries with which there is already strong, to say, tradition, rich tradition of co-operation. It is easier and better to cooperate, or continue this cooperation. But what would be my message and recommendation, is that we don't get to evaluate who's where in power, from which ideological structures come. We should build relations with these countries, and let the peoples of those countries choose their own authorities, that they decide which power they will have and in what way. What would be my message to the minister is to avoid using the concept – Islamic in a negative context. It is unacceptable neither essential nor ethical, nor spiritual, nor civilized, nor political. If some Islamic brothers are, I don't know what that really means, it's not appropriate especially for us Muslims, members of Islam if we have various forms of terrorism, we have, and, yes, sometimes the perpetrators, come, burden tell, from the order of Muslims, sometimes from the order of Christians, but that's not enough basis and reason to call someone an Islamic terrorist or a Christian terrorist. The terrorist, the Mayan people, came, no matter what idea he used, used in any way. So the language is very important, the concepts contain a lot, and so we have to choose words to actually send a message of mutual respect, because that's not what we need when it comes to Egypt, we need to build relations with Egypt and with other Muslim countries to the other side to build these relationships, and it's a lot of readiness especially when it comes to Muslim countries from Morocco to Indonesia. I have a very good communication with most of them and we've used a lot of potential in these relationships, but it can certainly be used much more and much more significantly. But we all need to see that with our statements, our attitudes, our behaviors, and our divisions, we actually support this co-operation, and everything that can burden that cooperation, even with regard to touching our emotions spiritually, we need to avoid religion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-19-0.u9856	Thank you. Minister Alexander Vulin called to say the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-19-0.u9857	I thank the honourable MP for supporting all these agreements, all the five agreements we have proposed, but I have to explain something. I call things what they're called and I don't have the slightest negative attitude towards Islam as a religious definition. It's one of the great religions that I respect infinitely. I read the Koran. Many words of the prophets can be applied in every day's life to every one of us, and as one wise man says, "If you want to tell the essence of all the religions of the world in one sentence, then let that sentence be: what you do not want to do to you, do not do to others." So Islam only has my sincere respect, but the party that recognised Kosovo and ruled Egypt was called the Islamic Brothers. It's not me. By the way, if you want to improve relations with Egypt, be strong against them, because from the president of Egypt, on the other hand, everyone is in jail and the current regime in Egypt has arrested them all and considered them terrorists. Not me, they think they're terrorists. The former president of Egypt is in prison because he is considered a terrorist. It's not me or any of us. That's the name of the Islamic state. I didn't make it up. I don't think the Islamic State has anything to do with original Islam. Well, you're not a member of the Islamic state, but that's what it's called. You know, it's like when they tell me don't call Shipar the Shiptars. Well, that's what they're called, it's not up to me, and there's no offense to anyone. You know, when you go to the market in North Mitrovica and you meet two people, you say, "Bitch Shiptar," which means -- where are you, Shiptar, where are you, man, like you say -- where are you, Serbian?" And now the problem is someone who has a party called the Party of Democracy Sceptar, I can't tell the Party of Democratic Shiplars? Come on, guys. I'm just saying the way it is. Nothing here, no offense, far away, no. Islam has every respect for me and I'm sure all the MPs here. With the biggest pie in my life as secretary of defense, I had the pleasure of sending members of the Islamic community to the hajj in front of the Ministry of Defense, at a conference, for example, in Marseilles, where the mufti of all armies went and it was a pleasure and an honor to do so, but it's not up to me that things are called what they're called. I don't think the Islamic State, which committed such atrocities, has anything to do with Islam, but what do we call it? That's her name. That's what they called themselves. Is that illegal? I believe so. You know, whoever would kill a man would say, "I killed him for Jesus Christ." Of course he has no right to take the name of Jesus in his mouth. The same goes for the faith of the prophet, but that's just what it's called. I don't see anything wrong with saying it the way it is. On the contrary, with great respect, I am talking about Islam. How am I not to speak with great respect about Iran, which has not recognised Kosovo and many countries that have Islam as a definition of their existence, even on behalf of which they have not recognised Kosovo? I must tell you, I find it difficult to find words of respect for, say, the Democratic Party in the United States, which have recognised Kosovo. Here, you see, there's no Islam, there's no religion, but I can't respect that. So, please, if anyone finds themselves offended, I apologize because there's no offense, there's no harm in thinking. I truly respect Islam. I read the holy books carefully. I believe I've learned something, but I call things what they're called. It's just not me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-19-0.u9858	Replica, MP Muamer Zukorlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-19-0.u9859	Dear Ministers, this party you speak of in Egypt was not called the Islamic Brothers, but the Muslim Brotherhood. There's a huge difference. So, we who have the emotion of Islam know that, and so, if you want to be precise and call it by name, then call it what it is, because when you say "Islamic", it only binds to the religion itself, or the religion of Islam. If you say, and especially not true, Muslim means something else, but here's what it means, that's what it's called. So from the point of view of precision, this is what it's called. Yeah, you're right about the so-called. Islamic countries, terrorist organizations. That's what she called herself, and I even talked about it on some of the media. Of course, we who are a little bit more informed, I guess you are, too, we know who he is, as well as what he intended to form, but the question is, is whether you want to treat yourself with respect or not. To me, for example, if someone abuses the term Christian in a negative context, so that some name, I'm not going to tell Christians that it's Christian and something negative, but I'm going to say so-called, as you're using the term so-called for something you don't admit, because when you say the Islamic state, without being so-called, means you admit it, it means you're giving it a certain positive context. Now, that's a question. Of course, I'm also in one conversation with you, here, I'm going to do it again here, I'm suggesting to you again, I wish you'd be a little more careful as a police minister. So, you as a politician have every right to express your political views, but as a police minister, especially here in the Balkans, and especially in Serbia, where police are the greatest and most important authorities and the first front towards the people, which is not just an administration, but something that builds relationships, and that is why it would be good to be a little more careful in your lexiographic theory and interpretation of the expression, any one, you mentioned and which you did not mention. So here's the question of what kind of relationship we're going to build.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-19-0.u9860	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Alexander Vulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-19-0.u9861	I accept, Muslim brothers, not Islamic brothers, I apologize. But just so you know, in the encyclopaedia of the Muslim brothers, says the Islamic organization, it says, it's not up to me. I would not agree with you that the Ministry of the Interior is the most important form of government. The most important form of government is this Assembly where you sit. You tell us what we're going to do, what rules we're going to do, and if we don't respect what you said, what you've decided, we're going to end up as president of the Muslim brothers in prison. So this is the most important branch of government. This is a branch above which no one else can enforce their rules. Serbia is a legal state, not a police state. This is the most important branch of government, and the police are only an obedient part of the executive government, which respects unspeakably what you, Mr. MP, bring here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-19-0.u9862	Thank you. Replica, Muamer Zukorlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-19-0.u9863	Because I am personally aware that this is the most important organ, the highest authority in the country, legislative, supervisory and representative, so I have this freedom to discuss it this way. But if you were to conduct a survey among citizens, I'm not sure most citizens would say that the Assembly is the most important organ. And we, MPs, say, wherever we travel, no one has ever tried to bribe us with ten euros or any form of corruption, to do them any favors, because they know we can never do them a favor. And every cop, the most common one on the street, is actually permanent under such pressure to be paid to miss someone, either at the border, or at the checkpoint, or at any other store. I'm not talking about the Constitution here, we both know it well, by the Constitution which is an organ above which, but I'm talking about political perception, the culture of relations in the Balkans and here in this country, the relationship between encounters and contacts, how important police are. Of course, I'm saying this from another experience, in different positions, and while I was in a religious position, and instead in a political position, one of my priorities was trying to treat relationships, sick relations between the Bosniak people and the police, especially in the Sandzak area, because of everything that happened in the 1990s. Of course, we've put a lot of work into it with the commissioners, the police commanders on the ground and the various officials at the MUP, to the highest level. So it was one of the hard, important and painful topics. Given this experience, I am actually saying this with the best intention, expecting it to be important to hear the voice of our fellow Members and as a member of that highest state body, but also as a member, or representative of the people, with whom we are in contact and we know what he needs. So, the context of my message is that, I still insist that it would be good for you to be sensitive, so that we don't stop the process of healing the relationship between, in this case, the Bosniak people and the police. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-19-0.u9864	Thank you. Replica, Minister Alexander Vulin.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-19-0.u9865	I am sure that the MUP, or members of the police, enjoy sincere respect for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, regardless of religion and nation, because we treat all citizens of the Republic of Serbia as well, not thinking about whose religion and nation, or taking care of customs, rules, lifestyle, of course, respecting it endlessly, but when it comes to law enforcement, there is no difference and there is no difference there, equally, mild or hard, however you will, we treat all citizens. It's not my rhetoric. I'm saying what I think. What I think, I believe, is good for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I don't see that there's any problem. But, you know, for peace, for good neighbourly relations, for development, for progress, it takes at least two. For conflicts, for war, to stop co-operation, one fool is enough, you don't need two. So it's hard to be alone in it. You know, when the president, a BiH presidency member, says he would recognise Kosovo, it is very difficult to have a good impact on the relations between BiH and the Republic of Serbia. It's disrespect for the Constitution of our own country, it's disrespect for the politics of our own country, as you rightly said we should all adhere to our country's policies. So why don't our neighbors do the same? I will remind you that the Republic of Serbia has made a decision to offer all war crimes charges to the BiH prosecutor's office. I haven't heard an echo on the other side, and no thanks, and I've heard less – take our charges. I'm so sorry about that. I think our hand is out, and it's stuck in the air. We are exactly what you were talking about, that unpleasantness, fear, crossing across the border, removing, no secret accusations in Serbia. We handed over everything to the prosecution, to the BiH judiciary. The BiH judiciary did not respond the same way. I didn't get those charges. I'd love to, because that would be proof, that would be proof that together we want to overcome the problems of the past. So, here, Serbia has shown that it is ready, left to the justice of another state to judge war crimes, but no one has told us. I'll remind you that we've had the attempted murder of President Vukic in Potocari, no case yet, no indictment yet. It's been years, we don't know who tried to kill President Wolfie, with all the cameras in the world. Let me tell you right now, the M.O.P. has launched an investigation. I believe we'll find it. It's been many years, unfortunately, we've been having a lot of trouble doing this, but I believe we'll find out who and who the perpetrators are, but also those who are the inspirers, who are the employers, because it wasn't an accident. It was an organized attempted murder. Everything I say when I'm here in the Assembly, I represent the politics of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. When I speak for myself or for the political party I represent, I make it very clear. If you are referring to the Serbian world, I firmly believe that the creation of the Serbian world as a single political people is a desperate need for Serbs and there is no threat in that. We had a joint session of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Hungary, where President Orban said - I fully understand your Serbian world, and we Hungarians have our own world. And all countries with large diaspora have their own world, trying to protect their people's identity, to help them survive, and on the most important issues they try to make unique political decisions. Do you know who has a problem with the Serbian world? Only those in whose states Serbs suffer discrimination, no one else. Here, Hungarians have no problem. Do we have a problem with Hungary? We don't. The Serb minority is highly respected, developing, working people, progressing, represented in the authorities. I have nothing to add to them. Usually with the Serbian world, those who have not finished ethnic cleansing have a problem, so 4% of Serbs do. They usually have a problem with the Serbian world. The Serbian world is my idea, not the idea of the government of the Republic of Serbia. The parliament of the Republic of Serbia has never spoken of it, never voted on anything like it. It's my political right to represent him. But you've never heard from me that I think it's necessary to change the borders of the Balkans. I believe that borders in the Balkans must be preserved, and will begin to safeguard Serbia's integrity. There's a solution. There is no recognition of Kosovo, a unique Serbia as it was before NATO aggression, all right, a peaceful Balkans. But you're going to tear, not you, of course, away from it, I never thought that you'd tear Serbia apart, take away Kosovo, discuss its internal political arrangement, and that will be the stability of the Balkans. All borders are sacred except Serbian. All borders deserve protection, except for Serbia. I'm sorry, I'm having a really hard time finding an argument to explain it to myself, and then others. So, the Serbian world is the idea of creating, of preserving Serbs as a single political people, nothing else. Excuse me, when local authorities in Bujanovac and Presevo were established, representatives of the Cypriot political parties went to Tirana to agree on the composition of local authorities in Tirana. We didn't say the word, we didn't say the word. All right, your right, you have the right to seek political advice, you have the right to watch where you think you're looking, we have no problem. We have a problem that no Serbian party is in power in Bujanovac, although it has won more votes than ever before, but good. It's a political stance. When Serbs from Banja Luka or Podgorica come to Belgrade, it's terrible. When someone uses the expression Serbian world, it's aggression. He says -- big Serbia. Ladies and gentlemen, the great Serbia has never been. Never. Find me a second of historical time where there was something called great Serbia, never. So, the Serbian world can't be a substitute for big Serbia, it wasn't, it just wasn't. Again, here three men support the politics of the Serbian world. These are the three MPs of the Socialist Movement. Everyone else doesn't think so. Let me represent my opinion and always make it clear that this is not the position of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, is not the position of President Vukic. If it were, these people would vote for me. They don't vote for me, they don't vote. Only three MPs here support the idea of the Serbian world. It's my right to fight to make them more and more someday. Do not equate me with the position of Bosnia and Herzegovina's presidency member who says Kosovo is an effective state and I would admit it. I never said that. Never. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-19-0.u9866	Thank you. The right to replica has Muammer Zukorlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-19-0.u9867	I didn't mean the Serbian world, but I'll comment. So, the Serbian world as a cultural one, so if you say a political idea with the condition of respect for the borders of sovereignty of other countries, so without the dimension of destruction, it's not a problem for me, even though I already told some media that you could have been more creative when you named it. You copied that from Turkey. Turkey is the first to officially choose the concept of the Turkish world and have even the Turkish World Ministry. I don't know what you're fascinated with Turkish. It's something new in your perception, and let's not have a problem, but let's just know whose copyright it is, so we'll just have that in mind. That's what I'm just thinking and there's one more thing you should always appreciate when it comes to such ideas. One standard must be respected, because then another world will want to have an impact in the country of Serbia, and that's something that's okay with me. And in a concrete sense, then, let's say, as you support the right of the SPC to a cross-border organisation, as it is in both Montenegro and Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia, etc., based in Serbia, or Belgrade, you should not support, say, making so-called. Islamic communities of Serbia or the Serb Islamic community with obstruction of the existence of a cross-border Islamic community based in Sarajevo with its parts of the organisation in both Serbia and Montenegro and other countries. In order for this idea to be understood and accepted as normal, then it is important that we have, that we do not have a double standard, that we respect each other and then another contradiction can happen, so you cannot have hard and strong borders at the same time and create a Serbian world, because if you make hard limits, then you have no communication with the rest of Serbs beyond those borders and then you have a problem with the Serbian world. So, even to have cultural opportunities, political opportunities to connect, which is perfectly normal for me, to ethnos, wherever they are, interconnect. To have that, then we need soft, agreed, positive boundaries and boundaries of encounters. My previous two discussions did not concern relations with Bosnia and Herzegovina, i.e. with Bosniaks in Bosnia and Herzegovina, but with Bosniaks in Serbia, and here I am working on a solution to relations. I'm working here to cure relationships, and they're stuck and we don't have an exit line after what was going on in Sjenica, where you haven't acted on the expectations that you should've done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-19-0.u9868	Dear People's MPs, before we continue to work, allow me to welcome the students and teachers of the school parliament OS "4 on your behalf and on your own behalf, especially after I come from the Kings. Royal battalion" following a part of today's session from the Great Hall gallery. I believe that today you are following a session from the gallery, and that in the future you may be following and participating in the work of the National Assembly. Please welcome our guests. Thank you. We'll continue with further work. The word came from Dr. Muamer Bacevac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-19-0.u9869	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament and People's MPs, the Honorable Chairman, Mr Minister, we have before us significant agreements that will contribute to better and easier functioning of people living in border regions, as well as agreements, i.e. confirming a memorandum of co-operation with Egypt, as well as agreements with Austria, which will in some way raise the reputation, international reputation of our country. The foreign policy by definition is a reflection of the internal policy and, as one country's internal policy is conducted and its development is shaped, it is directly manifested, reflected in foreign policy. I am glad that the international military co-operation that the Republic of Serbia is making has been really intensified lately, and so far we have had enough of these memoranda with many countries, which is another sign that Serbia is very visible in this field and that it wants to raise its reputation in the international community. By strengthening bilateral relations, as well as developing international co-operation in the field of defence, the Republic of Serbia provides for the achievement of certain security standards and defence systems and thus strengthening its position in the modern collective security system. Also, since our military policy, at this point, is based on military neutrality, the Republic of Serbia thus ensures that we have a legal framework allowing military co-operation in the field of technical, economic, medical, purpose and educational co-operation with other countries. Also, agreements in the area of military co-operation also contribute to raising bilateral relations, and in this case with Egypt. Given the long-standing traditional friendly and diplomatic relations with Egypt, the defence ministries of the two countries signed in Cairo in June of this year, the Memorandum of Understanding, on military co-operation between our two countries today. Otherwise, as is well known and already mentioned, the Republic of Serbia has extremely good relations with the Arab Republic of Egypt and that is something that has its historical background. The Kingdom of Serbia consulate opened for the first time in Cairo in 1908. So, 1908. After gaining independence from Egypt in 1922 for the first dispatcher of jobs, i.e. the head of a diplomatic mission in Egypt, he served as a poet and diplomat Jovan Ducic. Ducic served two mandates in Egypt and for his merits and promotion of diplomatic, trade relations by King Fuad and decorated with the Nile Order, which was reserved only for the credited Egyptians and the British. For Ducic, Egypt was a country he knew everything about and knew nothing about, as he described in his letters from Egypt, but also a country with huge potential, and thanks to its diplomatic abilities and work, he contributed to establishing economic co-operation and signing the First Trade Convention, even in 1927. Of course, relations between the two countries are particularly strengthened by the creation of the Movement of Unclassifieds and the foundation of the Movement was laid by Prime Minister India Nehru, Egyptian President Abdel Naser and SFRJ President Josip Broz Tito in 1956. The three leaders gathered the idea of establishing an alliance that was the opposite of then the bloc's definition of the world after World War II, and the first founding conference was held in 1961. The move of non-classified has had a significant impact on certain global policy flows when it has become massive and when non-classified countries have shown a desire to co-ordinate and implement joint actions. It is believed that the basic five principles of the Movement of Unclassified and today are very relevant and very important for us, these are: mutual respect for territorial integrity and sovereignty, mutual non-aggression, mutual non-mixing in internal affairs, equality and mutual benefit and peaceful co-existence. After 60 years, in Belgrade last week, a summit of non-classified movements brought together delegations of 120 countries and international organisations. Peace and solidarity messages were sent together, and participants confirmed the importance of multilateralism, international co-operation and solidarity. It is another confirmation that Serbia is really improving its reputation in international flows. Furthermore, it should be noted that there has been significant progress in the era of diplomatic, economic, military and cultural relations between Serbia and Egypt over the past few years, which is also witnessed by visits at the highest level of both countries. In July of this year, the defence minister of the Republic of Serbia visited the Egyptian tank factory, as well as the 777 unit centre for special operations. That's when what I've already said is realized, there's a really great potential for co-operation between the two countries in this field. To me as a doctor is particularly important co-operation in the field of military medicine, which has also been initiated. I'll remind you that medicine in Egypt began to develop 3,000 years ago. and the Egyptians learned much about the human body thanks to mummification practice and developed the first empirical medical knowledge. Ancient Egyptian medicine basically sets the beginning of the Empirical Civilised Medical Practice. The Egyptian medicine then founded the first university and practically the first university and practically the first medical university 3,000 years BC. where people came from different parts of the world to learn medicine and to heal. I am pleased that our Military Medical Academy has already made certain contacts with the military health of Egypt, in order to get acquainted with the organisation of their health and the possibilities of military health in Egypt, the way of education and permanent education, and seeing future co-operation in this field so far. Of course, in other areas of co-operation with Egypt is rapidly renewed and improved, multiple delegations from economy, economy, tourism, culture are being visited, in order to realise co-operation in these areas. Of course, I must also commend the current ambassador of Egypt, who is very visibly and capable, and indeed gives a special impulse that is very high-quality and gives results. So, for example. In July of this year, a partnership agreement was signed between one of the most important Egyptian spa centres from Charm El Sheik and Baj Merkur from Vrnjačka Banja, which is only the beginning of investments in Serbia's tourist potential by Egyptian investors. Of course, it will certainly contribute to the existence and promotion of the Morava airport, which is very close to our tourist center but is also extremely important for the new market area and for the whole part of our country. Of course, there are great opportunities for co-operation in other areas, from agriculture to construction and water industry. In view of all of this, taking into account that one of the programme foreign policy objectives of the party I belong to is to improve co-operation with developed, medium-developed countries, means that developing countries that can represent significant economic and political partners, I believe that the signing and adoption of this agreement is of great importance and we will support this agreement in the day of voting. As for the BiH border crossing and traffic agreement, it is, one such agreement is something my party and practical policy defined by its president, Mr Rasim Ljajic, should do. The stories of big topics, especially populist stories, stories that are very interesting, which are affecting ideologies are very popular today and are of great interest to the people, but the hardest thing to do today is that in the media sector, there are a lot of politicians who know everything, and they don't do anything. We have just been defended and we want to make life easier for ourselves, both in the present and in the future, by solving the "slight" problems of citizens. Because of this, these agreements that are ahead of us today are very interesting, first of all, because we are solving a serious problem that we have at our borders. We have quite an abandoned border crossing. I don't know when the last time you crossed the border crossing of the Uvac in Priboj, where on our side, again, we have very detached access stations and where it's very derelict and the surrounding environment around these access stops, and on the Bosnian side, the situation is even worse. Practically, one of those housing containers represents a border crossing. Practically, because of one specificity of this border crossing we have, we had, especially during the Corona period, great problems. In fact, citizens of Prytoy who practically live in Bosnia can hardly cross the territory of a new city where their factories work daily and simply sometimes have to cross four border crossings. I am pleased that, of course, the initiative was launched by the Government in 2020 that today we came to an agreement that solves this problem and makes it easier for those people who cross the border daily that in one simple way, as you said, without daily passport carrying, cross the border, do their jobs and simply return, and even in certain situations of disaster, they can cross that line even simpler, as defined by this agreement. It's something that interests the citizens. The faster and better flow of goods, people and capital across borders is something that leads to better relationships, to meeting people, socializing people, will solve all painful wounds. Of course, their economic prosperity, which is a better connection and a basic prerequisite. Furthermore, I would like to say that, once again, I refer to the situation in Priboj during the state of emergency, it has particularly suffered the economy, and by applying this decision, the lives of the living locals, about two-thirds of the municipality of Priboj, will be greatly facilitated in order to get out of the city's centre by four border points, which is due to the specificity of this section of the border crossing. This agreement should be a single announcement and that border disputes between the two countries are resolved as soon as possible and that an agreement should be made in the interest of both countries, and above all in the interest of all citizens living in these areas. I am very happy and I think that exactly what we are defining today, by forming integrated transitions, where practically in one place, at one point, there will be representatives and one and the other countries will be very much done and that indeed it will improve the appearance of these transition points, but also reduce the procedure and facilitate the process of crossing citizens across this border, and I say it is extremely important to establish a better and faster flow of goods and capital. Our country and Bosnia and Herzegovina are naturally directed at each other, this shows our trade exchange. You know that we have an extremely good trade exchange with Bosnia and Herzegovina, that it is the third on the list where we export our trade products, that practically a billion and 352m euros annually we export to the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina and that is the most after the Republic of Germany and Italy and that exports to the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina are far greater than exports, for example, to Russia, which will once again say that the exceptional justification for the better integration between this country is precisely in the interest of our country. On the other hand, in the area of foreign affairs and vital affairs of our country's political interests, there is a high level of agreement with BiH. On the European path, co-operation is of importance, from joint competition for IPA funds, development funds under regional programmes and cross-border co-operation programmes. Until the signing of the Memorandum of Cooperation and Support in the 2012 European Integration Process, we had the upcoming path and support by BiH in most of the issues on the international scene. It's something you should also respect. Serbia and Bosnia and Herzegovina are also part of the Berlin process, which opens up specific opportunities for regional co-operation, especially on infrastructure issues. The importance of good co-operation in the area of security of border crossings and borders is in general special in the area of cross-border trade between our country and BiH. The interest of both sides is to enable free and smooth, legal transport of people and goods. A special momentum for this growth and good cross-border co-operation has certainly been given by the Ministry of Trade, whose numerous initiatives by the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications during the time of the minister being Mr. Rasim Ljajic enabled the removal of numerous barriers that enabled closer co-operation, primarily through the coordination of processes that enabled easier flow, especially agricultural products and significantly contributed to the growth of exports of our agricultural products over the past few years, and these are the figures that I have cited. Development of trade and cultural co-operation builds bridges between these two based on close and brotherly people. But building bridges isn't just metaphorical. We have witnessed reconstruction and revitalisation of infrastructure linking Serbia and BiH, which included reconstruction of two pedestrian bridges, which was financed by our state, which is certainly commendable. A major and crucial connection will also be achieved through the construction of a highway financed by Turkey from Belgrade to Sarajevo, which is also called "The Highway of Peace". We are at a meeting with Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, me and Parliament Speaker Mr Dacic, it was the main topic of our conversation and he insisted that this time begin as soon as possible, showing a sincere desire to better connect two peoples in a traffic, trade and cultural sense as soon as possible to build up a better relationship. Because you will admit, without good communication and without making frequent and constant contacts, it certainly cannot be achieved by bringing two people together. The construction of this project is very important for both Serbia and BiH. The project's worth four billion. I am pleased that the prime minister was visiting BiH, which was affirmative of this project and promised to enter into the realisation of this truly crucial project for integration, primarily the economy of the two central countries in the Balkans, the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and then cultural and all other ties that need to be realized and nurtured between the two close and border countries. A great politician said well that smart and prosperous countries are best friends and have border, or bordering countries, and that their enemies are far away. I think that we should adopt that maximum, that we should support it, and that is certainly the path that Serbia will once again take that place that belongs to it, and through history, but also through the industrial ties that we have inherited. In any case, the Social Democratic Party, Rasim Ljajic, will always be happy to support such agreements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-19-0.u9870	Thank you, Dr. Bačevac. Next on the list is Honorable MP Dragan Markovic Palma. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-19-0.u9871	Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Unique Serbia will vote in favour of proposals on the agenda today. I would like to speak first of all about the agreement between Egypt and Serbia, given that these are friendly countries. Since 60 years ago, the Movement of Unclassified has been made, and the organiser and promoter was then Yugoslav President Josip Broz Tito, Naser and Nehru. I've made two figures at the wax museum, one is the Nasera figure, and the other is Sissi, the current president of Egypt. These are two figures whose characters are not from the territory of the former Yugoslavia, except the figure of Vladimir Putin. Dear ladies and gentlemen, it is not enough to call ourselves friends just to say you are our brothers, you are our friend, and when we meet to evacuate memories from the past, but to cooperate and see how Serbia can go to the Egyptian market, considering that a large number of products are imported into Egypt from some other countries that have no tradition like Serbia. I've been to Egypt five times before. The first time I left, I saw that we were loved by the Egyptians and those who are Muslims and those who are the hooves of Orthodox faith, and we had a very good reception, brotherly, friendly, and I can conclude that they opened the door to Serbia to cooperate and that what is the interest of Serbia, of course and the interest of Egypt, we make decisions together. I was also the Parliament of Egypt where I spoke with several Egyptian MPs, and we agreed that what we think is damaged is where we are in the institutions of the African-Arab state and Egypt, so that they would ask that one of the points of the agenda be just the injustice and the problem over Serbia and on the other hand that they send us what they think is an injustice over Egypt and that Serbia in those institutions, where it is decided, has its representatives. Egypt is the most powerful force in the Middle East in every sense of that word. I also had a meeting with Ahmed Hafez. Otherwise, he's a general, governor of the Giza region. It represents 10 million Egyptians in the region. I can tell you that all I've heard from him is that we propose co-operation between the two countries and that this co-operation contributes especially to Serbia because if we look at that there are deserts in Egypt and they don't have agricultural products, what we have as a competition when it comes to agricultural products in Serbia, that we import from Europe and make competition to the agricultural producer, that in some ways we help farmers and see what can be exported. The Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Trade signed an agreement two years ago to export grain to Egypt. Now they are also asking for corn to be exported given that it was a drought and that it was never more of a price for corn in Serbia than it will now be this year. I've had more meetings and with the governor of the Red Sea where we talked about how to increase the number of flights when it comes to airlines flying from Serbia to Egypt, i.e. Hurgada and other tourist destinations, because Serbs should go to the sea where they love them. In the summer months of Greece, and in the winter and autumn periods for it to be Egypt. There was always a large number of members of the delegation when I visited Egypt. This year, 133 members of the delegation were in May, April, of which 120 were doctors and medical staff, because I felt that it was somehow the merit of those who were fighting in the coves of hospitals and that, for seven days, they would not forget what they were doing, but rather rest a little. Speaking of doctors, I want to tell you that I also took 600 doctors from 35 hospitals in June this year to Paraly, and now from 23 September to 30 October 144 members are in the delegation, 120 doctors and nurses from 25 hospitals, health homes, clinical centres in Serbia. There we always provide a few meetings where our doctors visit their hospitals, health homes to see how their colleagues do, what medical equipment they have. I now run 10 major businessmen in the delegation. We've scheduled a few meetings. Our host will be one of the most powerful businessmen in Egypt, a man who cooperates with the whole world, and with America, and has political influence throughout the world. It's all from donors, so not from the money from the Republika Srpska budget and not from a pair of local self-governments, or the Jagodin City Assembly that organises these trips. Egypt is one country that when you leave for the first time, you think that country is the way some world media has presented it, how terrorists have been there in recent years. I couldn't see any terrorists, and I went to Bedouin, even rode a camel to honor my then host Ahmed Abdullah, governor of the Red Sea. We went to a Bedouin village where when I rode the camel there was a Serb anthem. Not to tell you what a welcome it was. Of course, I've met them here, too. I called on these two governors, Governor Giza and the Governor of the Red Sea to be organizers and bring a large number of businessmen to Serbia. That deal still stands today, but Kovid stopped them and the crown. In Serbia, we had the first vaccine and the world and gave some much more developed European countries than Serbia, and our citizens, almost 40% of them, did not vaccinate. Vaccination does not mean that you have to do it for someone who has provided you with everything in health care, but today vaccination means protecting your family, protecting your jobs. Why do all the factories in our country today think, speak and realize that next year there will be such an unremembered global economic crisis... Hit Serbia for the crown. If we don't vaccinate the citizens, then 40% of those who aren't vaccinated will all get the virus, so be sure, I follow it every day in the Pomorava County, in a way I can say it's rapper statistics. When someone in the workplace gets the virus, they have to go into isolation automatically. Then where are the salaries coming from? Then where are we going to secure our pensions? Salaries and pensions are much higher than they were years ago. For the first time, the state has given eight billion euros, Minister, correct me if I am wrong, businesses so that businesses will survive and not fire workers. That is why Serbia is today the most important and interesting destination for foreign investors. Yes, there is stability in the course of the euro. The price of gas, electricity, oil is so stable. And if we hadn't secured ourselves in time, and foreign reserves and gold, we'd have a disaster in production today. So a much higher price would be energy than we have. We have a country that is always attacking Serbia and giving advice to Kosovo Albanians, which is Great Britain, how to behave and constantly challenge Serbia. That country doesn't have oil, it doesn't have what's fundamental in the markets, etc. One big country, England, Great Britain, has an energy crisis. Some have criticised why the pipeline goes through Serbia, and if there were no pipelines through Serbia, I am sure that both Europe and some EU countries would not co-operate with Serbia on such a high level. My proposal is to co-operate with Egypt and each of us to use some friendship if there is, even our Bosniaks, Muslims, speak to Muslims in Egypt and that there are not militant people who want something bad to Serbia. They're for peace and stability. Without economic co-operation and economic power, Serbia would not be represented in those states that decide on the fate of Serbian citizens, especially those countries that attacked Yugoslavia and bomb Yugoslavia. When it comes to co-operation with BiH, unfortunately, one side is constantly digging up unscathed wounds and it's their election programme for the campaign, that I don't know now who's denying genocide to go to jail, that there's no respect for what's signed in Dayton, etc. I don't know why they're doing this. You know when President Vukic was honoring Srebrenica, how he went, and when Izetbegovic came to Belgrade, he walked to Knez Mihajlov, no one threw him an ugly word. This means that everything depends on the policy led by party presidents and those who have family tradition etc. We from J.S. are for co-operation with the whole world, especially with neighbors. If we're looking at Bosniaks in the Raski area now and sometimes as it was before, it's much better now because these people representing these parties aren't militants like some other people who used to be. They are for co-operation and to respect the constitution of this country, because the state of Serbia does not share citizens based on nationality, but for the state of Serbia, all citizens are the same. When it comes to co-operation to prevent disaster or prevention with Austria, Austria is a friendly country, we cannot ask them, because they are an EU member and have recognised independent Kosovo, but most of the children from Serbia studying outside of Serbia are in Vienna. Parents chose Vienna as a stable city, safe for students and good education for these young people. 15/1 MV/LZ 12.40 – 12.50 We must also take advantage of the geographical position, and given that a large number of Serbian citizens in the diaspora are working in Austria and that these people respect everything called the constitution of the state, those who have the right to vote are going to vote, so we need co-operation and agreements, in a formal sense, to increase that co-operation. Here, let me tell you, a factory from Austria, from Vienna, came to Jagodina, we'll open it in 20 days. It produces electric motors for strong companies, industrial centres all over the world. My story and my speech was just directed, as I attracted him, I say, if we sent our children to study, then I took statistics on how it was before in Serbia when it came to domestic investors, and for those foreign investors there was no possibility that they could open factories in Serbia. The man made a decision to build a factory and come to Serbia and come to Jagodina. Austria is one EU-respecting country, with a certain weight. When the country was EU chairman, they spoke well of Serbia. But what it's worth when we have one, what can I call, I won't say, a pack led by Dragan Gilas and that worker, who write negative things about Serbia every day. That is why we have not opened any chapters this year, because they have deceived those in the European Parliament with lies. Until Tanja Fajon and the European parliamentarians came to Serbia and made a request to supplement what is called an election opportunity, out of 16 points of all 16 points, Serbia accepted. What did that pack leader say? So they're thugs. Dragan Gilas beat his father-in-law and his wife in front of the children, so his father-in-law said it happens more than once. She signed his wife's application, Eva Gilas, has not been processed. Why aren't we in control? Mr. Minister, just so you know, this is important. I'll borrow when they give entrepreneurs to another, it's money laundering. Loan, there must be a loan agreement. If you don't get that loan back with the day you need to cheat, you sue him. Now it's out of date for two, three years something called a loan. Who was getting that loan? Well, these media that only support what Dragan Gilas tells them, and everything that's done in Serbia, that's black and bad. Let go of what the EU and the international community and America will say, if someone is working against the national interest of this country, which is the conclusion of Tanja Fajon, she did not publicly say, but left the negotiations, the dialogue left and left and said – these people do not know what she wants. You can't buy everything with money. There are many hosts in the opposition, etc., but nine, nine parties came out of one party. How can this work and that there is an interest in Serbia? At least on the national issue to say -- well, we agree now with what Serbia is proposing, or -- Serbia and the president of Serbia, the government have not responded enough and I do not like their statement, here we will give our statement. Wait, they came with long pipes, a ROSU that has no right under any agreement, came to northern Kosovo. Then they wanted to take the plates off. Wait, guys, what are you doing? You're just looking to see someone take a picture somewhere with someone, say, uh-huh, what about this? And it's taken in a stadium where there are 40,000 people. Is that politics? I said on Pink TV this morning that we should all join together, all parties, since there is no variant B, and that we should vote Vukic for Serbia's president. In this way we give power and stability, not only to the national issue in Serbia, but also to economic stability and everything called the criteria on which the world institutions put Serbia and we are at the very top and when it comes to bonity. You know, when the IMF says that Serbia works well, and it's not a fake surplus like the former government's surplus of sold factories, they sell factories and say -- here's the surplus, now there's surplus and stability, but from the original revenues, not from sold factories. So, Serbia has a good future. You know what, everybody would love to play football and when we watch our team we say I'd play better than this. Yeah, as an observer, but come on out on the field. It's not the field of demonstration and assault on the police outside the Assembly because you're unhappy because you didn't go to the election. It's like a football club complaining to the Football League that it's not among the top five clubs in the first Super League, not competing. The Serbian police, and especially since Alexander Vulin led, have never beaten workers who sought their rights, as they had previously beaten the flag workers who came out, normally walked without a single incident. There was a command: the bats and the workers were beaten. This police only beats those who break, break and attack cops. Let me tell you, it doesn't exist anywhere in the world, so you can throw stone at the police and demonstrate because you didn't go to the election and you didn't cross the censorship. Come on, let that pack leader tell me, where in the election campaign can election conditions change? From 5% to 3% for them. Guys, 3%! Well, then, we had to collect signatures at the notary, and those in local self-government at the matriarch's. It's a lot easier. They say they handle RTS. Well, he doesn't run RTS or the government or the president of Serbia. The "What are you doing?" has more of the opposition parties, even draw them out where the national issue is, than the parties that went to the polls appear and aged a certain result. I was only on RTS once in five years. I pray to the editor when I go somewhere and represent Serbia's interest, I don't need to be a minister if I go to a country and talk about Serbia, to publish it and to release it. I say five seconds say I was with Governor Giza, ten million residents, and nothing. Why is that? But I'm not attacking them right now to say, hey, and we're paying that RTS out of power. Well, RTS gets kidnapped the way they wanted to take editorial policy into their own hands. Come out, my friend, to the election, to name and name, and tell me who you're going out with. Branislav Radosavljevic, the minister, who was a false witness for me, stole cars, convicted. Please, when they visit Serbia, the guard is organized from all buildings, because they type vehicles, that Branislav Radosavljevic with Gilas, and tomorrow when the vehicle disappears or in ten days you know who typed it. Six times he was arrested for car theft, Branislav Radosavljevic. In the same sweater the same day he took his picture. He thinks Gilas will buy him a suit. (President: Mr. Markovic, you are bringing an end. I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-19-0.u9872	Please. Minister Alexander Vulin called to say the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-19-0.u9873	I can't agree with the honourable MP when he says that representatives of these medigroup parties, as the party's name is, there's something, there's some company, that party, that they don't know what they want. That's not true. They know exactly what they want. They want power without choice. They are very precise and are ready not to go to elections until they are granted the right to be in power. It's a principled attitude. That's their message to the voters. We know what we want, we want power without choice, and we're done. There are no election conditions that will make them go to the polls. They'll go to the polls when they're ordered from some embassy where they're going. Election conditions can be better, they can be worse, they can be irrelevant. When ordered on the lawn, when on the lawn, they wipe their shoes, tighten their tie, be very decent, look down, head down, say, "Here you go," they say, "You're going to the elections," "I understand and I'm not having a hard time. “ Then it will be. They know exactly what they want. They want another very important thing. He wants Alexander Vukic banned from politics. They know exactly what they want. They not only ask that he should not be a candidate for the president, that he should not be a political factor, but also ask that his name should not be on the list. How can you prohibit a full-time, free citizen of the Republic of Serbia from having his own name as he wishes? So, those two things will. They want to go to power without a choice and they want Alexander Vukic to be banned from politics. Wait, politics is a matter of idea. Politics is a matter of conflict of ideas. Are we dealing with an idea? Did you manage to argue in public discourse over something that wasn't an insult list? When did you hear what their position on Kosovo was? Is Kosovo independent or part of Serbia? Should we negotiate in Brussels or not? Should institutions in Pristina be recognised or not? Should Serbs leave the institutions or not? Is the relationship to Kosovo a point on which we determine our policy towards other countries? When did you hear that from them? How do you know what they think? We've never heard of such a thing. Have you ever heard them say – we will build these and these roads? Never. Have you heard them say - the price of electricity will be that? When did you hear them say, "We would fight the pigs like this, or is this vaccine supposed to be four, but it shouldn't be five?" Anything. When you heard one consistent idea, one, I'm not looking for two, one? Except for the list of insults. When did you hear them say whether they were for military neutrality or NATO membership? Let them plead and say: we are for military neutrality. But if they say - we are for military neutrality, so this neutrality was voted by this Assembly, formulated by President Vukic, they cannot say that. Then you're for the NATO Pact. All right, but tell me -- we're for Serbia's membership in the NATO Pact, so the citizens can hear. Would you like to preserve Republika Srpska? What do you think of the Dayton Agreement? As long as you're ready to go to the defense of Republika Srpska or the abolition of Republika Srpska, anyway, but say it. When did you hear that? You hear one of these insults every day at the expense of Alexander Wolfich, his family, but when did you hear the answers to these questions that I'm asking? I don't know how we'd go to the 2012 elections if we only had politics -- wow, Boris Tadic. In 2012, we had a very clear position on membership in military alliances and on politics towards Kosovo and Metohija. Citizens knew that when they voted for us, they would vote to preserve Republika Srpska. You're absolutely right, the Serbian police didn't beat... The last time she beat up the workers when the Labour Act was passed, if I'm not mistaken, in 2005 in front of the old Parliament in King Milan, they were beaten by unions, beaten by DOS. Not us, they were beaten by DOS. I'm sorry, when it comes out of the assembly, when the police major breaks both legs, when he tries to set fire to this assembly, of course the police respond. I'll tell you right now, while I'm the Home Secretary, he'll react to every violence on the streets and won't let this high house be once again robbed, defiled and burned. Never again. They got into RTS. So we were the opposition, here, I recognize many comrades from those years, how many decades were the opposition, when we got into RTS? When did we get into any media house? Do I have to remind you, many of you were there, some of you were talking at those big myths that we had before the 2012 election, there were a hundred thousand people when we took them to RTS? When did we get into RTS? When did we break one glass? There were more people than they ever collected in one place. And of course the police will work under the Constitution, work under the law and protect the property security and honor of every citizen of this country and every institution. Do you know what was one of the more difficult things in the conversation with Serbs led by President Vukic at the barracks in Raška, and I was present? To appease them not to say what they think, by name and last name, about representatives of certain political parties from Belgrade who said -- ROSU is fighting against smuggling and crime in Kosovo and Metohija, and these are our dramas. Do you know how much effort it took to ask that there were no hard words, not to curse anyone's mother, not to say anything bad, just, you know, like when you have someone who's misbehaving in your family, so he says, "Come on, let go, it's ours, get him out of the way." Not to look forward to the Shiptars, we have made a great effort not to have Serbs spit on each other, and you can imagine how Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija welcome to see the final political idea where they say -- so ROSU, that's the fight against crime there, that's fine. Wounded man, Sofronievic barely got his head out alive. So, I just don't agree with the honourable MP, I'm sure they know exactly what they want. He wants power without a choice and to ban Vukic from politics, and that is all the electoral conditions they are interested in, and the elections will go as ordered, not as they will.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-19-0.u9874	Thank you, Minister. Replica, Dragan Markovic Palma. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-19-0.u9875	Mr. Minister, I ask you, on official duty, to request the prosecution to examine the basis of which company (or companies) Dragan Gilas has transferred the loan to entities engaged in the same business as Dragan Gilas. The loan is given to avoid VAT and to wash the money. That's one request of mine to you. Another request is to examine why it is not a procedural criminal report, not a criminal complaint from another political party, but the wife of Dragan Gilas Ivo Gilas, who filed a criminal report with pictures where her right eye was high on the hit by Dragan Gilas, I mean father-in-law Dragan Gilas and father-in-law Ivo Gilas. I'm asking you on official duty where that application is, why it's in the drawer, etc. He once said, he says she denied Eva Gilas, says – we agreed. They can settle for money, but under the official duty of domestic violence, a law is applied today requiring the arrest of a woman and father-in-law in the presence of two minor children. Please don't let me write you letters, and on the last Thursday of the month we can ask the ministers all, here, I ask you, if you didn't know all this, here, I ask you to inform me within 15 days of your arrival. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-19-0.u9876	The word is made by Minister Alexander Vulin.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-19-0.u9877	Here, I'll inform you right away. So, the interior ministry, or police, more specifically, the Belgrade City Police Department has done its job. We've heard everything, all the perpetrators, all the participants of that event we've heard, we have statements of the damaged. The wife of Mr. Gilas, his father-in-law and his mother-in-law also made an appropriate statement, and the police did their job. We handed it all over to the D.A.'s office. We can't arrest or let go. We do what the D.A. tells us to do. So, we've documented everything, there's medical records, there's claims of damage. So, there is no question at all whether there was violence by Mr. Gilas towards his wife and her father-in-law, more specifically his father-in-law. It's an indisputable fact. The D.A.'s qualified it as he thinks it should, and there's simply no way we can interfere. When you say – loans and so forth, yes, there is, it is quite familiar that money is being laundered, money is being removed, something is being borrowed, it is not coming back, and you are not suing for return. You've got to sue and you've got to charge interest. It can't be without interest loans. A certain interest regulated by the National Bank of Serbia must be provided. It can't be a dinar. So there's got to be some difference. It's nothing unusual, it's nothing new. I'll just remind you, it's nothing unusual, it's nothing new, the Independent Association of Journalists of Serbia is in debt slavery to Gilas. He borrowed about tens of millions of NUNS dinars, whether they returned or did not return, but very interesting that you have an independent expression, and you receive money from political actors. Imagine now, ladies and gentlemen, friends and comrades, that there is one association of journalists to whom the SNS gave the money, borrowed. How many seconds would it take for Brussels to report on this, to report to reporters without borders, to announce everything that exists in this world, to say: shameful interference with independent news associations, attempt to buy, that is, how the government interferes among journalists, journalists can't work, get swept up, so their... . And when Gilas makes money, it's totally fine. You know, for many of you, including me, when we say something like this, we're told that we're Wolf's Poltrons, we're creeps, we're like that. When did you, ladies and gentlemen, friends and comrades, hear one member of Gilas's party say a half critical thought about Gilas? Come on, once. They're not sluts and half-trons, they're serving their boss who pays them, and that's fine. And we can't defend our president, we can't have our own attitude, we can't represent our own policy, can they? When did you hear them say one bad word about Gilas, about his employee, Tepic? When did you hear that someone, like a member, don't know the name of this party bought by Jeremic, from that Alexic, when you heard one of them say a bad word about Alexic or Jeremic? They're elite, and we're half-trons, because we represent our program and defend our president. Well, how come now? How do you reconcile it in your head? How do you explain that? So, the police did their job, your question concerns the prosecution, I absolutely support you in that, and I think that the prosecution should qualify the work as it means, but to get a qualification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-19-0.u9878	Thank you. Replica, Dragan Markovic Palma.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-19-0.u9879	I'll be brief, the ones who didn't pay back, had to do the services, and the service followed the invoice. If there's no invoice, then it's organized crime for everyone and whoever gave the money and those who took the money. Well, here you go, please send a memo to the D.A. and tell him not to do his job. Here's me, from JS, we've decided not to do my job.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-19-0.u9880	Thank you. The word has the vice-president of the National Assembly, MP Stefan Krkobibic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-19-0.u9881	Thank you, Your Honor. First of all, congratulations on organising this beautiful student visit from the King. Dear Minister, I've accompanied your presentations completely and you've said politics and ideology, and precisely because I think we share some similar left-wing ideas, I'm going to call you - welcome, Comrade Alexander. Today, we are facing proposals for three laws, confirming three agreements, between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of BiH, and all refer to improving co-operation and further development of good neighbourly relations, concrete regulation and simplification of border control and cross-border traffic. It can only cheer citizens, on both sides of Drina and Sava. The PUPS has always raised its voice against hypocrisy, those circles from the EU, which, while on one side of it, have practically lifted the borders within the EU and allowed free flow of people, goods and capital, to us, from the space of the former Yugoslavia, natural and imposed the setting of border ramps and barbed wires on the territory of our former common country. Therefore, we will be happy to support all three of these agreements, and we will look forward to it if this co-operation process, Serbia and BiH, goes in the direction of total border abolition and in practical but symbolic terms, because if the people were truly asked, on both sides of Drina, there would never be a border. The state-owned border, among the nearby Yugoslav nations, is the fruit of revenge for those centres of power in Europe and the world, which the Serbs and other Yugoslav nations have defeated in both world wars. The first, therefore, is the Law confirming an agreement between the government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of BiH, on common locations, at border crossings. It defines the area of common location at the border crossing, on the part of the territory of the host country, on which the official persons of both states are signatories of the agreement, are allowed to carry out a border patrol. At a common location, when carrying out border control, the officials of the neighbouring country shall apply the regulations of their country which regulate the transfer of persons and transport of things, including the right to deprived of liberty, detention and forced return of the person. Officials of the neighbouring countries shall implement these regulations in the same size and manner as in the territory of their country. Officials carried out at a joint location by officials of the neighbouring country are considered to have been carried out in the neighbouring country. In practice, he could see one who, for example, was boarding in the port of Calais in France on a ferry to cross the Channel. The exit border control from France and the entrance to Great Britain is actually being carried out on this continental side, which means that the British border police checkpoint is on French territory, which greatly accelerates cross-border traffic. What is particularly encouraging is the fact that this agreement is also followed by an annex, which immediately defines the first common location, which will be the border crossing of Ljubovija – Bratunac, on BiH territory, so at the new bridge on Drina, near Bratoljub, which was built by the funds of the Republic of Serbia. What is not said in the agreement, but it is already agreed that a new border crossing on the Belgrade-Kuzmin-Sremska Raca-Beljin highway, which is currently being built at the new bridge in Sremska Raca on the Sava, which is largely bridged by Turkish nemaras, will therefore be the common location of the border crossing on the territory of the Republic of Serbia. The second proposal for an act ahead of us is the Law confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers on Border Traffic, which establishes a border regime, i.e. a system of rules governing border traffic in the border area between countries of the foreign agreement, i.e. between the Republic of Serbia and BiH. The citizens of the border area shall obtain the right to cross borders with a pass without ban or restrictions provided for by the legislation of the States of the foreign agreement. Border traffic shall be a regular crossing of the state border of a country's border area of a signatories agreement in accordance with the rules of the border regime for their stay and movement in the border area of another State of the signatories of an agreement due to economic social, family, religious or other legitimate reasons for a period not exceeding the time limit set by this Agreement. What is very important for citizens living in areas along the border is that this border area is defined as an area along the state border, which is provided for up to ten kilometers from the state border, but covers all settlements located within such border and local self-government, even though the distances are more than ten kilometers away. In this direction, border crossing and border traffic has been defined as a border crossing through which crossover of the state border is generally allowed for residents of the border area under the conditions of the border regime. They are defined and so-called. crossing points, outside the border crossings designated for border international traffic which, due to local abilities or exceptional, are open to crossing the state border under the conditions of the border regime as established by this Agreement. To cross the state border and stay in the border area under the terms of the border regime, only a border pass as a special personal document serving its holder will be sufficient. What is particularly important is that this act identifies them on both sides, and municipalities and settlements in these municipalities in the border area to which the provisions of this Agreement apply. In the area of the Republic of Serbia, these are parts of the following municipalities and cities on the state border from BiH: Šid, Sremska Mitrovica, Bogatic, Sabac, Loznica, Mali Zvornik, Ljubovija, Bajna Basta, Užice, Cajetina and Priboj. Border municipalities and towns in Bosnia and Herzegovina in the state border area with the Republic of Serbia are: Bijeljina, Zvornik, Bratunac, Srebrenica, Rudo and Visegrad. Under this agreement, I think it is very important and to read it, there are nine such crossing places in border areas. I will now list them, the crossing point of the "Source well" on the route of Zavina – Tebrevica and Dry well – Gornja Dubovo, the crossing point of Panjak, on the road direction of Mokra Gora – Kotromani and Panjak, Masali and Vardište, the crossing point of Brick on the road Jablanica and Cigla – Strpci, the crossing point of Velika Ravan – Anđići, the crossing point on the road of Brezovica – Cigla, Jablanica – Strpci and Ančići, in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the transitional place of Bujici on the road of Jablanica – Velika Rač in Serbia and Gornji Uvac in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The third act we are discussing today is the draft law confirming the agreement between the government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina on border crossings. It includes state border crossings between the Republic of Serbia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, defined as border crossings for international and road traffic of passengers and goods at which all types of goods are exported, imported and transported, including those subject to inspections during traffic across the state border, the next border crossing of Sremska Raca, Raca – Mali Zvornik - Karakaj, Ljubovija – Bratunac and Kotroman – Wardište. Also, as border crossings for international road traffic of passengers and goods at which all types of goods are exported, imports and transport, but other than goods subject to inspection and excise duty, the following border crossings are defined, Badovici – Popov, Bajina Basta – Skelani, Uvac – Vagan – Ustibar, while as border crossings for international road traffic are certain Mali Zvornik – Zvornik, Ljubovija – Bratunac and Trubusnica – Šepak, and as border crossings for international rail traffic of passengers and goods, Brasina – Zvornik, Sremska Rača – Bjeljina, Pribo – Strpci. The seasonal border crossings for international river traffic on Lake Perućac – Visegrad, as well as the seasonal border crossing of Mokra Gora – Vardište, for international rail passenger traffic, for our old "Ciru" that once connected Belgrade and Sarajevo to the sea. There are also certain border crossings with border traffic from the north of Srem and Semberia and Jamen, Donja Crnjelova, as well as the Swords and Podrinja. Both skeletons across the Sava, or Drina, but also border crossings the Emperor's Field, the Emperor's Field and Priboj, the Wekronozes down in the southwest. Why did I need to point out most of these cannons used in the proposal for these three laws to ratify our government and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina? So, to illustrate specifically, as much as we are in Serbia, our brothers and friends in Bosnia and Herzegovina are deeply interested in our integration, not our separation. As far as all these border crossings are, in fact, the vessels for citizens living on both sides, and the force imposed on the borders, and this number of border crossings and crossing places have been unthinking and making fun of all those sides of the false concubines who have broken down their Berlin walls at the same time in the space of the former Yugoslavia tried to wall some new walls between their countrymen, brothers, friends and countrymen. Dear People's MPs, because of all of this, the PUPS Group - Three "P" will vote unreservedly for the adoption of these proposed acts. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-19-0.u9882	I thank my colleague, Krkobic. One notice, before we proceed with further work. Honorable Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that we will be working today after 18 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to pass laws on the agenda of this session as soon as possible. The People's Messenger, George Milicevic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-19-0.u9883	I thank you, dear Vice President Jevdzic, respected ministers, respected representatives of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all I would like to take advantage of your presence at today's session, and to congratulate you and your Ministry and BIA representatives on an organised non-selective fight against crime and corruption, because what we have today as a result of the prosecution is actually the results of your work in the previous period of time, and they have only systemised it and are finally moving in a form of realisation. We think that this is just a small part of what is going to happen in the period ahead of us and we expect that in the next period of time they open two more significant topics, and we know that you have dedicatedly, responsibly and seriously worked on it. First of all, we are thinking about listening to the president of Serbia, but also on the subject of trying to criminalise the president's family with only one clear goal, which is the destabilising of Serbia, which, of course, will not succeed, but it is good to finally get the names of the perpetrators, to the names of those who were willing to do so, even if they were representatives of some embassies, because it is certain that this whole story, I do not know whether you will agree with me, but it is certain that this whole story could not be started or realised without the support of some of the embasssies, I do not really want to accuse anyone, leave it to the competent authorities and competent institutions, and we believe that you have done your part of the work as I am responsible, seriously and committed. As for today's session, Mr. Minister, it is therefore five agreements, three agreements are with BiH, one with Austria and one with Egypt. Before I start talking about the content of the agreements, I want to say one position of the SPS parliamentary group, and that is, since I will speak first of all about three agreements concerning BiH, which is that we regret that the whole region did not understand the message of Serbia during the pandemic period, when Serbia donated vaccines, because it was not just a donation, it is a matter of restoring trust and, when it is very clear, we are very small to speak ill of each other, and to individually realise some interests. Isn't it more logical that we all perform together in front of the great forces and in front of Brussels and in front of the United States? It is true, we tend to be members and members, a full member of the EU. But, let me, the biggest trade exchange is done in the region and it should not be forgotten, it is between 70% and 80%, according to some data, and it was logical that instead of speaking badly about each other, and Serbia has never done so, because Serbia today is a symbol of new values in the region, and Serbia has a clear view that it does not interfere with internal issues of other countries, and if there are open issues and if there are disputes, Serbia is always ready to resolve them through dialogue, to find a compromise and just solution, not unilaterally, not unilaterally, because by looking at the past and looking at the previous period, it did absolutely nothing good. Instead of turning to regional projects, such as the Belgrade Economic Summit, the Turkish Stream, the enormous importance for our industry and for our economy, the mini Schengen and the Open Balkans, which I will talk about later. I'm a Washington deal that we were supposed to use from an economic aspect and economic normalization. The Berlin process is also the core of the economy, investment in the field of digitisation, innovation, investment, industry. Unfortunately, we did not deal with it, we did, not us, but others, whether Serbia is leading a barren policy or not, whether it should be sprayed on certain countries, in fact 5 countries that did not recognise KIM, Kosovo as a state, or not. Whether Serbia is running a barren policy or not we will see it in December when we draw the line. You know, when it comes to the economy, you can't cheat, they're clear, they're visible, and then you'll see clear and visible progress in Serbia, as you can see today when it comes to organised crime and corruption. There is a big difference when, for example, the president of Serbia goes to Bosnia and Herzegovina, it seems to me that it was the day he got the keys from the city of Banja Luka and says very clearly that we want good relations with Bosnia and Herzegovina and its entity in Republika Srpska and that we do not think of talking about war, and that we do not think of making insults at the expense of other peoples. Banja Luka, where there were great differences, became a city no different at that time, regardless of the various political beliefs, a decision was unanimously made. When it is said that more than 100,000 euros will be invested in Republika Srpska's projects, building a bridge over Sava and 100,000 euros will help, then building a 17km highway from the bridge to Bijeljina, the estimated value of the works was 136,000,000, and Serbia will invest 100,000 euros. This drives the entire region and members of different peoples. Then, construction of Trebinje airport. The initial value is 98,000,000 to 100,000, and Serbia will invest between, quote, 73,000,000 to 750,000 euros. A million euros for four local self-governments. You know, when the president of Serbia visits the Lower Gradina Memorial complex, he says he will respect history and that he does not want to disrupt hatred, but respects the memory culture and takes care of our history and that we should never forget our history. That is the difference between Serbia and other countries in the region. It doesn't matter, Serbia has defined itself as a wise and rational policy. Serbia today is a factor of political stability in the region, whether they want to accept it or not. These agreements we're talking about today are actually an act of co-operation. Serbia wants co-operation. Serbia wants to co-operate with all because Serbia is seen as a reliable, safe, stable and correct partner. The Republic of Serbia's co-operation with the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina concerns three agreements, and it is about obtaining a legal basis for co-operation in the area of border crossing regulation and border traffic. Their signing, as has been said, shows openness to further strengthen ties with neighbouring Bosnia and Herzegovina, in particular this agreement should contribute to a faster flow of people, goods and services, which is important for both countries' economic and social development. The intensity of border co-operation confirms the opening of as many as nine border crossings towards BiH. Serbia has been profiled as an initiator of a number of significant regional projects as an indisputable leader and stability factor of the Western Balkans, showing intensive and bilateral and multilateral co-operation with countries in the region, which are ultimately aimed at strengthening the position and competitiveness of the entire region in terms of both European and global markets. Each of the countries in the region has its comparative advantages, but it is certain that by pooling resources we can achieve a better economic effect and be more competitive with third markets, which is probably the essence. When it comes to co-operation with Bosnia and Herzegovina, we are very different and on some key issues we have different views. Serbia is seeking to affirm all integration processes with its policies, especially in the area of economy and especially in the area of economic co-operation. Agreements with the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina relate to border crossings and border traffic, and their goal is precisely a kind of border liberalisation on the well-being of both countries, because we are two neighbouring countries that are highly directed towards each other, regardless of the painful events of the near past that have been moving away from our policies at one historic point, we have distanced our peoples too. What we're doing today is for the future of our good neighbourly relations, and we believe that time and facts will historically objectively object to events from those 1990s. Serbia and other countries in the region, particularly with the former republics of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, have established diplomatic relations in order to stabilise the region, but because of the fact that all the Balkan peoples are intertwined and directed towards each other. So with the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, bilateral relations established in 2000, and despite occasional oscillations that are the consequences of just historical events, we can say that between Serbs and Bosnia and Herzegovina there is an active political dialogue and an ever-increasing economic co-operation. Serbia respects the integrity, I repeat, of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, with respect for Republika Srpska's integrity as a special identity, because Republika Srpska is the fluidity of the Dayton Agreement and is a constitutional category in the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina. As far as Serbia is concerned, it is an indisputable and unchangeable fact. In addition, it is clearly seen from the policy of the Republic of Serbia towards Republika Srpska with which we have a special relations agreement and numerous bilateral co-operation agreements in almost all sectors of life. Serbia is seeking to improve bilateral relations with Bosnia and Herzegovina right from the above. Today, Bosnia and Herzegovina is one of Serbia's most important foreign trade partners, and mutual trade exchanges are in constant growth, as we have complementary markets and economy. For example, in 2019, Bosnia and Herzegovina was the third export destination for our goods, and the total trade was fifth. We cultivate correct relationships. In last year, Serbia has shown how much it holds to regional co-operation and how important solidarity is in these exceptional circumstances, how important understanding is in these exceptional circumstances. To remind me, last year Serbia donated medical materials and vaccines to all countries in the region, both Bosnia and Herzegovina, Montenegro and Macedonia. In this way we showed not only our economic and political strength, but primarily humanity in action. When it comes to concrete three agreements with Bosnia and Herzegovina, it is important to point out that they should contribute not only to greater external trade, better organised transit and more efficient border management, but also to strengthen our bilateral co-operation in the fight against cross-border crime of illegal migration, which, unfortunately, is one of the important areas of bilateral relations due to both Serbia and Bosnia and Herzegovina's position on the migrant route. Serbia has been on a hit European migration route since 2015. Tens of thousands of migrants have passed through our country. Their goal is Western Europe, but they have been accepted and taken care of in Serbia in the best way. The latest migration crisis is related to events in Afghanistan. It is important to point out that as the president of the state said -- Serbia will not be parking for migrants. The agreement between the government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina on border traffic at border crossings, common locations at border crossings, as well as the Annex to the Common Location Agreement at the Bratunac border crossing (Novi bridge) - Ljubovija (Novi bridge) were signed in Zvornik on July 27th 2021. In the focus of these agreements, in addition to facilitating economic co-operation, it is both better and easier daily life for citizens living in border municipalities. These agreements are a legal basis that allows all citizens from border municipalities, whether it is Love, whether it is Priboj, whether it is Baji's Garden, or that it is municipalities located on the other side of Drina, such as Rudo or Bratunac, that in a simpler way, faster and easier, without the need to have the documents needed to move from one country to another, they can cross from territory of one country to another country. It makes life much easier. So the bottom line is that we take care of the lives of citizens, not just politicizing. I would use the presence of Minister Vulin and ask him, given the agreements that are on the agenda today, do you know the date of the opening of the Bratoljub Bridge, which connects the municipalities of Ljubovija and Bratunac? I will remind you that this bridge was built by the state of Serbia in 2017 and that 13m euros were allocated for its construction. This bridge has enormous importance for the economy, population and development of Bratunc and Love, and co-operation of the countries of the region is a prerequisite for progress for all Western Balkan countries, because only if they are based, as I said, on each other, if they are improving co-operation, if they are building a regional market, can they advance on their way to the EU. It is not necessary to ignore the fact that the Western Balkans region with 18 million inhabitants is an important market for all companies in the region, as well as a springboard for access to EU markets. To also remind us of the Berlin Process, which was launched as a regional initiative in 2014, with the aim of strengthening regional co-operation and better integration of the Western Balkans in the context of faster European integration. That is why Serbia is using its position as the economic leader of the region to economically strengthen the region and regional initiatives that contribute to this. One of these regional initiatives is certainly "Open Balkans", and the goal is just more open and intensive economic co-operation, facilitating interstate transport and the smooth movement of people and goods in the area. So the three states decided to ignore the past, not to ignore the past, but not to look back at the past and look at the present and be turned first and foremost towards the future. Bosnia and Herzegovina, like Serbia and Albania, is members of the "small Schengen", whose application has already yielded results in practice, which is a good guideline for other countries in the region that have not done so far to join this initiative. It is important to understand that the rapid and uniform development of the region is a condition for positioning each country individually, as it should be understood that any country that remains lonely and unrelated will not be able to be respectable, particularly economically. Today, no one can stay if the island is isolated and lonely in a global world, where large economies eat small ones. That is why "Mini Schengen" or "Open Balkans" was launched with the aim of improving mutual economic integration. So this is certainly a visionary move, an idea to loosen borders in every sense, to create a single labour market, and to help countries without any delays and obstacles in the event of elemental disasters. All of these projects and investments are of great importance to the population of our countries, which in this way will enable better and better quality life, the peoples will be able to connect more easily and easily, and the greatest benefit, I repeat, will have citizens from border settlements and municipalities and it will be a new quality of life. Investment in infrastructure is also very important in the context of regional co-operation. Along with an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of BiH on common locations at the border crossings and the Annex to the Agreement on a common location at the border crossing of Ljubovija-Bratunac, in addition, this year we had a confirmation of the 11 bridges between Serbia and BiH, whose importance is multiple and immeasurable. The essence of all is the accelerated development of the region, which has, unfortunately, in the last 30 years, been paved by, above all, historic events that have resulted in the creation of new states, the separation of peoples that have essentially always been and will be directed towards each other. So today we need to rebuild new bridges, new roads, joint projects, where people from our countries will be hired, above all. In this way, infrastructure is developing, as one of the most significant economic branches of each and so are our two countries, and the ultimate goal is the well-being of citizens, in the context of the "Open Balkans" or "Mini Shengena", observed by three agreements, with Bosnia and Herzegovina, which we are talking about today, which represents the overall resolution of border crossing issues, and thus a significant step towards the liberalisation of the border of goods and services, which should make life easier for both countries' citizens. These agreements will be further discussed by my colleagues in the follow-up of today's session. I would briefly mention the next two agreements -- an agreement with Austria on co-operation in the area of natural disasters and a Memorandum with Egypt on military co-operation. As far as the agreement with Austria is concerned, I want to highlight almost centuries of co-operation with this country and to commend the intensive co-operation that we have today with Austria. The fact that Vienna is the third city in the world by number of Serbs only confirms the importance of our interstate co-operation and the importance of the position that Serbs in Austria are taking, but...
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-19-0.u9884	Dear Mr. Milicevic, pay attention on time.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-19-0.u9885	Yeah, I'm done. So, the business co-operation we have with Austria today. Reaffirming friendship with non-classifieds, and that ends, I will unfortunately not be able to speak, but I will say one sentence when it comes to an agreement with Egypt. It is necessary to highlight the continuity of decades of co-operation with this country, with which friendship stems from the establishment of the Unclassified Movement, in which the leaders of both our countries played an almost crucial role. The reaffirmation of friendship with non-classifieds is a great credit and the current president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Ivica Dacic, who started the process as foreign minister with these countries, a very important national and state project in co-ordination with the president of the Republic, which is the process of withdrawing recognition of self-proclaimed Kosovo. I thank the President-in-Office, I apologize for the time-out and, of course, that the SPS parliamentary group will support the proposed agreements in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-19-0.u9886	Thank you. Next on the list is the representative of the "Alexandar Vucic – For Our Children" parliamentary club Milimir Vujadinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-19-0.u9887	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected ministers with associates, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, today there are several agreements, namely the law, which, in addition to the essential importance for the life of every man in this country, have one symbolic importance. In fact, these agreements could be said to be in some way the paradigms of Serbia's policy today, the paradigm of politics led today by the SNS, whose parliamentary group in this debate is my smallness, but above all, the paradigm of politics led today by the president and Serbia and the SNS. In addition to the fact that these laws have a fundamentally clear and very precise impact on the everyday life of a man on the one hand, they raise the reputation of Serbia, safeguard peace and stability in the region. You, distinguished Ministers Vulin, have been the political partner of Alexander Vukic and SNS for many years, and perhaps you can tell me in the best way whether this is not politics and Alexander Vukic and SNS in general, whether it is a policy that we try to contribute to the quality and better life of each individual in Serbia, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, every day and every move we try to contribute to Serbia's international reputation and to the preservation of peace and stability in the region. That's probably why you've been a political partner and Alexander Vukic and SNS for years. Well, let's go. It is about agreements on common locations at border crossings, a border crossing agreement and probably one of the most important agreements, a border traffic agreement, and all between the government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of BiH, on the other hand. When it comes to common locations for border crossings, it is clear to everyone now that this is a solution to the multi-annual problem, i.e. a multi-annual issue when it comes to the Bratoljub Bridge. The agreement is the basis for Bratoljub to finally be put on the market and that citizens of Serbia and Republika Srpska, or BiH, finally begin to feel the benefits of what we have done in recent years. However, it is not the only integrated border crossing in Serbia. I come from northern Serbia, so I know that such a border crossing exists in the Bačka vineyards and I know how much it means to the citizens of Hungary and to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. We hope this will not be the only integrated border crossing, Minister, when it comes to bordering with BiH, or Republika Srpska, because a general agreement like this opens up the possibility that it will not only be a border crossing in Bratoljub, but also at other locations. When it comes to this second agreement, as regards border crossings, it also edits traffic between the Republic of Serbia and BiH in one quality way. It certainly determines places where what is customs, where the border is crossed. I'm sure this will certainly affect the economy. I am sure that in determining these things you have taken care of the needs of businessmen, especially when it comes to tourism, because they determine places where they will cross the "Ciro" and we open up those border crossings of the season on Peruæc, etc. However, in the end, the border traffic agreement. This is something that, Minister, the ordinary world, when I say ordinary world, has no ordinary and unusual, but a man in Serbia has been waiting for decades, especially in the border areas towards BiH, where we are historical, family, cultural and in every other way related to people living on the other side of Drina. This is probably one of the most significant laws when it comes to border traffic that people have been waiting for for decades. I've been called by some people from this village of Trubushnica, I guess, seeing a contribution to this law, from Slicajevac, from Loznica, some Zarici, Nikolic, I don't already know, and asking me to thank you on their behalf, because finally after decades, they will be able to leave uninterrupted, without passports, without ID, to work their own estates, with brothers, friends and relatives in Republika Srpska. More or less our gratitude certainly stands, but the most important is the people's gratitude, and the people are very much showing from the election to both the president and the SNS, if you will, and to you as our long-standing political partner. Minister Vulin, we will support these legal proposals, or these agreements. But what we're asking you to do together and what we're telling you is not enough. We can't stop at this. President Vukic, long ago, declared an idea of connecting our people, our peoples in the Balkans through that initiative "Mini Shengena", is now called "Open Balkans", where the ultimate goal is to remove these border barriers. We ask you, as a competent minister and a member of the government, to follow such a principled policy, because removing border barriers between states in the Balkans is in fact one European liquid. And what else is waiting for us by joining the EU than by removing border barriers? It's good to do it in advance and use the benefits of that. So, we expect that, at some point, you or some other representative of the government come with some still improved legal proposals, and it concerns border traffic. If you ask me personally, Minister, I'd say I'd prefer this to be an agreement with the Republic of Serbia. I have the right to love someone and the right to respect someone. However, as a responsible and principled man who has long been involved in politics and who follows the policy of the president of the state, I am very looking forward to respecting BiH's integrity through these agreements and thus showing a responsible and state-of-the-art policy towards our neighbours, as we expect from them when it comes to us. We certainly show the will for peace and tolerance. However, Minister, we have witnessed that in return we do not get the same often. Here's one example, examples of reconciliation and progress on one side and examples of causing instability on the other hand, and nothing caused the cause of instability. Yesterday, Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic and Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban met in Sutotica, where they symbolically marked the beginning of the work on the Sudotica-Segedin railway and it was a great day for both Serbia and Hungary, if you will, and for the people in northern Serbia, and that successful day ended with a song there far away, one of the saddest songs of the First World War, which was composed on Corfu in 1916. The song was sung together by the descendants of former World War I opponents. It was sung by the descendants of Serbian and Austro-Hungarian soldiers. And we used sayings all day long – we sang Serbian songs and used Hungarian sayings. An excellent example of how we can overcome all that is past and turn from instability to stability. Today, the Serbian people and the Hungarian people together sing and mourn, but together they do and share jobs. For such an epilogue is the most responsible Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic and why not say, his and our friend Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban and the policies they are leading today. An excellent example of how the past has been difficult or some kind of disagreement from the past can be turned into co-operation, peace and progress on behalf of both. What did we have on the other side? At the same time as this was happening in Subotica, Sarajevo has left with insults to Serbia and to the expense of the Serbian president. Thus, some in Sarajevo took on the role of their former occupier’s lawyer, invited nothing, and none of these former nor in their minds invited them. The result is this policy, which BiH, unfortunately, is being led by Bakir Izetbegovic, that unfortunate Komsic, etc., works of politics in BiH. But to make the situation worse, and to make the picture clearer, unfortunately, they also find allies in Belgrade. The faithful allies of these environmental policies are today leaders and champions of the former government in Belgrade -- Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic, Boris Tadic and Bosko Obradovic, etc. You had, Minister, an example yesterday of how and how trust and co-existence and an example of the reverse came from Sarajevo. We ask you as representatives of the people in this distinguished home to follow this example of co-existence that has been declaring, and since 2014, the Serbian president has been persistently implementing both in relations with BiH and other regional relations. Since you are already here, I will take the opportunity to draw your attention to this, certainly and to ask you – what is the co-operation between the Republika Srpska MUP and the Serbian Ministry, since I know that you too have been engaged in this field, and given what is happening in BiH and Republika Srpska these days? I will take care of the end and two agreements concerning co-operation with Austria and co-operation with Egypt. Isn't that proof of the policies that both SNS and President Vukic are conducting today as her first man? Isn't that proof of co-operation with both Western and eastern partners everywhere it benefits Serbia and its people? As far as we from the SNS, or the SNS parliamentary group, are concerned, things stand the way I pictured them. Be assured that we, the MPs of the SNS, will support all these agreements, that is, the legislative proposals in the voting day, and we expect you to see us with even better suggestions in this assembly building. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-19-0.u9888	Thank you, People's Parliament. Proposer, Honorable Minister Alexander Vulin, has applied. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-19-0.u9889	Thank you, Chairman. Co-operation with Republika Srpska's Ministry of Interior is exceptional. The Republic of Serbia's interior ministry has made several donations to the Republika Srpska Interior Ministry. Together we carry out numerous trainings, first of all, members of the Ministry of Interior of Republika Srpska. There are joint exercises planned. So co-operation is really good when it comes to fighting organised crime. There is indeed an ally in Republika Srpska. When the arrest and destruction of this Belivuk-Miljkovic clan was made, the Ministry of the Interior of Republika Srpska also helped us with the information, but also by giving the relevant information, that I do not say everything, a guideline, information about members of this clan that were in the territory of Republika Srpska, sometimes BiH. So, co-operation is really remarkable. Besides, we have the same enemies, organized crime, and of course we fight him honestly and together. More Republika Srpska respects Bosnia and Herzegovina's integrity and sovereignty than certain leaders in Bosnia and Herzegovina, important leaders, members of the presidency respect the integrity and sovereignty of the Republic of Serbia. You could never hear from any official Serbian state policy official that he believes that one or that part of Bosnia and Herzegovina should or should not be independent. What we want is different, and our policy is more than clear. I'm telling you that I would be the happiest to have Drina run through the middle of the Serbian state, not that it's on the Serbian border, but I respect Dayton, respect the international obligations of the Republic of Serbia and, of course, recognise Bosnia and Herzegovina. On the other hand, we have members of the presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina who openly say that Kosovo is independent of fact and substance and that only the veto of a Serbian member of the presidency prevents them from recognising Kosovo. You know, the one who recognised Kosovo, whether it's a great force, a small force, I don't care, he's lost every right to speak of the principle of integrity of borders. He has lost every right to say that borders are unchangeable and will never change again. You have no right to do that. In 2008, you lost that right forever. By destabilising you in the Balkans and in 2008 and, of course, in 1999, during NATO aggression, even before, you have lost the right to talk about peace, especially the right to talk about the principle of integrity of borders. It cannot be said, as the Czech foreign minister said in one of the previous governments, we made a mistake when we recognised Kosovo, we shouldn't have changed Serbia's borders, but we won't. He can't do it anymore. You don't know, when you once opened a process of changing borders in the Balkans, you don't know where and when the process will end. Just one thing you know, you've opened the process. He started it, and in history processes are managed, but they don't stop until they reach their logical end. So, I am absolutely on the principle of invariable borders and I am starting with the Republic of Serbia, insisting that our territorial integrity and our territorial sovereignty be respected. I firmly believe that, and as I firmly believe, our relationship with our neighbours should be what our neighbours have with the Serbs they live with. You can't be in a warm relationship with Serbia the end of which you live and discrimination against the Serbs with whom you live. It just doesn't make sense. So I believe that preserving the rights of Serbs is the best way to have the best possible relationship with the Republic of Serbia. Just one more thing. You said that when we enter the EU, borders won't matter. I'm afraid it'll be very important. Even if we ever enter the EU, they haven't exactly told us they're in the mood for us, they have some dilemmas about it. They say it applies not only to us, but to us in general, which, of course, is their right. They have the right to accept anyone they want at their club. We're here, we're standing, we're waiting, we're doing our jobs, we're developing Serbia, but when the migrant crisis started, the Schengen Agreement was lifted, they threw armies towards each other, and it's miracles right at their borders, they didn't go to protect someone else, they kept their borders and they're very jealous of them. When the crisis began, they threw the armies back into the borders and very jealously kept their borders, as they very jealously kept medical equipment, vaccines and everything else. So I am not convinced that borders will not matter even when we become a member of the EU if we become an EU member. We're a little more advanced than they are. President Vukic came out with a brave proposal. Why do you think they're attacking him so much? Because what he's proposing and doing, they're supposed to be doing, and they're not able to do it, and they can't do it. Then how can a small Serbia there create "Little Schengen", and they did not make it in the EU? How many EU member states aren't in the Schengen Agreement? How can Serbia now create in its Schengen environment? How do you imagine it, Serbs? Who are you? How did you come up with that? You know, when Alexander Vukic is told -- you talk too much about Serbia's successes, it could be a little quieter, yes, but he's telling the truth. So, borders will also be important when and if we become an EU member, but I am very proud of our president for showing that Serbia has nothing to be afraid of. He who opens the bounds is not afraid, on the contrary. You know, they keep telling us, that highway is going to be made by the Shipari, they will, but that highway is going to move our goods we're going to export, our entrepreneurs, the Serbs are going to be closer to us wherever they are. We have nothing to fear. We can only be proud of ourselves, and let those from Europe watch Serbia work, so maybe someday they learn something. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-19-0.u9890	I thank you, Your Honor. The word is Milimir Vujadinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-19-0.u9891	Thank you, Chairman, but just a few notes. Ministers, speaking of joining the EU, we can now speak hypothetically, because conditions for our EU accession are completely different from those that were applicable to others who existed in the meantime. However, that is why I have made a parallel with the Open Balkans, while we are waiting for that EU entry, I have asked you to work hard on what has been declared the idea by the president of the states. It was called "Mini Shengen", and now it's called "Open Balkans". We think that in any case, while we are all waiting for this EU entry, something that will contribute to the lives of every man in both Serbia and every man in the countries in the region. What I would like to point out, Minister, given that you are here and we do not often have the opportunity to meet and what we can certainly support, is that you consistently apply the measures in terms of protection and law, but also the protection of the integrity and security of the Republic of Serbia. Please also in the next period towards all those who come from the environment, and you know very well what I mean, and potential violations of the law and in some ways the security of the Republic of Serbia are still, in some ways, limiting entry into the Republic of Serbia. You know that some countries in the region have banned our citizens from entering, and even people who are writers, poets, diplomats, even people who were born on the team, so it is not you, you were born in Croatia, that, an example of Croatia, even people who are diplomats, and until recently, no matter what kind of people they are. We certainly congratulate you on the extent that you have begun to apply consistently and ask you to remain consistent in it. Also, I convey my gratitude to you from Republika Srpska in terms of people who have applied for citizenship, this process of obtaining Serbian citizenship has been significantly shortened and lately waiting for that citizenship of the Republic of Serbia has narrowed down to a few months, it seems to me, up to two months compared to a few years earlier. It is a major contribution to the integration of our people, certainly respecting what you were talking about the integrity of the state of Bish, but also other countries in the region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-19-0.u9892	Thank you. Replica, distinguished Djordje Milicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-19-0.u9893	Dear Mr. Minister, since, as my colleague said, we have a rare opportunity to see each other, and I don't know if you were able to get to the beginning of the session, I don't think you did, when the MPs asked questions, so you inspired me, and for that reason I answered. We fully agree with you when you talk about the principle of integrity of borders. The one who once changed the line, so how can you trust him? One who once decided to bomb Serbia, so how can you trust him not to do it again and now talk about some kind of peace and stability. But we're not worried about the Ministers of the Great Forces right now. We know about their intentions, we know about their intensity, we know why double standards and double arches when it comes to the European path of Serbia. You know what we're worried about? We are worried about the interior, we are worried about Serbia, we are worried about this Assembly. A question has been raised here today, and every way and every moment is used to undermine and divide within Serbia. A colleague can be offended when they mention Sandzak, there is no Sandzak for me. For me, under the Constitution, there is a Raska administrative district. We had here, a colleague asked a question at the beginning of today's session, that all teams from Novi Pazar should step out of the competition in Serbia because of a handball game that ran the war criminal. If that's the case, I'm judging. But I didn't notice that that's how they reacted two years ago when I attended a game at the New Market Hall where Nasera Oric was running. I haven't noticed for a moment that they've responded in this way as they react today and, among other things, suggest a compromise solution, as something that will enlighten us, to adopt a resolution on Srebrenica that is shameful. Excuse me, Mr. Minister, but I had to take this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-19-0.u9894	Thank you. This concludes the part about authorised representatives of MPs' clubs. We are moving on to the order of MPs to apply for the word. The first on the list is President of the Parliament's Justice and Reconciliation Club, Samir Tandir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-19-0.u9895	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, colleagues and fellow MPs, respected ministers, respected representatives of the ministry, citizens and citizens, the Justice and Reconciliation Party as the strongest Bosniak party in the voting day will vote for these agreements. As for any scandal, any convicted war criminal, we absolutely condemn it, and we just need to see in that city who is in power, and I think, colleague Milicevic, that your party is in power in Novi Pazar. We're in opposition. Any candiding, excelling crimes and criminals are absolutely condemned and I think it's a responsibility, and when it comes to any local clubs in local government that finance it and representatives of local authorities sit on boards of these companies and clubs, companies that finance these clubs and general sponsors are. Therefore, see if there are any of your representatives and why they support that power if you disagree with it. As far as the agreements themselves are concerned, a people's saying – closer to a neighbor than a further brother. When we talk about agreements with BiH, we take the example and we stick to those sayings. President Alexander Vukic's state-run move, when it comes to the Vranj indictment, should be welcomed. Of course we expect an answer from the other side, because anyone involved in any crime I deeply believe will be convicted and should be left to the local prosecutors. However, many people did not participate in the wars of the 1990s, whether they were mobilized or otherwise, and these secret accusations burden absolute citizens and citizens on both sides. I expect that we have minimum responsibility when it comes to our country, which we have shown, but when it comes to Bosnia and Herzegovina and that this state action will be answered by the fact that if there are any cases against the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, our prosecutors will be left with these proceedings. As for Egypt, I look forward to working with a Muslim country that is an absolute leader when it comes to North Africa. By the way, for the sake of comparison, I'm saying that it wasn't the Muslim Brotherhood Party, it was the Freedom and Justice Party. Very interesting, but that's one fact. As far as Austria is concerned, Austria is a very important country, an EU member, and when it comes to Egypt, and when it comes to Austria, although perhaps in foreign policy we do not have all the points of agreement, it is important that we cultivate good relations, Austria is a great investor, an influential country and I look forward to an agreement that we sign with this country. In voting day, we'll vote for these agreements. I would just take the opportunity to remind the minister of the murder of Edin Hamidovic in Sjenica. We expect the reaction of those who committed this crime to answer, but also those who did not take over in the chain of command. So, the man said someone was threatening him, that guy killed him afterwards on the promenade, in the middle of the street. It's something that upsets the public, it's something that upsets me as a citizen, as a parent. I've seen seven children on Genza ricket Hamidovic, and it's really shaken me up, and every time I talk about it, I'm going to talk about it. I expect, in the domain of your responsibility, that those responsible and co-executors should bear the consequences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-19-0.u9896	Thank you. Replica, Gjorge Milicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-19-0.u9897	Thank you. counterpart Tandir probably took the opportunity to tell the public that, I don't know, his representatives of the political option or the options he represents are not in power in Novi Pazar. Yes, the SPS is in power and is part of the ruling coalition in Novi Pazar, but it has absolutely nothing to do with what I was talking about. I was saying, it's absolutely nothing to do with what I was talking about, I was talking about a game scandal, and I said, very clearly, that we in the SPS condemn any running, and of course the organizers are the ones who have to give a final assessment and a final attitude. You can't have someone less, someone more. My discussion went in another direction. If this had happened two years ago, and I personally attended, and I don't believe I didn't see you, I don't believe you attended a game where Naser Oric was running, it didn't react like this. So here's the essential question of something else. Do you support this resolution that is proposed or not? I say she's a disgrace, I say she's hypocritical, and I say that we all, 250, have signed our oath to honor the Constitution. I don't mean you, you know who I mean, we don't respect the Constitution and we don't respect the oath we signed. That's where my replica was going. If there's anyone in the SPS, it has nothing to do with the government. Is there someone at a club? There may be, but they will condemn as we do today and there are no double standards and double arches. I remind you, two years ago, I was at the game myself, I was at the game myself, and I heard it too, and it wasn't an SPS, because I recognized them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-19-0.u9898	Thank you. Replica, Samir Tandir.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-19-0.u9899	My views, unlike yours, are no different from New Pazar and Belgrade. So I'm judging clearly me and my party are scanning anyone who's convicted of war crimes. So, this club, this town that's the founder of that club, you're both your party or your party, not you personally, of course, part of that government. Why is your municipal board not responding and why he said OK, if this continues we will take certain measures, and no, we have some benefits, and that is where we will shut up, and then we have benefits in the Assembly, we will raise our voice to get what political point. So, I, clearly and loudly, according to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, absolutely say, condemn any splendor of any crime and act and my views do not differ whether I am in the New Market. Was I at the game? I'm not, so I'm not in New Market, what am I going to do at games in New Market, and if I was, I'd be a candid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-19-0.u9900	Dear fellow Milicevic, just a small request to pay attention in time, but of course you have a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-19-0.u9901	We're paying attention, of course, on time, but here we're talking about municipal committees, that municipal committees should condemn and decide whether anyone is responsible or not to be responsible for running the game. What difference does it make? Do you know how to organize a sports event? Do you know who's responsible for organising a sports event? Do you know who should make the final decision? I'm just saying there are no double standards. I agree with you. Is Novi Pazar, Sjanica, Belgrade, exactly the same, exactly the same, but can't have someone less, someone more. We can't get over it once, so it's okay, we won't. Samir Tandir throws. You're talking about coalition partners again, are we talking about... That's the point for you, that's not the point for me, that's what you're going to see, because you're trying to focus on the same electoral body. We don't take away your electoral body, we leave it to you, we don't interfere with you, but here we're talking about the essence, and the essence is that someone wants to abuse the organisation of the sports event to invite all clubs to leave the competition in Serbia. What does that mean, "I'm sorry"? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-19-0.u9902	Thank you. Samir Tandir, so let's finish, please, this circle of replicas.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-19-0.u9903	Thank you, Chairman. It's clear to me, and there's absolutely no politics here. High party official Rasim Ljajic is head of the club. It's not mine, and you're in a coalition with him in New Market, and I'm asking you to say what you're saying here in New Market, and not in New Market, we're going to have some benefits, so we don't get kicked out of the coalition, you know, we're going to keep that quiet, and then we're going to do it in the Assembly, that's what we're going to point at. It's called double archin and politics. I don't have any politics. The same attitude I express in the New Market, I bring it here. Absolutely, any insult of any people I don't support, condemn, point, and when it comes to my people and any other people, it's no place to talk, to celebrate and cheer anyone up, whether or not he's convicted of war crimes, to run to politicians and anyone else. At the game, we should talk about the game, and that should be brought to the level of the local community, at the level of the sports association in Novi Pazar, not you and I to discuss. But if you want, we can. I'm in a very good mood. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-19-0.u9904	Thank you. I refer to Article 104, paragraph 3, and as I said, this concludes the circle of replicas and I beg you to understand that. He has the word of the Honorable Minister Alexander Vulin.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-19-0.u9905	I'll just take a minute. To be clear, the decision to interrupt a game, some sports performances are made by a Union delegate or by a match organizer. So, the police have nothing to do with it. We are obliged to listen to what we are told, possibly empty the stands or remove someone who violates the proper rules, violates the laws. It's our job, but we don't have any effect on whether any sports events will go uninterrupted until the end, whether or not they'll be interrupted. It's just not up to us. As for the tragic event, the murder in Sjenica, let me tell you that I am expressing my deepest condolences to the family of the injured, murdered Edin Hamidovic. He's looking for his killer. As far as the police are concerned, we've completely enlightened the case. It's Latovic Emrah. He's a murderer. He's on the run. He's got an APB on him. We hope that justice and over it will be done, and of course this will not be forgotten. The tragedy is great. The crime is terrible and unforgivable. On the subject of threats, the police are conducting an internal investigation of whether all of our members were doing the right thing and whether they were doing the right thing, as well as the law and the rules of the service. The threats were unfortunately mutual and we had threats both. And every time the threats were reported, the police went out, heard both of them, or family members, there were also these cases, and handed the case to the D.A.'s office. The D.A. then gave his qualifications. The police were doing their job. If she could do better, if she could prevent anything – the investigation will show, but let me tell you that we are conducting the investigation. So, we don't take things for granted, but we want to check it out, and that's what we'll see. I'm so glad you're right about what you said, whether someone's convicted or not. Naser Oric and Ramiš Haradinaj are not convicted of anything, but we all know they are war criminals. The unearthed eyes of Judge Ilic testify that Naser Oric is a war criminal, regardless of his punishment. He's not grounded because the judiciary doesn't do its job. Haradinaj was not condemned not because he was innocent, but because all the witnesses were killed, so he had no one to testify against him and to testify to the truth. So, I absolutely agree with you and thank you for saying that. Whether they are convicted or not, it is a war criminal and Haradinaj and Oric. When talking about the yellow house, no one has to be convicted of the yellow house, as it isn't, but we know that who knows how many hundreds of Serbs in the most terrible torments ended up in that yellow house by taking out their organs, pulling out their organs alive for sale or whatever they were doing. So thank you for that clarification.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-19-0.u9906	Thank you, Minister. Dear Mr. Milicevic, on what grounds, please? (Jordje Milicevic: I was mentioned directly. ) Here you go. [[Alexander Martinovic: This is not the basis for replication.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-19-0.u9907	Col. Martinovic, at least you know, I've been mentioned directly for a while and the SPS has been mentioned wanting to pick up some benefits. (Alexander Martinovic: So doesn't he pick? No, it's not my intention to pick benefites, because this story, my dear colleague, didn't begin. This story didn't start with the SPS. There is no difference in our attitude when it comes to condemnation, from your attitude. This story was started by one of the representatives of the parliamentary group who asked a question in the morning and I didn't want to politicise this problem and turn it into politics, but I wanted it to stop and so I addressed the competent institutions and authorities, primarily the MUP. The Home Secretary made it very clear who can break up the game and how. It's a delegate or organizer, but let's not get into sports events right now and not deal with sports events, though we can. As long as you want, I'm always ready to talk about everything, especially that. You can talk to me about it as much as you want. Let's compete in that, if you're ready. But whether Rasim Ljajic or Rasim Ljajic is someone at the club's head, we are absolutely not interested, nor amnesty of responsibility, I am a club, if he allowed such a game to be organised. And those benefites, leave those benefites in the New Market with the SPS. We can give them all to you if it's there. If you think that's why I'm reporting. The reason for my report is because this issue is not a question of sports events, this question is a question of resolution and the introduction of why it is necessary to adopt a resolution here in the Republic Parliament. That was the reason I called. I'm against it, and I agree with you, a conviction for every run, both in Novi Pazar and in Belgrade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-19-0.u9908	Thank you. I think I've been more than correct, calling and on my own member... (Samir Tandir: Replica. I think, dear colleague Tandir, that I have been interrupted and now by Mr Milicevic, I have called on the right member. I'm asking for your understanding. (Samir Tandir: Just one sentence.) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-19-0.u9909	Thank you, Chairman. It's easy to talk when you always say the same thing in Pazar, and in Prijepol, and in Belgrade. What I just said is that we can also talk at our party's internal meetings. So, absolute condemnation of anyone and anything that undermines good relations between the Bosniak and Serbian people, absolutely. We just want the level of responsibility to be clearly defined. Who's responsible for something is pointing a finger at him and no problem at all. But I don't want any collectiveization, and we're talking about Bosniaks, Muslims, etc. So, a particular party, a specific responsibility, and that's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-19-0.u9910	Mr. Tandir, I think that's it. Thank you. Honorable Members of Parliament in accordance with Article 87. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly now set a break of 1520 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-19-0.u9911	Ladies and gentlemen, let's get back to work. The word is Samira Ćosovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-19-0.u9912	Thank you. Dear ministers with associates, distinguished fellow MPs and MPs, today we are adopting important agreements in the area of bilateral co-operation with several important partners of the Republic of Serbia that will allow better and more successful co-operation in a number of different areas. At first, I would refer to a bilateral agreement with Austria in the area of disaster protection. One of the greatest threats to human security has always been natural, but human activities have been caused by disasters. Of course, disasters do not only involve life, although their loss is the most severe consequence, cause significant material damage, disrupt the environment, and reduce the quality of life in the affected area in the long term. Also, disasters also disrupt the economic and economic base of the affected area, which further makes recovery more difficult. Natural disasters, but also caused by human activity or negligence, do not know the limits, and often especially in major disasters, they affect large geographical regions, more states at the same time, and in extreme cases even the whole world. Of course, often even if only one country is affected by a disaster, it needs the assistance and solidarity of the international community to successfully respond and resolve the disaster, but it often needs support for long-term recovery and the construction of a prevention system. Therefore, in order to respond successfully to the risks of disasters, in addition to the activities of each country, individual, necessary and international action is necessary. On these principles, over the previous three decades, a system for mutual co-operation and co-operation of members has been created within the UN system, but the importance is also a number of bilateral agreements, such as those that are before us today. I think that our citizens and we all remember the significant international assistance our country received from both the region and our partners and friends from the EU and Russia during the great floods that hit our country and the entire region several years ago and how important any assistance was at that time. Also, we should be proud of the role and solidarity that our country and our people have shown in helping the region, as was the case this summer in the Greek and northern Macedonian fiery verse. The basic importance of this Agreement is that it will allow for the exchange of critical information on potential dangers and thus enable the effective functioning of the early warning system. It will also allow for simpler implementation of measures to mitigate, protect and rehabilitate disaster-affected areas. The importance of good co-operation is that it enables the necessary speed of operation, since cross-border action implies there are additional obstacles to the procedure for entry, exit, imports of necessary materials and equipment. The agreement we are talking about today will simplify the process of temporary importing the necessary materials of rescue equipment, and the states of the signatories undertake to simplify the procedure in the future to make the operation more successful. The bilateral relations between Serbia and Austria are high, comprehensive and stable. Austria is Serbia's significant economic partner and the adoption of this agreement is another example of good co-operation. Today, we are also considering adopting a Memorandum of Military Co-operation of the Republic of Serbia with the Arab Republic of Egypt. The co-operation of the Republic of Serbia with Egypt, which has existed since the time of the formation of the Unclassified Movement, shows a deep commitment to building peace and security in the world, in line with the principles of non-classifiedness and neutrality and values based on mutual respect and non-interruption in internal affairs. The aim of this memo is to create a legal framework that will enable military co-operation in the field of military-technical, military-economic and military-science co-operation, military education and training, as well as military medicine. Through the co-operation of the parties, Serbia and Egypt, the Memorandum will be conducted through intensive visits, working meetings, conferences, professional symposiums and seminars and exchanges of experiences and consultations in the area of common interest, as well as guidance and exchange of staff, experts for education and military training. I will also refer to a set of agreements with Bosnia and Herzegovina in the area of cross-border co-operation. Easier and safer cross-border transport of people, but also goods are in the interest of citizens of Serbia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, and especially citizens living in the border area, and often have to cross the border, which is because of schooling, work, treatment or to visit family members, to process properties located in the territory of the neighbouring state. It is a pleasure to see progress in building good neighbourly relations between our country and Bosnia and Herzegovina, and I hope this will be another signal that will encourage both sides to take steps towards closer and better economic and any other co-operation between Serbia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. I believe that the task and goal of all signatories should be to extend the boundaries that we are ahead of us by working better together, by promoting, expanding to other segments of social life and raising traditionally friendly and good relations with our partners. These agreements are another step towards the development of friendly relations and the development of Serbia's co-operation with the signatories countries and the Social Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary group will be happy to support them in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-19-0.u9913	Thank you. The word is Nenad Filipović.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-19-0.u9914	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, distinguished ministers and associates, today we are discussing five laws on confirming the agreement, three agreements with Bosnia and Herzegovina on border crossings, joint locations at border crossings and border traffic, as well as an agreement with the Arab Republic of Egypt on military co-operation and with Austria on co-operation in the area of disaster protection. Article 99 paragraph 4 of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia also places ratification of international agreements in the jurisdiction of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The competent assembly committees supported the signing of these agreements and there is no reason why we, as the Single Serbia Parliamentary Group, should not vote in the day of the vote. These agreements have been part of the diplomatic activity of the Republic of Serbia, which has been continuing for nine years and is part of the construction of our country's international position. An international position that today is incomparably better than it was at a time when it was part of today's opposition power in Serbia. Why is Serbia's international position better today? There are several elements and factors. One of those things is self-respect. Maybe that's the key word in Serbia today. If you want to be respected, you must respect yourself first. It's the only way you can make others respect you. It is known that others respect you as much as you respect yourself. This is what Serbia is doing today, taking care of itself and its own interests, but also respecting everyone else and building bridges of friendship and co-operation and building the image of a reliable partner. Serbia today is neither pro-Western nor pro-Russian, Serbia today is pro-Serbian, unlike Serbia ruled by others, from Dragan Gilas to Vuk Jeremic. At that time, Serbia and the outside were forced from the inside by a sense of collective guilt for everything that was going on in the region. Right here in this high house they wanted to impose on us the adoption of a resolution on genocide in Srebrenica, which would seal the genocide of the people at the head and future generations, the genocide of the 20th century, in which there were two world wars, and we all know that it was we Serbs in both wars, as well as whose side we were on. Of course, here I was thinking of Marinika Tepic and her attempt to impose such a document. Their submission to some of the values imposed on us on the outside and which do not have much of a foothold in our tradition and culture, which was present with the former government, was an attempt to bring down that traditional, domestic attitude and system of values, i.e. destroying self-respect among Serbian citizens. The closure of factories and the dismissal of several hundred thousand workers and leaving citizens without a elemental existence is nothing more than a self-respect collapse, which seemed precisely to make it easier to manipulate citizens, because when you do not have enough self-esteem, you become insecure, weak, that feeling of impertinence and inferiority led to the fact that then the government could, without fear of any civil revolt, abuse this position of power and that, thanks to its privileges, there was enormous wealth. The story of destroying the self-respect of citizens is the story of the accumulation of the wealth of Dragan Gilas. The second reason for Serbia's significantly better international position is responsible economic, serious policy. Such a policy led to an economic fiscal and stable Serbia before bankruptcy in 2012. If we look at the figures, it means that from 2012 we reached 55% of GDP with 79% of GDP, even at the time of the crown and after three aid packages of the economy, which were around 8 billion euros, and the level of public debt in Serbia is today below the Mastricht level. I would remind you that the 2012 unemployment rate was 29% today at only 10%, perhaps less. Foreign reserves -- 17 billion, at 18 billion euros. The gold reserve has been increased multiple times. Direct foreign investments amounted to three and a half billion euros in 2020. The average salary in Serbia has been increased from 320 euros to 550 euros. Pensions are increased and are coordinated on a regular basis, according to the so-called Swiss formula. GDP from 33 billion, which was 2012, to 52 billion this year. We've got gas supply from multiple directions. By building Turkey's current, we have become an energy-stable state. What I just said -- it never was. All this and how it makes the foreign policy position of Serbia better and new jobs, higher salaries and more salaries in the family raises confidence and self-esteem among our citizens. It is alarming when part of the opposition reacts negatively to any apparent success of Serbia today and tries to in any way, not by choosing funds, disputed actions and results of today's Serbia. And these funds are mainly resorting to the tactics of spreading false news, both about Serbia and the most responsible people in Serbia. When you don't have politics, then you resort to false affairs, delusions and obsessions. When it comes to the Agreement on Military Cooperation with the Arab Republic of Egypt, I would refer to other and certainly beautiful things, and that is the concern of our heroes today - health workers. In the organisation of the Jagodina City Assembly and the president of JS Dragan Markovic, Palma, the path of Egypt and Hurgada will go to 140 healthcare workers. The trip will take place from 23 October to 30 October. Travel funds are provided by donors. It will be the third trip this year organised by Dragan Markovic Palma for healthcare workers. I would remind you that in April, a similar delegation of 140 healthcare workers also travelled to Egypt, in Hurgad. In June, 600 health workers travelled to Greece, Paraly, and a thousand agricultural producers in September, also in Greece, in Paraly. I would like to share another good news with the citizens of Serbia, which is that two other factories, one Chinese and one Austrian, will be opened in Jagodina by the end of the year. This is how he fights for Serbian citizens, implemented programs and visible works, not lies, plantings and personal wealth. This large number of foreign investors are also the result of a favourable investment environment created by Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic and this is one of the many reasons why the Jagodina City Assembly gave him the title of honorary citizen Jagodina earlier today. This is also an opportunity to tell Serbian citizens that Serbia will continue to build its foreign policy position through strengthening bilateral co-operation with other countries, through such and similar agreements and strong diplomacy, but also by economic strengthening Serbia and increasing economic co-operation with the world, strengthening Serbia's standard of living and raising Serbia's level of self-respect. The JS parliamentary group will support the proposed laws in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-19-0.u9915	Thank you. The word has Hadji Milorad Stosic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-19-0.u9916	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, distinguished ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of Serbia, on the agenda of today's session in a united debate are several international agreements that are important to our citizens. At the very beginning, I would point out that the MP group of the United Pensioners of Serbia PUPS -- "Tri P" in the voting day will support these agreements with this session and vote "yes". There are several international agreements at today's session, of which three agreements, concluded with Bosnia and Herzegovina, are, above all, important for the border population of one and the other. These agreements are related to the issue of crossing the state border in different segments, from the establishment of joint controls, through the establishment of a border crossing point to border traffic issues. They are firstly foreseen to gradually introduce common border control at all border crossings, the manner in which customs and inspection authorities and services are handled, their jurisdiction, and the law of the service of a single state body if it is in a common place on the territory of another State and vice versa. The second agreement sets out border crossings to be used in border traffic and their qualifications and working hours. This is mainly about those border crossings that were already identified as such by the previous agreement of the two sides of 2005, with the fact that the specificities of the border crossings, such as the Perusica-Visegrad river crossing, the Mokra-Vardište railways and four other border crossings for border traffic, of which are two schools. These are very important additions to the existing network of border crossings, as they will enable the added valorisation of the tourist values of Drina, the town of Visegrad and the museum railways of the narrow track on Wet Gora. More important, though, it will enable ordinary people living right by the border to have easier daily life, or to come to their lands in another country. Unfortunately, now in another country, and earlier in the same country and the same people. They are particularly concerned by the third agreement in this package, the one on border traffic in which certain changes have also been made by several increased settlements along the border whose residents will have the privilege of obtaining border passes and so on crossing the state border and beyond the border crossings, to so on. transition places that represent a new category and an additional possibility for easier and faster crossing of the border to these categories of population, as I have already pointed out, the population and one and other countries, above all in the border region. All three agreements also envision the continued work of existing interstate commissions to monitor their application and address possible misunderstandings. In view of the content of these agreements, which should replace the earlier agreements of 2005 should certainly be supported with satisfaction. However, it is clear that relations between the two countries remain to address in perspective the issue of precise determination and definition of the stretching of the border line. So far, we have been able to make sure that this is a very difficult and complex problem, that there are several concrete points where the two sides have seen solutions about where and where they don't agree and where the border lines differ drastically, and that all of this is negatively maintained primarily on the everyday lives of people, such as illegal exploitation of gravel and sand on the Drina, which no one can sanction, and it changes the river flow by subdiving the coast and carrying out fertile land, which, at the very end of the line, threatens both the bridges and cross the river. The resolution of these open border issues will not be easy, but they must be continuously dealt with in agreement with the other side. I'd also wonder if it's possible if he's waiting so long for an interstate agreement to start at least by solving what can be done unilaterally on our side. In particular, if for three decades we have been in practice that residents of some villages in the municipality of Prboj cannot reach their municipal headquarters without entering BiH territory, are they thinking of taking out and making new local roads that would only go to our undisputed territories? If there is a constant mention of the problem that ten kilometers of the Belgrade railway – at least it goes through BiH territory, that in the 1990s we had a case at the Strpci station and that NATO at the time of the 1999 aggression in the same place broke down and cut off this important railway link, did anyone in our railways and ministries ever consider the possibility of building a new railway project that would simply bypass this sensitive point? I'm aware that these things require large funds and building resources, but it seems to me that so far more money has been spent in damages because of their failure to resolve them than it would be spent on building these bypasses and crossings, and by doing so at least some questions of demarcation are removed from the agenda. Therefore, I think that the representatives of the government, local self-government and public enterprises should, at least start some work on their potential resolution. In addition to the agreement with neighbouring BiH on the agenda, two agreements with Egypt and Austria on co-operation in the area of defence, or protection from disasters, are held today. These are standard international agreements from these areas. I don't think there's anything to argue about, because it's important that these agreements be made with as many states as possible in the world. We have had the opportunity to see recently a great deal of interest from the representatives of the countries of the Unclassified Movement for the products of our dedicated industry, and we, through cooperation in this area, can benefit greatly, especially if Egypt is known to be one of the largest and most significant African states. On the other hand, Austria belongs to one of the most developed European countries and although it is not our immediate neighbour our country is connected to the Danube. Many of our inhabitants have long lived and worked in the nocturnal region, and therefore relationships are expressed to a significant extent. The possibilities for mutual assistance, exchange of information and experience can therefore be of importance to both countries. Dear People's MPs, given that it is a quality solution that needs to be improved primarily with relations with the neighbouring BiH country in which our people live, but also to open new fields of co-operation with Egypt and Austria, the PUPS parliamentary group – "Tri P" will give its support in the day of voting for their adoption. Dear friends, distinguished citizens of Serbia, I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-19-0.u9917	Thank you. The People's Messenger Joseph Broz has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-19-0.u9918	Today I will talk about confirming the Memorandum of Understanding in military co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Arab Republic of Egypt, which was signed in Cairo on 13 July 2021. It's a pleasure to talk about this agreement because we're signing it with us as a friendly country with which friendship was built at the time of the founding of the Unclassified Movement. The founders of the Movement were then SFRJ President Josip Broz Tito, then Egypt President Gamal Abdel Naser and Indian President Dzjaharlal Nehru. The unclassified movement played a historic role in preserving world peace in the conditions of the bloc's division of the world. The SFRJ then was the leader of the unclassified and the engine of fighting for equality, peace and peaceful co-existence, not to interfere in the internal affairs of other states. That this movement is significant, says the fact that today, after 60 years of living and active, it also confirms the state of international relations and the currentity of those issues that were currently in force in 1961 for members of the Unclassified Movement. I would take the opportunity to congratulate the state leadership on the brilliant organisation of the summit of non-classified people, which took place in Belgrade on the 60 years of the movement. Even 120 countries of the world are gathering today, mainly from Africa, Asia, and South America. I personally participated in the work of the summit where I was invited as a National MP and as the grandson of Josip Broz Tito, who knows a large number of presidents, prime ministers and other non-classified officials. I want to thank you today, National Assembly President Ivica Dacic, who at the time when he was foreign minister restored many friendships with non-classified countries, visited some countries where none of our officials were 30 years old and ensured the withdrawal of Kosovo's recognition from non-classified countries. I saw in person at the summit how much respect President Dacic enjoys among the non-classified. I also want to thank non-classified countries that have not recognised Kosovo unilaterally, as well as those countries that have withdrawn recognition in the past five years. Co-operation among non-classified countries also referred to military-technical co-operation. The then-Yugoslavia was one of the largest manufacturers of military equipment, and the JNA unfortunately after 2000, the Serb army was destroyed, but it is fortunate in recent years that our military, equipment and weapons are investing heavily. Serbia is for peace, but must have a strong military force to defend itself in case of need. Fortunately, Serbia again becomes an important factor of security, stability in the region, but also as a free country that has always defended itself, it is a guardian and world peace. When it comes to Egypt, I would remind you that at the time of the SFRY, we had excellent co-operation with this country in many areas, and also in the area of military co-operation, so I also see this Memorandum of Military Cooperation that we are discussing today as a sort of continuation of former co-operation. Egypt and Serbia are sincere friends and this memorandum is also a confirmation of this friendship, but a confirmation of the firm commitment of our countries to contribute to the world's peace and security, as they did in the last century. As the principle of non-classifiedness has been a non-mixing in the domestic affairs of other countries, the same principle is respected both in this memorandum and in the co-operation of Egypt and Serbia in the military sector. This co-operation is also based on the principle of respect for each party's national security. The memorandum plans different forms of military co-operation, primarily military-technical co-operation, military-economic, military-science, then co-operation in the field of education and training of military forces as well as military medicine. In all these areas we had experience in the earlier period when Egyptian doctors and officers were educated here and we exchanged military technology and trained officers. Therefore, we give full support to this Memorandum, which creates a legal basis that as an independent and democratic state, they co-operate with us with the friendly state of Egypt and in the military sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-19-0.u9919	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-19-0.u9920	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, if my grandfathers who were the Equatorials could live today to speak after grandson Joseph Broz, I think they'd be proud of some changes and proud of the generations that equalized the two anti-fascist movements. I am not sorry that an anti-fascist movement is being attacked by Croats, Slovenians, Muslims, or Bosniaks, it is my fault that some Serbs are attacking us, and rather I would say evil Serbs. I think that dedication that was 85 years ago should be repeated because unfortunately, all of us, Yugoslavia in the 20th century, can be considered a memory of the Serb people. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, bridges bring people together. I think of BiH and the peoples who live in BiH all the best. I think others have had a fight with them and have paid all three peoples in the 20th century with blood, and the most common bill is, unfortunately, delivered to the Serbian people. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, statistics say the 1931 census, five years before this assembly's sanctification, is that so, Mr Martinovic, the best list in BiH carried out on the basis of religious membership. That was the most accurate thing. That's the list. The Muslims at that time were 30%, 28 to 30%, but let's assume that the data is 30% that is correct. The Serbs were 44%. The Serbs were 44% and 44%, respectively, which shows that they were Serbs, while the Muslims were 30%, which shows that they were by nationality Muslims, as they were later called. But in 1991, the thing turned, the Serbs were 31.8% in BiH, and the Muslims were, the Bosniaks were not yet there, the Muslims were 43%. On the latest census, carried out by Sarajevo authorities, they showed that the Muslim, or Bosniak, had 50.1% and the Serb 30.8%. Now look, in the 20th century, the Serbs were 1931, the Serbs were 44%, the Serbs were 30.8% in 2013, and 31.8% in 1991. The Muslims were 30%, and according to their data, there are now 50.1%. The simple statistics say that the genocide in Bosnia was, behold, I do not deny genocide, neither in Srebrenica nor in BiH, but by me, genocide was committed over the Serbian people, even worse, above truth and morality. They can't connect the bridges by connecting the two shores. Bridges must combine people with feelings that evil was done to the other side, if anything, to forgive them, they don't have to forget, but to be some forgiveness, so that the two sides can agree and understand. One building, one bridge, while Mehmed Paša Sokolović at Drina kamprii, is beautifully depicted by Brother Makarska, who revives the Pećko Patriarchi in which he was a priest. He shows that two brothers can live in harmony and help each other. But lately, I don't know what happened to the Muslims today with the Bosniaks. It was natural for them to be with the Serbs in the 20th century and the 21st century. The fact that they are not, perhaps, the desire for the West, Western Europe, etc., but I thought they were the closest to us. Bridges won't connect people unless people want to join themselves. I'm afraid there's no good will. The genocide was made in Srebrenica, but again over the Serbs and over the truth. When the Serb army entered, I say, it entered, did not win, did not take, entered Srebrenica, since 2000 Serbs, in the town itself, found only one old woman, a clan. There is, I think Ivanisevic, is so, Mr Martinovic, who entered immediately at the beginning of the Serbian army and transferred the situation that was found there, no Serb head in Srebrenica was found, so if genocide occurred, all the conditions for genocide in Srebrenica were that it was committed over the Serb people, because the troops of Naser Oric were not selectively, not segregating women and children, in 106 villages, in the municipality of Srebrenica and around the municipality of Srebrenica, where they included the fully-founded population killed, women, children, old people, and military soldiers who captured. Therefore, I do not deny genocide, I claim that it was, but above the truth and over the Serbian people, in Srebrenica, in BiH, and God also on the territory of the entire Yugoslavia, which, in my opinion, became the monument of the Serb people in the 20th century. I'll try my own case and I'll try the Muslims and the Bosniaks, I don't plant my leg, I give them my hand first, but they don't have to plant their feet either. Bridges need to bring people's hands together, not just two shores. I, on my case, will single out, since half of my father's family, after moving to Srem in 1957, and it wasn't colonization, it was economic migration. This is my father's village and my mother's, located on the three-way street of Gorazda, Pala, Gorazda municipality, Pala and Foca, belonging to the Gorazda municipality. This is in 1991, the village is called Bogovici, because after one village my ancestors solved, because there was good water, forests, and pastures, and they dealt with livestock, because they thought it was God's creation, they called the village Bogovici. For centuries, this was 1991, and there were 18 houses and 9 inhabitants, mostly old people. In 1992, there were no old men, no houses, no relatives of my father, no relatives of my mother. In 1992 it was the release of Gorazd, and here, these are burned and destroyed houses. They called this a release. No Risticevic in BiH, and there were hundreds, in Sarajevo, Gorazd and surrounding villages, no one lives anymore, nor lived after Dayton in the house he lived in 1991, and many have lost their heads. My uncle died, my uncle was killed by another son's uncle, nine relatives of my mother died, her youngest brother died. These are cemeterys in the village of Bogovici. They're cemeteries that are devastated. This is a monument in Cowards, it's on its way between Ustipraca and Rogatica. This is where my mother's relatives, as agreed upon after giving up Gorazd, were supposed to get away with Rogatica in Serbian territory. It was August 27, 1992. These were all our friends, our neighbors, this was family. Family and my mother. There are 26 victims here, there's a monument, not only killed, waited, although it's agreed to get the civilians out, there are 12, 14, etc. I don't need to explain that there are 12 middle-aged women among these, I don't need to explain that they weren't for the rifle. They were ambushed, 80 were wounded, and the crime was attributed as a crime not against Serbs, but a crime against Muslims. This is shown in “CNN”, as my father’s village was shown in favor of foreign television as Muslim, which, behold, was burned by Rističevići, only at that moment they were no longer in the village. One of them got hit, and the rest of them were liquidated. Ladies and gentlemen, at St Nicholas's in Josianica, behind the line of separation, 56 Serbs were killed, and among them as many as I know children up to the age of 12, to the glory of St. Nicholas. They were liquidated by their former neighbours and we do not forget, remember, but we forgive and offer our hand, but by lying to the latest ones, such as these, about the genocide in Srebrenica against Muslims and Bosniaks, those lies and adding the number of victims, and I, the great crime there, condemn those who committed my Serbs, I have so much power, no matter what crime was committed in spite, mother's family, father's family and close relatives. We Serbs are ready to give our hand, but we can't give a hand if they plant the leg. We can build bridges, we can want to join them, we can want to understand that people with our people, but no one should be ashamed in Serbia or outside Serbia, because they are not Serbs. No one should be ashamed because he is not a Serb, but no one will ever, after the former regime's party, ask Serbs to be ashamed because they are Serbs. Serbs have no reason to be ashamed because they are Serbs, but we are not asking others to be ashamed because they are not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-19-0.u9921	The word has a folk MP, Milija Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-19-0.u9922	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear ministers, respected colleagues, Serbian citizens, I am Milija Miletic, and I come from Svrlig, which is the most beautiful municipality in Serbia located near the town of Nis. It's the most beautiful city in Serbia. Otherwise I was elected here in the Assembly from the list Aleksandar Vukic – For our children and I represent the United Peasant Party. Dear Ministers, I will as an MP, as president of the United Peasant Party to you from this place, give you great support, to your team, to your colleagues in the ministry because your work is done in the way that it is necessary to do, how good it is for all of our citizens of Serbia, where in the past perhaps twenty days you have proposed a law that was good for me personally, because that law was given the opportunity to do video surveillance, to cover more of these inhabited places so that we could have the opportunity to prevent crimes. Crimes of the previous days, monstrous crimes in parts of southeastern Serbia, have been happening a number of bad things that might not happen tomorrow if they did. At the very least, or they didn't have the strength, the proposed law, which doesn't mean that this law, a little change, won't be in any future here in the Assembly. These five agreements that are now on the agenda, it's another good thing we're doing here, to provide something good for our citizens here in Serbia, to ensure better co-operation, to make this co-operation with our neighbours in Bosnia and Herzegovina, to provide better frequencies at border crossings, to make it easier and thus improve our friendship and everything that is needed with our neighbours. From this point on, and I've said it before, it would be good to open up another border crossing in the Književec municipality, which is a transition to Kadibogaz, a crossing that has been saved, only needs the infrastructure to equip and that would be good for all of us living there in that part of our Serbia. Another good thing about these agreements is the possibility that our friend in Austria is working to solve the problem of disasters. I can say here with pride that our government, our state, that the ministry you run now has a larger number of people dealing with lifeguards such as lifeguards, where they are now admitted to the competition more, I think 500 or 600 lifeguards. That's a big need. We've seen how much our boys are capable of and how they do it when they need it, not only here in Serbia, but they do it with our neighbours, in Northern Macedonia, Greece. Well done! These are our Serbs, these are people who are ready at all times to save lives, so whether they are the lives of our citizens or our citizens, they are all lives, they are all people. Once again, Your Honor, what you're doing is right. You and your cabinet do it the best way. I met your colleague, assistant minister, Mr. Vlado Ilic, who worked with us in Piroth, was a very responsible man, led a responsible firm, now works with you. As you do so and continue, you, headed by our Ministry of the Interior, work for the benefit of all, protect all of us and thus protect our country of Serbia. Once again, I, as an MP and president of the United Peasants' Party, will support all proposals of the agreement. In the end, as an Orthodox believer, I would like to congratulate the glory of St. Tom. It's the glory of our builders, our carpenters, our carpenters. These people are getting smaller and smaller, so these people need to be supported to work together, build, because without that, they can't. Happy glory to all those who celebrate St. Tom. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-19-0.u9923	Thank you. The time foreseen for your parliamentary group has been spent, not to say duplicated. The People's Messenger Radovan Aregina has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-19-0.u9924	Dear Vice-Presidents, fellow Members of the People's Parliament, Honored Ministers Comrade Vulin and Associates, Respected Citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I think today these agreements, which are on the agenda, that this is a very serious need for Serbia and that all countries with which we will sign the agreement and all agreements are very important both for those countries and for our Serbia, on the way to development, on the way to international co-operation. I will talk today about confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Austria in co-operation in the area of disaster protection. When we get this title, I had to in Article 4 of this law, which says, definitions, so it says, disaster, so that someone wouldn't metaphorically translate it. It says: “The disaster is an elemental accident or a technical and technological accident whose consequences threaten the safety, life and health of a larger number of people, material and cultural goods or environments in a larger extent, and whose existence or consequences cannot be prevented or removed by the regular functioning of the competent authorities and services.” In particular, by this agreement that we will all together today, hopefully, support and vote for it, I stress this "cultural good" and I think that Austria, at least as far as UNESCO is concerned, will help us with our cultural goods on KIM. It reads here in the title: "In view of the civil protection mechanism of the EU," I would like to remind many of that we once had a civil protection law in the country called SFRY, which Josaka Broz spoke of, whose very well-respected international activities brought together 120 countries, which we had civil protection law, which our fellow citizens and our brothers were before then, even 85 years ago, when this house, Slovenians just repacked, packed and gave the EU and today we are in fact functioning under that law, the Civil Protection Act. Otherwise, as far as Serbia and Austria are concerned, I think it should be noted that bilateral relations between Austria and Serbia were established in 1836, when Principality of Serbia was under the Ottoman Empire. The second date to be taken to start diplomatic relations is in 1874. In 2020, this is the time we live in now and would point out, the foreign trade exchange was a billion and 65m euros, our exports of 477,8m euros and imports of 580.9m euros. In 2019, Austria is our 13th foreign trade partner in the exchange of goods according to the criteria of our exports and 10th according to the criteria of our imports. About 60 bilateral agreements with Austria are in place. Austria is today an important business and political partner to Serbia, a positive assessment of our European pathway, and we hope they do so and will advocate EU enlargement. Austria points out that Serbia is Austria's largest and most significant partner in the Western Balkans. Austria is a country with a large Serbian diaspora. Vienna is famous for the third Serbian city in size and therefore it is very important to have comprehensive co-operation. Until today, Vienna is like a cosmopolitan town and for Serbs one of the first-election cities when they opted for life and work abroad. Our diaspora in Vienna is strong, respectable and well organized. In Austria, there are organised Serbian language schools for Serbian children born in Austria. I particularly point out that, as I come from Kladov, Timočka Krajina, Negotin and Kladovo have a large number of people, that number is in thousands, which we used to speak on temporary work in Austria, but our diaspora today in Austria, especially in Vienna, is highlighted by its work through the organisation of Serbian clubs. Some I'd point out. These are Serbian clubs from Prodrška, Jabukovac, Velika Kamenica, etc. So our co-operation with Austria is very important, especially from our neighborhood, as we now cross the border crossing of Gerdap and across Romania by 200km we are shorter in Vienna than we would go through Belgrade, as many of the parts of Romania are closer to Italy, when they go across Serbia and these are some of the benefits we use. Austria and Serbia are connected by history, sometimes by chaos. The disaster agreement is our positive future, as is the Danube that connects us. It is very important that both Austria and Serbia are two military-neutral sovereign states and that the sights of this co-operation affecting the security services, i.e. the emergency sector and the MUP, are very important that we work with one of these countries in the field, while the country is neutral military, as is Serbia. The present Minister Vulin was here in Kladov in 2014 in Tekia, when catastrophic floods occurred, and we all saw this disaster together in the May floods that occurred in Serbia, and then in September floods, which best show the importance of the emergency sector at the Ministry of the Republic of Serbia, especially when the municipality of Kladovo was then affected by streams and rivers. Many thought that Kladovo was submerged by the Danube, who then watched the news and listened, and Kladovo actually suffered a disaster from streams and rivers. Someone who visited us then and who gave us one... It's a contribution to Minister Vulin's presence here. I want to point out that this geographical position of most of Serbia, which is mountain-mounted, I say, and parallelly with Austria, we have this many possibilities and many types of co-operation in real and concrete positions to solve these problems, since we now remember that this year, Europe and many countries have been struck by fires, but we cannot forget the floods, or all the disasters that I have listed here, which are defined by law. I would particularly stress the importance of the emergency sector, for citizens of the Republic of Serbia, that firefighters are no longer firefighters, but firefighters are rescuers. So they're not just acting on fire-extinguishing, but after removing many situations, from floods, from fires, from accidents more severe, etc. In particular, rescuers, radio amateurs have helped us a lot in these floods, and it is still visible, and I especially think that the minister in his opening statement stated that our firefighters in Greece proved to be heroes, and wherever our firefighters were, there was safety for the citizens of Greece, and they removed many problems and inhaled some ways of putting out fires that were not... To say the most specifically, they patented them to the Greeks because our territory, especially down below, is being operated by a lot of these forest fires that are burdening both the Kladovo municipality and the municipality of Negotin and the Borski district, and we see that it also affects the territory of all Serbia. In particular, we have the Department of Emergency in Bor, which includes Bor, Kladovo, Negotin, Majdanpek and Donji Milanovac. I would suggest to the Ministry, this is the Agreement, but that the MUP, the Emergency Sector, to this series in the Bor Emergency Department, where they mention Bor, Kladovo, Negotin, Majdanpek and Donji Milanovac, add to the Quick Palanka area because only the Municipality of Kladovo, without the Majdanek municipality, or Donji Milanovac, the heritage of the 90km coast of Danube, i.e. that is 90km and the border and there is a lot of areas, and the Fast Palanka, sometimes the municipalities, and especially at the time of the First Serbian Uprising in the Rapid Palanca, was at the service as customs officer Vuk Karadzic, and Vuk Karadzic was in Vienna, and it certainly makes one serious parallel. I'm just apostrophe that this agreement is very important. So here with one fire vehicle and with a few people we would cover one whole region towards Miroc Mountain, according to Negotin, Jabukovac, Udovica and the whole Grabovica field and the other, Velesnica and to the sub-base. With further reinforcements in the service of fire rescuers in the territory of Kladovo municipality, we would have protected a large part of our territory that is on the very border with Romania. I can say that at the time of Interior Minister Dacic we opened administrative services right in Donji Milanovac and now we have an emergency sector there and we have opened administrative affairs in the Rapid Palanca. If we added this, we could improve and make one contribution to the smaller migration of the people from that region. In the end, I would add that from the municipality of Kladovo and the municipalities of Negotin and other municipalities of that part of Serbia, I would say northeastern or eastern Serbia, however anyone wants, geographically to mark it, we have received from the city of Vienna quite certain fire trucks as a donation. So, I think that the agreement with Austria, especially this agreement on disasters, natural disasters and all these problems, will allow us to develop further and further co-operate with our diaspora from our region, which is also no longer a diaspora that does some work, not to say which, but today we have a large number of significant scientific workers in Austria originating in Timočka krajina, originating in the Municipality of Kladovo and Negotin. Dear Minister, I think that you will make an effort, as you all are doing, to help bring something to life in the High Palanca, and to bring the end back to life, in honor of Vuk Karadzic, in honor of the agreement with Austria. Thank you. Long live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-19-0.u9925	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from the magistrate Jadranka Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-19-0.u9926	Thank you. Dear citizens, honourable ministers, military representatives, we have all agreed here that the proposed laws and how good, meaningful, and above all, are in the interest of our citizens. I wanted to say something, and not by accident on this subject, about the proposal for a Memorandum of Confirmation Act relating to military co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Arab Republic of Egypt. Of course, the main carriers of this memo are, above all, the defence departments of the two countries, so the Ministry of Defence of our country and the Ministry of Defense of Egypt, but as I said, I'm going to start from the fact that I haven't chosen this topic by accident. From some of my artistic first steps began my intensive co-operation, my artistic, with the military, and it lasts to this day. Maybe people expected me to talk about culture, but believe me, this is a subject I'm happy to talk about, because my relationship with our army, which is full of respect, respect. It may not be the assembly's place for this word, but I'll say it, truly sincere and loving of our army and admiration. And in many years, which are behind us, the crisis, when it was necessary, and how uncompromising and brave and defended, justified and for a reason. That's why I look forward to every advance of our army, and I think that through this memo and through this cooperation our army will advance. We have already heard that this memo refers to a whole series of areas of the military, of military technical cooperation, military-science, education, training, military medicine, and I am particularly pleased. Of course, this memorandum put into the legal framework all the rights and obligations of the two parties and in some ways defined everything in particular what is important for this cooperation. Egypt is certainly the country with which we have already cooperated. I have to point out, right in this House, we've talked about other types of co-operation with this wonderful and great country. I must underline that intensive co-operation in the area of culture, but also tourism in recent years. But especially for me, it is a great pleasure that, I think, especially now, this military co-operation is intensifying. With this very friendly country, I have had the opportunity to get to know myself professionally, but also through close contact with its diplomatic representatives and before I become a member of Parliament, and later, now as a member of Parliament and through work, through Francophony, I would say, the most active ambassadors in our country, that is exactly the Egyptian ambassador, his Excellency Mr. Amr Alguveilly, with whom I had close cooperation through Francophony. He's the president of a group of ambassadors, founded here in 2018. And always benevolent, friendly, with great harmony and sacrifice, which is another sign to which our two countries share an honest and profound friendship. Not to mention the representatives of Egypt that I met with in Tunisia as part of an Observer mission through Francophonia, when our country first participated in the presidential and parliamentary elections in Tunisia in 2019. So on all sides are evidence of an extraordinary friendship between our two countries. I welcome this cooperation and follow-up. And when I talk about Egypt, I can't help but mention that I'm extremely happy and happy, and I'm happy to send along with all my congratulations to our leadership, just recently the summit of the Unclassified in Belgrade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-19-0.u9927	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Diana Radovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-19-0.u9928	The President-in-Office, distinguished Ministers Vulin with his associates, colleagues and fellow MPs, agreements on the agenda between the Republic of Serbia and the BiH Council of Ministers on border crossings, joint locations at border crossings, as well as on border traffic, in a comprehensive manner regulate the area of border crossings and border regimes between the two countries. Whenever there are topics on the agenda relating to agreements relating to Serbia and BiH's co-operation, we are starting from the fact that during the history of previous decades and centuries, these spaces have linked economic, demographic, cultural, but above all family ties, traditions of mutual business relations, leaving us with tasks to continue continued bilateral co-operation. Serbia shows that it is of particular importance to improve and preserve good bilateral relations with BiH and, when it comes to the security sector, that is, security co-operation, which these agreements speak of, and this sector is a very important factor in more comprehensive relations. I don't particularly need to explain how important it is for our country to have, with its neighbours, with our bordering countries, joint plans and measures, activities, as well as a successful and effective implementation of security measures, which will prevent illegal border crossings, then, of any kind of cross-border crime that is related to preventing such occurrences. Of course, there can be a simple example that every pack of cigarettes, every kilogram of tobacco that is illegally transferred to Serbia and sold without excise duties actually means less resources that our country will spend on education, spend on better work of education, better work by our police and funds that will be allocated for that purpose, but certainly less resources for larger infrastructure projects. However, I believe that the largest benefits of these agreements are the citizens of the border areas, whose everyday joint operation is the basis and the good foundation of good co-operation from these two countries. In this way, better regulation of border traffic, better regulation of the border regime, enables residents of border areas to move easier within border areas, easier crossing borders, but thus warns illegal crossings and illegal migration. The immeasurable importance this agreement has for the local population is, and I can safely argue, given that I come from the municipality, when it comes to bordering with Bosnia and Herzegovina, probably the most specific municipality in Serbia, in the Priboj municipality. You, Minister, must know that this is a municipality where 2/3 of our territory is, in fact, in the cross-border area. This implies that a large number of residents daily because of the intertwination of borders with Bosnia and Herzegovina, who, when going to work or school, also work on their agricultural holdings daily, cross even four border crossings. It is important for us to regulate border crossings, to improve and legislation in this sense, and it best says that when we opened a small border crossing in 2016 in the Care Polje, which is not far from the main border crossing. This small border crossing that is open to pedestrians and traffic is actually a great relief for the people of our municipality, for the people of Rudo municipality and for the last five years it has worked in the great interest of both states, but for the great pleasure of our citizens. It is very important that, in addition to the Municipality of Priboj, which has significant benefits from these agreements, as many as 10 municipalities next to us will also feel a relief in terms of crossing the borders, for the release of the usual administrative procedures when it comes to residents of border areas, by shortening the waiting time at the main border crossings, and these are mainly the municipalities of the Zlatibor County, Užica City, Čajetina, Bajina Basta but also a large number of municipalities of the Mačvanski County. In fact, this agreement regulates a special newspaper when it comes to bordering with BiH, which is to determine exactly certain border crossings, i.e. crossing points, where our residents of border areas will be able to cross the border, as the minister said, much shorter. They won't have to cross tens of miles more to get to the main border crossing. In this agreement, we see that nine of these transition points have been identified, and for the end from which I come, two of them are particularly significant. It is a transitional place in Olandici, on the road of the ingredients – Ustibar, and the walking bridge Gornji Uvac, which connects Rač in Serbia and Gornji Uvac to BiH. The more efficient management of borders, as well as more efficient work of border crossings, is particularly facilitated the lives of residents of these border areas in the summer months, when the season is and when they are non-transparent columns, so that by regulating these border crossings and liberating them and dispensing them, we actually get that our citizens can cross the border much faster and more efficiently, and therefore have much better conditions to do their daily work and solve their daily problems. As a result, for the citizens of the border municipalities of these two countries, this agreement and the contribution of this agreement are not only measured in the better communication of the state authorities of these two countries, it is not even measured in the rational use of the resources used in control of the prevention of cross-border infringements, but in the first place it is measured in a better way that with its neighbours from the neighbouring country, which I say again, due to the geographical width and proximity the most directed. Of course, when we talk about it, it is important to mention that a similar problem existed with the border with Montenegro and has just been solved through one of these types of agreements and through its implementation where, of course, this regulation helps the everyday normal functioning of citizens and of Serbia-Montenegro and thus facilitates their functioning and enables better living conditions. In the end, I will only say that BiH and Serbia's co-operation may be the crown, which is the highway to Belgrade -- Sarajevo. It is one of the biggest and most valuable projects, not only these two countries, but also the Balkans. I think this highway is particularly important because we have common border crossings on it. It will be the first common crossing on a highway with countries in the region where we will have common border crossings, and in this way we will shorten waiting time, reduce transport costs, allow citizens to move faster, enable faster flow of goods, but thus relieve other border crossings towards BiH. With projects like this, Serbia and BiH are undoubtedly entering a new phase of relations, a phase that will measure the achieved projects, built roads, a more developed economy of the two countries, all in order to benefit the citizens of both Serbia and BiH. Our parliamentary group, the SPS parliamentary group, will be happy to support these agreements, as it promotes regional co-operation, and what is particularly important for us allows for a better and better quality life for all of our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-19-0.u9929	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Dusan Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-19-0.u9930	Ladies and gentlemen, it is probably not a small number of those who seem at first sight to have these agreements with BiH on border crossings, common border crossings and border traffic as a mere formality. However, hundreds of thousands of citizens of the Republic of Serbia and BiH will benefit from them. All who travel from one country to another. The highest benefit will be for more than 500,000 people, citizens of the two states living in the border area, then about a million and a half Serbian citizens originating in BiH or occupied Republika Srpska, who visit their ancestors at all times or occasionally. Of course, it will benefit Serbia's economy, thousands of businesses that co-operate with BiH's economy. Of all these agreements, the most important thing is the border traffic agreement, and I will now present some information that speaks of the importance of the agreement. The agreement covers a total of 17 municipalities – 11 in Serbia, six in BiH. The agreement included 610 settlements – 160 in Serbia, 450 in Republika Srpska and BiH. The agreement concerns 12 urban settlements – seven in the Republic of Serbia, five in BiH. In Serbia it is Bogatić, Banja Koviljaca, Loznica, Mali Zvornik, Ljubovija, Bajana Basta and Priboj, and in Republika Srpska and BiH Bijeljina, Zvornik, Bratunac, Srebrenica, Rudo. On one side and on the other, the agreement covers approximately 250,300,000 citizens. What will be the consequences of this agreement? As more colleagues here have said, it will be easier to cross the border, people will cross the border more often, thus making unbreakable ties between BiH and Serbia stronger, even stronger ties between Serbia and Republika Srpska, even stronger ties between two parts of the Serbian people, as well as ties between the Republic of Serbia and our Muslim brothers in BiH. These agreements with BiH have been a continuation of a smart and successful regional co-operation policy that Serbia has been leading since Aleksandar Vukic and SNS, a policy that has resulted in the signing of more significant agreements with neighbouring countries – Macedonia, Albania, Montenegro, BiH and Hungary. Among other things, to remind Serbia's citizens in Macedonia, Albania, Montenegro and BiH can travel only with a personal ticket and that in these countries the prices of telephone traffic that are valid in Serbia, for BiH citizens, mean no more roming. Someone here mentioned, we already have two common border crossings, one in Preshevo with Macedonia and we have one common border crossing with Hungary. I'm just going to remind myself of some consequences of interstate agreements with BiH. Serbian citizens in BiH can travel only with a ID card and remain there for three months, regardless of the state of the BiH epidemic, regardless of the epidemiological measures in force in the neighbouring country. Serbian citizens in BiH can travel without any confirmation of vaccination, without any evidence of a positive PCR test or antigen test. In case of health problems, Serbian citizens in BiH have the right to free healthcare in all homes of health and hospitals. On today's day last year, in fact, as of today's day last year, Serbian drivers do not have to have green cards when entering BiH. As of July 1st this year, a roming has been lifted in the telephone traffic between BiH and Serbia, so now that you're on the phone from Belgrade, when you call Banja Luka, Kupres or Prijedor, it's like calling Smederevo, Nis or any other city in Serbia, and vice versa -- when you're on the phone from Trebinj, Bugojna or Sarajevo, when you call Belgrade, it's like calling Gradiška, Prijedor or Bosanski Novi. Also, all these mobile telephony packages that are valid in Serbia are mainly valid in BiH territory. All these agreements have simplified and cheaper the crossing of the border between BiH and Serbia. Until a few years ago, until all these agreements were signed, every trip to BiH, as well as every trip abroad, was complicated in both administrative and psychological terms. Now, to enter BiH, you need nothing more from documents than you need, let's say, when you head from the Great Plan to Belgrade. It's enough to have an ID, and if you have a car, it's enough to have a registration. No more need to take out the green card, no more need to take out special health insurance for yourself and family members, no more need to have another mobile phone in which you will buy some mobile phone card after you go to BiH, no more need to turn off the internet after crossing the border and buy a mobile package from one of their operators. We are also discussing today a common border crossing agreement. The agreement will certainly speed up border crossings and reduce border congestion. Speaking of crowds, I use the opportunity to ask the police minister, my countryman from the heroic Mania, Alexander Vulin, to force the border police chiefs to do their job a little more efficiently, so that every little thing doesn't happen to them, let's say, at the Raca border crossing of the car column at the entrance to Serbia is in the middle of the Sava bridge, and only then do they remember that they release the second or third tape for entry into Serbia. Speaking of police, I have been taking the opportunity to commend Mr. Vulin for a truly remarkable shift in police work in the fight against organised crime since he led the Serbian police. I think Serbia and BiH's relations in some way, or maybe it's better to say Serbia's relationship to BiH are best painted and symbolized by two bridges -- one is a bridge on the Drina, which is already over and the other is a bridge on the Sava, between Raca and Bijeljina. This bridge on the Drina between Bratunac and Love, which bears the symbolic name "Bratoljub", was funded by the Republic of Serbia. 13m euros were invested in its construction. He is ready for traffic release and when this will happen depends on administrative reasons, on the government's agreement in Belgrade and the government in Sarajevo. What is a fact is that it is a beautiful bridge, that it will strengthen and strengthen ties between Podrinj and the Republic of Serbia, between BiH and the Republic of Serbia. The bridge is 213 meters long, 14 meters wide, has eight pillars, four of which are located in the Drina River. During yesterday's return from Kupres from my hometown, I was convinced that good paces were also being made to build a bridge across the Sava, between Raca and Bijeljina. I think there is another or two pillars missing to build in the river, so the bridge can reach the other Serbian side on the coast of Republika Srpska. The bridge will be 1,300m long, about 30m wide and will represent one of the longest and most beautiful bridges in the region. The bridge will be part of a highway connecting Belgrade-Zagreb highway via Kuzmin with Bijeljin. The highway will cost about 220m euros and most of that money was provided by the Republic of Serbia. What do these agreements we are discussing today and what do these millions of euros say? They say two things, at least two things. The first thing is that Serbia is developing, that Serbia's economy is developing, that Serbia's economy has recovered from looting privatisation, one of the biggest robberies in Serbia's recent history, which was carried out during DOS rule, under the conductor's DS and its leaders. The second thing he's saying, he's talking about fraternities, strong ties, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia, isn't just an empty story like it was ten or 15 years ago, but it's a strategic definition of the state of Serbia, the government of the Republic of Serbia and President Aleksandar Vukic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-19-0.u9931	Thank you. The word has a national MP, Dubravka Filipovski.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-19-0.u9932	I would like to take advantage of the opportunity for today's debate and to commend the representatives of the MUP and you personally in the fight against corruption and crime. You are very good at developing this criminal octopus where, unfortunately, some of the highest MUP officials are involved. While we're discussing a set of these agreements today, the arrest of the rest of Belivuk's group was under way. I would like Serbia to be an example of other countries of the region, especially Western Balkan countries, in implementing zero tolerance towards crime and corruption, because crime and corruption are like cancer, like weeds. If they don't stop, they spread just like this. I have come forward for this debate today as president of the Friendship Group with Egypt and to my great satisfaction, I can point out that friendship between the Republic of Serbia and the Arab Republic of Egypt is decades-long, that both countries are showing a desire to improve our relations, which would above all be of general benefit and satisfaction to the citizens of Egypt and Serbia. Our diplomatic relations were established decades ago. The first embassy Serbia opened in the Arab world was right in Egypt. It is clear that Belgrade and Cairo were pillars of the establishment of the Unclassified Movements and this last summit of the Unclassified Movements held recently in Belgrade, has shown great respect for Serbia's members of the Unclassified Movement, but also the member states of the Unclassified Movement have shown respect for Serbia's territorial sovereignty and integrity. Egypt is known for its respect for international law and UN resolution. At all international forums and organisations, he did not vote against Serbia's interests. I would like to remind the citizens of Serbia that Egypt was restrained while trying to so-called. Kosovo enters Interpol and UNESCO. I also want to say that as far as the Arab Republic's relations with the so-called so-called so-called so-called Arab Republic are concerned. Kosovo that the pro-Islam president has been overthrown, President Mursi recognised Kosovo's independence before the end of his rule. The decision has never been verified in the Egyptian Parliament, nor has Egypt activated or operationalised this decision by any formal act to Pristina until today. As for parliamentary co-operation between Serbia and Egypt, I would like to say that it is continuous and dynamic. A parliamentary group of friendships constantly exists in our parliament. In this assembly, there are 52 members, showing that the MPs and MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia want intensive parliamentary co-operation with the Arab Republic of Egypt. An intensive and concrete and parliamentary co-operation between the two countries also contributed to the Memorandum of Understanding signed two years ago in Cairo during a visit by the then-president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Maja Gojkovic, with a delegation of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Economic co-operation between Serbia and Egypt is on the rise. She could be even better. It operates on the basis of the Joint Mixed Committee that formed both governments. Many agreements between Egypt and Serbia have been signed under the Joint Mixed Committee. One of them is the military co-operation agreement we are discussing today, which provides a legal basis for improving co-operation in the defence area between Serbia and Egypt. Our agricultural products dominate Serbia and Egypt's economic trade. I just want to illustrate that in January – December 2018, Serbia's exports to Egypt amounted to 340m euros. Of these, 21 million were exports of Serbian agricultural products to Egypt and imports of 32 million 509 000. It is important to point out that we also have a direct plane line between Belgrade and Cairo, that Serbia is the fourth country in the world on tourist visits, to step up co-operation between the cities of Serbia and Egypt. A recent business delegation from Alexandria also visited Novi Sad. As you respected ministers said this morning, at the beginning of today's debate, Egypt is going through a period of economic reform, during a period of reconstruction, building a great one. It is a powerful, strong country in the Arab world, on the African continent, and therefore this Memorandum of Understanding in the area of defence is one step higher in co-operation between the two countries. When it comes to the agreement between Serbia and Austria on co-operation in the area of disaster protection, it is really important from the aspect of climate change. It is a very important experience in floods that have hit both Austria and Serbia. I believe that Serbia will improve its environmental standards and activities through regional projects in the implementation of the Green Agenda, by increasing budget resources and many projects with the countries of the region and the world in the area of environmental protection. When it comes to BiH, it is important to point out that Serbia when it comes to all agreements with the countries of the region is defined for peace, for dialogue, for improving economic co-operation. This is also an opportunity to call on BiH in its debate to consider joining the open Balkans, an initiative launched by Serbia along with Northern Macedonia and Albania primarily because of the flow, open flow and people and capital. I would really agree when it comes to this agreement with my esteemed colleague, Milimir Vujadinovic, the authorised representative of today's Parliamentary Group, Aleksandar Vukic, for our children, when he said that the example of BiH's co-operation should be in fact co-operation between Hungary and Serbia. Members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia delegation in the autumn meeting of the Council of Europe had the opportunity to hear the presentation of Foreign Minister Petra Sjatra, who commended Serbia in the area of respect for the rights of national minorities in front of all members of the Council of Europe and pointed out that Serbia should be an example in Europe for those countries that should improve respect for national minorities. It's really been a pleasure to hear. At the end of this presentation, I cannot without congratulating representatives of the Serb list on a convincing victory, in the October 17th election in KIM, and these elections have shown that Serbs are unique when it is most difficult for them to believe in Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic's politics. In the voting day, I will support the proposed agreements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-19-0.u9933	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-19-0.u9934	Dear vice-presidents of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, respected ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, are ahead of us with agreements between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of BiH that are very important not only for improving the economic relations between the two countries but also for the daily life of both countries' citizens. One agreement accurately regulates the introduction into the legal traffic of the Republic of Serbia's border crossing, according to my colleagues and colleagues, Ljubovija-Bratunac. This is the first and common border crossing between the two countries, between the Republic of Serbia and BiH. The Republic of Serbia, as you know, has funded the construction of the bridge and BiH is building a common crossing. The border traffic agreement allows citizens of the two countries living in the territory of one state, and work and school in the territory of another country, to carry out their own activities by means of an easier procedure and which is very important without the possession of travel documents crossing the state border and doing their daily life activities, and of course we have some problems here. The problem is now resolved to the satisfaction of the citizens of one state and another. Dear People's MPs, Mr. Minister, I particularly underline this, when it comes to BiH, it is very important to stress that the Republic of Serbia respects BiH's integrity and integrity as well as the integrity of Republika Srpska within BiH. Also, respected citizens, it is very important that the Republic of Serbia expects BiH to respect the territorial integrity, that is, the integrity of the Republic of Serbia. Ladies and gentlemen, the Republic of Serbia also expects a new representative of the international community for BiH, Mr. Kristian Schmidt, to have an impartial balanced approach because the unhinged representatives of the international community were unilaterally observing things in BiH and we were eyewitnesses of it. What is very important to stress is that the peoples of BiH should decide their own fate with as little pressure and confusion on the part of individual countries and individual NGOs as we have had in the past. For example, a coalition of NGOs The Igman Initiative and its members do not think as I have now pointed out. The co-chair of the initiative Milan Antonijevic, and Prof. Ivo Viskovic, daily invent lies at the expense of the president of the Republic of Aleksandr Vukic and the state of Serbia. Antonijevic said I quote, Serbia should stop mixing in a destructive way in BiH. Belgrade's goal is to round the axis of Belgrade-Banja Luka – Podgorica – Kosovo Mitrovica, and the plan needs to be narrowed down, a final quote. I'm asking Professor... Viskovic and Milan Antonijevic, where is it Kosovo Mitrovica, where is it gentlemen, well, not outside the Republic of Serbia? So you see what this is about and what these representatives are talking about. When it comes to Egypt, since my colleagues and colleagues have already spoken, I will say one piece of information very interesting, and that the friendly relations between Serbia and the Arab Republic of Egypt are in the distant past. Somehow, we said 50 or 100 years ago today rather than 800 years ago. In the second half of the 12th century, St. Sava, the brother of Serbian King Stefan the First, visited, among other things, the Egyptian during his second trip to the sacred places in the east. Before going to Mount Sinai, he visited Egypt’s sultan El. Malik, El, Kamila, of the Euubid Dynasty, who received it and welcomed it with great state honours. From Cairo, the sultan sent Svego Sava to Mount Sinai, giving him gifts, with extraordinary gifts from the Nile River. Since then, ladies and gentlemen, to this day, friendly relations between the two countries have improved until today. It is expected, as Mr. Vulin stressed, that Egypt will get the strength in the future to withdraw recognition of the false state of Kosovo. Dear ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs and respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, part of the opposition gathered around Dragan Gilas and Vuk Jeremic, on a daily basis, but just daily, they make up lies, advocates unhappiness, and what Veljo Ilic would say is theft. Here, I'm going to say a few differences between them and Alexander Vukic and us today. First, you have an illegally built shed on the Savamalaj, full of mud, full of garbage, snake and frog litter, which is represented by Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic and Zoran Lutovac. On the other hand, you have built Belgrade on water, Belgrade and Serbia's pride, one of the most beautiful sites in this part of Europe, led by Aleksandar Vukic. Furthermore, on the one hand, you have thieves, frauds, lesbians with accounts in Mauritius and 56 other countries, led by Dragan Djilas and Vuk Jeremic, and on the other hand you have majority Serbia, normal people, who live from their work and led by Aleksandar Vukic. Let's move on, on the one hand you have politicians like Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic and others, who only care about their personal interests and combinations, secret accounts by many destinations of the world from Hong Kong to Switzerland, and on the other hand you have politicians who are led by Aleksandar Vukic, who are working for the benefit of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Furthermore, on the one hand, we had, in fact, all the devastated and exhausted roads and roads, unbuilt bridges, and highways, railways led by Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic, and on the other hand we have built highways, roads, bridges, railways across Serbia that are symbolized by Aleksandar Vukic with a group of his politicians. On the one hand, we have politicians led by Dragan Djilas and Vuk Jeremic for whose time we haven't had a hospital built, we haven't even had health homes, we haven't even had built clinical centres, with the worst health care in Europe. On the other hand, we have politicians led by Aleksandar Vucic with built homes of health, with built hospitals, with built clinical centres and for built covid hospitals. Eyewitnesses are citizens of the Republic of Serbia. On the one hand, we have politicians led by Dragan Djilas, a former Điki Mafia, Vuk Jeremic, during which we did not have built or renovated primary schools buildings, high school buildings, or college buildings. Our education was at the lowest level in the history of school. Schooling during them had no dual education, no information technology. They were, as you know, opposed in this high house. On the other hand, you have politicians who are led by Aleksandar Vukic whose time has been built and renovated by numerous primary schools, secondary schools, colleges and gymnasiums. In my account over 200, during which dual education was introduced into school and very well functioning and information technologies. The eyewitnesses are the parents of our students, our students and citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Furthermore, on the one hand, you have politicians who have destroyed the Army of Serbia, drowned their weapons. Fired the most capable generals from the Serbian Army, 28 generals and retired the best officers. They brought the army down to a fire unit headed by Boris Tadic, Vuk Jeremic and Dragan Djilas. On the other hand, you have Alexander Vukic, whose time the Serbian Army has been modernised, modernised, equipped and brought to an envious level, ready to meet all security challenges. Eyewitnesses are citizens of the Republic of Serbia. On the one hand, you have politicians Boris Tadic, Dragan Dilas, Vuk Jeremic, whose time has destroyed the economy by savage, robbery privatisation and fired exactly 576,325 workers and left them out of work. On the other hand, you have politicians led by President Aleksandar Vukic for whose time hundreds of factories have been built throughout the Republic of Serbia, we have great employment, we have industrialization, that is, the modernisation of the Republic of Serbia. On the one hand, we have politicians Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic, Boris Tadic, whose authorities had 26% unemployment, and on the other hand you have politicians led by Aleksandar Vukic, where unemployment was reduced from 26% to 9% with a tendency to further lower unemployment. On the one hand, you have politicians in the image of Dragan Gilas, called Điki Mafia, Boris Tadic, Vuk Jeremic, leader of an international gang of thieves and frauds who have given up our southern Serbian province of KIM, I have often quoted in this home, today I have no intention. On the other hand, you have politicians who are led by Aleksandar Vukic who will never sign, nor admit so-called. the false state of Kosovo. On the one hand, you have politicians who gave up Jelizara Smederevo, who wanted to shut her down. Zoran Zivkovic, visiting on one TV under the control of Dragan Gilas, told – shut down Jelizar Smederevo, let's send the workers home. On the other hand, we have politicians led by Aleksandar Vucic who performed the revitalization of Željzara Smederevo, with good business and no loss. Eyewitnesses are citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Not to add up, just one more. On the one hand, you have politicians led by Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic, who destroyed RTB Bor, and on the other hand you have politicians led by Aleksandar Vukic, who revitalised RTB Bor and brought him to an envious level. I could talk all night, but I have no intention of bothering you anymore. Respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, honourable MPs, continue attacks every day, from time to time, on Alexander Vukic, his family, his parents. The curses are coming down every day. Here, you have seen Gilas Vidojkovic, who, in direct transmission, cursed his mother to President Vukic, quote: "Does that look like "N1", p... You son of a bitch, you hear that, you fool? “, ” finished the quote. Can you believe that's said by associate Dragan Gilas and Vuk Jeremic? What is very important, it was not condemned by any NGO, it was not condemned by any news association, nor by political parties. Some even sided with him. Look at the wonders, respected citizens, supported by Prof. Dr. Vodnelic Rakic, who last night for two hours on one television under the control of Dragan Djilas swears on the president of the Republic, the state of Serbia and the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Imagine what she said, and I quote, "Vidojkovic curses colourfully," finished the quote. Dear citizens, that means – picturesque. I quote, "He curses densely," finished the quote. It's a German word, not a Latin word, as journalists say, so it's a pleasant curse. Can you believe, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, that these curses are supported by once-in-a-lifetime professor of law school? Can you believe she supports that? Where's your moral character, Mrs. Vodnelic? I assure you that it is best to read at least one pedagoggy and chapter – a character of professors and teachers. Get a pedagoggy from Prof. Dr. Radivoj Kulic, Prof. Dr. Kachapor Sait or Prof. The thorn, any, and even take that postwar, after World War II, Pataki, etc., and you'll see if you'll have at least a little bit of strength, when you read it, to at least be a little ashamed. The support of Vidojkovic was given by Zoran Lutovac, one of the presidents of one of those, the Democratic Party, otherwise the people call him – a stray, because he strayed into politics, you saw, the people saw everything. Professor Vodnelic Rakić is constantly presenting untrues at the expense of Aleksandra Vukic. So she severely insulted President Aleksandar Vukic and our esteemed MP Vladimir Djukanovic, saying, quoting: "Alexander Vukic has traineeship exercises at Vladimir Djukanovic's," the quote concluded. By doing so, Professor, you have humiliated not President Aleksandr Vukic and Vladimir Djukanovic, but you have humiliated yourself and your professor's career in the worst way possible, if you have one when you say this. Gilas's brother is attacking Vladimir Djukanovic, and I won't talk about it. Let me just mention on March 30, 2019, when he was attacked in front of his three underage children and his wife by the most disgusting insults, and no one reacted, no political parties, no NGOs, no one. Dear People's MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, while Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic daily attacks the disgusting lies of the president of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic attacks citizens of the Republic of Serbia and the state of Serbia, until then Alexander Vukic implements a policy of peace, security policy, health policy of all our citizens, not only in the Republic of Serbia, but also in the environment, economic progress policy of our country, a policy to seek a compromise, lasting and sustainable solution for our southern Serbian province, all on behalf of our citizens and the future of our children headed by Alexander Vukic. Cheers!
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-19-0.u9935	Thank you, Professor Atlagic. The word is Violet Okoljić.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-19-0.u9936	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, we have three very important agreements signed today between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which regulate the movement of border traffic, border crossings and common locations at border crossings. In addition to the new border crossing, we plan to introduce passes for citizens living in the border zone, both for those living in the Republic of Serbia and for those living in Bosnia and Herzegovina. These agreements are only, in general, one in a series of steps towards facilitating the movement of people, goods, capital and services that will greatly simplify the lives of our citizens. That is exactly our goal, to enable citizens of Serbia, but also our neighbours and neighbours in the environment a healthy foundation to strengthen our countries, to strengthen our co-operation and to strengthen comprehensive bilateral relations. If you really want honest and real relations and co-operation, then try to avoid those staunch phrases and the already famous rhetoric that Bosnian politicians have been using for years, and I have seen that some colleagues who are not in the hall today are also using. In my presentation, I could also look back on all the negative things that are somewhat disrupting relations between Serbia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, so I could also look back on the attack on the President of the Republic that took place in the Potocari in 2015, so I could look back on the collapse of the Orthodox cemetery around Tuzla, and I could remind citizens, and I believe that the citizens know that, at least those who have travelled through the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, that every inscription and every sign on which the Cyrillic name is practically crossed. It's no problem to forgive events, cemeteries to arrange these signposts to clean up. The problem is that the established rhetoric has been repeated for many years and that such rhetoric has absolutely no benefit to the citizens of neither Serbia nor Bosnia and Herzegovina and all the peoples living in Bosnia and Herzegovina. But that's exactly the kind of rhetoric that leads to events that truly those who do them should be ashamed of themselves. That Serbia is sincere and serious in its intention to work to strengthen our bilateral relations, to strengthen both the economic and political our region, shows the already mentioned visit of the President of the Republic, then as prime minister, the Potocari 2015 show a number of joint infrastructure projects, show also donations of vaccines, show donations of respirators, medical equipment, and at times when Bosnia and Herzegovina was extremely necessary and I can say the most needed at these moments. Over two billion euros in Serbia has so far invested in the development of local infrastructure, in the development of schools, roads, kindergartens. I just don't understand how some Bosnian politicians don't put their finger on the head and not think about how much more investment would have been in Bosnia and Herzegovina if they had accepted Serbia's hand and joined the Open Balkans initiative, how much benefit would that bring to the citizens and Bosnia and Herzegovina, but also the Republic of Serbia. I sincerely hope and deeply believe that all those who lead politics in the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina will understand the importance of a joint performance and even stronger bilateral co-operation, because we are the most honest, the closest partners and each other we must be there when it is most needed and we must make an effort to share the greatest pain, but also to share those greatest successes of which we are actually about to achieve. In the hope that we will further strengthen bilateral co-operation in the future, I will certainly support these proposals of the agreement, as well as any proposals that aim to improve the lives of our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-19-0.u9937	Thank you, Mrs. Okokoliæ. The word has Adam Shukalo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-19-0.u9938	Thank you, Chairman. In my humble opinion, I will say that these two laws concerning the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, especially at this given moment, may be the most important thing that has happened in relation to the two countries in the past. That these aren't big words and the content itself, let me say, of these agreements, that is, the law as we normally called them, especially for the reason that they, which questions they do, are primarily what life issues they do. All of us who travel throughout our lives on the route of Serbia – Bosnia and Herzegovina or, more specifically, to say Republika Srpska and Serbia, all those who have something in the region, and primarily in relation to the goods and each other's trades between the two countries, and it is primarily this to say, those drivers who have been waiting for days at the border crossings which we, along the way and quickly pass at the border crossings, as well as all the locals in the border areas that we have counted here, who live one life together with some real, how someone wants to call either the artificial border on the Drina or on some other rivers, this agreement can be done for a simple reason because it will mean that their business, their life and everything else will be facilitated. For this reason, this agreement, i.e. these two agreements, is important. I personally care for this reason, because today we are also going to adopt these agreements both practically and before there was traffic on the bridge built by Serbia in Ljubljana, we are going to invest a great deal of money in this and the border crossing that it was officially meant to make and end Bosnia and Herzegovina, finally to function. I should also say to express my dissatisfaction that because of certain situations that have been complicated and in local self-government, above all in Bratunc, that bridge and now the first, common border crossing has not yet been implemented. Please also Minister Vulina, and Prime Minister, and Serbian President, and all those who have the authority to talk to people in the local self-government of Bratunac Municipality as soon as possible, because of unresolved property relations, building someone there, as far as I've heard gas stations and some motel entering the border crossing area. And it has been complicated for a long time now by this kind of story which means that for the first time, to say a common integrated border crossing has already come to life, or he could have lived bigger, if we were to look at it from Serbia's position, if we were to look unilaterally. Of course, we know that life is not one-sided, that the relationship between not only the two states, but two local self-governments is not easy, and in this kind of story in any case Serbia has not only done everything, but all of them on one side of the Drina River are waiting for this process to accelerate and to give answers that are necessary in this direction. I hope that any private interest in building a pump that is necessary or a motel where someone is going to spend the night from the driver is not more important than this message which is and how important it is to us today, and that is why I think this act is important, for the first time and we are standardizing it. We are the first to norm a common border crossing between Serbia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. For the first time, we've never had that before. Instead of today, talking to Bosnia and Herzegovina that it was destroyed there, above all in Sarajevo politicians, about President Vukic's initiative, which is now a regional initiative, the Open Balkans initiative, in which one of the main examples is exactly integrated border crossings, as one that is successful between the Republic of Serbia and Northern Macedonia, so that this one lives and shows exactly the result that is necessary to show visibility to anyone who operates in the areas of the Western Balkans, how important it is and how important it is. Therefore, no one has the right at local level or at some republican level or state level to challenge such initiatives. Once again I say, Serbia is the one who started all this stuff. Serbian citizens financed, I say, and its leadership suggested that this bridge be built, and Bosnia and Herzegovina was tasked with building a border crossing. I wouldn't be too long on that kind of story, but I have to say in this context what's going on these days in Bosnia and Herzegovina and how important what messages we're sending from Serbia. Well, to address all those who in Bosnia and Herzegovina have accused and accused Serbia of meddling in Bosnia and Herzegovina's internal relations, Serbia here today in the Serbian parliament when all the bouquets in Bosnia and Herzegovina adopts two agreements and two laws governing better, more meaningful and vital decisions, laws and agreements for the benefit of all citizens living in both Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Serbia. It is a message from Serbia, and it is a message from President Aleksandar Vukic today, who he listened to well, was in Aleksinc, on issues related to developments in Bosnia and Herzegovina. He said that Serbia remains consistent with everything that is in its signature, the verification of the Dayton Agreement obliged itself to be a guarantee of the Dayton Peace Agreement, but in the future to send a message that it is in agreement with all the three peoples, as well as others who do not declare themselves so, but since we have three classical peoples who can decide by the Constitution and Bosnia and Herzegovina and all other normative acts, that their agreement is what the Republic of Serbia will support. Above all, respecting the fact that Republika Srpska is something that is primarily related to the Republic of Serbia and that all decisions that go in that direction can only go in the direction of the national consensus, not any other decision that implies, that anyone before that is from the Republic of Serbia. President Aleksandar Vukic, who listened well to him, was in Rasko along with Minister Vulin when they spoke to our Serbs with KIM, saying an extremely important information that certainly wasn't speculation, because knowing the president well I know that he is very difficult to pronounce such difficult information at all, but when he is 100% sure of them he tells them, and he said that now he is the next story that will happen in BiH that he will seek the abolition of the entity of Republika Srpska. This will certainly mean additional pressure on the Republic of Serbia, and now that you look at one side, Serbia along with its leadership is proposing open Balkan initiatives, it proposes in the parliament of the Republic of Serbia such agreements as it sign together with the Council of Ministers of BiH, and on the other hand, the accusations that are just addressed, if not today, then tomorrow at Serbia's leadership, which means that we are just meddling in internal relations in BiH. Serbia does not interfere, but has an obligation to the Serbian people, has an obligation to Republika Srpska, has an obligation under the Dayton Peace Agreement to preserve the constitutional arrangement and thus the entity to Republika Srpska and all its powers defined in the Dayton Peace Agreement. For this reason, I think that the Dayton Peace Agreement and the position taken by our leadership is the most important argument for survival, the development of Republika Srpska and the survival of our people in Republika Srpska and complete BiH. In that sense, I think it is also important to say once again that at this point we support these agreements, that we have increasingly more and more integrated common border crossings, in order to make it easier for companies, employers, workers on the move, not only BiH and Serbia, but across the Western Balkans as quickly as possible, to operate as efficiently as possible, to have barriers and to see only one conflict situation extend more and more, to understand in the coming time period that the message coming from Belgrade is a message that is good for all peoples in Bosnia and Herzegovina, for all the peoples who live in the Republic of Serbia and that the path of peace, the way of stability, the way of economic co-operation, the way of building new bridges, the way of building new integrated border crossings is the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-19-0.u9939	Thank you, Mr. Schucalo. The word is Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-19-0.u9940	Thank you. Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, distinguished ministers with associates, fellow MPs and MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I will begin my speech with the following sentence: "The foundations of modern diplomacy in the 21st century have been established and established by the statesman of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandar Vukic. The foundations of modern diplomacy are that above and above all, the interest of the Republic of Serbia, but the interest of the Republic of Serbia to create friendly relations with all countries of the world that are naturally friendly towards our country. This refers primarily to establishing friendly relations in the regional sense, whose visionary is also President of the Republic, Aleksandar Vukic, representing so-called. An open Balkan agreement on the integration of all countries located in the Balkans, with a view to faster development and economic progress, both the Republic of Serbia and all other countries, because only together Serbia has strengthened, Serbia has made significant progress, Serbia can be measured with many European Union countries in terms of economic progress and development, but our goal is for other countries to develop primarily in the region. In this sense, the vision of Alexander Vukic for the plan of the open Balkans and the integration of all countries is of immeasurable importance and this will certainly be recorded in the next historical period as a huge visionary step by Alexander Vukic. That Serbia wants to build friendly relations with countries in the region to confirm three agreements concerning cross-border co-operation with the Republic of BiH, but also an agreement to confirm co-operation between the Republic of Serbia and Austria on emergency assistance, as well as a proposal for a bill to confirm the memorandum of military co-operation between the Republic of Serbia and the state of Egypt. The role and strength of the reputation of the Republic of Serbia in the world, thanks to modern diplomacy, thanks to responsibility and given word, in particular Alexander Vukic, speaks and recently held by the summit of more than 120 countries around the world, the summit of the unclassified, which took place in Belgrade. I must also point out that after that summit, Serbia has shown that, apart from diplomacy and good international relations, with all the countries of the world, it is stronger in each segment, and especially stronger in the military plan, not to threaten anyone, but to make Serbia a military force and its members have modern tools and weapons, to live in peace, and that every enemy knows that Serbia is no longer humiliated, destroyed and destroyed. I'm going to say that the "Partner 2021" Arms Fair presents the most modern vehicles "Milos", "Lazar", and that a new armored vehicle, named after the late diplomat, has been presented and called "Lazanski" armored vehicle. This does not show Serbia its military strength, of course, but what is Alexander Vukic's policy, it is a policy of peace, stability and policy of good neighbourly relations, but also Serbia's policy, above all, its progress, development and that in all segments. When it comes to cross-border traffic, I come from the Municipality of Priboj, which is located on the three-ways of Serbia, BiH, and the Republic of Montenegro, and I must point out that this cross-border traffic agreement shows, in fact, that for the first time through these agreements, the state shows its willingness to focus and focus on the day-to-day functioning of the ordinary citizen of the Republic of Serbia, who lives in the border area, whether he lives in the area of the municipality of Priboj, or to live in the area of the neighbouring municipality of Rudo. This, of course, means a lot for their everyday life, means that workers can go freely in the border area from one border area to another, means that students can, without any obstacles and without any difficulty, go to school in the city, the one that suits them, that patients can also be treated in neighbouring countries. I must point out that President Aleksandar Vucic, except for the donation of BiH, a large amount of medical material and, of course, the donation of vaccines, made possible on 2 June to all citizens of the Republic of BiH, exactly the same conditions, can be vaccinated with whatever vaccine they want in the Republic of Serbia, and I am an eyewitness to the fact that the citizens of BiH were using, of course, fully justified and fully in line with the government's recommendation, inoculating themselves, in the House of Health in Priboj. We thus provided the hand of friendship and showed that Serbia and, in a complex pandemic situation, shows solidarity and empathy to neighbouring countries, in this case in particular BiH, but we have shown this also to Northern Macedonia, and to Montenegro, and to Italy, sending a large amount of medical equipment to planes in that first wave when Italy was truly affected by the enormous increase in the number of infected by Kovid. What I want to point out is that Aleksandar Vukic and SNS policy has absolutely the interest of Serbia and its citizens above and above all. Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic lives and works for Serbia. In contrast, some politicians from the former, now independent states of the former SFRY are deeply stuck in the past and thus do not contribute to the improvement above all to their people. What I also want to point out is that the Republic of Serbia is providing significant assistance both to cities in Republika Srpska and to cities in the Federation of BiH. As one of these cities, I will list the town of Drvar, where the Yumko factory is opened, where a huge amount of medical equipment has been sent and where the funds for their budget have been donated, but also funds for the restoration of emergency aid and home health. Serbia cares about being economically strong, it is, but Serbia also cares about other countries in the region progressing. In the end, I will conclude that in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, in the AP Kim, there is a Serb people living in front of the whole world and in front of the EU today one of the most endangered people in the heart of Europe and all but the president of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic, closes their eyes before that, and the Serbian people in the AP KIM are threatened with fundamental human rights -- the right to life, the right to move, the right to their home. Europe and the whole world must open their eyes and stand in the way of this hooliganism. I would like to point out that in Sunday's elections, the Serbian List showed complete unity, showed a style in all 10 municipalities in the AP KIM area where the majority of Serbian people lived took a convincing victory, showing that they firmly believe in Alexander Vukic's politics. I must also point out that in Mionica and Negotina, where elections have also been held, citizens of the Republic of Serbia have shown that they believe in work and results, believe in the truth that Alexander Vukic is carrying out. And that's why Alexander Vukic's policy has no alternative. Serbia has always been and will be under its leadership in the first place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-19-0.u9941	Thank you, Mrs. Jevtović Vukojičić. The last on the list to be reported for the word Dejan Kesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-19-0.u9942	The Honored Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, respected ministers with associates, respected citizens of Serbia, as my colleagues spoke during today's day, were ahead of us with proposals for a law confirming an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers on border crossings, common locations at border crossings and a proposal for an agreement relating to border locations. It is certainly that these agreements will speed up existing border procedures, simplify, but we will also achieve all necessary activities to combat illegal migration. In this way we will contribute to a faster flow of goods and people, especially when we talk about border areas where this traffic of goods and people is the most common. Serbia is a country that has taken all necessary activities by 2012 to improve co-operation with its neighbours, in order to boost economic co-operation and strengthen development not only of Serbia and the neighbouring countries, but of the whole region. The best example of wanting to work with everyone today is the Open Balkans initiative, which saw the light of day thanks to President Aleksandr Vukic's engagement. We have thus shown that we are always open to any idea that will bring us economic progress, infrastructure integration and exchange of ideas. It is also obvious that certain countries and their leaders, who did not want to accept participation in the Open Balkans initiative, remained closed in the 1990s, and not only were they imprisoned in the 1990s when we talk about the economic advances of their countries, which are in a diametrically opposite position with regard to today's Serbia, which is much more economically stronger compared to 2012, but also with regard to certain political messages that I would call exclusively attacks on Serbia and President Aleksandr Vukic. These worst attacks today come from Montenegro, Croatia and Kosovo. We are witnessing everything that happened in the previous two weeks in the space of our southern Serbian provinces of Kosovo and Metohija and all those attacks that came both from Albin Kurti and from representatives of his party "Self-determination" and from all those who are sitting in temporary Pristina institutions today. And today, the separatists at KIM Alexander Vucic is the main target, because he managed to achieve that Albin Kurti turntail retreats from both Jarinj and Brnjak and thus we achieved another diplomatic victory. It is not just us here in Belgrade, and not only the SNS MPs say so, but also the opposition to Alibino Kurti in Pristina, who says that by accepting a technical agreement in Brussels on September 30th, Aljbin Kurti again lost to Serbia and Alexander Vukic and that those who are sitting in Pristina today have returned to the 2016 agreement and that Petar Petkovic, who was the chief negotiator, succeeded together with Alexander Vukic and Serbia to strengthen the capacities of Resolution 1244 which we managed to protect the interests of the Serb people at KIM. And, on how much support Alexander Vukic is when they say he is not there, it is 91.3% in all Serbian municipalities, and it is obvious that those who sit in Pristina would prefer that Rada Trajkovic and others who would be their equal partners only continue to put millions in their pockets, and that Serbs and Serbian security at that time do not care, but it is not only that such dissonant tones come from Pristina, but these tones come from Zagreb by their President Milanovic. When he looks at Alexander Vukic, he sees all those qualities he will never be able to have, which is patriotism, diligence and combat for his people. The best indicator of this hatred that comes from Zagreb today is on over a thousand articles in the last half of the year, and only in two days in Croatia are over 120 titles against Alexander Vukic. They know from Zagreb that they are attacking Serbia because Serbia today is a security factor in the Balkans and because it is economically stronger from year to year and the best example of doing so from Podgorica is the meeting of Milanovic and Djukanovic after the establishment of Mitrovica Joaniki and instead of holding meetings on how to improve their economies that are much behind Serbia today, they are dealing with Aleksandar Vukic because they cannot present economic results to their people and that is the best indicator that Serbia is doing well today and that is the best indicator that SNS led by Alexander Vukic has a policy where patriotism is one of the basic elements of that policy. When you see Milanovic that after the end of the Western Balkan leader's summit, he has made a statement saying that Croatia can stop Serbia's Eurointegration at any time, know that Serbia is not guilty of not opening clusters, because today we have a European Commission report announcing the opening of two clusters, but official Belgrade and Aleksandar Vukic is their enemy only because we are making economic progress and we will probably catch up to them by the end of the year. What is a thorn in the eye of today's Zagreb is the diplomatic victory that Aleksandar Vukic took in 2015, when we had a customs crisis and when, thanks to the intervention of the then Chancellor Angela Merkel, Croatia withdrew for the first time since the 1990s and admitted that Serbia had won diplomatic victory. In order not to take up time, I would like to say that Alexander Vukic's 2012 policy has shown that Serbia is no longer weak, that it is no longer poor, and that it is not a topic that serves to promote others in the region. The region is really the same today, but Serbia is no longer the same. She has changed her views regarding the protection of the Serbian people and identities, and we do not want to be any more the subject of those who impose negative topics on us and who are constantly calling us the on-call culprits in this part of Europe. We respect all the nations, but we also expect all these countries and all these peoples to respect Serbia and the Serbian people. A lot of the Serbian people suffered and apologized for all the things they did not blame, and thanks to representatives of the former regimes that went to the region and apologized for all the things that the Serbian people did not do. Today we are an independent country, today we are economically strong and infrastructureally modern, in which decisions are made by citizens, not by foreigners, not by ambassadors and by tycoons from the former regime. To continue this course, it is very important that we all go to the elections together in April next year and give support to the policy of Alexander Vukic, who today has made it possible for us to be respected and appreciated in Europe and the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-19-0.u9943	Thank you, Mr. Caesar. Since the parliamentary groups are no longer registered, does the word want any of the mandated representatives of the parliamentary groups? The word is Milimir Vujadinović. The remaining time is four minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-19-0.u9944	Thank you, Chairman. There is little time left, but I will eventually try to narrow down the entire debate in those four minutes today. Dear colleagues, respected ministers, respected citizens of Serbia, have been told earlier that there are no good times and bad times, there are good and bad people who make those times good or bad. There are their actions that make this time the way they do it. All day long listening to the debate, we could conclude that some of us certainly supported the full capacity of this proposal, that some have found faults again, and others have tried to make some better proposals and improve the proposal and offer some better jobs and better procedures when it comes to the government's job in relation to Republika Srpska and BiH. There were different proposals and there were great differences between those who spoke today, but one thing was constant and one thing was unique to the whole of today's debate. All participants, and above all, I am talking about SNS MPs, and why not our coalition partners, were looking for a way to propose something that would contribute to a better relationship with Republika Srpska and BiH. That was what was unique for the whole debate, as much as we have differences with each other today in terms of these proposals. That's what the National Assembly does. Dear Ministers, what is the work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, you are doing the same way. The government is trying, in full capacity, using the benefits of the progress of the Republic of Serbia, to transfer all of this to our people in Republika Srpska, if you want to to other countries in the region, investing in infrastructure, where 88 million have been invested so far, you said yourself, helping police in Republika Srpska, helping health, education, culture, etc., but also helping with all the political decisions where possible. To make a comparison, do you remember, honourable MPs and MPs, do you remember, distinguished ministers and government members, do you remember the respected citizens of Serbia and Republika Srpska some previous times? Do you remember what the government of the Republic of Serbia was doing with regard to Republika Srpska? You can't remember. You can only remember the detail concerning the job of security services, which referred to the persecution of people from Republika Srpska and BiH, especially the part that gave their best years of life to defend both these and those countries. He was referring to their persecution, arrest, and sending to caesamats around the world. It was the whole job done by the state of Serbia in relation to Republika Srpska and BiH. Compare the time. In fact, compare people. Ministers, citizens, honourable MPs, in this regard we live in good times. We live in good times because these times make good people ready to work for the people both in Serbia and Republika Srpska. It is run by people led by the SNS today, headed by the president and the SNS and the state of Serbia, Aleksandar Vukic. On that behalf, Minister, thank you for all these jobs, thank you for following that policy. In this House and the SNS, you will have faithful allies. Long live Serbia! Long live Republika Srpska!
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-19-0.u9945	Thank you. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-19-0.u9946	Dear President, gentlemen of the Vice-Presidents, honourable Members of the People, ladies and gentlemen, friends and comrades, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, respected citizens of Republika Srpska and BiH, who, I'm sure, followed the good work and this meeting, because it was also about you, not just about citizens and citizens of the Republic of Serbia. It is a great pleasure for me to know, based on everything I've heard today, that these proposed laws will be supported, that they will be voted and that they will change the lives of our citizens for the better. You did one important, one good thing today. I thank you for your patience. I thank you for the seriousness with which you have approached this debate, the seriousness with which you have approached, with which you will approach this vote. I, meanwhile, spoke with my colleague from the Council of Ministers of BiH, Minister of Communications and Transport, Mr. Vojin Mitrovica, and we have already agreed that during this week, our technical team, customs and border police teams meet on the bridge, agree immediately on technical details, what is needed, how to establish and really very, very quickly establish a new, first common crossing between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of BiH. Thank you for everything you've said. Thank you for spending this day thinking and struggling to improve these suggestions and to improve the lives of all our citizens. We'll be seeing each other again soon, I believe. I will go before you, hopefully by the end of the year, with a proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Foreigners, the Law on Asylum, the Law on Arms and Ammunition, which I believe will bring joy to my fellow hunters, perhaps the Transport Safety Act. We had a successful, useful day. I want to thank you once again for your patience, to thank you for your seriousness and to tell you that you have certainly made the citizens of the Republic of Serbia happy with what you have done today, as well as the citizens of Republika Srpska and thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-19-0.u9947	Thank you, Mr. Minister, for your extraordinary contribution to our work today. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I hereby conclude a joint single search. According to Article 87(5), Rules of Procedure, I order Tuesday, October 19th, 2021, starting at 6:00 p.m. as a day for voting on the agendas of the Third Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2021. Dear ladies and gentlemen, before we move to a decision on the agenda points, we need to determine the quorum. According to Article 88(5), The Rules of Procedure, a quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the voting day, exists if most of the total number of MPs are present at the National Assembly session. I ask all MPs to insert identification cards into the MPs. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 174 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and there are conditions for deciding. We're moving on to a decision. Before moving to a decision, I would like to remind you that, on the basis of Article 105 paragraph 3. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, decides on laws governing the conclusion and validation of international contracts by majority of the votes of all MPs. I am putting to the vote a bill confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina on common locations at border crossings, in general. I ask the MPs to vote. I conclude the vote: total – 177, for – 176, not one vote. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. I am putting to the vote a bill confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina on border crossings, in general. I ask the MPs to vote. Final vote: total – 179 for – 179. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Memorandum of Understanding on military co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Serbia, represented by the Ministry of Defence and the Government of the Arab Republic of Egypt, represented by the Ministry of Defence, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I conclude the vote: total – 179 for – 178, not one vote. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. I am putting to the vote a bill confirming the agreement between the government of the Republic of Serbia and the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina on border traffic, in general. Final vote: total – 179 for – 179. I find that the National Assembly has passed the bill. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Austria on co-operation in the area of disaster protection, in general. Final vote: total – 179 for – 179. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and their decision on them, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the Third Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2021. Next session will be held next week. Thank you, everyone.
