ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-15-0.u5372	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the eighth session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2021. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the sitting is attended by 89 MPs. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. Rules of Procedure, provided that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in determining the agenda exists if most of the total number of MPs are present at the session, and I ask you to put your cards into the MPs' offices to determine the exact number of MPs present in the hall. Thank you. I find that by applying the electronic voting system it is found that, at this point in the hall, 145 MPs are present, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly within the meaning of Article 88(5). Rules of Procedure. Whether one of the presidents, or the authorised representatives, wishes a word, to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? (Yes) Let's see who's first in line. The People's Messenger Selma Kučević has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-15-0.u5373	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, I am giving my question today to the Minister of Economy, Mrs. Tanaskovic. In the past, we have heard a lot about the state of human rights in the Republic of Serbia. Unfortunately, there were not many positives or representative things that would strengthen Serbia on its European path. A very worrying situation in which national minorities are located, and is further worsened by the pandemic Kovida – 19, where the country's relevant factors further deepen the gap and provide material for much more negative reports on the state of democracy and human rights in the Republic of Serbia. So, I am therefore asking Minister Atanaskovic to explain to me what it means, I quote - I am sorry that there is now no representative of Sandzak, but I wanted to ask him and warn him that he is doing a little agitating his fellow immunizationists, for vaccination, because there are the smallest number of people who have accepted the vaccination so that you can have all the help and investment and other aid from our projects. I can't even put my people at risk, put them in that environment, even medical personnel refuse to vaccinate. Then, for investments in the part of the Muslim population, I want to tell you that you have the opportunity to get help for everything, but you have to be on the line, too, I think you understand me. So, I find it extremely inappropriate that anyone, and especially one minister in the government, classifies and divides in religious and national, and I have not heard that any other end was conditioned in this way. So I have to remind Mrs Atanaskovic that Sandzak is a multinational area, that in Sandzak, tolerance is a tradition and that each individual has its own religious, national, cultural, personal and collective feelings and that it is not touched. The Minister of Industry explains that she gave up her visit to the towns of Sandzak for reasons of poor response to vaccination, and that citizens have the opportunity to help, but that the possibility is conditioned. I really want to believe that the minister at that point forgot that the Sandzak citizens, like all other citizens of Serbia, are paying taxes, VAT, taxes and other obligations prescribed by law, therefore, on the basis of all of this, the Sandzak citizens have their rights, rights which cannot and should not be conditioned in any way, thus neither limited what a minister in the government should know. When I talk about Sandzak, I also have to mention that the Sandzak citizens are absolutely free, free to choose a way and method of immunization. So if they want the vaccine then they're absolutely free to take it. And also, if they want natural immunization, we'll absolutely support them because we stand for natural immunization ourselves. So everything I've already said also applies to medical workers for the reasons that they are people who have their own expertise and education, and on the basis of which they will make decisions on their own immunisation. I want the Minister of Economy to understand that things in Sandzak don't work this way, especially by conditions and restrictions, and I call on her to apologize to the Sandzak citizens for this way and for the conditions, and to put a point on dialogue and good relations in this way, and to talk a lot more about the projects and the problems that Sandzak citizens face. There's a lot of problems we can talk about. Indeed, I find it absolutely unacceptable that in the territory of the municipality of Sjenica, the mountain of Giljevo, which is an oasis for cattle farming, where Karajukića Bunari, Dolica, Crvsko, Trijebine, Budjevo, Rajdaginja, Dujke has been without electricity and water supply for more than half a year. Also, if we talk about roads, the roads are extremely bad, especially the road direction of Sjenica-Prijepolje, then there are over 200 kilometers of unfalted roads in the area of Kladnica. Then, both regional and local roads are in catastrophic condition. If we're talking about schools, we have a lot of schools that are older and not renewed. Therefore, I call on Mrs Atanaskovic to visit the towns of Sandzak as soon as possible to bring about the problem of electricity and water networks as soon as possible to get her epilogue in order to give citizens adequate conditions, basic conditions for living and development of the branches of the economy that are of existential importance for this region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-15-0.u5374	Thank you. I really apologize to Jahja, don't think Mrs. Kučević has some privilege with me, but I failed. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-15-0.u5375	Thank you, Your Honor. My question today is addressed to the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Justice, the Prosecutor's Office, the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption, the fight against organised crime and all other instances that need to be fought to prevent all kinds of abuse of public funds. For several months now, from day to day, we have a situation where citizens of Novi Pazar are declaring abuses of budgets from the city budget and that these abuses cross very large numbers. Simply, there is not a single dam that is not affected by abuse, and that is all clear, precise, plastically shown, proven and made public, ultimately available, and according to what could be heard from the public and delivered to all the most important instances that should be fought against such abuses. My question to all of these cases is, has the investigation process started? What has been done and what will be done to make all those who used the city register in various ways in the past, draw money and leave the citizens of Novi Pazar with no elementary living conditions to provide personal and economic benefits for themselves and their partners in this criminal business? Have the investigations started yet? Will all those involved continue to participate in the abuses of the city budget even when all other processes are launched so that all those who have participated in any way continue to take part in the abuses of the city budget, bring justice and realistically as the law provides for punishment for all these abuses? This is very important and over the need for an urgent reaction for the reason that almost the same set still has the opportunity to manage the case of the town of Novi Pazar, still has the opportunity to draw money in various ways, and the citizens of Novi Pazar from day to day damage, although everything is shown, proved plastic and according to what we have received from the information, which is available in public, presented to all the competent authorities for emergency response. We must not be allowed to repeat the situation when the government in the town of Novi Pazar was acting by the SDA party, and the mayor was Mr. Ugljanin, who left behind more than 20m euros in embezzlement of the city's budget. It was then that a non-partisan committee established all of these abuses, which documents all of this, was sent to the competent authorities. However, due to certain political arrangements of the former regime and then SDA and Mr. Ugljanin, he and none of his former joint government were responsible for these abuses, and simply that remained a burden on the citizens of Novi Pazar, without any moral, nor any other satisfaction being received. This local government is on the verge of extremity, and it takes a lot of time to start with these systemic solutions to ban and prevent corruption, so we don't get the same situation, or the same scenario, that is. that the aware of their loss of power remains in every way that they try to blow up the city's budget and that as many problems as possible, as many different types of corrupt actions as possible, so that simply everything they planned to complete, and that the citizens of New Market still remain in short supply, in misery and without money to provide them and the good infrastructure they were supposed to provide, enough kindergartens to provide, enough sports playgrounds for their children who were supposed to provide them with all other basic, elemental conditions of normal life in one city that today in the 21st century in this country is recognizable by youth, by young people, by this new power, which unfortunately does not have all the other children in the Balkans, nor in Europe, and the reason for these are the corrupt authorities that do not threaten to abuse the budget in any way, and that what belongs to the children of the city of Novi Pazar, who are responsible for themselves and for their corrupting partners in their work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-15-0.u5376	Thank you. The People's Messenger, George Milicevic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-15-0.u5377	The Honorable Presidential National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Dacic, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, before I ask a question, and as regards what has been said a little while ago, unfortunately Kovid-19, a health challenge still facing both Serbia and the whole world and whose end is not in sight, but I would like to say that Kovid-19, regardless of the criticism we can hear very often here in parliament, Kovid-19 has united the region, and I will repeat, the President of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandar Vukic, proved to be someone in this period who is a factor of stability in the region. I would not also like to speak to Minister Atanaskovic's lawyer, since she was mentioned a little bit, but I think we have absorbed that story at the very session that Mrs. Atanaskovic attended, and I personally insisted that what she was talking about was interpreted at that point in a different way and that she did not want it to be expressed and she would of course confirm it, but she will, I am fully convinced, and the next time she is in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. As for the relationship between the president of Serbia and the government of the Republic of Serbia to the places where Muslims, Bosniaks, Albanians live, and it speaks enough of the fact that, in the period when the largest pandemic's hotspot and the largest pandemic, Novi Pazar, President Aleksandar Vukic had just shared the respirators in Novi Pazar, he assigned respirators to Novi Pazar, for one simple reason to show that he did not distinguish Novi Pazar from any other municipality and city in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Thus, it attaches equal importance and importance to all cities, to all municipalities, no matter how many national minorities live in these cities and in these municipalities. It is interesting, while we are dealing with Kovida-19 and while we are dealing with how to fight for Serbia's future, for the future of the region, because today it is the future of Serbia and the future of the region to preserve every life in Serbia, on the other hand we have statements, such as Vjose Osmani, which says Pristina is ready and has been waiting for years for a quality agreement that will ensure that Belgrade recognises independence and that compensation is charged, etc. It's not a topic for me today, and I don't want to do it. So one of the most powerful questions remains, unfortunately, Kovid-19, who has been harassing the world for years and carries a large number of victims. It is always an opportunity to remind ourselves of Serbia's commitment to combating this dangerous disease. Our strategy for defence against the birds has proved successful and is much more successful than many countries. Our medical workers, technicians, doctors who do not save their health and their lives face this virus, especially in covid hospitals, who remain in the red zone for several days. I would especially thank all of them for all the burden and all the sacrifices they have suffered. And we from the SPS have in the parliamentary group Professor Aleksandra Markovic Pavlovic, who, despite his regular work at the Clinical Centre of Serbia and professors at the Medical Faculty, is constantly in the covid system. I think she just got out of the red zone in Batajnica yesterday. Our country, or leadership from the very beginning of the pandemic, has a responsible attitude towards the health of our citizens, which is now manifested through vaccination. Our country has provided a sufficient amount of vaccine for all producers, and now we are in the eighth place in the world by the number of vaccines per hundred citizens. I would like to commend the citizens' good response, and according to information two days ago, 2.9 million citizens, re-exploited more than a million, have been vaccinated in Belgrade by 38 full-time citizens. The good news is that the production of “Sputnika V” vaccine will begin on “Torkaku”. It should also be underlined that Serbia, except for its citizens, has provided humanitarian aid in vaccines to almost all countries in the region, and today, it will take over the presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Milorad Dodik, for the Republic of Serbia. So we can commend the citizens' response and the positive effects of vaccination, which also confirms a drop in measures these days. With the invitation for all citizens to be vaccinated still to be cautious, because the pandemic has not passed, the daily number of infected has been reduced, but there are still many patients on the respirator and not a small number of deceased at the daily level, I would ask the question to the government of the Republic of Serbia, very briefly, President. In view of the citizens' response to vaccinations and the aim of injecting more than 3.5 million full-time citizens by the end of May, can anticipating the epidemic and continuing to reduce epidemiological measures be expected? This is important to know, both because of the upcoming holidays and travel, and because of the most threatened business activities, including hospitality and tourism. I ask the question so that citizens will not be informed through media speculation and headlines in the media, but in order to have relevant information and relevant facts. Here, as you can see, I've timed out, but there's just something I want to tell you. (President: You did, George, but since it's the eighth session, I'm going to be tolerated a little bit longer. 8th session, but not political and not party. President, as you can see, I did not warn of a breach of the Rules of Procedure since Sandzak was mentioned again, and the Constitution did not recognize Sandzak, but the Raski administrative district. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-15-0.u5378	I'm lucky there's no damage to the Rules of Procedure in this part of the session. In the end, the word is Nebojsa Bakarec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-15-0.u5379	Dear MPs, I request a notice from the traffic police in an accident that took place on Autocommand on April 3, 2021, meaning a few days ago. Is it true that the BMV jeep owner Dragan Gilas caused a car accident by knocking on another vehicle of the "pejo" brand? Is it true there was a police patrol and an ambulance on the scene? Was Dragan Djilas' passenger a certain deputy, B. Stefanovic? Was there a person in the back seat of the jeep just named Marinika, her last name is unknown? Was there an alcohol and drug test done to Dragan Gilas? To see that it's a serious matter of endangerment, of general danger. Dragan Gilas had... Please, I know it's fun but it's a very serious thing, we're all at risk. Dragan Gilas has been convicted of traffic offences and possibly criminal acts at least 10 times. Here's when, mostly because of overspeed, but we also remember the swearing of official faces. So, he was convicted in early 2005, that's when he sweared and insulted the police officer, 11.02.2014, 06.05.2014, 09.06.2014, 23.10.2014, 16.06.2015., all according to KRIK, please, note KRIK affirmatively and in June 2015 was convicted of abuse of personal data 157,000 persons, imagine, please, and 15.01. was convicted of endangering employees' rights, by not paying them salaries. Gilas, better known as a man with no conscience will, be careful, to manage Serbia and not know how to drive a vehicle. So, what, black Jimmy? There are a number of other incidents involving Gilas's party and the yellow party, so it's a series of general hazards. So the official, and this is exactly Gilasov, Elezovic, from Novi Sad, the president of the Executive Defence DS in the Gilas era, made a traffic accident in Novi Sad, in which four vehicles were damaged, and a group of children from nearby school barely escaped from being hit by Gilasovac. In March 2017, Andrej Bellinger, senior official of Gilas's party, caused a collision in New Belgrade when he was traveling at a speed of 140 km per hour and was driving with 1.58 alcohol in the wrong place, practically having blood in his alcohol, rather than vice versa, hitting Shkod Fabiu whose driver suffered more injuries. Both vehicles were damaged completely and the Gilasovac Bellinger went wild before the final collision he committed a series of crimes because he was running away from the interceptor, driving under the influence of alcohol, i.e. under the influence of blood in alcohol, etc. By the way, Andrej Bellinger is the godfather of Mark Trotinetic Bastic. So it's not the only one. Gilas's Marinika, the saint, reportedly known as a woman without a last name, together with her wife, caused a car accident on January 29th 2015 in Temerin. Marinika was then Pajtic's regional secretary, and today Gilas's vice president, and it is not a deputy, nor is it a noun, it may be more like a verb, but good news is another thing, she was involved in a car accident where her husband hit a pedestrian who suffered multiple bodily injuries. So they hit Tomislav Kovacevic who was transported to the KC Vojvodina where he was operated. Marinika's husband was, it is not known whether or not she was positive for the alcohol test, but since, therefore, there were injuries, Marinika and Pajtic made it possible for her wife not to do the usual thing in such cases – blood analysis because they were in power in the province of Vojvodina. As you can see, the inability to drive a vehicle is a general phenomenon in Gilas's party. Well, how they'll manage Serbia and not be able to drive a vehicle. Let's remember Gilas' threats to Officer Dragan Stevic who stopped him because of excessive speed. Remember he told him that he was going to lose his job, that he was cursing him, not to mention the curse now, and he said, "I'm fighting... "He told the policeman "... that those like you may lose their jobs." He was blasphemy, arrogant, and defiant then, so he remained. As you can see, the accidents are endless, as they repeat on the tape, as in that movie "Murmot Day" and there is this phenomenon called "Murmot Day", and the phenomenon marks the infinite repetition of one day. So Deputy B. Stefanovic was stuck in the day he ate the pear stick three years ago, and the groundhog syndrome also suffered the deputy boss, a man with no conscience, of course this woman without a last name. A man with no conscience was stuck in the day he committed the robbery of 619,000,000 euros. On the other hand, a woman without a last name was stuck in a day when she started begging hospitals and recalibrating institutions and companies. All that reminds me of a new fairy tale, not of three pigs, but of three groundhogs. So, there was once three groundhogs-- Jimmy, Borki and Maki. Mrmot Gjiki dreamed of 619 loads of gomolys in his groundhog hole. Mrs. Maki dreamed of driving the groundhog out of the ground with the help of the hermit Fitza's stern. So, groundhog, Gikyu, as we know, lacks conscience. The groundhog, Borky's name is missing, the Marmots of Maki are missing their last name. These groundhogs have something else together, none of them got cheeks, no cheeks. More naturally, don't let the groundhog take the train, don't let the groundhog eat the pear sticks and don't let the groundhog beg. These three groundhogs have said they will tear down everything that's been built since 2012. If three groundhogs come to power again, there's no doubt they'll do all that. Luckily, he'll never come to power, that groundhog's day will never be seen. Long live Serbia! Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-15-0.u5380	You've made this so fast, I don't understand it very well, I'm going to have to read it. Since no one's answering for a word anymore, we're moving on. With the call of this session, which has been delivered to you, there is a draft agenda. Before setting out the agenda, pursuant to Article 92(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it is necessary for the National Assembly to decide on a motion to merge the debate. National MP Dr Aleksandar Martinovic, on the basis of Articles 92, paragraphs 2 and 157, paragraphs 1, and as set out in Article 157. The Rules of Procedure proposed a joint principled search on: Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Energy Act, Proposal for a Law on the Use of Renewable Energy Sources, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Mining and Geological Research and Proposal for a Law on Energy Efficiency and Rational Use of Energy. I assume Ambassador Martinovic doesn't want a word. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please press the corresponding key. I conclude the vote: total – 170, for – 163, did not vote – seven. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. Since we have come to the conclusion of the motion to merge the debate, pursuant to Article 93(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, I put the draft agenda in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I conclude the vote: total – 175, for – 169, did not vote six. I find that the National Assembly by majority votes established the agenda of the eighth session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2021, in general. Dn e v n i r e d: 1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Energy Act; 2. Proposal for a law on the use of renewable energy sources; 3. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Mining and Geological Research Act; 4. Proposal for a law on energy efficiency and rational energy use; 5. Proposal for a decision on the selection of members of the Commission to control the enforcement of criminal sanctions. We are going to work on the established agenda of the session. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that they have been invited to attend, Professor Zoran Mihajlovic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Mining and Energy Jovanka Atanakovic and Zoran Lakicevic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Mining and Energy, Zoran Ilic and Dejan Miljanovic, acting as Assistant Minister of Mining and Energy. I am asking MPs' groups if they have not already done so to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. According to Article 157(2), Rules of Procedure, I am opening a joint principle search on the draft law amending and supplementing the Energy Act, the draft law on the use of renewable energy sources, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Mining and Geological Research and the proposal for a law on energy efficiency and rational use of energy. Before I give my word to the Deputy Prime Minister, I would just like to inform you that according to our practice to inform you of the planned dynamics of work, we are today going to complete a joint principled search of these laws. The fifth item of the agenda and the amendment debate will continue on Tuesday and we will vote then on Tuesday. At the end of this debate, we will vote on the agenda points of this session, and I have already scheduled for the next session on economic law Wednesday, and I suppose the draft budget rebalance will arrive in the meantime, so we will have very dynamic work in the next period. I would also like to inform you immediately that we will agree to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that today the National Assembly will be working in the event of a need after 1800 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to bring in acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Now I would like to give my word, since I am sure she will want to explain the laws, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister Dr Zorani Z. Mihajlovic. Did I say everything nice in my birth certificate?
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-15-0.u5381	Good afternoon, all of you, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, vice presidents, dear MPs and dear Members of Parliament. I am honored that today, in front of you and our team, we defend four important bill proposals, two laws are amendments and additions to the law, so the Energy Act and the Mining and Geological Research Act, and two are brand-new laws. For the first time in our practice, and this is the law on renewable energy sources. We have never had a special law on renewable energy sources before, and the second law on energy efficiency and rational use of energy. The reason why the Government of the Republic of Serbia adopted this year on a proposal from the Ministry of Mining and Energy for this bill, is that this may be one of the most important milestones in our country's energy policy. We are witnessing that major changes occur in global energy, of course by counting on this global energy, the energy of the whole world or, therefore, how and how climate-sustainable development is achieved, which certainly involves one sustainable and green energy. And that was why, after the formation of the new government at the end of October last year, the Ministry of Mining and Energy, together with all relevant institutions, ministries, directorates, businesses, the civil sector, the village and, above all, through certain working groups, then the publicity of the public, then the public debates that took place, and if we are still in the time of Kovid, we have proposed the governments of the Republic of Serbia to these laws. They should enable us to make certain fundamental decisions in the field of energy and mining. This means on one side to make a turning point in relation to the energy policy of the previous decades, and our energy policy was primarily based on the fact that when we talk about electricity production, it's over 65% from the thermal power plants and the rest from the hydroelectric power plants. When we talk about energy efficiency, we didn't care about how we treat energy whether it was heat or energy. When we talk about the field of mining and geological research, we have not taken care enough to protect precisely our mineral resources and to guide them, or to use them more effectively for the benefit of our country, primarily our citizens and citizens. And of course, the Energy Act as a roof law that was passed in 2014 will admit that much has changed since 2014. Many years have passed, the world has gone much faster in the field of energy and mining than we have gone. Those are the basic reasons. We wanted modern laws, laws that could enable new investments, green investments, green energy, we want to lay the foundations for energy and mining to be drivers of economic development, that energy and mining not only participate with some 5% in the creation of GDP, but to reach about 10% because we can. We wanted these laws to, and we're going to present today the basis for a new investment plan in energy and mining, which is already weighing nearly 16 billion euros, also refers to the area of energy, meaning, electricity, oil, gas and renewable energy sources, heat and, of course, mining. These laws are basic, but only the first step. These laws are made in accordance with all environmental principles and all standards in the environment, each of these laws has just put a special accent on the protection of the environment, because there are no decisions in the field of energy and mining anymore, and that it is not done together, precisely with the Ministry of Environmental Protection. We are particularly proud of the law on renewable energy sources, Serbia today has not met even some of its international obligations in this regard, but even if we put it on the side of an international obligation, to think about whether it is good for us to have produced electricity or heat from renewable energy sources, yes, it is, it is, and it is important. Our wish and our vision of the government of the Republic of Serbia, the president, on the moment he signed last November in the Sofia Declaration, when we became a state bound to a green agenda, is a green Serbia. In 2040, a minimum of 40% of electricity and heat produced from renewable energy sources in 2050, a minimum of 50%. And that Serbia can, the beginning and the first step are exactly the laws ahead of you. I hope that we will have one constructive debate, that we will discuss energy policy in the future, about our country's energy policy, because we, as in any infrastructure as we have done in traffic infrastructure, have connected with the region, and we also have every opportunity to do the same in energy. To connect to the region and be an inevitable route, whether we talk about gas pipelines, whether we talk about the trans-Balkan corridor and electricity transmission. So thank you for being able to present today's important four draft laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-15-0.u5382	Thank you. Elvira Kovac, on behalf of the Committee on European Integration.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-15-0.u5383	I would like to thank the Honorable Minister with his associates, the President of the Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament. From the perspective of European integration, I must stress that among the recommendations in the European Commission report published on 6 October 2020 for Chapter 15 on energy, Serbia has made some progress in the field of energy efficiency through the adoption of rules on energy labelling, but that the adoption of the law on efficient use of energy is expected, that the adoption of sublegal regulations, which will achieve full compliance with the legal assets of the EU, especially with the directive on the energy properties of buildings, is certainly welcome that the adoption of a law on energy efficiency and rational use of energy is one of the fulfillments, one of the recommendations made by the European Commission just mentioned in the European Commission report last October, precisely for Chapter 15 of Energy. The draft law amending and supplementing the Energy Act is partially harmonised, as we discussed on the Committee with secondary sources of EU law, because full compliance can be achieved just by entering the Republic of Serbia into the EU and by adopting sublegal acts, it is specified within what time limit they will be adopted. We must also point out that, although no decision has yet been made at European Community level to specify the time limit for transposition of the new Directive of renewable energy areas for Member States, for the Member States themselves it has not yet been made out of the general obligations arising from the process of harmonising our domestic legislation with the legal assets of the EU, means that the legal system of the Republic of Serbia is harmonised. There are no obstacles, in fact, that a new directive is transposed, and the adoption of the law on the use of renewable energy is carried out by transposing this policy into the legal system of our country of the Republic of Serbia. The European Commission's report on Serbia's progress, in the accession processes of the European Union, further states some interesting data that I would like to present, for example, that renewable energy sources accounted for 20.32% of gross final energy consumption, although these are data for 2018, which is below the target set for the national renewable energy sources of the Republic of Serbia, which is 27% for 2020. Furthermore, when we look at the various data from the report on electricity production, we are talking about the EU itself for 2020, it shows that renewable sources, as we know, of wind, sun, hydroenergy, biomass, have for the first time become a dominant source of EU electricity, which is a famous number of 38% of electricity generated by renewable sources, while burning fossil fuels has produced 37% of electricity, and a third source of energy in the EU alone makes nuclear energy with 25%. Furthermore, the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Mining and Geological Research has defined that the conditions and methods of control and monitoring of the concentration of gases with the effect of the glass garden in the atmosphere are in fact applied to the protection of the environment, from that area. This bill, in principle, covers the basic principles contained in the Directives, in several of the Directives that are necessary for adoption, I would like to stress once again, sublegal acts. After the adoption of these sublegislative acts, it will actually be full compliance and the content of the provisions and instructions of the EU. The draft energy efficiency law, rational energy use, the EU energy efficiency regulation has largely changed in the direction of increasing energy efficiency both in the EU itself and achieving greater energy savings. With this, we will agree on all, important elements in the fight against climate change, and precisely because of these changes, further harmonisation of our legislation was necessary. What I mentioned at the very session of the Committee on European Integration, we must stress that last October, 2020, the EU published a Strategy for Mass Energy Reconstruction of Buildings, as the renovation rate is expected to double over the next 10 years. In a few sentences, let me mention necessarily, that we do not forget the EU's grants, and I must mention the successful example of my hometown, the city of Zrenjanin. In fact, there last month they opened the first "smart building" in Banat. The launch of the regional energy efficiency centre of the first such species across the Republic of Serbia marked the completion of a successful IPA cross-border co-operation project Romania – Serbia – "Smart and Sustainable Energy Consumption". Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-15-0.u5384	Thank you. Veroljub Arsic, president of the Committee on Economy, Regional Development, Trade, Tourism and Energy, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-15-0.u5385	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, certainly in today's opinion and standards that exist in Serbia, mining and energy and environmental protection do not go together. That's how it was thought, that's how it prevails, and I think with these laws we took one of the first steps to show that it's possible. That is why the Committee on Industry, Mining and Energy organised public hearing on the adoption of these laws, not only for the reason that MPs who need to be made known, particularly to discuss, and later to make known these drafts of the law, are aware of what the newspapers are, but also of the fact that our professional public and later citizens are expecting us when we adopt these laws. That was the 9th of this month. On April 10th, some performance called "Ecological Uprising" was held here outside the National Assembly building. It seems to me that the organizers didn't want to know or hear what the Committee was discussing when it was a public hearing. They also did not want to know, nor did they want to read what it says in these laws that we are discussing today, nor did we, as representatives of citizens, get any initiative with any demands put before this Parliament and our MPs. Then, they can argue if this condition is not met, and that is the basis, then it was only one political performance of certain people who, under the pretext of environmental protection, want to prevent Serbia from further development. Because when we read at least what they delivered to the media, more than 95% of their demands were contained in these laws. That's what our people would say - why you knock on the open door. It's, I mean, one of the reasons why they didn't want to do it any other way to make some kind of political position about this area. Of course, for this very reason that I said at the beginning, so far, it was thought that energy, mining, do not go with environmental protection. In these laws, we now need to find a measure, i.e. the law, to determine the measure in which we could use our natural resources, so mineral wealth, to later reach the energy that we need to develop not only economy and economy, but society and in general, and not endanger our environment. I think this is one good step to have some brand-new legal solutions. The law on renewable sources, i.e. the Law on the Use of Renewable Energy, is a whole new law in the Republic of Serbia and treats this topic in a completely different way, which so far has been regulated and the Energy Efficiency Act, that the energy that we are coming to, for now, relatively easy but in the future will not be, in a rational, economical way, and thus contribute to our energy efficiency, energy security and later environmental protection. I hope that, in the follow-up to this bill, we will show that it is possible to use energy, or to produce it, to use natural ore-richness and to protect Serbia in the ecological sense and environment in which we live.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-15-0.u5386	Thank you. Minister Zorana Mihajlovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-15-0.u5387	First of all, I really want to thank the Committee and you, Mr Arsic, because I think, or I can't quite remember how many laws were in the previous period and, above all, the public hearing we organised, in addition to all the procedures we respected when we proposed, that is, when we started to deal with the amendments and additions of these laws and when we started to create a new law on renewable energy sources, and I am glad that we also had a public hearing of the law, as well as a large number of people who were online and who listened and watched, asked a lot of questions. I'll also agree with you, first of all, the climate is public well. Environmental protection is one sustainable energy, which means the energy that needs to ensure the country's energy security is generational issues and I think they have to go together. When we talk about an ecological protest, I often say, it is used for political purposes by climates. It is and can be a serious problem. So that I don't owe it, it's enough to look at what's left behind the ecological protest behind the Protestants. Most of the garbage Belgrade's "City Cleanliness" collected remained. Therefore, if we want to really and truly all of them, including those who are attacking the government for environmental protection, and they are wrong, because all the laws on changes and additions, if they really want to take care of the environment, then each and every one of us needs to worry about that environment for 24 hours, not to use it for political purposes, because it won't do anyone any good. The law on renewable energy sources that you mentioned is exactly the law that needs to allow us this one turn in order to achieve energy security, but in a healthy and sustainable way. Once again, I thank you as chairman of the Committee and all the members of the Committee who have served, worked with us and eventually organized the Public Listening. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-15-0.u5388	Thank you. The word is held by the chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-15-0.u5389	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, Mrs Mihajlovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, we discussed the proposals that were before us today and assessed that they were in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. The new energy laws, as we could hear today in this opening work, i.e. in presenting the law will lay the ground for new investments, but, on the other hand, improve the legislative framework in this area and, of course, contribute to harmonising Serbia's rules with EU legislation and our commitments towards the Energy Community. First of all, it is about using renewable energy sources to get about 40% of energy from renewable sources by 2040. Solar energy will be one of the drivers for the development of the energy sector in Serbia and speed up attracting investment in the energy sector. We are left to hear more in the debate in principle from the Deputy Prime Minister himself, but also from the MPs, to exchange views and knowledge with you and, above all, to introduce citizens to the newspapers and to the proposals of the law that will apply in our country. Of course, I believe that these proposals should be supported in the voting day, especially because you yourself said that we are at the moment when we are at a point in energy development in the field of energy and mining in our country. In the end, all I have left is for my colleagues who are very professional in this area, unlike me, to call on fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament to support these bill proposals in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-15-0.u5390	I would like to thank the President of the Committee. We are moving on to the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups. The word is made by the vice president of the National Assembly of Dr. Muamer Zukorilić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-15-0.u5391	The President-in-Office, respected Deputy Prime Minister and Minister with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is ahead of us a set of laws in the field of mining and energy with a clear ambition to finally step forward in modernising, modernising the energy sector and finally catch up with the challenges of time, space, the needs of the country, the needs of citizens, and certainly the demands and needs of the market. That's why these laws should be supported. Of course, we have a number of discussions and the possibility of possibly putting in yet another new idea, that is, to possibly make a comment, which is reasoned, and to respect. The issue of mining, ore and energy is actually one of the strategic issues for each country, so these laws, too, are free to say, the laws of strategic nature for the future of the country, for its development, for its stability and certainly its security. The mineral wealth is somehow divided by God's will by the globe, beneath the crust of the globe, sometimes by some logic, and sometimes without logic. Many countries or most countries, if endowed with wealth beneath the earth’s crust, are usually deprived of wealth above the earth’s crust and vice versa. If they are endowed with the wealth of greenness and nature above the earth, they are usually deprived of wealth within the womb of the globe. One part of the country has been denied from one level and from another, but our country and rare countries are those that are endowed with wealth and within the earth's womb and above its surface, and this is something that a vasda should highlight and be fully aware of, but first and foremost be extremely responsible in the management of these resources, wealth, or graces. In fact, a successful nation, a successful country, is a successful government that shows awareness and responsibility in handling these benefits and these potentials. It is written in the holy books that all that is in the earth and on the earth is subject to man, subject to man. Some people understood it as an unlimited right to use irresponsiblely, destroy, not thinking what would happen afterwards. However, this subordination of wealth, earthly wealth to man, is not unlimited. It is in line with the principle that rights and obligations always go in balance. The greater the rights, the greater the obligations and responsibilities. That's why a man as an individual, but as well as a collectiveity can and has the right to manage the wealth of the country, exploit them, use them for his own needs, but only in the degree and capacity of his own responsibilities, where he will actually do so in the best way, to exploit it as much as necessary, to make it all professional and noble, and to benefit both the existing and future generations. Today in the world, we have many models exploiting, using and exploiting mines. We have drastic examples. We have African countries that are the richest, say, with diamond ore, and in that country you can't buy a single diamond, while on the other hand you have developed Western countries that don't have a gram of diamonds in their mine potential, and the world's countries or forces are known by the traffic and the supply of diamonds. You don't need to detail in understanding this message. It's actually about knowledge and ignorance, responsibility and irresponsibility. We certainly won't be, first of all, a country that will only be a place to exploit our wealth on the side. It certainly has an intensity and this law, but it also does not mean that we will be closed to foreign investments that are interested in exploiting ore resources in accordance with laws that we hope to adopt these days. In fact, what should be our golden path in strategic orientation is some environment, because we need to find, given our interests and our possibilities and inability, some extent between our own exploitation, foreign exploitation and the availability of foreign investors for the exploitation of ore, but very carefully, very selectively, very carefully, precisely and extremely responsible and in terms of our relationship in terms of these treasures to current but also to future generations. A man is made of earth, and in fact, that bond is his with the earth, and all he needs is the biological being of man in the earth. Everything his soul needs is in the sky or coming from the sky and actually the best life is with those who manage to make harmony between these very relationships. Exploitation and the use of earth's wealth is about to be arranged. This is the intensity of these laws, principles and norms that will protect and what is in the country from excessive, irresponsible use and exploitation and from the collapse of harmony of the one below and above the ground, which is energy and ecology. Likewise, with regard to the dangers of destroying and jeopardizing harmony between what is in the earth and who governs the earth, which is man, and this is again the respect of the Gods and the human laws of humanity that will protect man. In harmony and harmony between those three angles, between those three relationships, what is in the country, what is above the country and who has the country exactly this law to the extent that it accelerates, and according to what I had insight on the basis of what is offered and on the basis of the reasons, actually this law has a intention, it has a tendency, it has an intensity to actually establish this harmony and this balance between those three factors. Therefore, the People's Messengers of the Justice and Reconciliation Party will support the adoption of this law. We must certainly be aware that this is not the end of the road, that when it is stepped up, when the step of this species is made in terms of reorganisation, first of all in the legislation, legislative reorganisation in the regulation of this space, when it seems for the first time, let us be ready for a year or two to notice what the shortcomings are in practice. Because that's the fact that when a serious reorganisation and a serious step is made, we're going to get new experiences at the implementation of this law, in newspapers that will appear with various investors, various offers. It's no big deal, which in a year or two, we're going to re-adjust these laws, they're living matter, and that's how it's supposed to be looked at. Congratulations to the ministry and to the minister himself for the courage to step up, because we, here, have a problem at the National Assembly at the college not to get enough intense proposals from the government as far as we do here in the Assembly. That's why I'm glad that we've gotten this effective one very heavy substance on good terms and that we can successfully end this job these days. When it comes to energy, although we seem to have experience, I'm not sure we can also go through with superficial interventions. There is this, truth, serious experience of this country when it comes to energy, whether it's water energy, thermoenergy, primarily electricity, but we're way too deep in the 21st century and I can say that we're pretty late in this confrontation or prepared to face this non-sense strategic orientation that our electricity was a key energy, that our most expensive energy was in the role of the cheapest and most massive use of energy. So it's just something that's impossible to survive. I'm definitely glad that this law, and we're opening new opportunities here, and we're not going to say right away, because it's going to take a lot of time to live up to and practically all that, because there's just a habit in households, and it's the poorest thing that's said to be Colloquial -- electricity all the way and everything where no one thinks that electricity is really the most expensive energy and what's spent in either the water system or in the thermosystem to get to the most expensive energy that we use for the cheapest, most massive, for what they use and household. If nothing, at least we've shown, or by this law we're showing, the determination not to finally stick our heads in the sand, because for decades the head's been stuck in the sand. What I'm saying is not discovery, it's not genius, everybody knows this. But here it was not necessary to discover and say – the eureka, not what we do with electricity, but only to find potential at the level of government, primarily executive, but also legislative and none of us can be completely removed from responsibility, so that's what it should be and that's what it seems now. That nonsense or that failure that's been decades and that's causing us enormous damage, to actually say stop, to open a new page and start remounting the system, to remount society. But we can't remount the system, reform it, unless we remount our heads and our consciousness, and if we don't show determination to go systemically, that's what we're doing today, and I certainly welcome it. What's also a positive impression to me when it comes to these laws is to re-emerge on the aspect of renewable energy and what really is the future and what doesn't belong to those pro-European flossules that we need to fulfill because someone is asking us, but because it really is our interest, personal, collective, family, human, and every other one that is perhaps the most important in that segment that I mentioned earlier in terms of the establishment of harmony between the energys, between the people, between the ores, between this super-earth treasure, and this is a healthy environment, i.e. a quality environment for life. In this respect, I am pleased that these laws will actually facilitate all those investment activities, domestic, foreign, any which will allow us to move faster or faster, or at least those who want to move on to the possibilities of renewable energy, healthy energy, or environmental energy, as soon as possible. Here, we have good news, personally I was a participant in these talks, soon the Cave, the cave highlands, one of the most beautiful highlands in this country, in the Sjenica municipality, will receive the largest solar park in the Balkans. Talks are deeply under way, already agreed on principle and reached and already certain steps in the municipal government in Sjenica reached. We will get the largest ecological park in Southeast Europe. Here's how it's possible when, for example, we get a change of local authorities in a small, poor municipality, but also investors who have waited 30 years to get a host to make it possible for them to, without any, say, conditions that are not professional, not to say some hard words, but to take people in and make it easier for them bureaucratic, to make it easier for them ethically, to make it easier for them to negotiate professionally. It's true, there was just that crash in the area, there was one of the MPs here, even I was talking about it, there was a conflict over those 800 acres that were illegally donated to a private tycoon, without any legal basis. Now the municipal government has managed to stop this abuse and to enable investors to, by legal standards of market concurrence, so people even bought the land, asked the municipality for no gifts, nothing that would be harmful to the citizens. And even in those conversations, I particularly insisted, because I don't know the matter, on guarantees and evidence of possible adverse consequences, and I was really convinced that this solar park has absolutely no adverse effects on that space, because it is an ecologically important and very important space. Of course we have two concepts here now. Someone had an idea to build a new thermal power plant, say, at the Stavalj mine, which would be profitable and profitable, but if you in one such ecologically important space, such as the Cave High... I think this is exactly the future. Of course, the exploitation of the Stavalj mine will continue, that it needs to be modernised, that it needs to be improved, but I don't think we should submit to that banal challenge of interest – let's have a thermal power plant where the mine is, that'll be the cheapest, we'll take the money. But what about poisoning, what about other environmental risks, risks and dangers? So our orientation will, of course, be where we can influence locally, but also what I believe we are allowed by these laws, for which we will certainly have government support, given that it has actually shown its course through the bill of this law... It's important to us that they do energy exploitation, organizations and all that we've had, we should slowly push behind us. This does not mean that we now need to neglect everything that has been classically and conventionally proven. When it comes to the energy grid, I'm glad we've reached strategic agreements with the ruling majority here. When it comes to the renovation of the power grid and the low voltage and high voltage in Sandzak, the situation is really desperate, it's really the main feed, as they've explained to me, to the New Market below each level, and imagine when it's further distributed to Tutin, the Shadows remain in what state that network is. Not to mention the problems of devastation from the elemental maintenance, even for years there hasn't been a clearing of that corridor where the forest lines pass, and then 10 inches of snow, just put down the branch, which makes a merger and challenges problems. You had one practice that every day and in the slightest snow, the power went out and that it was gone for a few days, etc. We've already said that, I'm not going to say it again, but I simply remind you that now, by entering these big steps and reforming this, legislative reform, and what it is about renewableness, renewable energy, and all of this that we're going to do with these laws, if God gives, successfully, and step out, so that doesn't mean that we're going to forget what the day-to-day problems are, what is the obligation of the authorities to rebuild the power grids and what citizens are facing. Certainly to mention, what is once again a strategic vein, or an artery, however, a pipeline that goes from Kopalnik to Novi Pazar, Tutina, Sjenica and further, as agreed, according to Priboj, so it will already be, what can delegate us to a space that will no longer be economically neglected, on which you will be able, along with certainly highway and all other traffic investments, to come to a positive zero and become an attractive investment space. In that regard, our full support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-15-0.u5392	I thank the Vice President of the Assembly, Dr Zukorlic. The word is made by Minister Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-15-0.u5393	Only briefly for the citizens of Novi Pazar and that part of Serbia regarding the power grid you mentioned. This year, we doubled our investments in raising the distribution system, I'm talking about low voltage, precisely for the basic reason, because there are parts of Serbia and today, unfortunately, where power cuts occur and not for a second two, and that's a serious problem, for all domestic appliances, but for God's sakes longer. Therefore, these things must be resolved not only in your area but in other parts of Serbia over the next three years as planned by the distribution system. Our investment in the distribution sector will be between 450m euros and 500m euros in the next five years. Because without providing people with a quality supply of electricity, we're not going to do anything about it. Just one more thing. I'm glad you support the laws. I'm especially glad you started your presentation with the Mining Act. Serbia is also a mining country, no matter how much more I may be told in the previous period only about the production of electricity or heat, but somehow constantly forgetting the mining sector, except when Kolubara and Kostolac are mentioned in terms of electricity production. But Serbia is a mining country, the value of our raw materials is, therefore, proven, the balance reserves are over 200 billion euros, metal and non-metallic, so there is room for serious investment, and so today this law is in front of parliament and MPs, because we want to manage mineral raw materials effectively, because we want to have electronic mining, because we want to keep an eye on every investigative right or exploitation right that's being granted on our country's territory, but we want to do the same, and for this law, the investment agreement is being introduced, which is that we have certain additional benefits, not only for someone to get an investigative right, but for tomorrow to get exploitation rights, but also for the local environment, but also for the state of Serbia if this exploitation law goes further into the development of certain mines, exploitation or perhaps after that and production of semi-products or products. So this law is a modern law, and I'm going to tell you one more piece of information, in addition to traffic, where also in the last year, there was an increase in what happened last year, so it's the same thing in mining -- let's say, in 2020, compared to the year before, in 2019, the increase was achieved exactly in mining. The biggest growth was a rise in metal ore, 16.9%. There is room for even greater development of the mining sector, but with careful monitoring of the state in every step of what is done, which is exactly what you said, which is sustainable mining, how we have this rational relationship with what we are rich in what we really want from this mining to get and to achieve economic growth and development. So thanks again for the words.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-15-0.u5394	Thank you. Probably in the form of a replica or you're answered by Muammer Zukorlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-15-0.u5395	More comments than replicas. Thank you for this observation. When it comes to the potential of the end I come from, I don't want any affirmative action, no positive discrimination, but I'm just talking from the corner where I know the situation, and it certainly expects the nature of the relationship to be where something is in a bad state to intervene there. Where the worst is, they'll have to invest the most. But it's good and thanks for what you specifically mentioned and noticed, this undermining of mine about mining and facts and beliefs and there we share the belief that this country is actually a mining country and that the fact that it's been represented only as a coal country for decades and our children's geography taught us that we're not a mineral rich country. We weren't ore rich country, that's how we were treated, first of all, because we didn't have enough knowledge or that it wasn't invested in geological research to find out what we had, and then we need strangers to come and take pictures of Rogozna, to find out what that gold treasure, reserves, etc. Among other things, like many other mountains. That is why I am particularly pleased and I want to stress this moment, which will allow this law to be made possible and more significant or much more significant investment in geological research. Here will certainly be our success in using, exploiting in accordance with all the principles that I was talking about, that it will be as successful as we actually invest in knowledge or how much knowledge we will subdue to future geological research. Only on this basis can we have success in every aspect when it comes to detecting ore potentials, but certainly also their exploitation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-15-0.u5396	Thank you. The word has the mandated representative of the SDPS MP Dr Milorad Mijatovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-15-0.u5397	Dear Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly, the Honorable Vice-Presidents of the Government of the Republic of Serbia with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, we are today discussing four important laws, I consider even the most significant law we have received in this assembly, but also many previous councils. These are serious laws that are thoroughly, professionally written. I must admit that it was very difficult for me as a MP to get into some terms. It really required a lot of knowledge. It is a sign that the Ministry of Energy has come to these laws very studioically, very thoroughly. But right at the beginning, I can stress that the SDPS parliamentary group will vote in favour of these laws. Why? They really mean a step in our further development. The laws won't change our affairs, but the laws will provide a legal basis for us to move on, to move forward, to improve each of these areas that we've talked about here. All of these laws can be drawn from something very important, one characteristic, that they are in line with EU directives and other international standards, especially in the field of mining. You know, it's a message that the state of Serbia sends -- that we're essentially interested in EU membership no matter when it takes us in, but we're going to change our laws, change our standards because it suits us, it suits the state of Serbia, and that's what I want to point out here in particular. The other dimension that we're talking about was environmental protection. I'll stay here for a while. In a public debate on this law that was excellent, I must note that I have learned a great deal there, even from your young associates whom I commend, because here I see the future of our Serbia, professionally explained some things, it has been said that environmental protection is an axiom that led your ministry to change these laws. I, as a co-ordinator of the "Focus Group" for sustainable development and control of the Agenda 20-30, must say that environmental protection is very important, very important and cannot and should not be a compromise. We're all free, if we make compromises and don't look for the most standards in Europe, we're part of Europe. Now environmental protection has become political issue number one. I agree it's a political issue, but it's not a one-day topic, it's not a subject for cheap political points, it's a topic of long-term, it's a topic of intergenerational, in other words we've got this country, this kind of nature, we have to fix it, improve it and pass it on to future generations. It won't work in a day, it won't work for a year, we have to work much more, because I have to notice that we got a pretty negative legacy, because the environment wasn't the topic here. In 2017, we MPs established this informal group called "Focus Group". We were then starting to talk in this Assembly about, to insist on it, even in our budgets looking for more environmental resources, promoting the green industry, the green economy, looking for more water purifiers, looking for filters for protection in thermal power plants. I have to notice that was the beginning. A month ago, two days ago, Prime Minister Ana Brnabic said in this parliament that protecting the environment is a priority of this government. In other words, very seriously, very responsiblely we make one step right in this part. Therefore, my message is clear that this government, this National Assembly in the coming period, will indeed have one very important task, which is to protect the environment in Serbia according to the highest standards. We have even recently discussed and adopted the Climate Change Act, also a modern law, a good law, and that fact itself says that we give a lot of legal grounds to move forward. However, I would like to point out something else. You know, you shouldn't expect everything from the state. The state can't do anything. I expect a lot from informal groups, volunteers who are politically neutral, but are specifically working to protect the environment, because if you love your place where you were born, where you live, if you love that nature, then you have to make concrete actions how to improve the environment. You know, wild dumps can't be removed, the state can't run anywhere, if we don't know it can't be done and can't do it. You know, for me as a MP, as a citizen of Serbia, it's incomprehensible to throw garbage into streams, rivers and lakes. Well, that's more sacrilege to me. I don't know what kind of dictionary I'd use when I see things like that. And that's why I want to encourage the fact that we need to change the awareness of citizens, that we need to have education, that the discussions on the environment, but those who are truly interested in having a healthy environment, that it's in the daily focus of all televisions, all the newspapers, because that's never going to be enough. Education must be and start from kindergarten, school, college. You know, if someone who plants a tree in elementary school, when he becomes a young man and when he gets married or a girl gets married, she'll have a big tree and she'll be proud. That tree will produce oxygen. So we have to go to that logic that each of us is responsible for our healthy environment. Of course, there is exactly this sector that you run, which is the energy sector, the mining sector, and that is why I want to say that we need to have a balanced approach and we need to take care of sustainable development. Next, you know, I'll start with the laws that you've proposed to us here. One of these laws is the law on renewable energy sources. It's a new law, it's a modern law. I think it's good, I think it's also applicable. What's he opening? It opens up the possibility that we have renewable energy sources. We must openly say that we are lagging behind. We gave ourselves high goals, we were supposed to have 27% in 2020, we didn't reach. Now in your opening statement, you said that it would be 2040, 2050 50%, I think we should go faster. Much faster, and let's start with a plan that will change that and that will lead to this situation so that we don't lag behind. The talk was about solar power plants, wind power plants, we already have them, and we can really say that we have further development, which is really very good. But when we talk about energy, I'd like to point out one other thing, that it should be one action, it's a puppy. We are indeed, and when we talk about efficiency, we are great wasteers. We spend four times as much energy as in the EU, and twice as much as in our environment. You know, I've traveled a lot, I go to Geneva or Brussels, I walk into a room, she's cold. I complain about the front desk, they turn me on. It means that when the guest is not in the room, the heating goes off, and we complain and there are no more than 19, 20 cellulsions. When the temperature is so high, we immediately call the Toplana and complain about why it's not 25, that I can walk in my apartment in my shirt. You know, it's a waste of energy, and when it's too hot, then I'm opening a window to get that energy out. So please, I hope, I believe that at least the younger generations will welcome that we have smart buildings, that we have infrared rays that will measure which building and how much energy it releases, because that's what we have to keep in mind, because energy, heat, electricity, is a lot of money to get to it. When I say "saving action," you know how many TVs in this country work all night, all day, even when someone watching him sleeps. How many bulbs in the house, anywhere, keep on burning. It takes saving for a little bit to save on a lot. Here, and in our parliament, go to the offices, you'll see how many computers and monitors are on without anyone sitting behind them. Maybe that's what it looks like, what I'm saying here, that it's meaningless. Electric energy, at least it's not expensive for us. We're done with the cheap price of electricity, and that's why it's wasting. I'm a supporter of attitude, when it comes to energy efficiency, that electricity and energy are not a social category at all. For those who cannot, and here I have heard in public listening to the energy poverty that is in that situation, it needs to be provided with a certain amount of both electricity and heat. We have the instruments for that. A few months ago, we passed the law in social cards. You know, we need to know exactly who's in the social situation, who we need to help. I'm for this selective approach, not that we all have cheap electricity, we don't need to have, many can pay it in full, not in small amounts. So let's have an economic price of electricity. Excess these funds, as we are already paying, we invest in renewable energy sources, and let's cut those sources of energy coming from coal, from fossil ore, because that's what we're going to say and what we're going to do. The SDP parliamentary group in its programme indeed has a very important and important fact that we are doing a lot to protect the environment, to modernise Serbia, but we also have a balanced approach. We can't stop the development, the development has to be. That means when we talk about mining, you know, mining technologies aren't always clean technologies anywhere in the world, but there are standards, the highest standards we have to have and that when we give exploitation for a particular ore, we have to be in a position to say yes, you're going to get that, but you're going to apply the most famous standards, especially for the ore for which we now have a very big interest. I fully agree that the state of Serbia is rich in both minerals and minerals. That wealth we have must be used wisely, invested in knowledge. You know, I was in Abu Dhabi, and there's oil and gas exploitation, and it's not a clean industry either. But they did smartly, the funds they got in that way were invested in further development, it's just amazing that I saw new technologies there, which maybe we won't see in our country in 10 to 15 years. They sent their citizens to Western Europe for education, to America, to return them, to invest in new technologies, and to think about the future. Serbia cannot stop development. I am for the development of mining, I am for the opening of new mines, for the exploitation of these ores, and also for this lithium that is certainly metal of the future, but in one smart way where we will always be in every respect, and while I am an MP in this Parliament, be assured I will always require the most ecological standards and other international standards, because this is how Serbia can go forward. If we could finish up and finish the highways, if we could do a lot of things, if we could fight the bastard in this way that we're fighting, if we could provide the most vaccines, get to three million people who got the vaccines, we could also do this challenge that stands before us, the challenge of further development, the step forward. I don't expect it right now. I don't expect that now, but I expect that we will work hard, work hard, that we will keep going, because that is the only way I see Serbia among those countries that will enter the EU prepared, clearly, changed, because this Serbia is the one we need, and the EU is also needed. That is why I insist, and therefore the SDP parliamentary group will give full support to these laws, as well as to another fact. You know, in making these laws, you stuck to three pillars, three elements. You looked at the economic benefits, you looked at the social dimension and the third ecological dimension. The balanced principle of these three dimensions is exactly the right principle that should ultimately result. So the DSP parliamentary group in the voting day will support these laws. I expect you to have a significant sublegal act and the realization of what is highlighted here. Of course, you'll do it on the legislative side. I expect the government of the Republic of Serbia to continue to create conditions to bring new investors, to pay far more attention to Serbia's people too, that they invest, especially in renewable energy sources and these small hydropower plants. You know, I'm aware of the fact that we have to guard and I'm going to fight, I'm going to tell you right now, to preserve streams, to preserve our protected areas, but also other ecological environments. Therefore, in granting consent to small hydropower plants, we must be very careful. It's better, please, to insist on saving electricity than sometimes to destroy a stream just so some individual can benefit. I stress that because I noticed that you yourself have made some decisions that will mean further progress in this area. It takes small hydropower plants, it needs all of that. I haven't talked about a lot of things, time doesn't allow me, the buyer producer, which means how much the government will allocate funds to change windows, doors and anything else where the government will give 25%, local self-government 25%, and an individual 50%. Indeed, there can be great savings. Also, believe me, I'm even in my building where I live, which is on the sunny side, insisting that we already compete, build a project, put solar panels on our building. You said in public exposure that there are 600 square miles there we have roofs, and Serbia is a sunny country and that fact itself says that we can do a lot. Finally, I have extended a little bit, and I thank Mrs. Vice-President of the National Assembly, the SDP parliamentary group will give full support to these laws and those activities that you will later lead. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-15-0.u5398	I thank Dr. Mijatovic. We continue, the word has been given by the authorised representative of the JS parliamentary group, MP Vojislav Vujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-15-0.u5399	Thank you, Your Honor, the President. The Honorable Minister with his associates, colleagues and fellow MPs, so far all we could hear from our colleagues was affirmative and that's certainly good. This also shows some trend in which all the laws that are now on the agenda are heading. What matters most to you is that we from the JS parliamentary group will support all four laws that are on the agenda today and, of course, I will comment on them because they are all interlinked. What's really a real advantage at this point, which is that you're exactly the head of this ministry, because you have this specific energy, and these are difficult tasks and we're simply getting some security and trust that you're going to get all of this out in those long-term plans as planned. What I appreciate about you is that you're constantly potentialing a team of associates around you and that's what's good. Good, 'cause this big stuff can only be handled by teamwork. When it comes to the European Community, they have assessed these laws as the most modern laws in the field of energy. Serbia, of course, has so far been able to boast of a good and stable, sustainable energy system, but in every sense these laws will also improve this state which is not so bad, to make it even better. Public listening that you organized a few days ago in the small hall of the Assembly, I commend. Unfortunately, I couldn't attend, as a member of the Committee on Business, but I certainly watched it afterwards. I call upon all the citizens who are now watching this session so that, if they want, they can go to the National Assembly website for public hearings, and there they can hear more in detail everything that you and your colleagues were talking about at the time, and there will be a large number of misunderstandings that I can somehow see exist. And I'm saying, and I'm sure they exist because people just aren't informed enough, nothing else. So, surely no one can convince me that any of the colleagues in this room, or you who represent these laws today, thinks badly of Serbia, we all work in the same direction, and we all have the same goal. What sounds unusual, and you said at one point that you don't like the word "leader", which is when it's said that Serbia is a leader, and now I don't know that I'm looking for some synonym and some other word, but it certainly is in the region when it comes to the energy system. But what I have to mention today, even though I don't like to repeat myself, was the last time your colleagues from the Energy Agency were here. It was very easy to cross over that 1999, when Serbia lost its energy system. So, we are at that time, neither guilty nor debtor, freely so to speak, suffering such material damage when it comes to Serbia's complete infrastructure, so, when it comes to roads, when it comes to bridges and a complete energy network. At that time, graphite bombs were used for the first time, and we were being tested by bombs designed to destroy a country's energy system that was then brought down by NATO. It wasn't the first time Serbia rose from the ashes. We are then, here we have a colleague of our Milutin Mrkonjic, as he likes to say to himself – engineers, least politicians, MPs or whatever else he's done in life, and then he was synonym for something done before the deadline. So weakened and poor country has managed to rise from the ashes and in a short time restores a complete energy and infrastructure system, and that's why I'm glad when we can say today that we're the leader of the region, when we came back from one zero to where we are today. And what's the most important thing now? It is now a questionable thing and a big topic opens up for the price of electricity, but the fact is that Serbia has allowed its citizens the cheapest electricity. I agree with the professor, now we have to take care of how it is spent, but these laws are slow and directional and later I will talk about it, but the fact is that in the region we have more expensive electricity both Macedonia and Bosnia, and Montenegro and Croatia, Romania, Slovenia, etc., these countries that I have now listed are paying twice as much as we are. But what's interesting to me is those who destroyed our energy system, countries that bombed Serbia back then, pay electricity and five times more expensive than our citizens. So, the citizens of those countries that then abused their force, today they charge their citizens five times as much electricity as Serbia, which again left zero in 1999 and came to the stage at which we are today. The first law is the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Energy Act, it is a roof law and seven years ago we adopted it here in this House, I then had the opportunity to vote for this law and as one of our colleagues said, of course, the laws are a living thing, especially the time in which we live is turbulence, things change quickly, especially in the energy system, so today, in addition to these laws that we change and supplement, we have new laws. When it comes to this law, he treats a lot of new concepts, a lot of new terms, and as a man slowly meets them, then he really sees what the intensity of this law is. What I certainly have to mention, which is very important to us from JS, is that we will continue to have 70,000 families who, as the professor said earlier, unfortunately are not able and able to pay and that price of cheap electricity as we have, and it is good that the state has further singled out that group by its regulations as one of the social categories that we have to help. Why am I saying that this is important to us from JS? We represent social policies, and we try to make such families less and less, and that should be the state's intensity, to make sure we never forget such families, but that we have to find ways to make them smaller. And now, you know, someone can say there are various abuses, whether it should be done or not. That's right, because they always say "seat hungry doesn't believe" and about the state recognized it as one big problem and that's certainly another reason why JS supports these laws. When the law is treated, it's also very important, and in a slightly different way of storing energy, so, all kinds of energy, I'm not just talking about gas now, about the storage facilities that we've been building, but for the first time, not for the first time, but now they're putting themselves in the first plan and these research into our mineral resources when it comes to lithium, and of course we know that electricity can't be saved except to make some reserves with lithium batteries. The law on the use of renewable energy is paying particular attention to environmental issues. I'm one of those colleagues who told the Energy Agency that hydropower plants can be devastating for our rivers, for this hydrosystem that exists, but what's good about this law, so I say - people need to be informed, and then comment on it, is that it forbids the construction of hydropower plants in protected areas. Now when we talk about it, of course, our biggest hydropower plant Đerdap is in a protected area, but what's interesting about it is that in 1964 when we built that hydro power plant, we were once again a serious state, unfortunately, in a different organization than today, but even then it really took care of all the standards. Somehow this construction and again the state's intensity has always been directed, even though it hasn't had as much problems with ecology as modern society today, they've taken care of both ecosystems and ecology. What the law, of course, cannot down to the last detail to train are those other rivers that are not in protected areas, but certainly all of them, I said that at the beginning, and you and fellow MPs and people in local self-government will monitor each such building, control, you are again the ones who need to give permission whether anything can or cannot. I'm sure, like at some point when state large or public institutions were building some joint facilities that went to the general good, private capital investments always aim at some personal benefit and is always focused on those people who invest. I think that maybe it's making the biggest mistake of the citizens, and it's a good thing that this law is putting things in the right place right now. The third law is the Mining and Geological Research Act. Serbia is a rich country in every sense of that word, that's what one of our colleagues was talking about here today. I personally believe that the wealth of a country is primarily measured in people and we can boast that we are a rich country, we have good people, but we certainly have great energy potentials. I just said that we have the largest supply of lithium in Europe, so these are research, not just ours, that's what the more eminent institutions say than the ones we have, and ours are eminent. And our country is god-given when it comes to ores and minerals. Our southern territory occupied by terrorists, freely so to speak, is extremely rich in mine wealth. I can quote, it says - the value of the lead, zinc, silver, nickel, manganese, molybdenum and pine on Cosmet is estimated to be up to 1,000 US dollars, official data. I quoted this from the list "Politics". It is not unusual that in the world wars started because of natural wealth, because the fact is that without water and without energy, no system can, no society can. Thank God, we're kind of, like, getting it all used up, now it's just that we're trying to be good hosts to keep that system and keep it. The fourth law is the Energy Efficiency Act and rational use of energy. If not the best thing, I mean for wide use, and that's certainly some new concept and some new terminology that has come up and citizens are really interested in it, that's the customer-producer relationship. So that's one new trend, I'm honest with you to be really thrilled when I read this, I think we're in front of many European countries with one of these trends and we have to keep trying to inform citizens what that means. Now, just for a little while, so if each of us installs solar panels, solar collectors, he spends his electricity there. When it is not spent for any other reason, an energy credit is created that can be spent during another period and it is a phenomenal thing. What you've been up to today, if we're trying to get renewable energy sources in the deadlines that are set to be respected, we all citizens need to take part in this work. Honestly, when it comes to saving, I'm the generation that remembers the older people who always remind us, to pull us by the sleeve and say, "well, come on, turn that lightbulb off." We used to have a more expensive price of electricity, but I'm kind of sure it wasn't just a big price or a small price of electricity, but it was kind of domestic behavior that generations ahead of us had. It's just, they were trying to save everything. I have a feeling that somehow it's my generation, our generation still in that spirit of education, that we take care of it, even though it used to be funny to me. I'm catching myself today, as I say to my children -- well, turn off that light bulb. Then my son tells me - but Dad it's ice lighting, it's spending two, three watts. I agree, but today we use both dishwashers and dishwashers, freezers, refrigerators, which are real when it comes to energy efficiency marked by that AAA mark. That's what we should always watch when we buy such devices, but no matter what, savings and the slightest energy savings, according to Professor. Mijatovic, we are fighting for ecology. We can't all of us, I'm sure no one here throws any bags or any waste in nature, but we can't make it all clean up, but we can certainly keep the environment safe by focusing extra on the power savings. I just heard the information that we may be, and as you said, four times as many consumers as some statistics in the region, but I have to say this, Serbia is not just a big consumer, because we have a European average, which, if I'm not mistaken, is about four percent for power losses in the network, our average is 11.7% and that's a serious loss. If we recalculate that and if we have to say it nominally, we get a 290m-euro figure. I'm glad you recognized those problems. Why do I say that? Because an interstate agreement signed by the government in late November with the French government, apart from building subways, also brings co-operation in the field of energy, in particular with more than 129m euros, will be credited to improving the EPS power grid. It's really one serious shift if we consider what everything in the energy sector is doing, this savings will certainly feel. What's interesting for, again, as a good offer for the citizens and it's certainly once again commendable, it's this subsidy for the replacement of carpentry, 25% helps the Republic, 25% have local self-government to provide funds. I think this is going to be one good modality to compare all the municipalities and cities, to see how really ready we are on the ground to show how much citizens mean to us, and also to motivate those same citizens to get involved in one of these races, and I would ask you as a resolute minister, we will definitely be here to see each other in the next period, to report to us from time to time, and to tell us which cities are ahead, to set up a good trend and to find a way for the minister to reward the cities and municipalities that stand out additionally. We always come here somehow to reward those cities that say -- you know, this poorer one, this one has no potential and we're always looking for what it is, how we can motivate them. We need to motivate those presidents, municipalities and mayors who, when you give one dollar of it, know how to make five. It will be easy to fill the budget, and we will be able to help others who are not in the nature of things equally capable. Just today I just want to look back for a little bit more time to make biogas electricity. It's a new trend. I've had a chance to compare it to any other producers and hydro and wind, when it comes to renewable energy sources, without talking about these other electricity producers, but what's important about biogas electricity production, that's right, and yet we're going back to that environmental theme. So they use organic waste. I think you should, as a ministry, find some modality to isolate them in relation to other renewable energy producers. We need to motivate them, we need to see how they're proportionally distributed because that organic waste can't be easily reached, but it's certainly the cleaners. If we're talking about ecology today, here's one of the moments where maybe you and the Ministry of Ecology can take one step and interfere that even in those parts of our country where we don't have such producers, some of us can take advantage of those benefits. This is a big subject anyway, and these four laws are serious and huge laws. I tried harder to talk about them, but my colleague, Nenada Filipovic, from the JS parliamentary group representing us in the south, as a mathematician in education will later be a little more detailed when it comes to numbers, percentages and statistics to talk. Once again, Minister, what you are here for today, the JS parliamentary group will certainly support all four laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-15-0.u5400	I thank you, authorized representative of the JS parliamentary group. The word has a People's MP, Daniel Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-15-0.u5401	Thank you, dear Vice President of the National Assembly. The Honorable Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, for the SVM parliamentary group to discuss a set of amendments and amendments to the Energy Act, the use of renewable energy sources, the amendments and additions to the Mining and Geological Research Act and the energy efficiency and rational use of energy are of particular importance for at least two reasons. The topics of the use of renewable energy sources and the protection of the environment, from the preservation of the Vojvodjan orans, the restoration of rivers and lakes are part of our programme and day-to-day engagement, the efforts to find ways to resuscitate the river Krinaja, the self-healing of the Palić Lake, to prevent the pollution of the lake at Baimek, solve the recovery of the city dump in Subotica. So, all of us important topics are part of an integrated national energy and climate plan. These four draft laws strike a good balance between economics, energy and environmental and a good basis for developing the green economy, for attracting well-being to society and increasing social equality, and with minimal environmental risks. In addition to the further reason why the SVM parliamentary group will support the proposed laws, it is contained in one sentence which can be taken into account the essence of all four proposed texts, aimed at the integrated development of society through economic, social and environmental sustainability. They aim at long-term more generation sustainable development. Let me also look at the subject of this debate as an authorised representative of the parliamentary group, which is particularly important for those municipalities and citizens that we from the SVM represent here in the National Assembly. Namely, as is known by law, it is prescribed that the mining rent for oil is 7% of the income, but it is otherwise formulated in the case of NIS. Since 2008, NIS has been the majority owner of Russia's Gazprom Njefta, and the sale of a majority package of shares has been agreed by an interstate agreement between Serbia and Russia. One of the provisions of the agreement is that the NIS is also subject to an advantage under which the mine is paid at 3% of the income, i.e. the NIS is subject to tax conditions which were in force in Serbia at the time of the signing of the agreement between Serbia and Russia and the company is not subject to any deterioration in the conditions of taxation until the time so-called. The cost-effectiveness, the projects agreed on by this agreement. However, oil exploitation has increased significantly compared to the pre-privitation period. According to the 2019 NIS Business Report, a billion and 400 million dinars were paid to the state on behalf of the rent. A year earlier, NIS paid a billion and 460 million dinars in the name of the work rental, which is the largest for the mining rent in the past five years, the company's business data show. Compares for 2017 have been paid a billion and 200 million dinars and around a billion were paid in 2016. The law stipulates the distribution of money from paid ore rent, 60% belongs to Serbia's budget, and 40% to municipalities whose territory is exploited. If the exploitation is done in the territory of the AP Vojvodina, then the rent money is divided so that 50% goes to the Republic budget, 10% to the province, and 40% to the municipality's budget on whose territory the exploitation is carried out. In 2014, the three Vojvodina municipalities on which oil fields are located asked that the NIS paid a 7% mining rent or that the paid money was otherwise allocated, that all proceeds from the current ore rent belong to municipalities that suffer the direct consequences of exploitation, and that the Republic, i.e. the province gave up its work. The memorandum of co-operation on the matter was then signed by the municipalities of Srbobran, Kikinda and Kanjiža, however, there is no shift on this issue. The municipalities are legally required to spend money on the mining rent to improve the living conditions of the local community, especially for the construction of infrastructure. For example, money is held in Kanjiža, for example, public lighting, canals, and streets are paved. In case the rent for NIS is 7% instead of 3%, the municipalities would have double the amount of money. If we look only last year, the municipality of Kanjiža received about 88 million dinars of oil rent, if that rent was 7% would receive 207 million dinars, which amount, for example, this municipality could use among other things for the project and the construction of a bus station in Kanjiža, a project to replace a carpentry on buildings, a project to build a cycling trail in the village of Horgos, a project to rehabilitate an existing water network in Abdorjan, a project to pave the way, a sidewalk and a parking place, or a project to invest in the infrastructure of surrounding sites. The amount of the mining rent paid to the municipality of Kanjiž varies from year to year. At least 88 million dinars were paid for 2020 and 143 million dinars at the most in 2019. As for measuring the efficiency of the energy sector, unfortunately, indicators for Serbia are not the best. In 2011, the World Energy Council defined the methodology for measuring the efficiency of the energy sector and the indicator of efficiency is so called. the energy trilem or the ability of the state to offer sustainable energy in three dimensions, namely energy security, accessibility and sustainability. The value of this indicator allows countries to be ranked and compared to the level of sustainability of their energy sector. The comparison of data for the period 2014 to 2019 can conclude that Serbia's energy sector with the 63.8% index is poorly ranked, not only in terms of developed European countries, but also in relation to countries in the region. In the region, less ranked than Serbia are northern Macedonia, Albania and BiH, and only for example, the energy trilem index for Switzerland is 85.8%, for Slovenia 79.2% and for Romania 75.1%. Serbia is worst ranked according to the energy sustainability indicator and the index is 90. For example, according to the level of energy sustainability Switzerland has index 1, Slovenia 17, Romania 11. What do the field experience say? Between 2007 and 2009, the installation of about 300 solar collectors at the House of Students "Angelina Kotic Gina" and the City Hospital in Zrenjanin provided water heating with the help of the sun. The Zrenjanin hospital was the first health facility in Serbia to use the energy of the sun, and it was estimated that it would not go to the atmosphere annually only because of the 67 tonnes of carbon dioxide project, as much as it would produce oil, magut or gas use when heating the sanitary water. Annual energy savings are estimated at around 20%. I believe that the provisions of the Bill of Law under which excess electricity can be delivered to the network and reduced the bill for spent electricity will welcome the mentioned House of Students in Zrenjanin, which, six years after the installation of solar collectors in 2015, also started construction and solar power plants providing electricity. Also, the town of Vrsac started setting up a base of energy efficiency three years ago, the base represents the basis of system management and registers all public facilities, their energy consumption of electricity, water, gas and other energy sources. The base covers about 300 electric, 80 gas counters and plumbers and monitors monthly spending over the last three years. The base is directly linked to the Ministry of Mining and Energy base, and generates total data and balances at the republican level. And last month, a project to reconstruct the rationalisation and maintenance of the public lighting system was presented using measures to save energy with ice technology in the territory of the town of Vrsac. The fact is that Serbia currently does not have the capacity to create housing complexes like those in Taj Peje where there are 23,000 trees, bushes, ground floor plants on balconies and terraces, creating an eco system that architects estimate will absorb about 130 tonnes of carbon dioxide on an annual level, which corresponds to about one annual emissions of about 100 cars in the EU. In order to meet the standards of an international system for the certification of energy-efficient and ecological objects, this building has a double glass façade, through which the air currents, a series of solar panels placed on the roof, which power the building with renewable energy, a vertical system of natural ventilation, a system for recycling rainwater and ice lighting. Specialized botanists are responsible for the selection and planting of different plant species, which show a higher capacity to absorb carbon dioxide in order to achieve high air quality. We don't have the capacity to build, but I am convinced that we have the capacity to learn, to think, to think about multidisciplinary categories, to think about categories of future, to resuscitate existing and to build new objects, to rationally use energy, to improve and protect energy efficiency, as a public good. We cannot get into a situation that nearly two centuries ago was described by a great social process theorist, Alexis Detokvir, when he wrote that he was afraid that people would reach the point where in their new theory they would see danger in every new theory, and in every innovation unnecessary trouble. And that eventually they might refuse to start at all. But we look forward to that, according to the latest indicators since 2012, there has been a marked increase in the use of biomass, for energy purposes, in the Republic of Serbia, so our country is currently the largest consumer and producer of biomass in the environment, which shows that 80 percent, available wood biomass is used, and only 20 percent is exported, while in 2012, it was reversed. Dear Minister of Cooperation, we are aware that, in the period since March 2013, in application of the Law on Effective Energy Use, and a number of sublegal acts adopted on the basis of it and that, based on the Law in the preceding period, three action plans have been adopted to improve energy efficiency, as well as a methodology that enables the monitoring of savings incurred as a result of the implementation of action plans, and we are urging us to insist on applying these documents. It is also aware that the previous period did not begin to monitor energy efficiency indicators in the transport sector, because the provisions of the Law were not sufficiently consistent with the legislation, for the safety of traffic, which was adopted over the past few years, we welcome that this changes this bill. To sum up, MPs of the Alliance of the Duchy Hungarians parliamentary group welcome the debate and adoption of a set of laws in the field of energy. In voting day, we'll support the same. In the following debate, other colleagues will also contribute to this, hopefully, constructive debate in favour of all of us and our future. Just in the end, I'd like to appeal once more to make sure that we don't forget about the mine and the municipalities on whose territory this exploitation is taking place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-15-0.u5402	(The Chairman speaks in native language). I thank the authorised representative of the SVM parliamentary group. The speaker of the PUPS parliamentary group – "Tri P", MP Djuro Peric, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-15-0.u5403	The Honorable Chairman, Mrs Elvira Kovac, the Honorable Deputy Prime Minister and Minister with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, when we talk about energy, we must bear in mind that this is a very specific segment of our environment. Since we live in the third decade of the 21st century, I think there's almost no one left in this country who doesn't use elemental energy in his everyday life that is almost always, and as a rule, easily available at relatively low prices. Very rarely we could find someone who wants to give up lights, TVs, home appliances that make it very easy for a man's daily routine of life. In this sense, energy and its use have become a civilizational fluid and an inexorable part of modern society. On the other hand, very rare are individuals who have even a minimal idea of what it is necessary to do first in order to convert ordinary water, coal, wind or other natural elements into useful and accessible energy and how long it is. Therefore, energy is one of the most complex and important industries that unites all of the primary producers of the energy plants themselves, those who deal with their transformation into energy, those who distribute to us the citizens and the business entities that we use. The package of laws we are discussing today aims to make these complex processes legally modern and orderly. There is certainly a roof draft energy law in the first place. It harmonizes our national legislation with European regulations and an international agreement on the establishment of an energy community that has recently been ratified and introduces new modern solutions into this area, especially those related to the domestic and international energy market and its distribution to consumers. In this regard, in the first place, we in the PUPS parliamentary group – "Three P" think it is a good thing that the precise definition of the energy-hazarded buyer is done, so that it can now be acquired by a single or multi-member household living in a single housing unit and supplied by heat energy, and in accordance with the act brought by the ministry. The funds for the exercise of the energy-hazarded energy buyer's right are also provided in the Republic of Serbia's budget. The status of an energy-hazarded buyer is obtained on the basis of a solution from the local self-government unit. It is also good that modern trends are monitored in other areas, so for example, new solutions create a legal basis and regulate the work of chargers for electric cars. The following two laws are closely linked and relate to the restoration and energy sources and its rational use. These issues have been increasingly updated in the modern world. A long time ago, when natural resources, such as water or coal, were readily available, could be exploited without thinking about how many remain for future generations, as well as the indirect price paid for energy production through the destruction or destruction of the environment and the impact of all this on the very biological quality of human life. The proposals for these laws seek to encourage and reward each type of energy production from a wide variety of renewable sources in every way. The bill lists more than a dozen, but I would particularly refer to one that literally creates and disappears every year in front of our eyes, which is biomass. As everyone knows, Serbia has large agricultural areas that produce a huge amount of grass, bushy and woody biomass every year, whether it is by-products of organised agricultural production, whether it is soiled surfaces or animal waste. Unfortunately, the minimum of that is used in energy plants, but is either left to work, to spread economically or to throw them anywhere irrationally. There are just another potential benefit from association and assistance to the cooperative, on which our President Milan Krkobibić and his Ministry are working and constantly promoting. Cooperative production could potentially, relatively easily use this biomass to a significant extent as an energy source for clean energy, which would multiply the benefits of using it both for the micro-communities themselves in villages and for our society in general. In urban areas, the accent could be placed on power plants, waste and methane gas from dumps that are, unfortunately, the way they are, but must certainly work on their recovery and reduction. This is one of the useful ways to really do it. On the other hand, greater attention must also be given to more rational use of energy itself. In this regard, it is good to impose obligations on investors and builders of new buildings to make these facilities compulsory thermally isolated in the installation of separate calliometers for each building and for each apartment, thus achieving significant savings and avoiding periodic dissatisfaction of citizens with the work of heat and discussion of the price of their services. Finally, the proposed amendments to the laws on mining and geological research introduces the possibility of applying eGovernment in this sector, a greater link between these research and our science and the Geological Institute of Serbia, as well as stricter control of the work of businesses dealing with these affairs. Dear People's MPs, the PUPS Group – "Tri P", believes that the proposals of these laws are very important, both for maintaining our energy stability and for the sustainable development of our society. In the belief that the restoring ministries will also do well to do their part of the work that awaits them in adopting new and harmonising earlier accompanying sublegal acts for their practical application, our parliamentary group will give its support for their adoption in the day of voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-15-0.u5404	I would like to thank the President of the PUPS Group – ‘Three P’. The word has the deputy president of the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group, MP Snezana Paunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-15-0.u5405	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Deputy Prime Ministers with associates, respected colleagues and, above all, citizens and citizens of Serbia, it is not easy to talk about such important laws, especially when you speak sixth or seventh. The colleagues said a lot, and now we all sound like we're repeating ourselves, not because there are no elements to say something new, but because the key things when it comes to the laws that are really in front of us are said somewhere. First of all, I'd like to thank you. When you were first in parliament in this new assembly, I thought you said the laws were being prepared. It was December, if memory serves me well and, as soon as possible, here we are in the tide, after the laws passed and the public debate and they were discussed nicely. He also spoke about it as a colleague of Vujic's. I was when there was a public debate and really a lot was clarified thanks, first of all, to you and your colleagues. These are the most significant laws, the most significant set of laws, except, of course, the Budget Act, which is roof and key, but, for the sake of the public, I'm sure I'll repeat a lot of what my colleagues have said, but it's important that those of us sitting in this room, especially you who are proposing such a set of laws, you've heard and analyzed many times what we're talking about, but the public of Serbia, who showed us confidence, likes to hear from us that we see everything we, no doubt, vote in the day of voting. I can say it at first on behalf of the Socialist Party of Serbia parliamentary group, because I really think and share the views of my colleagues that it is important to do exactly what you have done, which is to improve the two laws and bring in two completely new ones that we will talk about, I hope in the perspective, because, as usual, when we adopt new laws, then practice shows that we may have to do a little bit and fix, but what we would do if we didn't. So, a set of laws in the field of energy, I said, already, one of the most significant industries, which is a strategic basis for the development of every society. In addition to the economic sector, which is a strategic basis, the draft law amending and supplementing the Energy Act and the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Mining and Geological Research, we have two completely new legislative proposals that complement the legislative framework in the energy sector and are coordinated with energy policy, above all the EU, and with global requirements of time to ensure sustainable development on our planet. So, two new laws, a bill on the use of renewable energy sources and a bill on energy efficiency and rational use of energy, both of which are immeasurably important. I will look gently at our European path and remind myself that energy issues are devoted to negotiating Chapter 15, which requires the harmonisation of public policies and legal frameworks with EU legal assets. This is a long-term and permanent process, as it implies constant monitoring of global energy flows and the consequences that the energy sector and its development leave on the environment at all stages, from energy production, through distribution and consumption, energy efficiency and the use of renewable energy sources. It is important that this energy policy must also be consistent with the Millennium Development Goals adopted by all UN members, as a global, above all, development strategy. One of the sub-targets of this document is sustainable development, i.e. balanced development with the rational use of natural resources in the further development of our civilization, so as not to question the survival of the living world on the planet Earth, and thus the life of the man himself. So it's the man who has to be responsible, because it's up to him to survive and to turn off the last light. It is important to say this in the context of the debate on energy and energy sources, because energy is the basis of every development. Energy has almost a crucial impact on all other sectors of the economy and society, whether we view the issue globally or at national and local level. For these reasons, energy is the most important area of action and the EU. In addition, the EU itself was created by the European Coal and Steel Community. It was founded in 1951, and today Europe is interested in developed energy space not only within its members, but also in the energy of candidates for membership in this organisation, including Serbia. The strategic place of energy, and in particular the transitions of this sector to the EU, stems from the fact that the EU, or its 28 members, is the world's largest energy consumer, so that European legislation in this area is highly developed and demanding in terms of the harmonisation of all sectoral policies, which implies, above all, the implementation of global policies established by Kyoto and the Paris Agreement, because the energy sector is one of the largest emitters of harmful gases, and thus also an environmental pollutant. The European energy policy for the current decade, therefore, for the period 2020 to 2030, involves the realisation of three key objectives, which are reducing carbon emissions, i.e. decarbonisation as a necessary condition of sustainability of development, then increasing the use of renewable energy sources and increasing energy efficiency. These objectives and Serbia are implemented in its legislation in order, above all, to join the world of responsible societies, which use their resources rationally and coordinate their development with the possibilities of nature. What is, if you can say so, an unconditional condition for everyone responsible on this planet is that we must not allow ourselves to die out because of our boastful relationship with nature. The lack of seriousness also suggests global climate change with catastrophic consequences, from air pollution, water, floods, droughts, earthquakes, and not to mention. The reason is that uncoordinated development with the possibilities of nature that will not survive all the negative effects unless the irresponsible relationship of a man under emergency ceases. It is precisely these strategic objectives and the harmonisation of our legal framework in the energy sector that everything depends on, so that today we can also talk about Serbia's firm determination to regulate this area in accordance with internationally accepted and binding standards and thus rationally use its energy resources, provide energy transition to renewable energy sources and reduce the emissions of harmful gases, primarily carbon dioxide, through decarbonisation. When it comes to the structure of energy production, Serbia is relying to the greatest extent on coal, and this is too much lignite, i.e. on TEs, which are large emitters, unfortunately, carbon dioskide. Other large emitters of toxic gases are individual coal and lubricating bars, which are often neglected, until somewhere during the heating season they make us realize there's no clean air. It has been said that polluters and cars are older types, but I will now refer briefly to the proposed laws. The time we have as authorized is quite limited, and behind me will be spoken by colleagues who will speak individually about the laws and I think more will be heard from them about the quality of the proposed laws than I can do. When it comes to the first law in this package, which is the Energy Act, very large changes and additions have been proposed, because it is a very complex and multi-layered area that needs to be continuously aligned with the international commitments. Here, first of all, I mean the European Energy Community, but also with other regulations that are applied accordingly in the energy sector. The first essential goal to achieve these changes is to improve Serbia's energy policy by harmonising with EU policy. Here, first of all, I mean the European Energy Community. In doing so, the indivisible part of the debate on the energy perspective is also climate change that is a significant part of the operation, I said, of the energy sector. The second objective is to remove shortcomings in the application of the current Energy Act, and this should be achieved by a number of precise concepts and procedures that would improve, above all, the efficient and responsible use of resources, and that has indeed been discussed in detail by colleagues. The third goal is to create conditions for ensuring the safe and quality supply of the Republic of Serbia's markets with energy and energy. The law also provides for an increase in the level of transparency, protection of competition and non-discriminatory behaviour, which is, in addition, the basic elements of Europe's demand for Serbia as a candidate. The law should improve conditions for the establishment of operational oil reserves and oil derivatives in order to achieve energy stability and ultimately, which is not minor, the law strengthens the independence of the Agency for Energy of the Republic of Serbia as regulators. Energy has contributed to Serbia's huge economic and developmental opportunity, which, with great investment over the past few years, has contributed to reducing Serbia's energy dependence, above all to increasing Serbia's energy stability and security. I would especially stress here the importance of ending the "Balkan Stream" pipeline, as well as other energy investments, which also contribute to efficient energy use and improve the quality of supply. Several amendments have also been made to the promotion of this legal text, including the amendment of the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group and it is a matter of detailing procedures that protect the right of ownership of owners through whose territory energy lines or to build energy facilities. I also discussed this with your assistant, Mr. Ilic, shortly before the beginning of this session and we agreed that at this point the proposed solution may be better than what we have tried with the amendment, but not to waste my time, we will certainly discuss it when the debate is in particular. That's part of the story, and you, the esteemed vice president, remember, which I was talking about and during the debate on the Energy Agency's report, but in the presence of Mr. Kopač, because I always sort of go back to that and for you, I believe, an easy question, but, on the other hand, one of your colleagues said, your energy is visiblely large and I'm almost sure that those shortcomings that are an open problem for us will somehow work out. I know you don't have conversants who understand what the problem is, I know they won't listen often, but just one day they'll really have to understand the harsh reality that there's a little trapo station out there and they can't answer the question of who's responsible for it today, because it's on someone's land that's private property and that in all circumstances, even when you invent one of those things that they tried to make out of our southern Serbian province, and when you bring in a constitution that you've well prescribed from the Serbian Constitution, even he guarantees the right to property. And the sooner they realize it, the easier it'll be for them and for us. The hardest thing will be for you, because those questions will open up, if not by the end of this year, then next. The hardest thing is actually, and it's the paradox of this situation, to explain from the position damaged by how damaged you are, because at the moment they don't even let you be. But I'll go back to the laws, otherwise we could talk about it for a long and long time, and the problem isn't in front of me and you so we can solve it, we've got the talkers and I've said it already - they don't understand us until the end. In the case of amendments and additions to the Mining and Geological Research Act, the most significant changes relate to the treatment of non-renewable mineral resources. Lately, we have some open issues on this subject, particularly regarding geological research and exploitation, given that mineral resources are of strategic importance, above all for the Republic of Serbia. The latest example is the explosion of the Jadarite by Rio Tinta because of the disturbing public that it is primarily a huge environmental pollutant. There's also news from Bor, where the environmental issue alarmed the public. Unfortunately, there is and there will be more. But in order to avoid similar situations in which mineral exploitation poisons the environment and disrupts the health of the population, this law is prescribed, and it is very important that geological research and exploitation of mineral raw materials are in the public interest, as well as that geological research into the exploitation of uranium, nickel and cobalt are carried out with the mandatory prior consent of the Government. Serbia is rich in mineral raw materials and almost has no ore that Serbia does not own and therefore it is very important to treat these resources responsibly. As far as research is concerned, we support the amendment of the law, which extends powers to the Bureau of Geological Research, as a special organisation, and makes it clear the procedures for the implementation of basic geological research. This issue is very important, especially because geological research and the possession of information on mineral reserves is of strategic importance to the state and it does not matter who will have that information or, even worse, who will cash them. We had examples after 2000 when geological research was entrusted to foreign companies and when simply our country had no safe points of data on mineral raw materials reserves. Unfortunately, by passing this first law, our resources were not protected, not to say enough, but to be protected at all. It is very important to emphasize all this, because today we have a situation that some of our mines, which are then given under concession, are barely working. Not much work is done to improve the working conditions of miners, and the state has a mine rent as the only income and cannot control concessionaries. It is important that the legal framework enables a responsible relationship to non-renewable mineral raw materials and exploit them in accordance with the principles of compliance with needs and sustainable development. I have already said, I will not talk about individual solutions from the law, but I am convinced that through these laws the energy sector will be improved with respect, above all, public interest and, most importantly, with respect for the strategic objective of establishing a balance between economic development and the environment. Somewhere the biggest task of the proposal is two new laws, I think, in favor of this claim. When it comes to these new laws, which essentially complement and represent a unique legal environment, I think they are of strategic importance, not only for the energy sector, but also for the future of life on our planet. The aim of the Energy Efficiency Act is therefore to create as many conditions as possible for the efficient use of energy, i.e. to save energy, thus ensuring, again, the security of supply and reduction of the impact of the energy sector on the environment and climate change. That's what we're all gonna talk about and what we talked about. If we look at it locally, it means that if we don't save energy in households, and our colleagues have talked about it on picturesque examples, it seems to me, my colleague Voja, and around this light bulb, which is one truth that our generation remembers, if we don't reduce the use of fossil fuels and replace dirty energy technologies, we don't speed up decarbonisation projects, we don't increase the use of renewable energy sources, if we don't protect the environment from ourselves and our own, above all, the megaloma needs of consumer society, we won't have anything to leave our descendants from this planet. As pathetic as this sounds, these are the harsh facts we meet on a daily basis. Two laws that are precious, when all I've stated is. We will also have to realise that natural resources are limited and that the moment of their lack for a further life is fateful. In doing so, we have renewable energy sources all around us, from water streams, from solar energy, wind energy, to biomass, and we don't need to forget geothermal water, because Serbia has several baths with the hottest water in Europe, Vranjska Banja from 96 to 110 degrees Celsius, which go into rivers today. We also need to recognize that resource and to deal with it a little bit, because what we've always agreed on is that Serbia has natural wealth, but what the red line is about today, already in the sense of timing, that we have to agree on, is that it's really the last time that we need to use resources rationally and responsibly, and this package of laws improves and provides. After me, my distinguished colleagues, Ugljesa Markovic, Dr Vesna Ivkovic and Nina Pavicevic, will speak and each will have a reference to one proposed law, and indeed more detailed than what such a set allows the authorised representative to say. Either way, in the end, I will say once again, the SPS parliamentary group will support the proposed set of laws in the voting day, and be available to, all of what eventually turns out to be something that is flawed or that we have missed, once again, to talk about it and to advance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-15-0.u5406	I would like to thank the deputy president of the SPS parliamentary group. The speaker of the SPAS parliamentary group, MP Marina Ragush, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-15-0.u5407	Madam Chairman, thank you for your word. Madam Minister, associates, ladies and gentlemen MPs, citizens of Serbia, when such laws are in the procedure that they represent, it is even modest to say, a strategic turning point in the field of energy for the next, quite certainly, a few decades, the first impression is that we are finally going in that direction. I had the opportunity to see really all the advantages of EU membership at the beginning of two thousand years, and when I was a member of the expert water management team in various circumstances. There I saw on the spot how highly developed countries protect their resources, their energy market, what it looks like to lobby large companies dealing with water distribution, as they slowly but certainly conquer smaller markets. Then I understood, and it was an extraordinary example for me, actually best practice, it was a city located on the German-French border, the mayor is a biologist, and that city was known at the beginning of the two-thousands as the city that used the money most in the EU budget. This man actually made a fantastic project out of that city and took advantage of the energy of the city and nothing this place had, believe me, untapped, of wind energy, of water and of all other energy potentials, by applying it to very wise projects for a fund from the EU. There were also representatives of the IBRD, and there I also had the opportunity to see how projects are being made, which means environmental protection clauses and not affecting the deterioration of environmental conditions. So it's the beginning of two thousand years. We're in 2021 today. We've had opportunities to listen to topics in the last few months, a few days, in the way that I've been saddened, although I understand that many topics are politicised, it's the right of all political organisations to make political points on certain topics, but somehow I've hoped all these years that there is some categorical imperative between all of us that we should have a consensus about. If it's common air, water, land and what's underground, the interest of all of us, because we don't have another homeland, this is our only country, at least for most of us, then we should all agree there. I know, Madam Minister, that you are open to dialogue and that you rarely call for dialogue. We also have a chance that the head wife of this resistor is both a professor and a doctor. And there's rarely a big discrepancy between the impression of our environment and concrete indicators. What I'm saying here is I won't repeat myself, colleagues who used to say, have really touched everything that is relevant and of importance for the further course of the debate, what I'm interested in here, Madam Minister, - do we have maps in Serbia who are specifically polluters, in the territory of the Serbian state, what is the real story of the company Rio Tinto that is infrequently politicizing? Do we really have concrete information whether Rio Tinto is a contaminant and whether their perspective exploitation will mean what we have the opportunity to hear in public? That's what I'd like to hear from you. I want to motivate you to give us specific information here. The truth is, I don't understand why the Ministry of Energy hasn't cooperated with the Ministry of Environmental Protection before. I think that's very important. You'll correct me if I'm wrong, I'm not an expert, this isn't my area, I'm still looking at this as someone who's trying to understand the perspective of all these laws and the perspective of course of all of us who share the resources we own, it's very important that we understand that energy, without protecting the environment when you're doing any international projects regarding this cannot be without each other. If there are companies dealing with energy, then of course it's an assumption that they're going to pollute the environment. But then the Ministry of Environment must be who, in collaboration with the Ministry of Energy, will create a transparent and good plan and programme. I also find it strange to say that you call all the ecological movements and environmental organisations to dialogue, and that this important issue, which I repeat again, the categorical imperative of all of us, you have a weaker response or only two or three ecological organizations come in. Please, I want to motivate you to tell us who participates in such a kind of dialogue because I think it is very important because this is the value of our intention – whether we intend to improve or intend to undermine politicisation, which concerns primarily not only the protection of our resources, but also the protection of our health. These are topics like any other subject that cannot be politicized. Where's our mistake, the mistake of all of us? What we're talking about in those terms that are most visible. So here's another suggestion, if you'll allow me, I can see that you have a serious team of associates, you should be working on a more media image of what these two resistors are starting to do. We had the Ministry of Environmental Protection, so also, the roof law of the law, the truth of the will, I have no impression that he's well-lived in public, I have no impression. So what I'm supposed to suggest to you, and I know that international practice is such that video videos are made, video promotions are made, that you take the most visible terms on national frequencies with the strongest sherry. I think that's the first step to really represent what you're working hard at with certain attempts at politicizing something that shouldn't be perceived in that way. Also, when it comes to laws like this, you won't mind me, but I'm rarely thinking about how much this is going to cost all of us, especially the end-user. I'm not going to hide, I always have income structure and an analysis of the account as a very thrifty person of the nightmare. When I spend something I want to know what I spent and you're right. I listened very carefully to your colleague. Many will say - I want to pay as much as I spend. I don't want to hurt, and that's just fine, and the price goes according to that. The structure of the income allows it. Some will say yes, but there are administrative costs in my electricity bill that are parallel to energy consumption. I don't want to pay for it. Another third one will say - I live in a building that was built in the 1960s and that has no conditions for energy efficiency, you will correct me if I am wrong, because isolation is bad, windows are bad, not up to me. I really welcome the legal solution where you're going to go out to the people who, especially in this cove crisis, are trying to understand how they're going to survive, that you're really going to subsidize something that's really big and extremely necessary. However, what I must stress is that there are renewable energy sources and what we pay to use tomorrow. I'd like to hear from you -- is the perspective going in a direction or maybe my little, maybe even naive suggestion, that if we have a mineral rent here and if we're the 10th spot in the world by lithium, if I understand you correctly, you said a while ago, visiting on one television, what kind of benefits are we going to have from all this? I am somehow living in the hope perhaps again naively that given the overall digitisation and the complete change in the structure of our society, we may, in a perspective, perhaps exclusively, even thanks to this extraordinary lithium, be able to do something that developed countries of the EU and the world are doing, and it is called universal income, and we will be able to mitigate the effects of digitisation that it represents and assumes will actually affect the loss of many jobs. Also, what is always a priority to the Serbian Patriotic Union is the protection of the interests of all citizens, and above all the motivation that our companies, our reference institutions, and there I can really agree with my older colleague and much more experienced from the PUPS, Mr. Peric, whom I have also listened carefully, will be difficult in relation to international companies that are so light-years ahead of us all to preserve this space for our companies that we will motivate and inspire to work in favour of green energies, in favour of future green Serbia, which we all seek. Madam Minister, I am pleased that this is the first time that you and I, hopefully after me, share the impressions and what I would like to say is that the Serbian Patriotic Union will be happy to support this package of laws, as we are happy to support and co-operate with the Ministry of Environment. I think this is also prime, if not for the first time that two resolutions so seriously approach this problem, and above all I ask you on behalf of the Serbian Patriotic Union, and I know that as a professor and doctor of science, it is that we protect our entire space in a way that we understand what is our national interest and the interest of every citizen. To ensure a good and sustainable environment, that from the mining rent, I know that you have rarely spoken in some previous councils about it, we can live well and that it is truly to the benefit of all citizens of Serbia. And in the perspective, I hope, we will have the opportunity to see, on the official site of your portfolio, all that information transparently, a clear map, clear indicators of who all the polluters are in Serbia and that the individual statements you also spoke of several times before this law in their public appearances will soon replace the dirty technologies. It's not an insignificant percentage of the participation of individual pollutants in the quality of air that we breathe, but unfortunately for my great sadness in the media space we rarely have partial information, spinning that I don't think it's using anyone, because it's actually about the interest of all of us. One more thing, if you really think it's a cleanup, and now I may be more concerned with protecting the environment, but I believe that it will understand you very well on purpose and I've had the chance to look at it. I was fascinated by the look of Rayna. When you look at Rayna, you can see the bottom. I don't remember seeing the bottom of our rivers. Germany has a good and rational approach to cleaning and managing Paradise. For example, she moved people who lived along the Rhine Valley a long time ago. When Rayna finds out she lets the river flood and return to her trough and she rarely uses very cheap and smart and once again determined way, which is aerobic and anerobic purification, by planting certain trees along the valley of Rayna. So the hot water was invented a long time ago, it just needs a good and wise assessment and I believe that this resource, given all the opportunities I've had to see in the last few months, will be able to set it up in a good way. I wish you good luck with that. This is your home, too. If our small parliamentary group can help with that, count on us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-15-0.u5408	Thank you, Mrs. Ragush. The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-15-0.u5409	Thank you. First, thank you for your words, thank you for supporting these bill proposals. There is one thing that I think is important because of the citizens of Serbia, and you noticed it. A completely different relationship between the two ministries now operates, it is the Ministry of Mining and Energy and the Ministry of Environmental Protection. I mean, I mean, the minister's not here, but it's like she's here. It is impossible today to really do anything in energy and mining without it being combined with the environment and that it is not with the consent of the Ministry of Environment and that it is not in line with all standards and laws in the field of the environment. And that's something I want both citizens and citizens of Serbia to know. We will not allow on the territory of our country and our Serbia to be in any, of course, portfolio, but now we are talking about energy and mining, to cause environmental pollution, regardless of which companies are concerned, which parts of Serbia are concerned? So everything that's done, everything that's already been done, and how it's controlled, and everything that's done, is not going to be done without all the European and our environmental laws being respected. Here, of course, I am also referring to the story of research, that is, the potential exploitation of the sails of Loznica, but I am also thinking of all other potential research rights, i.e. exploitation rights. Another important thing, you've touched it, and I'd also like to answer, as to how much this is going to cost us, an energy transition in which as a society is great. It's one process all over the world, even with us. I don't see it through bone, I see it through investment. All Serbia will practically invest in is every piece of energy and mining and not costing, but there will be new investments that will create and give birth to new jobs for those jobs that may not be so attractive, we will have green jobs. When I said the assessment of the investment is close to nearly 16 billion euros in energy and mining, it is indeed so. We are currently working on a new strategy, a national climate and energy plan that must be completed this year, but we are also working on a new investment plan. This means that Serbia is slowly moving away. In the years ahead of us, we're slowly moving away from what's called thermosectoral production, but we're also turning our energy generation from renewable energy sources of major hydropower plants, gas power plants, towards a national goal. This is a national goal for us to raise energy efficiency. It's a special part of the ministry and our country will deal with it. These are all new investments that create new jobs, and allow us to have the right space to get to the green Serbia that we first understand, and we want to strive for it. Whether some will benefit, whether some use this for political purposes and energy and the environment, yes. It will probably always be, but I think that by the power of the state, our government, our ministries, all of us here together, essentially depends on how we go through this process. Someone's gonna use that for political points. I think the citizens of Serbia know and see well, and we will use it to take generations behind us and all those who come behind us, leave a healthy environment, an energy-resistant Serbia and Serbia that will be able to produce enough energy for everything that will work for decades ahead of us. So, a country that will not import energy or reduce its energy dependence, but that energy will primarily be healthy and sustainable. As far as we're concerned, the door is open. Each of the MPs and MPs, if they think we can improve not only the laws, we are already working on sublegal acts, you are welcome because you are now doing sublegal acts. Therefore, everyone is welcome to make this sublegal act even better, because our interest is not just to keep changing the laws, but to try to really keep up with what is today and what we want to achieve in the years ahead. Thank you for your words. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-15-0.u5410	Thank you. For our children, MP Zoran Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-15-0.u5411	Thank you, Vice President Orlic. Dear Deputy Prime Ministers, with associates, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, we have a set of four laws in the field of energy that are very important for further improving our economy, raising citizens' living standards, both in economic terms and in terms of quality of life. These are, in my personal opinion, one of the important sets of laws that we will consider in this session, because they are both strategic and nationalal for the further development of the Republic of Serbia. Otherwise, as we all know some economies, including our economies, could develop successfully, it is very important to ensure energy stability and security, and this has really been done in the previous period. We have already discussed here in the plenary room that as a country, we have provided another important gas supply connection across the Balkans, which is not only a country that is the ultimate destination, but also a transit country that will have revenues from it. What is important is to point out that there has been a lot of work on raising energy capacity when it comes to electricity production, heat energy and further distribution and use, and has, of course, been a further development of the use and production of renewable energy sources. So it was built in the previous period and a large number of wind parks and it was done to stimulate technology development when it comes to renewable energy production. Otherwise, this set of laws that are before us today will allow us to continue to fight further to maintain this energy security and stability and to raise to a higher level our energy and mining sector by making it more attractive for new investments, for further development and application of technologies when it comes to, above all, the renewable energy sector, but what is very important is that we continue to work on a more efficient and economic exploitation of the use of our mining resources and the wealth that we have already talked about here. These legal sets are the starting point of moving from word to action and that the very area of energy and mining itself, that it is actually going through an energy transition and in fact they will allow us to talk in practice about decarbonisation and that in the coming period we have the development of our economy from a climatic perspective. When we talk about the energy and mining sectors, I would like to clearly mention that at present the gross domestic product participates with 5.5%, and by implementing these sets of laws and sublaws, it will allow them to take the value between 7% and 9% in the next period, which, if you agree, is not really a small value. Thanks to these laws, it will be about new investments that we will not see as costs, but as investments, by building new hydropower plants, new wind parks, raising capacity when it comes to the application of solar energy, that is, the construction of solar power plants, the biomass power plants, and what is very important is that we also talk about the heat that will also develop in the next period, turn to the application of this energy source. In addition, the capacity of energy efficiency of buildings and buildings will be increased, of course, which I will talk about a little later, both individual households and housing communities and public administrations, and in this way we will actually successfully go through more efficient and economic uses of energy itself. When I talk about the Law on the Use of Renewable Energy, it is a newspaper in our legislative system, but not only to our own, but also to the whole region, I can freely say, and that we are once again by, well, some pioneers when it comes to energy, and clearly proves its implementation, but also other legal acts that are ahead of us, that we are really on our way to the EU, towards European integration, because first of all, the application of these laws will allow the implementation of the latest EU directives, which will allow further development of the quality of life of citizens. As the Deputy Prime Minister said, the goal is that by 2050, at least 50% of electricity production is generated from renewable energy sources, and thus we will show that we are successful in the decarbonisation process. So, so far, the state has done a lot of work to raise the very share of renewable energy. That did not go sadly with the dynamics we were expecting, because we had a number of challenges before us and we managed to solve them, and now we are sure that we will succeed in achieving the goals ahead of us. What I want to say is that these legal solutions will allow the further development of the very production of energy from renewable sources by enabling a fair match that will be created thanks to the application and fid-in premium that will occur, the auction systems that will be among the individual producers of that energy itself. Otherwise, in the previous period, as we know, fid-in tariffs were used, which were actually meant to encourage all those innovative people, entrepreneurs to turn to the production of electricity from renewable sources, but unfortunately that technology was quite expensive and it allowed them to actually make that energy production more profitable and useful. Thanks to the development of technology, technology, progress in science today, this technology has been much cheaper. It will, of course, enable the state to continue to stimulate people to move these waters because energy is one of the important sectors for the development of entrepreneurship and which can give many young people a chance to prove themselves successful economists and innovators. What is very important is to point out that state measures will stimulate and develop technology in our country, not only to be a country that will use these technologies, but also to invest in its laboratories, institutes and young innovators who will actually develop technology that will be able to be used in the world. Otherwise, when I talk about these segments and not just about this law, but about the other, as the Vice President said, we're talking about mandatory environmental protection. It is one of the important agendas, not only of this ministry, but of all that any future legal solutions that will relate to the development of our economy must also be related to the protection of the environment. So, any investment carried out in terms of energy will not be allowed to endanger the environment. That is why the law provides that the Government of the Republic of Serbia will not allow the construction of any facility that will produce electricity in protected areas. Of course, here it has been made clear that if we have projects of public interest that are important, that in these cases the Government can decide on an adequate explanation that these major projects can be given in importance, which we mentioned in the public debate that it is a project called Đerdap 3, which will certainly be important for further development of our energy and sustaining the very energy stability in the Republic of Serbia. What is very important is that this legal solution will make local self-governments get their development plans when it comes to cadastrian adaptation plots, because unfortunately we have had opportunities to be quite obsolete in some segments, that they did not cover this segment of environmental protection themselves, which is how we will also animate local self-government to do their part of the work. What's also very important to say is that unlike the predecessors who found themselves smart to organize some kind of uprisings or riots to protect the environment where their interest in nature suddenly leaped, they didn't remember at a time when they were in power to do anything about it. What was important in their time, it wasn't nature, it wasn't even human life, it was actually about tarnishing the economy, doing factory privatisations to get some kind of money that you'd then be able to get, place on exotic destinations or destinations that you couldn't expect to find that money and create an individual benefit. I can freely say that as much as they object or talk about it, they have not said any concrete actions or actions, they have only pointed out what we are aware of, and in fact what we are going to do with these legal solutions, but also other legal solutions in the future, but, unlike them, not on the street, but on concrete works, projects and results that are visible and that all citizens of the Republic of Serbia will be able to sense. What's important is the segment, I mentioned, is that solar energy, or the use of the energy of the sun. It's not something unknown, it's something that's been used for decades and this law will actually stimulate people to engage in this process of electricity generation through solar panels as individual producers because by law, both this and the others we're talking about, it defines the concept of a buyer-seller. In the previous period, you had people who had solar panels on their roofs, but unfortunately, it's not the end of how their electricity production is treated. Thanks to the efforts that have been made, the Honorable Vice President and your team, that solution has taken place. Thanks to the cost of the technology itself and thanks to the understanding of this problem you give one stimulating measure that will exploit the potential where it is calculated to have a potential of 600km of square roofs in Serbia. Only if we use 10% of the potential that is adequately directed, of course we know when it comes to solar panels depending on position, orientation, slopes, etc., Serbia could have six gigabytes of electricity, which is significantly more than is produced from renewable energy sources today, and where hydroelectric power plants dominate. Then we're talking about a great potential that we didn't know to use in the previous period, but that thanks to this legal solution and the sublegal acts that you're going to bring and how you're going to solve. What does that mean? This means that our dear citizens who set up solar panels, but not just citizens, industrialists, housing communities, which now exist, part of the need for electricity will be achieved through solar panels. In situations where they are not in their households, when they are on vacations, when they are not using electricity, they will produce more than they will spend, contribute to our system, and in return they will have an energy credit, which will actually mean that their electricity costs will be reduced. So this is really an excellent newspaper that I welcome, and I am sure that a large number of citizens will welcome and be stimulated in this way to get into the story of this consumer producer. When we talk about the Energy Efficiency and Rational Energy Act, it is important to point out that this law gives another significant step and speed up when it comes to solving energy efficiency and facilities, both individual and residential communities, because this legal solution provides that the establishment of energy-efficient buildings is 50% co-financed by the state, while 50% will finance the households themselves. So, it will involve a procedure where only a household or a residential community who wants to apply to this competition will make a precalculation of the costs of replacing the carpentry, fixing the facades, rebuilding the boiler rooms and will, on the basis of that, compete with local self-government and state, which will provide the funds for the project to be realised and will achieve this thanks to the formation of an energy efficiency administration that will function at your ministry, instead of the current budget fund, which had results behind it. And what is very important to say, as you yourself have stated, is that you have a goal that is very ambitious and for which you have and how you support all of us MPs, that already this year, after the end of the competition 10% of these households are being resolved through this competition that will be announced. What I also want to say when it comes to these legal solutions, we keep hearing the stories of those, let's say, smart people, who say -- well, you know, we need to replace the thermoelectric power plants, we're going to the European Union, we're going to go to renewable energy sources. It's nice and it's something to do, but it's not working overnight, it's done strategically, it's done wisely, as these legal solutions say, because the law of the state has an interest in developing hydrogen-based technologies, because you, the electrical energy you produce in this way, have to be stored somewhere, you have to find a way to further place it towards households, so that these legal solutions, I said, and the scientific institutions, institutions and companies will be stimulated to develop domestic technology, and the state will invest resources to develop these areas of storage themselves, which are based on hydrogen-based, so that energy is maintained, and that we have through legal solutions and expanded the activities within the energy sector that people can deal with in the future, which is also a nice way that young people who have ideas, which have energy, and that have ambition, and that we have to make a significant contribution to the development of our energy. Dear colleagues have mentioned rationalisation when it comes to energy consumption at household level, by shutting down the bulb, etc. I would just mention one great idea that the Republic is doing, and which is where I came from, and I can praise that Kruševac has replaced the first city to replace the entire public lighting with an ice lighting, which is proven to be more energy efficient, as a lifesaver and something that protects the environment, and thanks to the public private partnership that was conducted, which was approved by the Republic of Serbia's headquarters, in the previous four years more than 12,000 lamps were replaced in the territory of the town of Kruševac, both in the urban area and in the rural area. The project itself is realised over a period of 15 years, and the forecast and what is seen as results is that as much as 79% of electricity savings has been achieved, which for this period is 200 million dinars, these are the funds that will go into some streets, go into infrastructure and solve other problems, and what is very important to say is that CO2 gas emissions have been reduced by three to four times. So this is an invitation to other local environments, and we already see that they're taking these steps, that they're solving this important problem, and that will make a significant contribution to our energy stability. When we talk about further legal solutions, mining and geological research, the Honorable Vice President said that we have a wealth of over $200 billion, which is important and how important it is that we spend economically and in the right way, and this is exactly the legal solution that gives priority to our producers to work on research, that our institute is doing this, which is very important, we will no longer allow it to be exported as raw materials, but we will use in our country as raw materials to produce a higher level of processing and technology, which we will then place further. There are respected colleagues who mentioned the jadarite, which is the issue of the production of lithium batteries, which is, I think, a very important project that the state should do, because we see that technologies and electric cars are developing and that we are going towards rational use of electricity. Thanks to this legal solution, the participation of the mining sector itself from the current 1.9 will go to 4%, as expected. What is very important is that the accent is also placed on the development of human resources when it comes to mining, for the reason that a special chamber will be formed for mining engineers and geology. It is very important to note that it is heading towards the development of the e-authority, which is otherwise a very important project that the prominent vice president realised in the previous sector where she was minister, which is why Serbia is now the ninth on the Duing Business List. So we absolutely do not have a dilemma that the distinguished vice president and his team will succeed in this project of development of e-registration and e-energy to implement, which will allow you to electronically apply for permits, instead of 150 days, to wait on average 15 days for permission and that the guide will be required to obtain a permit at every stage to know where this segment is realized. In any case, as we can see, the legal solutions themselves are very important because they have introduced newspapers that have been brought by the European Union through certain, let's say, their suggestions. What is very important again, I note, another clear proof that we are as the Republic of Serbia clearly on our way to the European Union is because all that is good, which is very, very useful, we want to implement into our system for the sake of citizens, because we have citizens in the first place, and we can see for our success in the process of vaccine vaccination and the provision of vaccines and that the production of Sputnik V itself has started in our country. When it comes to procedures, they're all respected. There were public hearings, a large number of businessmen participated, which only speaks in fact about the thoroughness of your team and the way you work, so that I would leave further to my colleagues to present their views through the discussion, their questions and, of course, suggestions. In any case, I would like to finally say that the MP group "Alexandar Vukic – To our children", but next to us I am certain that other fellow Members of the People will support this set of laws, because, as I said, they are important for further strategic and national development of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-15-0.u5412	Thank you, Mr. Tomic. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-15-0.u5413	Dear and dear MP, thank you for all your words on these four bill proposals. Thank you to the SNS parliamentary group who will vote for these laws. You mentioned one important thing at first, and that's energy security. So these laws are in front of all of you and Serbia's citizens in this direction to achieve and to have energy security, to be a country that can develop even faster, and to develop faster then energy infrastructure and enough energy in all areas of that energy is very important. In fact, these laws need to make it possible for us, and by respecting, of course, everything that awaits us in the coming period, which is to make Serbia and green and to make our energy and energy truly green. For that to be the case, then the condition for that is precisely these laws. Also, you mentioned something that's really a lot to talk about. I will always take the opportunity to relate to what MPs say, especially when it comes to mining. There is no reason for Serbia in the field of mining to achieve an even greater development, to really not be part of the bearers of our economic development and the growth of gross social product with mining. I repeat again, in the field of mining, but also in the field of energy, nothing will work until all principles of environmental protection are respected. lithium is important, lithium batteries are important, they're definitely the future. So the growth in demand for lithium batteries over the past ten years is over 700%. What is expected in the coming decades, not in decades, is that it is expected over the next ten years to produce lithium and lithium batteries themselves, something that cannot even be measured completely even now. But on the other hand, it is also important that everything we do in this area be not only the exploration and exploitation of lithium, but also the existence of a lithium battery factory that will enable Serbia to develop in every sense. Thanks again for everything. Of course, we'll talk later in detail.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-15-0.u5414	Thank you. We're moving on to the list of MPs reported to be speaking on the list. The first word is Misala Pramenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-15-0.u5415	Dear Deputy Prime Ministers, with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, we have before us a set of very important laws that represent the rounding of public legislation relating to the issue of energy and mining through amendments and the addition of laws on these two very important sectors, and on the other hand we have heard that there are two completely new, very important laws in front of us. These laws are important for the strategic development of the state itself but on the other hand, for every citizen and citizen of this country. The question of the law on the use of renewable energy sources, as well as energy efficiency, if I were to explain to citizens, in one sentence, the simplest importance of these laws, I would say that they are gaining a legal basis to take in some way from the nature of the resources it gives us, and on the other hand to preserve nature from all the damages and pollution that, unfortunately, are constantly happening by man. On the other hand, the preservation of the environment actually represents the preservation of human health, because it is very closely connected to one another and it is impossible to talk about one another and not to touch another. The issue of this set of laws is, in fact, the continuation of the country's energy transition as we have heard from you, and in this sense, support not only the MPs, but also the entire state apparatus through all institutions, but it is also very important to work to develop awareness among citizens on this very important issue. What my colleague mentioned, through media promotion, I think it is very important, somewhere the awareness of citizens is raised about the importance of these topics and to realize that each of us is important, each of us as an individual in that chain, in the whole system must contribute to what is next to us, and certainly what concerns institutions and specifically state bodies and institutions should do so through law enforcement and implementation. So it's a very important legal framework, but law enforcement is also very important. What I would also like to mention is that the development of the state at all levels should be proportionate to all parts, so, especially those that are devastated, undeveloped, abandoned, etc. In particular, I will mention the cities and municipalities of the Sandzak region, part of our country which is lagging behind, unfortunately, as we have heard so many times in terms of it, we have already said, the power grids where we expect to seriously work on it. For example, Novi Pazar has been constantly at the top of not only Serbia's cities in the past winter, but also unfortunately in Europe at the air pollution rate, which is very bad. Last year, about March 2020, a contract on the construction of biomass heat was signed. We're hoping somewhere planned for the completion of the work is the fall of 2022. We hope that these deadlines will be respected and that will be very significant. It is also significant that several other municipalities from Sandzak territory, such as the municipalities of Priboj, Nova Varoš, Prepolje, are mentioned, seem to me, in the same story, and will be very significant from that abstract. On the other hand, I will also mention the question of the natural potential it has, for example, cave highlands with regard to the possibility of precisely using renewable energy sources through the use of the benefits offered through water, sun, wind, etc. I don't know how many honourable MPs in the hall know, but right on the Cave in 2011 the first windmill was built, so that's a great perspective. As regards the area, the entire area of Sandzak, especially the cave highlands and the number of sunny hours and the wind speed and everything else. So in the future, somewhere, the initiative would also be on our side to use this resource, therefore, wind parks. We look forward to this announcement of building a solar park in Sjenica. In the same way, therefore, only an appeal to continue with initiatives and further activities in this regard. What's very interesting and what I'm going to mention, and my colleagues have already mentioned, is this solar energy-producer institute. I think it is very important here to educate the population in terms of the opportunities offered by this very institute, therefore, that simply people through the setting of solar panels, normally where conditions allow, affect not only the consumption, not only the passive consumption of energy but also the impact on its production, and even to reduce our own accounts in this way. So, to conclude once again, a set of very important laws ahead of us and in voting day, as we have announced by the MPs of the Justice and Reconciliation Party will vote for this set of laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-15-0.u5416	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Vladan Glisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-15-0.u5417	I'm going to try to do as little politicizing as possible to show my disagreement with the Mining Act, in fact, much more with the policy that's being conducted and about the Mining Act. We had a meeting in the government of Serbia with the Prime Minister, Mrs Brnabic, on the subject of Rio Tinta, I do not know if you are a respected minister, but have then made any remarks on "Rio Tinto" which are a vividly good indicator of what is wrong with our mining policy. First of all, I think we're acting with such a low ore rent, so as we want to be Eldorado for foreign corporations that come here and thus view us as a place for exploitation to which we're going to have a very strange relationship with environmental standards. I think they've studied our standards, our laws, and everything that would make them bound and that's why they've found ways to feel comfortable here and I think that's something that needs to be changed. In essence, policies directed towards foreign investors are not only about this government and the SNS, but are the wrong policies that have lasted for 20 years. This policy implies that we are comparatively treating these foreign corporations, not thinking about how we can say openly today that multinational corporations are very predatory in relation to the interest of ordinary citizens or peoples. Already today, many serious states are thinking about their ecological sovereignty and economic sovereignty often refer to these corporations as all those forces of their countries that should keep them alert and keep them in a position that they can simply protect society's interest from their predatory relationship. So when we get out of this theoretical story, we take everything down to Rio Tinto because he's a good example, he's the next thing. With a low ore rent, we will have only 7.1m euros annually of revenue from what Rio Tinto will have 551m euros in revenues annually. It shows that we actually give them the 1200 acres of the most fertile land, the fertile land under the woods, which we will never be able to return to being useful to anything else, and the other can be what is most important to the development of one nation in the 21st century, which is food and water. "Rio Tinto" there will use huge amounts of water to wash the silicate rock that is Jadarit, and the amount of water will be treated next to and the water will be treated with that rock and concentrated sulfuric acid. Huge amounts of sulphuric acid to be transported across Serbia, from Bor to Loznica. You know we recently had a military truck with a warhead roll over, you can imagine what would have happened if there was a tank of concentrated sulphuric acid. On the other hand, it is said that this "Rio Tinto" will be used in some segments of its production and hydrochloric acid that is even more dangerous, and that in that silicate rock we have arsenic, which when treated with concentrated sulfuric acid we will get arsenic. All of this will remain in dumps for future generations. What I didn't see in this law, and it matters or I don't know if you can solve it through sublaws, and we talked to the Prime Minister who was very correct and I trusted that we were on the same side, and that's why I don't want to make a political story out of this right now, but I just want to ask a question and I hope that you'll answer the question about Rio Tint. We said and we asked if our legal procedure even existed, and I can see that there is no regulated situation here in the law what we do at the end of the working century, a mine, that is. how remediation is done and that we don't happen by any chance what happened to Rio Tintu in Papua and New Guinea, that they just went and left the entire area devastated. They also had a very unpleasant history in Australia where they destroyed the extremely important cultural identity habitats of Aboriginal, banned from working in China, and banned from working in Indonesia. So, when such a corporation enters our space, I think our security structures would have to deal with how they treat us and especially what kind of agent network they have that helps them not to answer the questions our environmental organisations are asking. What is also interesting, and it is about the wrong concept in which we say that the state should be as few present with its state bodies as possible, to be as weak as the concept of economic development as 20 years ago says. It's that, say, people say that you in the ministry only have five mining inspectors. I don't know how we're going to control that Rio Tinto that and that 7.1m euros give to the state of Serbia at the end, although there won't be enough inspectors to control them, and neither will those who will be able to process that big installation called Jadarita mine, which will have to be controlled by state authorities. So, anyway, the problem is there's no idea how to control it, what happens when they're done with the mine. We've got some mining inspectors, and it's a low-income mine. These are all things that speak of us treating them too condescendingly, and we expect you as our minister to protect us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-15-0.u5418	Thank you. There is a word from MP Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-15-0.u5419	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, although someone kept leading us in the early 21st century to be a country of the third world of the 20th century that didn't happen. We were on a great trip. We have opened very interesting topics, here in this short part of the debate on the set of these four laws regarding mining and energy. We asked a few questions, and I would most like to have asked many of these current questions today during that period of the first decade of the 21st century when they led us very successfully towards being a country of the third world of the 20th century. For example, I have not noticed that any of the men's environmentalists made any protest when the born brother of the minister of planning and urbanism and environmental protection, imported lead batteries into Serbia, the old ones, used to collect from that same Serbia's subsidies because he bought them and sold them. It's just one example. We can discuss it for hours, years, no one has asked what's wrong with those old batteries, who's here besides Oliver Dulic's own brother making money? Why didn't the state react? What happened to sulfuric acid from those lead batteries to those who mention sulfuric acid? What happened to lead sulfide, what happened to other components of these lead batteries that and how can they protect the environment and endanger the health and lives of our citizens? It is also true what I said in my first presentation, as a representative of the Committee on Economy, Mining and Energy, that the Committee has organised public hearing on these four laws, and it is also very true that the ministry, for months preceding the adoption of the law itself, has led quite a number of public debates on these laws. Some were invited by members of the Committee, so that I can be a witness that it was indeed a good part of these public debates was organised by the Chamber of Commerce of Serbia where there was also an expert public, where there were consummations in these areas, where some of them were to be present here in front of the Assembly just a few days ago, where they were not the only problems related to these four laws. I guess because they didn't even want to participate in these public debates, they didn't even know what the law said. So then they would know that many of the things that are here, which they have as demands, I don't know who, I really don't know, they didn't ask anyone from the Assembly to have a conversation with them, but they would know that their laws would be fulfilled by the adoption of this set of laws. We're just talking about how double standards exist and what double standards are constantly being made, since we've been trying to make Serbia a more beautiful and normal place to live than it was the first decade of the 21st century when the regime, the former regime, now led by Dragan Gilas, successfully led us to become a third-century country. Here, now we've had a situation to discuss already some programs and events that will be in the future. Questions are raised, public debates are being held, and no one is in fact still, while research continues to know what technology will be used and no one wants to accept the fact that this is not Serbia of the 20th century third world. That Serbia is passing its laws, and that when the laws in this area are passed, it will have to be strictly respected, because that is the only way we can achieve those goals that we set before us, that Serbia will provide economic development, provide the energies we need for this economic development and protect the environment. The environment we all use. Of course, there will always be those who will be dissatisfied, and I would also like to tell the ministers, and also to my fellow MPs that Serbia must not be a hostage to economic interests, various companies in the world. He can't be a hostage or a Rio Tint, he can't be a wave or his competition. Because if you're a hostage, then one of them's got the benefit, and you've got absolutely nothing but damage. So I'm not surprised why some who raised an ecological uprising here just a few days ago are well-funded by a variety of capital that has its own interests so that something doesn't happen here in Serbia. There's not just political interest, there's one classical, logical, economical, people look at today's time in which we live. The vaccine that should be the subject of public health, the population of the entire planet, has become a victim of geostrategic, political and economic interests. What do you think Serbia in another area can't be a victim and a hostage, can it? You can do it. Here is already preparing the public for many things to happen in Serbia that will be good for Serbia, but to try to distract it, to delay it from being applied. Here, we discussed so much about these miniidor power plants, which my colleague Tomic has already mentioned will not be built in protected areas, etc. Which is certainly the subject of the law on the use of renewable energy. Are only mini power plants the subject of this law? Are there any other provisions in this law that help us make Serbia a healthier place to live? No one mentioned it, none of the opponents of these laws we're making. No one, for example, mentioned that the subject of this law is a regulation that will operate a power plant on biodegradable waste. No one mentions it. It's not interesting. Is it good for Serbia? Of course it is. Em, we're going to get energy, and in order to get that energy, we're going to use the waste that pollutes our environment. You won't see that in the means of public information, it's not interesting. As is not interesting, the power plant on the dump gas, the gas produced by the disposal of solid municipal waste and the decomposition of that waste into the dump, which is the source of energy. No one's gonna mention that. As he won't mention, let's say, no gas power plants from the utility treatment plant. He won't mention it either. No economic interest, no competition. Not some other company not present in Serbia to gain competition from a Serbian company. And that's why we'll always talk about some mirages that haven't even happened yet to create a problem, politically, and become a hostage in the economic sense of another company. This is just one part of not talking about these laws, and it should. It should be because no one in this Serbia is likely to behave as did the former regime when it comes to environmental protection, as Minister Oliver Dulic was then acting. Because at the time, it was important that “Parmacom ” earns his brother’s money. We suffered, we imported waste, and there were no ecological uprisings. That's, like, just one part of the problem. When we ask the question – will we always, at all costs, have to ask ourselves again – what will be the consequences? Because we all need energy, not just factories, not industry. We also need energy for our households. This is where the problem arises, because someone is struggling to be energy independent and independent, and someone has a desire, of course, completely legitimate, but not to let us be his victims give their energy project or package to the Serbians. That's why we have all these problems that we have in public today, which are essentially not real problems, often being implemented, that it's something that will reverse Serbia, destroy, arm. So let's ask another question - what about the coal-exploitation surfaces? Do they arm Serbia? Of course. I come from Pogorec, the second energy sector in Serbia, other copies of Serbia's size. Now, are we going to turn around and support renewable sources or are these spears going to be even bigger, thermoelectrics even stronger, even more polluting our environment in order for someone to realise their economic interests or are we going to gradually move towards reducing the amount of energy we get, at least in a percentage sense, from coal and other non-renewable sources? These are all the questions we have to ask when we start to praise, but we're also criticizing the law, not that, most of all, under the pretext of some kind of struggle to protect the environment, we close our eyes to the problems that exist, because that's what they did 50 or 60 years ago, hydro-elemented on Gerdap wouldn't exist. It wouldn't exist. Again, I draw a bit of origin from that part that's in the Gerdapian ravine. My father was immersed in the house because of the construction of that dam. It was the price that this country, whatever its name, could provide some economic progress. As a result, we have one dam, one part of the submerged settlements, and we have the Danube, which is now in that part of the waterway throughout the year and one of the most beautiful parts not only of Serbia and Europe, but of the whole world. It doesn't have to be everything done in such a big project that it's harmful in nature or in the environment or in people. That's just an example I'm referring to. Of course I'm against making mini power plants that will completely shut down one river. That seems to me to be a lack of bio-legal regulation from earlier periods that we are now removing. But, guys, we can't stop where there's no reason not to build such a small power plant at some point, though, without a pipe. All of these require serious analysis. As we, MPs, do not want to cut overnight and determine only on the basis of first knowledge and first information, I would also ask the citizens of Serbia and the interested public not to do the same, but to check well the effects of these laws that we are now making before they start criticising them. The funniest thing was when I read theirs there, you call, a declaration of submission of demands where more than 95% of their demands have already been adopted in these legal solutions. Then we come up with that story that it has nothing to do with protecting the environment, that it is, first of all, a political project. The interests of some others, of course, often end not in the interest that Serbia is making some progress in every way and most economically. When it comes to the Energy Efficiency Act, it certainly is one newspaper in our legislation and certainly sets out the ways in which we are going to spend our energy, to be effective in this regard. My colleague, Mijatovic, touched on the subject, as citizens today treat energy because it is relatively cheap, which will not always be possible and it is better to start these processes in time about how we will use that energy. I think it's a great move from the ministry to propose one of these laws to the National Assembly. I already see that by the many means of public information used by the former regime, Serbia will be compared, they say, with comparable countries in the region about the amount of money financed into the energy efficiency of these buildings. I must say right away, Serbia must mostly provide these funds for itself. We do not have access like those countries with comparable economies, which are Romania, Bulgaria, Croatia, Czech Republic, Slovakia and Hungary. I haven't forgotten anyone. I have nothing against these countries, but we do not have access to EU funds from which they finance energy efficiency. We have access to pre-accession funds, which are ten and more times smaller per capita than if we are a member of the EU, so that the Government of the Republic of Serbia will have to provide it along with its local self-governments with the most part of our own incomes, but the sooner we start to achieve those results that we will be satisfied with, and that is that, above all, we use energy rationally, to reduce dependence on fossil fuels. Never, to be clear, not in the near future, will it be possible to completely throw them out of use and protect the environment, all of which raise not only the quality of life in Serbia, but also the standard of living for our citizens. These four laws are an excellent basis for such a single project and should be supported in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-15-0.u5420	I thank Mr. Arsic. The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-15-0.u5421	When we talk about the area of mining and what is now trying to impose as a problem, and it is heard precisely from those who are definitely using very important projects and the future and economic growth and development, and based on mining, and related to, say, jadarite research, there is one important thing and an interesting thing. It is just as Mr. Arsic said, a great debate is being held, comments are being made that practical life will disappear in that part of Serbia, and that no one yet knows and has no idea what these technologies will look like. So, they're still being worked on. The pilot facility was built in Australia to create a technology that would be clean and healthy. Thus, all that is said today by many so-called. movement, organization, so-called independent experts, etc. is something they saw maybe earlier, heard somewhere earlier, read somewhere earlier, but essentially they don't know, because there's still no document that clearly says that it's going to look like the jadarite exploitation technology, or later on, lithium production. That's the first thing. In addition to what they're doing, they're scaring the public because of course and it's normal that people don't know much, especially when it comes to new ore and that it's up to us all to get to know people about it, but they're essentially not even finished yet, nor do we know these things. They're threatening people to run out of water from the Drina, to completely destroy the Jadar, that there'll be absolutely nothing, that there'll be a cassation, that there'll be an understanding of the area all over there in the Sword and, in fact, life will be gone. It looks like somewhere and there's a parallel to why they're really trying to get us back who knows when and who knows where. So in 1881, the Law was passed in Serbia to build a railway. That was our first track, Belgrade-Nish-Brown. So the law was passed and part of the so-called. The populists intimidated the people, saying that if they pass that railroad, there will be no line of life, nothing will be born. We were a agricultural state back then, first of all, dominant. So none of the crops will give birth, not only that, but also the women who live and families who live along that railroad will have no children. These were official statements by people who were then in a part of the Serbian parliament dealing with politics. Well, that looks a little bit like this time. So, life's going to go away in the Adriatic? It won't go away because we state, as there was then a state, which has its own laws, which works according to its laws, which only when it has all the studies, whether it's studies that will show how to explore or exploit the jadarite, or lithium, whether it's a study on environmental protection, so it's only then that we're going to make decisions about further steps. All that's heard is politics, no matter how much we attack or say it's not. It is politics and it is an attempt to intimidate our man and explain to him that he has to go there, because he won't be able to live, and on the other hand you know very well that even you who talk about it don't even know what these technologies will look like. They'll be clean, they'll be healthy, otherwise they won't work. This is the main message and something I keep talking about and this is also a message to the citizens of Serbia -- believe in your country, your country will never make the wrong decision, and about the health and safety of its country's citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-15-0.u5422	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I now set a regular 60-minute break. We'll continue at 15 hours and 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-15-0.u5423	Ladies and gentlemen, let's get back to work. The word is given by MP Branimir Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-15-0.u5424	Dear President, a respected minister, respected representatives of the ministry, co-workers and colleagues, we are discussing today reform laws in the field of energy, which will change Serbia's energy and environmental image. These are laws in the future that need to provide a stable supply primarily of electricity, to prevent the waste of energy and to significantly contribute to the reduction of the presence of harmful gases in the atmosphere, or to help heal the environment without jeopardising economic activity in our country. That's where we have to find the balance. We must turn to sustainable development, because economic development loses meaning if we threaten nature, if we threaten the environment, that is, if we threaten the health of citizens. I don't think there's anyone in this country who wouldn't want us to move on to an exclusively green economy tomorrow. But it's a process that lasts. We can't do this overnight and precisely thanks to the provisions of the draft legislation on the agenda, we set one goal, which is to gradually reduce the production of coal electricity. The second objective is to implement one investment plan for hydropower plants, gas power plants, solar and wind power plants. In this way, Serbia will transform from a low-carbon environmental society into a healthy society when we talk about environmental issues. We must bear in mind that our coal is the primary energy from which we receive electricity, 70% of electricity is obtained from coal, but on the other hand, we must also take account as a country that is in EU accession negotiations that one of the EU's objectives is to achieve climate neutrality by 2050. It is precisely the new law on renewable energy sources that needs to change this picture and the goal is to get 40% of energy from renewable sources by 2040, and in fact, this process is not a little fast and it is not cheap. Until we reach this goal, we must also work to shut down those plants that have lasted, those permanent blocks in the plants and to modernise existing plants in the thermal power plants. The process of Serbia's energy transition is under the watchful eye of the EU, but all that we do again, I repeat, we do because of us, we want a healthy environment, and we want to leave one healthy nature to future generations. That is why we are passing these laws, including the Law on Renewable Energy, which should ensure the transition to clean technologies, which should enable us to obtain so-called. Green kilowatts. Thanks to its geographical position, Serbia can count on using energy primarily wind and energy from the sun. I think if we were to use everything we have at our disposal, we'd be in line with those developed countries that are also drawing these energy sources, and I'm thinking first of all about Germany and Great Britain. I will set an example that these two countries use about 30% of electricity to produce electricity based on renewable energy sources. This law prohibits the construction of all hydropower plants, mini power plants in protected areas, and this is a positive step. I'm going to go back to the sun's energy and wind energy, and I think if we took advantage of all these potentials, maybe we wouldn't need to build mini power plants, and that's exactly how that energy could replace that excess energy that we're getting in this way. The good news of the law on renewable energy sources is that citizens who produce electricity in this way will be able to power, that is, that energy, weight, besides using for their own needs, to deliver that surplus into the network or to use it later, or to exercise the right to reduce accounts in some subsequent period. Another excellent bill is ahead of us, and this is the Energy Efficiency and rational use of energy, where citizens will receive incentives to save energy in the form of subsidies. This primarily refers to the replacement of the carpentry for the isolation of residential buildings, the replacement of boilers on lubes and coal. I must point out that up to 40% of household energy we lose precisely because housing and houses are badly isolated, we have old and worn out windows and we use often inefficient household appliances. In the end, I just want to point out that without investment in energy, there is no healthy environment and that only pure environmental and sustainable development can preserve both our country and our planet. Because of this, the Social Democratic Party of Serbia will support these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-15-0.u5425	Thank you. The word is by MP Nenad Filipovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-15-0.u5426	Dear President, the Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, honourable citizens, is today on the agenda a set of draft laws in the field of energy and mining. These bill proposals actually provide a legal framework, create conditions that should allow for further development, as well as new investments in this area, and direct Serbia towards green energy, which is energy from renewable sources, which is almost without any negative impact on the environment. So we seek to make Serbia a climate neutral country. When I mention the environment, environmental protection is the essence of these laws, and the healthy environment is, mathematically speaking, an axiom and it is not discussed. Since these bill proposals make one step forward and are strategically important for the country of Serbia, the Single Serbia parliamentary group will support these laws in a voting day. Also, since this is about energy, especially electricity, when we talk about energy, we have to draw a line and know how much energy we have and what energy it is, does it meet our needs, etc. The data says Serbia's energy needs are met with a total of around 8.4 gigawatts, what our capacities are. But if we see that of those 8.4 gigawatts 4.4 gigawatts are thermal power plants, and they work mostly on lignite, we actually have so-called. The dirty energy that pollutes the environment very much. If we know that the EU is charging fees for each tonne of CO2, i.e. The carbon dioxide that occurs in this way, and I think it's currently about 34 euros per tonne, and it's growing more and more every year, it just means that we in the near future have to get rid of the thermoelectric power plants. Of course, there should also be attention to the social aspect of people working in these thermal power plants and lignite mines, etc., and the state has time for that, because it is one long-term energy transition. I usually say - a long-term energy transition from lignite from renewable energy sources. And that's one inevitability. The sooner we go, the sooner we end up on that road. For example, in recent years, Germany has halved its electricity production based on thermal power plants. Because, as I said earlier, environmental protection has no alternative. And if that's the case, no profit, no interest in anyone can be in front of the very protection of the environment. So, as we can see, Serbia's electricity needs are met, but if we take a closer look, we'll see that we even have a surplus of that electricity. I say a deliberate surplus, because, conditionally speaking, we are throwing energy, and we see it from indicators that Serbia is spending much more electricity than countries in the environment or the EU itself. It's probably because of cheap electricity, which is cheapest in Europe, even if we compare the standard of living, we're back at the top, as far as cheap electricity is concerned. Only Scandinavian countries have better, cheaper electricity, as far as living standards are concerned. Also, the losses in electricity transmission are two and a half times higher than in the EU, although from year to year these losses, which were 11.75% in 2019, last year 0.45% decreased losses and I believe that these losses are also decreasing this year, but they remain high. And when we reduce those losses, we actually produce electricity in one way, i.e. We're making that extra. So one of our goals should be to get the maximum out of the current capacities, and that's going through the reduction of loss and rational energy consumption. You have through these laws given solutions that I consider to be good because they included ordinary citizens and businessmen. When it comes to citizens, I think that there should be strong education and better information for citizens, as well as motivation, and constantly explain to citizens that investing in a infrastructure that reduces losses, either heat or any electricity, will be paid to them after a certain period of time. I'd just like to mention one thing we know. By about twenty years ago, when car owners began to switch to liquid oil gas, no matter how much the price of the device was, they were well informed, they knew that after a certain period of time it would be paid off and that they would then drive much cheaper. So they had faith in what they were doing. We're now introducing an institute buyer-manufacturer. Now we have that every consumer of electricity can be a producer, by putting solar panels on its roofs, and that production, that produced electricity can sell at the same price as it buys electricity. So, kilowatt for kilowatt. We need to know that it costs and that many people who want to do it right now are asking questions, but those who have money and who are well informed, who know who these benefites are, but those who don't have that kind of money, and they would like to cut their electricity bills, and that's why they need to educate these people to know that that money will surely come back to them. Maybe you need to secure some energy loans or an energy line of credit with favourable interest, so that these people can simply get into that procedure, and through saving electricity, by reducing those bills, they pay it off. This isn't just about them. This is about the whole country, because if we look at the theoretically speaking and imagine that on every tenth roof in Serbia, under quotes, one solar panel like that, then we'll have about six gigawatts of new installed power. It's a paradigm we have to strive for. It should be kept in mind, too, that investment in solar energy infrastructure has cost as much as 70% in the last ten years, that the useful power of the panels themselves is much better and better quality, and that now it's all much more cost-effective. When we talk about saving electricity, we need to explain that the use of ice lights in houses and in general in public lighting, so cities need to have this ice lighting, give exceptional savings that go even up to 80%. The investment will be back soon. I guess hosts in their homes when they replace the regular ice bulbs with lights that their investment will be back in a year, and they last a lot of comrades. So, through the savings of electricity and through the accounts, they're going to make money, actually. As for the cities that change, it's supposed to be all the time and I wouldn't be talking about the ice lighting of cities right now, but I think they're making extraordinary savings, too. So with less energy, we achieve the same goal, that's what. energy efficiency. Besides, I could say a word about thermal energy. It should be noted that the measure you are introducing to finance the replacement of energy inefficient carpentry to a new one that is far more efficient. One extremely good measure. It should be mentioned that local self-government will participate with 25%, 25% of the republic and 50% of the citizens themselves. It should be noted that local self-governments are already making a public call in May and that local self-government should apply all of this. It's one big investment that can cost over 100m euros a year, but something that matters and I think it's an extremely good measure. There needs to be some kind of popularization. Replace the boilers in the heat from the mussels on biomass, etc. These are the good measures you bring, and it's good that it's started in certain cities, it's good that in the next six cities that you have planned, it'll solve it. The local self-government itself should go that way. Also, in the end, as for the fid-in tariffs that were originally the initial chapel to start with renewable energy sources, now this fid-in tariff is going down, or we go to auctions, that the price of electricity at these auctions is as low as possible and our goal should be that, in the shortest time, the authorised producers will be the ones who will be in the same rank as the other producers. That we don't have a privileged producer, but that these fid-in tariffs and the rest no longer exist, but that they're at zero. So, there's a lot more to say, but due to the weather, I want to say that these laws are extremely good and that the JS parliamentary groups will support this set of draft laws in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-15-0.u5427	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Zoltan Peck.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-15-0.u5428	Thank you. Dear President of the National Assembly, honourable Deputy Prime Ministers with Associates, Honorable People's MPs, ladies and gentlemen, we now have a set of energy laws and SVM MPs standing before us to determine where our children will be in 2030 and our grandchildren in 2050. By adopting these laws that are ahead of us, we will take a big step towards green Serbia, which is our long-term goal. Given the situation found that our country spends twice as much energy than the countries in the environment, as much as four times as the EU countries, so our country cannot put an ambitious plan ahead of itself, as Spain has put it. A new Energy Act was adopted in Spain about ten days ago, where it is predicted that in 2050, 97% of energy will be produced from renewable energy sources in the country. We also set a very ambitious goal, a plan to produce electricity in 2050, a minimum of 50%, from renewable energy sources. We need to move slowly to the production of electricity from fossil to renewable sources, such as solar energy, wind energy, biogas, biomass. We've heard about it. So there's a lot of renewables. I'd like to say a few sentences about the newspaper in the Law on the Use of Renewable Sources. We highly appreciate that the law prohibits the construction of small hydropower plants in national parks and protected areas. The exception here is the construction of medium and large hydropower plants, such as Gerdap III, which is of national importance. One newspaper that we think is positive in this law, which is to be introduced by the customer-producer institute. So, electricity buyers, whether they're natural persons or legal persons who have or will place solar panels on the roofs of their facilities, will be able to use the energy they produce and spare energy to put at the same cost as they buy into our country's electrical network. We think that we should give incentives to both citizens and legal persons who, with the rescheduling of their facilities, will set up these boards or new investments, when new buildings are built to set up these solar panels. We have information that there are about 600 square kilometers of untapped roof surfaces in our country and if we use only one third of these square kilometers we could certainly replace at least one power plant that is currently working on lignite, on coal. Solar panels should also be encouraged to be placed on facilities that are in public properties, such as schools, kindergartens, health homes, hospitals and so on. And the other new law is also being assessed positively. In the case of the Energy Efficiency Act and the rational use of energy, it is an obligation that buildings or parts of buildings in public property with a useful area of 250 square meters have to be certified on the energy properties of these buildings. This provision of the bill has a delayed fact, i.e. it will only enter into force in 2025. The law provides for, among other things, the establishment of a Funding and Energising Energy Efficiency Board within the Ministry of Mining and Energy, instead of the Budgetary Fund for Energising Energy Efficiency. In this sense, the formation of this administration will allow the creation of its own sources and sources that can be withdrawn from European funds or possibly from international financial institutions will also be made available to citizens. So in the last few days, very much attention has been drawn to the citizens by this new provision that will give citizens subsidies for the restoration of facades in their apartments or houses, or possibly to change windows and doors, or possibly, if they think they can change the old storage furnace, which is in their houses, and move on to some new heat-generating models. From personal experience, I can say that the isolation of the apartment or the isolation of the house certainly brings savings of about 20% to 25% of heat. If windows and doors on these facilities are replaced, we can still add 10 - 15% of the savings without talking about new heating systems. There is one projection that for these works we can employ about 100,000 people in construction, means new employees, to do these house isolations. As we heard, already several times in June will be a public call for local self-government by the administration that will accept the conditions for this tender to be issued to citizens. This means that out of the advances that citizens will submit to these tenders 50% will pay this part of the advance, and 25% will be the municipality or local self-government, and 25% will be the administration. I come from...
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-15-0.u5429	Zoltan, will you leave some time for Rosalia or not? If you want to, stop right now.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-15-0.u5430	I come from Senta, which is among those cities in which part of the city's heat pipeline will be restored from credit received from Germany's Frankfurt Bank on May. We have good laws to pass and the SVM Group will vote for these laws.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-15-0.u5431	Okay. They have a total of 10.51, and he spoke nine minutes and 51 seconds. So you left a minute for Rosalia. If you didn't have a gentleman who'd give her another minute, there'd be nothing. Let's move on. The word is Uglješa Marković.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-15-0.u5432	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister with his associates, distinguished fellow Members of the People, respected and respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I believe that one of our greatest development opportunities is precisely energy, and I believe that the importance of the set of laws that are on the agenda today is also important. My colleagues, not to repeat themselves, have already said what are the laws. Of those four laws, two are brand-new laws and in my discussion I will focus on one of them. The law on renewable energy sources that I consider to be very important. Of course, I'm not reducing everything that's also on the agenda today. They'll talk to my colleagues from the Parliament Club and about those other laws. What I would like to express and commend at the outset is exactly the public debate that has been organised, where everyone interested could attend, and I would like to commend you as a minister, but also your associates who have been very patiently all of us, the MPs, in particular, have drawn closer to everything that is in this law and allow us to get familiar directly, or directly with all the proposals that are in all, or in these four laws. Serbia uses 2.5 times as much energy as the world average and one of the factors that affects that is, when we talk about electricity, certainly the price of electricity, or electricity in ours, which is the smallest, but it has little to do with some of our irrational behavior. So we could become aware that we didn't get all these resources from our ancestors, but that we borrowed them from future generations and that we should act as our ancestors to leave behind us also for future generations the possibility that we got. By ratification of the Energy Community Treaty, Serbia has become a member of the energy community and thus has accepted the obligation to apply European directives that do not apply to renewable energy sources. The aim of setting up this international community is to extend the EU's internal energy market to the Southeast Europe region and the Black Sea region as well. Among others, some of the main tasks of the energy community are strengthening and connecting with other regions of Europe, Asia and Africa and improving the state of the environment, increasing energy efficiency and the use of renewable energy sources. According to the right energy community acts, a binding goal for the Republic of Serbia by 2020, which is 27% of renewable energy sources in gross final energy consumption, of which 10% must be in the transport sector. To achieve this 27% share target, it was necessary to build 1,092 megawatts of new power generation capacity by 2020, which was also defined in the national renewable energy action plan. So far we have managed to achieve this goal, although we have not reached those 1,092 megawatts completely. Energy consumption and the participation of renewable sources will depend on a number of factors in the coming period of which are the most significant both economically and politically and socially but also demographically. How important is the question of renewable energy sources, data from research into a number of international organisations, where I would single out IRENA, or the International Agency for Renewable Energy Sources. It believes that global oil claims peaked in 2019, that when it comes to gas, it is expected to be the maximum in 2025 and, according to estimates of this agency, is expected to come from renewable energy by 2050, 65% by 2050. According to the Central and Southeast European Report, there is great potential for the development of renewable energy sources in Serbia by 2030, especially when it comes to solar energy. Serbia could have a much higher capacity for electricity production through solar energy and higher capacity for electricity generation through wind. According to these estimates, Serbia could produce 30% of electricity from renewable energy sources by 2030. How important and important this area is and how much is developing, it also says that in 2016, 9.8 million people worked in the area of renewable sources, of which 1.2 million were in EU countries, where Germany preceded, alongside the EU, the two most significant countries were the US and China. In China, 3.2 million people were employed in the renewable sector. It has been estimated that by 2030 this number will increase globally to 24 million people. So, one whole area that will be very dynamic in the next period will certainly develop. The strategy for the development of the energy of the Republic of Serbia by 2025 with projections at 2030 and the Regulation on the establishment of a programme of strategy and energy development of the Republic of Serbia by 2025 with projections by 2030, and for the period 2017-2030, important public policies in our country have been adopted and we can see from the report on their implementation which way we are going and how we are progressing. What I think is the most important newspaper in the Law on Renewable Energy is that there are two principles of incentives that are one fid-in tariff that has already existed, the other is a market premium. When we talk about the fid-in tariff, authorised producers can sell their energy guaranteed to the supplier at the price achieved at auction and the guaranteed supplier is a balancedly responsible party. When we talk about privileged producers receiving a market premium, they sell the energy they produce on the free market at the price which is the market price, but increased precisely for that premium and their balance responsibility themselves, i.e. the guaranteed supplier is not balancedly responsible for them. The main objective of the introduction of auctions for the allocation of support measures for the use of renewables in the electricity sector is to increase efficiency, but also to reduce the cost of financing the production of electricity from renewable energy sources. Also, examples of good practice are both Slovenia and Croatia. In Serbia as a whole in 2020, renewable energy sources, if we ignore large hydropower plants, so far we have received 4.4% of renewable energy, there have already been words from hydropower plants that we get a total of slightly more than 30%, but according to some of these criteria they do not belong to that group of renewables. Also, what is a new instrument, which is obtained by this law and perhaps the most significant and will concern the largest number of people, i.e. households, and even businesses, is exactly the instrument that is called – the consumer manufacturer. It exists already in some countries in the environment, but will actually give one legal framework to all those who want to put solar panels on their facilities and thus make certain savings. I think that's a good thing. Also, in this way, people who opt for this type of production and use of electricity will be able, when they achieve excess in production and spend less on their resources, to hand over that surplus to the distribution system, and on the other hand, at some other time intervals, to use it, or to subtract it from the electricity bill exactly on the basis of that difference and to drag it out of the system, so to speak, the energy they need. So, I think there's great capacity and great potential for development. If we also look at the electricity that has been taken over from privileged consumers, we can see for the period from 2014 to 2020 that in these six years, the production of electricity from renewable sources has increased by 750%, or 200 million kilowatts of hours to 1.5 billion kilowatt hours. To the most significant extent, energy production, which contributed to this, is from the wind by 2020, but also thanks above all to the 2016 government regulations, which guarantee potential investors that if they build power plants, their electricity will be fully bought. Solar energy is also a type of renewable source that generally has the greatest potential in the world. Solar power plants are extremely important energy facilities that generate clean electricity. The use of solar energy to heat water has already been widely used, but when we talk about electricity for the past few years, it has been increasingly present, especially given the economic but ecological reasons. The potential of solar energy in Serbia in previous years was unfairly neglected. Only 21 megawatts of capacity have been installed in Serbia so far. That's what she spoke about at the public debate and State Secretary Atanakovic. We, according to the RGZ, have 600km of square roofs in Serbia, and based on that data, if we used only one third of that space, we would get 24,000 megawatts of new power. I think it best paints what the potential is when we talk about the solar system and how much space there is for this sector to develop within renewable energy sources. Of course, I believe that the Law on Renewable Sources is a good basis in regulating the growing renewable energy market. To be completely honest with you, it's not the future anymore, and a man doesn't need to be psychic, it's become the present, and it's become reality. Experts also from the country, but also from abroad, agree that after the adoption of these Laws on Renewable Sources and the other three laws on the agenda today, Serbia will see a boom. It will help us to overcome all the consequences caused by the pandemic of the coronary virus, at a time when we are facing both a somewhat and an economic crisis as a consequence, but with great air pollution and much more involvement in the production of electricity, and the largest share of lignite is almost 70% of the electricity we get right from coal. When we talk about heat generation, it will certainly be renewable sources, but also the solar that I was just talking about will give a big answer to the solution and be a great opportunity to decarbonize. The use of fossil fuels in all sectors of energy is also caused by a number of polluting diseases. So with this further strategy and implementation of these laws, we will certainly reduce the number of our citizens who will have some kind of illness and some health problems. Also, what I think is good, I think it's a good thing that the law predicted restrictions when we talk about the construction of hydropower plants in protected areas, because some of the previous developments that were in practice were respected, but I also think that this should not turn into a campaign against hydropower plants, because Serbia did the first hydropower plant in 1900 in Uzic, just a few years after the construction of a hydropower plant on Niagara Falls, also after that Ivanica, in 1903 we also made the Vucje hydropower plant, which is one of the greatest achievements from the energy field in Europe in the 20th century. I'm saying all of this for the reason that, here, it's been 120 years, these hydropower plants are now kind of museums, but what's more important, they're also in use today and they're producing electricity, that is, for the past 120 years, they haven't disrupted our environment. That's what I'm saying because I think in the next period, and these plants were also built by our builders, they were designed by our engineers, and I think that in the next period we should respect the exact position of the profession, in order to take advantage of our greatest developmental opportunity, which is exactly energy, and we're not going to be in a position to question our environment. For all these reasons, and all the benefits I see in these laws, the SPS parliamentary group will support all these laws in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-15-0.u5433	Thank you. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-15-0.u5434	Dear President of the National Assembly Mr Dacic, the esteemed Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mrs Mihajlović, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is a very important fact that you are here today in the National Assembly with, behold, I have now numbered eight associates, that speaks enough about your perception and attitude towards the National Assembly and all that we are discussing today, and it is about the future of our country, the future of our energy sector, as a sector that may have the most important role to play in developing, modernising Serbia, GDP growth, and thus improving the economy, economic reforms that are beginning in 2014 and new jobs and a better life for citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I think you said well at the beginning that we are at a turning point, when it comes to the development of energy and defining the role of energy in the coming period, and this is the new investment plan on 16 billion euros that will be very important for our country. I think that we have finally in the past few years, thanks to President Alexander Vukic, but also to people like you, who are very professional in your area of work, defined a clear strategic plan and strategic goals of our country's development. In any case, energy, the energy sector, energy security, energy efficiency and diversification of resources within energy are something that will define further development of our country, not only economic development, because we all know very well that energy, energy security and diversification of supply, and when it comes to electricity and liquid oil gas, it affects what is called one country's sovereignty and integrity. There is no and it is impossible for a country to be completely sovereign, completely independent if there is no possibility of supplying energy from multiple sources, and of course Serbia is doing so, Serbia does not hide that it is our strategy, because of our citizens, our economy that depends on the supply of energy and is very good that in our country and when it comes to the energy sector, the construction of energy infrastructure has been working almost now in the past few months parallel and perhaps identical to that in the travel sector and the infrastructure sector between 2016 and 2020. You've definitely proven that you can do your job, that when you say you're going to build a highway, you're going to do it. This is about enough facts 225km of highway, this is about construction of railway lines, improvement of railway infrastructure, capacity. I am sure that is the strategy of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and of us here representing the majority of parliament, that as we have developed the road infrastructure, the railway infrastructure, we will develop our energy infrastructure. The "Balkan Stream" as one of the key projects is important. What was signed in February of this year, which refers to this so-called The "Serbian Flow", therefore, that interconnection between Serbia and Bulgaria, namely Nis and Dimitrovgrad, will have a drastic impact on that, of course, that we have the possibility of also supplying liquid oil gas from Azerbaijan and via a gas terminal from Greece, where we will have the possibility, as far as I am informed, to supply gas from Qatar. This is enough to say that we will have in the near future the possibility to provide liquid oil gas from more sources, which is of crucial, vital importance to our economy and to further attract both foreign direct investment and the development of our domestic economy, especially our small and medium-sized enterprises, which in any case must have choices, which must have, thanks to the competition of the good price of gas, so that our products and products produced here in the Republic of Serbia will be competitive not only in the region, but in the whole world. Given the level of foreign direct investment we have, he's, I'm free to say, excellent. We have more and more foreign direct investment than all Western Balkan countries combined. It says enough that we are in one big investment swing, that many worlds are interested in investment in our country, and that should be particularly apostrophyd, the best companies in the world. I want to make a comparison with the period from 2000 to 2012. After the change in 2000, we had this so-called. Speculative capital, phantom companies, tycoon firms, domestic investors or call investors who have been hiding behind different offshore companies, which have led to the loss of what's called the essential and essence of our economy and entire industries. They led to the loss of more than 300,000 jobs in the private sector in the period from 2008 to 2012, thanks to the completely incompetent and dilettane regime that was then ruled by the Democratic Party. We are now coming to the conclusion that in many sectors, those who are the best come investors from France, America, Germany, the United States of America, Japan, South Korea, the People's Republic of China. It is also in energy, as it is in the toll industry, so we have investors and cooperatives from Azerbaijan, Greece, France, from many other countries, in energy today we have an "Mubadal" working here, we have American companies. What we will, I'm sure, do by implementing these laws that are on the agenda today, and we are definitely sending a clear signal to all investors in the world that it is worth investing in Serbia, that it is worth investing in our energy sector and in our energy system, that it is possible to fertilise our capital here and that, of course, the state has a political, clear will to create the best possible environment for investment. Now, the question is raised, and you have talked about it many times in the media, and that is, of course, a very responsible and one responsible approach – how to balance profit, how to balance development, which is very dynamic with us? I am sure that if you have the next four years at your disposal, it will be an increase from 5% of gross domestic product to 9.5 to 10% in those four years. But how do we balance profits, between investments, between new jobs and environmental protection, green economy, green investments? We have to be aware of one thing, we have to be honest with each other primarily, we can't deal with demagogy as our political opponents do. Because the easiest thing to do today is to be irresponsible, the easiest thing to say is, you know, nothing's wrong, some foreign companies will come. We've had this in the near past cases. The leader of one of the opposition parties, Bosko Obradovic, even in the campaign for parliamentary elections, photographed in front of a factory in Vladic's Han and talked about how foreign companies and foreign investors negatively affect the Republic of Serbia, employment, our economy, which, of course, means one demagogical and irresponsible and populist policy that Serbian citizens absolutely do not support, bearing in mind that we sitting here today, especially from the SNS, you in the government and President Vukic, have over 60% of the support of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. It speaks enough of how the work we have taken responsibility for and how we are doing and how satisfied the citizens are with it. Of course, the Serbian Progressive Party, and of course you as a resolute minister, are in charge of protecting the environment, protecting the safety and health of citizens. No one in their right mind would say, well, it's not just important for us to open factories, regardless of whether it will affect our health, whether it will affect the environment and everything that generally gives us life, not just for us here, but for all of humanity. We need to be open and say that if we want to run one responsible social policy, that if we want to run any responsible policy, it depends on the development and growth of the economy, it depends on whether we improve energy. You've said nicely, excellent data, 200 billion euros in wealth in our resources, mineral and energy resources. It's just necessary, I'm sure, that this power headed by the SNS and you as a resolute minister can make that balance and say that it's worth 200 billion, but we're going to make 50 billion or 75 billion, or as much as we need to invest in all possible models, in all possible new technologies that will best protect the citizens of this country and citizens of the whole region. We live today in the era and in the time of the fourth industrial revolution, new technologies. We can literally create systems if, of course, we have money, if we have domestically available money, we can make systems that will do the best we can to protect the environment and protect the lives and health of citizens. But in order for us to do that we have to attract investors, we have to attract jobs and open jobs, but of course we have to do what we do all these years, to create equal conditions for everyone who wants to invest here. We have done so, competition and companies from all over the world are struggling to invest here in Serbia. Well, what do you think, in Serbia, whether investors from the UAE or America, or Germany, would come here to invest that we are not one stable and serious country in which it is worth investing your capital. While I'm at the UAE, I've had this opportunity to visit a great whole city owned by their company Mubadala, which invests in Masdar City, next to Abu Dhabi, which I think is about 66 or 70% of the full functioning is based on renewable energy sources. I'm sure we'll meet that plan you were talking about, in 2040, that we have 40% of the production and supply of renewable energy, which would be great. That's what our party's politics and us here in Parliament and you in the government represent. These are concrete objectives and concrete tasks and knowledge and a team that can implement this in reality and can lead to a balance between production, between growth of the economy, between jobs and environmental protection. We are not unique in that fight, how can I say, and in that dilemma what is there and what is older and what has a higher priority, whether it's jobs or it's environmental protection. Just look at the U.S., and I'll remind you that Joe Biden when he was the first day of his term, when he sat down in an oval cabinet in the White House, he shut down the construction of the so-called so-called building. Keystone xl pipeline that was supposed to connect Houston, so Texas and Canada, all the way up to Alberta, with all the opposition and anger of the Canadian prime minister, over 20 federal states, but his concept of state development is such that he abolished over 25,000 jobs in one day. Now, we need to talk about what's good for our country and deal with the specifics of our country. Neither are we America, nor can we be America, nor are we France, nor any other European country. We have to take care of it, look at only six years from now, we've increased our minimum earnings in Serbia by 100 percent. The average profit is now 560 euros, by the end of the year 600 euros. So this country has an incredible momentum in this economic aspect of economic development. We need responsibility. What more responsible people at the head of the government than those we have today and at the head of the Ministry of Energy than those who have made so many kilometers of highways, who have made laws on planning and construction and which are, which is the best example, with 170 and some place Duing business lists of the World Bank, led Serbia to us being at the top of that list. What does that mean? It's not just a list, it's not just some piece of paper that we're going to brag about, but every investor who wants to invest here doesn't know everything about Serbia, doesn't know a bit about Serbia. The first thing he takes to read is this Duing business list of the World Bank and says, this is a serious state, this country is seriously implementing its reforms, as it was done in construction, infrastructure, toll industry, so we are now doing it in the energy sector, so now we are working together in the field of energy and with the Russian Federation, both with the People's Republic of China and with the US and with our partners from the EU. I hope, Mrs. Mihajlovic, that we will have participation, I know that you do not speak too loudly about it, but I hope that we will be part of perhaps the "East Mediterranean" pipeline. I'm sure that's what we'll be, because it's important for our country and you'll be able to make this whole project that's geopoliticalally very important, to bring it to us and to be a part of it, of course, as a serious, stable state, which will, of course, help further develop our country. Of course, it is undeniable that in some domain of further development we are taking care of environmental protection, which is why we all agree, but I appeal and invite all serious and responsible people to be really responsible, because the easiest thing to say is, these pollute the environment, these are not good, Rio Tinto is evil or any other foreign company because it is beautiful music for someone's ears. It's not that "Rio Tinto" in Serbia since yesterday. Another important thing, I've made a good point, they don't come here anymore, and here they're not allowed to invest in speculators and people who want to use themselves on Serbia. People and companies are investing here today based their development on new technologies. We have more and more jobs in the field of new technologies. What do we have to develop in the next period strategically? You said energy 16 billion. We have a defense industry, we have an information technology industry, it's also growing at an incredible rate. We do, and we'll preserve some of the development of the automotive industry. Our factories under the sky, agriculture and we are getting better and better at it and we will increasingly have capacity and opportunities in that domain. It is something that we will be focused on, of course, with respect for all standards, but always as we have in the past few years sincere to our citizens, with good intentions towards our citizens, because we primarily want to provide them with a good life, prosperity, quality life, which we have shown. It's nice to be on the highways today, going on the train to Novi Sad by 25 minutes, to Budapest to connect regionally, to build a road to Pristina, to Sarajevo. So we're a country, a central country, it's over, it's irrevocable. It is irrevocable that we are the central country of this region that will be the next decade of economic hub of this entire region and of this whole part of Europe, and I am sure that it is only one cube in this one comprehensive strategy of our President Alexander Vukic, which thanks to this geopolitical wisdom, which is now painted in the right way both in the field of energy and in the field of the travel industry, infrastructure, interconnection with other countries and in the field of investment gives results, gives jobs, gives a better, gives a good future for our children, for their staying here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-15-0.u5435	Thank you. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-15-0.u5436	Thank you, to add a little something somewhere that I think is important, because it's already being mentioned and there's a lot of talk about a new energy investment plan, I call it a "dil" in energy. Somehow, in previous years, it seems to me that no one has actually sat down to see, and what is it that Serbia has, which can benefit, or whatever it is that Serbia can invest without it being an area of energy and mining. Thanks to these laws, thanks above all to a clear government policy, we have moved and are making an investment plan, and it is difficult close to 16 billion euros. But we're looking at it in areas we're talking about new investments of about 6.6 billion euros in electricity alone. For example, it is also about 200m euros in oil, with gas of about half a billion euros, in heat energy of 400m euros, biomass around 15m euros, energy efficiency of about half a billion euros, then mining area of three billion euros, solar power plants about 800m euros, wind power plants about 3.5 billion euros. So that's the framework of our new energy deal, and that's something we're going to be working on, that's what we're working on right now, and that can just help Serbia be even more developed, better connected, and that's what you said, as in the area of traffic, we're an inevitable route, so we're also in the field of energy, an inevitable route. Just one more thing, we were once before the central country of this part of Europe, but I would say that by some, by 2012, 2014, it wasn't so much and it didn't end up or end up in the area of traffic infrastructure, or in the area of energy. We've done a lot of traffic, we're continuing to connect because now is the time or it can be said that maybe we've already been able to do that before, it's to invest in the energy sector and to become recognizable by that because this energy will primarily be green energy, in the next decades and years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-15-0.u5437	I will now give the word to Parliamentarian Samir Cosovic. And I will ask the vice president to come to the presidency, since the next speaker will be Rosalia, let her solve you within the Hungarian disputes about time.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-15-0.u5438	President-in-Office of the Assembly, the Honorable Minister with his associates, respected fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament. Today, we have four draft laws in the field of energy and mining, and they are a legal framework that will allow for new investments and Serbia's direction towards green energy and green economy. Two laws are brand-new, for the first time we've passed them, and two are existing but significantly improved. As for the Energy Act by amending the existing law, security of supply and supply of energy and energy to Serbia will be ensured, protection of the interests of all market participants and increased competition. At the same time, conditions will be created for further development and functioning of an organised electricity market to improve transparency and protect competition and non-criminal behaviour. In Article 4. The draft law amending and supplementing the Energy Act, among other things, stands - the unit of local self-government, brings energy development plans, which identify the needs, for energy in its field, as well as conditions and ways of providing the necessary energy capacities, in line with the strategy and programme. I find this particularly important, because every local self-government knows best what problem to face, and I must say, since I come from the municipality of Prepolje, that although it did not have a legal obligation in the previous period, the municipality of Prepolje has repeatedly suggested that Serbia's Elektroprivredi that Prepolje has a major problem with the low voltage network. I will also list some examples, such as the Great Parish and Ivanje, of settlements with 3500 households, a large number of industrial plants, a large number of business entities, and among them several freezers, because Prepolje is one serious Malin area. When problems with electricity supply, refrigerators use aggregates, and this is not only a huge cost for the refrigerators themselves, but also an ecological problem for the region. What's the problem? The problem is the small-power trafocell, which often causes the system to fall, and the power outages. The solution to the problem is building a large trafo station, however, according to the municipality's deputy president, Prepolje, Esad Hodzic, who held talks with EPS representatives, the large-capital traphostation that would withstand a serious industrial zone, and support the development of the region, should be built and built. You're the Deputy Prime Minister, and the Honorable Minister has announced more significant investment in distribution, in the distribution sector, in fact, a low voltage network, which I believe will speed up the construction of this large trafoscent station in the Great Parish. Also, I must mention the problems of the village of Zavinogaradje, where wooden pillars literally hang from the wires. These are old acacia pillars, which although they are able to be replaced by concrete pillars, because five years ago, before the wooden pillars were laid and concrete, never in those five years, have a net been transferred from these old pillars to new concrete pillars. The village is alive, about 800 households and is also a serious village with 350,000 seedlings of organic raspberries, which I believe is of great importance to them, to solve the problem of electricity supply. I believe that the investments you've been talking about will have an impact on improving the quality of electricity supply, in the Pre-Polish area, because it is clear that energy is important and that it has an impact on all other activities as well. I had to bring this story down to the local level, because it's important for you, a respected minister, to hear what problems farmers and citizens and businessmen face both in the Pre-Polish area are facing. I believe that the serious and professionally prepared laws on energy and mining, which are now in the National Assembly, will also enable the country to develop strategically, but also improve for every citizen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-15-0.u5439	I would like to thank Parliamentarian Samir Ćosovic. The word has a national emissary, Rosalia Ekres.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-15-0.u5440	Dear Vice-Presidents of Parliament, the Honored Vice-President of the Government with co-workers, respected fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament, referring to the presentations from the SVM parliamentary group, on a set of draft laws which are before us and which we will fully support, in my address, I will refer to the proposal for a law on energy efficiency and rational use of energy, as well as the draft law on amendments and additions to the Mining and Geological Research Act. With the strategy of developing the energy of the Republic of Serbia, adopted by this high home in 2015, energy efficiency is seen as one of the elements, within the transition, towards sustainable energy development. As we have heard from this bill, which is primarily aimed at reducing the production of electricity from fossil sources, and resolving coal exploitation, the conditions and way of efficient use of energy and energy, as well as the policy of efficient energy use, are determined. The conditions for energy savings are being created, thus reducing the impact of the energy sector on the environment and climate change. The use of natural resources will be at a sustainable level. The goal we have from SVM is to increase the production of green electricity and reduce the cost of electricity from dirty sources. Energy savings increase the competitiveness of the economy, reduce production costs, improve conditions for economic development, while at the same time fostering a reduction in energy poverty, thus meeting the requirements of the EU directives and regulations. The paper in the proposal is also the establishment of a funding and energy efficiency administration that we consider to be extremely important. With regard to the second draft law, the draft law amending and supplementing the Mining and Geological Research Act can say that all of our first knowledge of mining has been obtained in elementary school and we were already proud that the Republic of Serbia is rich in ores. We felt that this wealth belonged to us in some way. Serbia is a country with a very rich mining tradition. The first major mining expansion began in the German era. And then there were written and unwritten rules relating to the exploitation of mineral raw materials.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-15-0.u5441	I'm sorry, you have to sum up.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-15-0.u5442	Today we call these rules the Mining and Geological Research Act. The current share of mining in GDP is close to 2% with real prospects of increasing by three years to 3.5%. We believe that the proposed amendments and amendments to the law will have a major impact on growth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-15-0.u5443	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Dr. Vesna Ivković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-15-0.u5444	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Minister with associates, respected fellow Members and fellow MPs, respected citizens, at the beginning of my presentation, I would like first to thank the President of the National Assembly, Mr Ivica Dacic, which has enabled public hearing on the proposed laws, which I hope will become a practice. Public listening enables us non-professional MPs to better understand the bill's proposals and adopt them as best and better quality, thus providing a basis for a better and better quality life for all our citizens. Of course, great gratitude to both the Ministers and her associates who brought us closer, to the MPs, to the effects, to the goals and to the benefits of these laws at that same public hearing. All four proposed energy and mining laws are a legal framework that will allow for Serbia's new investment and direction towards green energy and green economy. In my presentation, I will refer to the bill on energy efficiency and rational energy use, since my esteemed colleagues have already talked a lot about the other three laws, and there is a colleague who will talk after me. Being energy efficient today is the accepted model of behaviour in the most developed countries, and we must all think together about the green economy for the future generation and green energy in order to preserve our natural resources and make sure that we all try to use our energy more rationally. Sometimes small steps, such as putting energy saving bulbs, are enough to ensure a better and safer future, but also reduce the harmful impact on the environment. The notion of energy efficiency means reducing energy consumption for the production or life of people. Being energy efficient means that energy is used in a rational way, without giving up. In everyday life, we have numerous examples. I'll just list some. It replaces ordinary bulbs with a life-saving, which is mostly worth it in the longer run, because the thrift uses five times less energy and its life-span is tenfold longer. Then, buildings and houses that are well thermally isolated spend less energy on heating in winter, as well as cooling in summer. According to some data, about 90% of households and residential buildings in Serbia have not been built in accordance with the current energy efficiency standards. Energy efficiency is not related to the type of energy that is used, but to how efficiently this energy is consumed. I've read it somewhere, and you'll correct me if I'm wrong, that energy efficiency can bring savings at the level of annual production of two EPS thermal power plants and that this law should bring savings of 1.3 million tonnes of oil equivalent by 2030, which is equal to the annual production of electricity in thermal power plants "Kostolac A and B". This is precisely what the objective of adopting this law is, achieving energy savings, reducing the impact of the energy sector on the environment and climate change, as well as contributing to the sustainable use of natural and other resources. Given that EU legislation in the field of energy efficiency has largely changed in the direction of increasing energy efficiency and achieving greater energy savings as a very important element in the fight against climate change, there is a need for our national energy regulations to be harmonised. The goal and this, as well as the other three laws, is to protect the environment, which sets us in line for the countries of green policy. All these laws have taken into account the need for citizens to benefit. What is very important to me as a socialist, which will be overcome by energy poverty, i.e. Underlegal acts will help citizens in a worse financial situation, both for heat and electricity. We Socialists inherit the concept of social justice and because of everything I have stated, the Socialist Party of Serbia parliamentary group will vote for this law in the day of voting. For the first time in the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, this bill regulates the area of energy efficiency, efficient use of energy and defined mechanisms for implementing energy efficiency policy as a strategic definition of the Republic of Serbia. The bill stipulates that basic acts laying down energy efficiency policy, in addition to the strategy for the development of the energy of the Republic of Serbia and the programme for achieving the strategy, should form an integrated National Energy and Climate Plan. This act shall be adopted in accordance with the law governing the field of energy, and shall contain a pooled energy efficiency target for renewable energy sources and a reduction in emissions with a greenhouse effect. The national energy and climate plan in the work on energy efficiency contains an indicative energy efficiency target, a cumulative energy savings goal, measures to achieve them, as well as an energy efficiency target for central government buildings. Namely, in Article 35. The bill provides for an obligation for buildings in public ownership with an area greater than 250 square metres to have a certificate of energy properties of the building and to be exposed in a visible and visible place. Also, Article 36 introduces mandatory energy recovery in central government buildings, which will contribute to reduced energy expenditure in the public sector. Under the draft law, heating systems and cooling systems in buildings are subject to mandatory control. The establishment of the Funding and Encouraging Energy Efficiency Board within the Ministry of Mining and Energy is also envisaged, instead of the current budget fund for improving energy efficiency. This will allow EU grants, as well as international financial institutions, to be attracted, and especially important is that the funds will also be made available to citizens through their local self-government. Finally, the benefits of this law are increasing energy security and its more efficient use, increasing competitiveness of the economy, reducing the negative impacts of the energy sector on the environment, encouraging responsible behaviour towards energy based on the implementation of energy efficiency policies and measures, and production sectors, distribution and energy consumption. To conclude, this new and modern law, in line with EU legislation, aims at conditions for energy production and distribution, as well as energy security. Win and benefites will have citizens through personal comfort, smaller bills and protection of the environment. That is why the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group will vote for this one in the voting day, as well as the other three laws in the set of laws we are discussing today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-15-0.u5445	I thank the MP Dr. Vesni Ivkovic. Just to point out that there's still time left for the parliamentary group six and a half minutes. The word has a folk letter from Dr. Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-15-0.u5446	Thank you, Chairman. The Honorable President-in-Office, respected Minister Mihajlovic, distinguished fellow MPs, we had opportunities to listen in public in detail to hear the explanation, or presentation of all these laws that are on the agenda today. I think that in today's debate, we have all shown unanimous support that Serbia wants to make that democratic step. Thanks to you who have had the courage to come out with these proposals, first of all to the public debates that were, and they were related to different forms, in terms of professional associations, interested investors, and finally, civil society and representatives of state institutions, you've been through all stages when it comes to law-making, when it comes to public hearings and what we've had to hear not all of us that no apriors are opposed to it and that's what's very important, which shows that we're all still somewhere in that direction of European integration and that no one wants to go backwards. Those who are moving backwards are actually those who have tried politically to abuse the topic of environmentalism, not knowing that the broader aspect is actually environmental protection, not environmentalism, because to do something, they say, by environmental standards, you must have a different kind of relationship with all the entities involved in environmental protection, and that's why this new term was introduced, so the UN, and they even, the UN, went on to say -- the goals of sustainable development and the 2030 Agenda that we MPs have been talking about here. When some opposition exhibits, that's what I'm going to call them, trying to say that we, SNS MPs, have proposed in the past so-called so-called council. the non-sustainable amendments, which concerned precisely sustainable development and sustainable development objectives and the 2030 Agenda, did not realize, in fact, that we were talking about the future, of the future that you are making here today, through these draft laws. They didn't realize at all that what they called an ecological uprising was actually one step back, because what they're looking for not only exists, but they're not thinking about how to go forward and what Serbia did and went much further than they've even exposed as their platform. I asked to see what those demands were. So, these requirements here mean respect for the Constitution and the law, then they want clean air, water resources, good energy for all, comprehensive sustainable development. So, we've done so much as a country on this road to end their uprising with the topic -- we're looking for the resignation of Aleksandr Vukic, Ana Brnabic and Sinisa Mali, and we're looking for two hours on RTS. Now, these are environmental requirements. So we have to tell the citizens of Serbia what people are asking of us as state authorities. They're asking, first of all, for a spot-on total coal removal to be applied tomorrow. What does that mean? If you're an irresponsible state and you don't want to take steps forward, as it's a given process, and it's called transition, so the energy transition in Europe and the world, then you say, from tomorrow we don't have any mines, we don't have any miners, we don't have enough electricity, we're going to have to import, we don't have an economy, but we have an increase in electricity prices. Are these the demands of these representatives telling us that Aleksandar Vucic, Ana Brnabic and Sinisa Mali should resign and have two hours of media space on RTS, and the question is whether citizens will be able to watch if their plan really survives, because probably 30% of Serbian citizens could not pay the price of electricity at all. So we have to be extremely open and honest with the citizens what we are facing today as representatives of the government that should at the moment lead one responsible policy of the SDGs, which is fighting for the Green Agenda, which contains laws such as the Law on the Use of Renewable Energy, the Energy Efficiency Act as a completely new law, and then amend and supplement the laws relating to energy and change and additions to mining. What is important is that the basis for all this is, in fact, the Green Agreement, which involves all EU members, but also the part relating to the Western Balkan countries, which was adopted at the end of 2019, in early 2020, was ratified in the European Parliament, as well as the Paris Agreement, which was signed in 2015. What is important is to say that Serbia did not wait, so it has now brought some acts, but also the Ministry of Environment has adopted an important act concerning the proposal for a low-carbon development strategy with an action plan. The action plan should take steps towards which Serbia will take that path. This road is obviously difficult, and this is what Minister Mihajlovic is talking about is that with sublaws you need to bring in a specific plan and programme, and for which period it will go towards reducing all this, because it has clearly shown that more than 70% of Serbia is using coal in electricity production. In order to reduce all this, we have to have a specific plan. The plan also concerns investments not only in energy, but also in transport, agriculture, the most relevant part, environmental protection and the measures taken, of course, also cost something. When we talk about how much it costs, it means only for these measures relating to this part of low-carbon development is planned by 2030 to 6.5 billion euros, for 2030 to 2040 billion euros, and for 2040 to 2050, 76.8 billion euros. And what does it mean if we don't invest, say, by the year 2050 these 60 billion euros? That means that it would cost us double, 113 billion euros have been evaluated on all of it. So if we don't go to the Green Agenda today we're practically going to have a double cost in 10.15 years and we're going to have a problem with investment and any investment. What's important, this government has shown, headed by the president of the state, that it is responsible for this subject, that, besides all of you, it is challenging, and don't forget that in 2020, the year of the pandemic of the virus Kovida-19, that it has completely changed the world, that it has completely changed economic activities and ways of functioning of the economy and when we talk about the participation of renewable energy sources, which have been reduced in the past year compared to the previous one. I will tell you, based on Eurostat, which has shown, in fact, how much the participation of renewable energy in relation to what is prescribed, eight EU countries have not met that goal, as neither Serbia has met that 27% target and these are countries: Belgium, Spain, France, Luxembourg, Malta, Poland and ultimately England. Why didn't that happen? First, the way the economy function has simply changed, business activities have been much less, electricity consumption has been in certain segments with major declines and increases. So all of this has affected as a kind of challenge to every economy. We as a state have found this energy mix and our task is to find an adequate energy mix in the future with these new laws that will preserve our economy, make... That's why it's a good investment momentum that you're working with the Energy Efficiency Act, because many other parts in terms of energy forecasting how it's supposed to look like the application of renewable energy are a major challenge in the future. Of course, European integration also means that the network is united, one that applies both to the EU and to the countries of the Western Balkans. This also implies a large one investment cycle of modernising these networks and what is very important to us, that the process of self digitisation that Serbia has entered into very bravely and has shown in fact that the green agreement and that what applies to the application of this set of laws that implies the green agenda is possible. Serbia will be the leading country when it comes to Western Balkan countries in this part, and it will make a big step, because it has united both energy efficiency and renewable sources and the part relating to mining, because all interested investors want to simply work and function from Serbia as a good investment environment. As a minister, you will surely have certain requirements of these investors that have done their strategic research in the field of mining to, of course, get the right to open mines, but what you insist on, and that is very good, to achieve high environmental standards, or from the field of environmental protection, to make environmental impact assessments and what you have confirmed today, that dirty technologies will have no refuge here in Serbia. This is of great importance to us, because Serbia plans to open certain chapters, certain clusters, because cluster 5 implies resources, cohesion, agriculture, as well as Chapter 22 relating to regional co-operation and the use of EU infrastructure funds. For us, it is of great importance and we think that it is the only real reason that the budget of the Republic of Serbia, which has been designed for this year with a high growth rate of up to 6%, will be feasible and possible. I think it is of great importance that those who really want to participate in the creation of green Serbia should know how to talk to the state. So you opened the door to talk. Their conversation can't be turning back. Their theme they want to talk about right now can only be if they want to go ahead. And they will go ahead if they want to support all those topics relating to the green economy, to the opening of new jobs, means with high-ecological standards achieved from different areas of the field of mining, to which they focused most attention, and then to the section relating to air and to the part relating to forests that should be protected. I'm going to tell you that in the last term the government had a minister who really advocated that there was a hammock, and the great funds of that ministry went to the Forest College, whose dean was, by the way, part of this ecological uprising, which was simply simply not satisfied with how much these funds were given for that shaming. I think he was probably directed at how much we really wanted to make progress in this area, but perhaps even then the minister didn't make enough of that step, which is why there is now a chance and that dean of the Forest College to really support these laws, because of the 95% practically their demands are in these proposals. What is important to say is that Serbia is moving forward with the modern world, with changes, with a transition that will happen, with or without us. Then it's much better to be a state that's going to be part of a major change and then you can, shoulder-to-head with big business giants, participate in all the most important segments of society's development. Why am I saying this? Not one Japanese firm, Nidek, which will participate in the operation and production of electric motors for electric cars, would be interested in coming to Serbia, opening up the plants here, and you know how much Japan really is paying attention to high environmental standards, would not be interested in opening up plants here in Novi Sad and the research centre. No other state, especially German companies, would be interested with Mr. Vukic that, on behalf of the German state and on behalf of Serbia, they signed a green agreement last August, but that means they recognized Serbia as one country where the type's investments really have a future. That is why we really need to do what is most important – an assessment, an economic and financial assessment of every step of the implementation of these laws. It is important for us, as well as for all citizens of Serbia, because we know in which terms we will be moving, in which we will be able to invest everything and in what way, because it is not obvious that all local self-government will be able to, for example, exercise support for their citizens. So, you should simply do it permanently, in conversations with citizens and local self-government, that, and through your sublaws, an economic analysis of the effects of all these laws is done, as has been done to amend and supplement the Mining Act. Also, to be done for these two new laws, because we think that the effects you will achieve in the end, regardless of what you have projected, will be much greater. And it will be simple to please all citizens, especially when it comes to this topic. We know that energy is cancer when it comes to pollution, but I think you've actually launched this new bill of law not only a new investment cycle, but a complete one social transformation. In voting day, I think we're all going to be able to support these laws here, because it's good for the future of all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-15-0.u5447	I thank the People's MP Dr. Aleksandra Tomic. The word has a folk letter from Dr. Nina Pavicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-15-0.u5448	Thank you, Chairman. A respected minister with associates, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, today we are talking about one new law, which is the bill on the use of renewable energy sources, which should address the problem of insufficient use of renewable energy sources, removing the main causes that prevent their growth. The bill should achieve the following objectives: environmental protection, combating climate change, reducing the costs for citizens and energy transition. The aim of this law is to create a legal framework that will create a stimulating business environment for more dynamic investment in renewable energy sources, with a view to achieving the objectives identified by public policy documents in this area. The bill should also create one legal certainty for investing in three sectors of energy, the power plant sector, the heating and cooling sector and the transport sector. The targets in the area of renewable energy sources by 2030 will be set in the framework of an integrated national climate and energy plan, and will be known by mid-2020. The most effective way to achieve those objectives, and the existing problems in practice, are to resolve it, is to just adopt this bill. Without this law, it is not possible to speed up energy transition and implement modern incentive systems in this area. The great potential for development, both economic and natural, lies precisely in the exploitation of renewable energy sources. In order for modern society to function and last over time, it is necessary for mankind to adapt its needs as quickly as possible to the opportunities that nature provides. The main crisis ahead in the future is the crisis that will arise as a result of the growing need for energy. In order for a country like our country to rely on its own opportunities and its own sources of responsibility, it must have a successful energy policy that implies the proper use of the natural resources Serbia has. Nature has made available to man all natural resources, and it is up to us to take care of their duration, their reserves and their method of use. Natural resources, i.e. natural resources are divided into renewable and non-renewable according to the duration. Renewable sources are mostly living sources, and they can only be used indefinitely if properly and plannedly exploited. Our country is very rich in renewable energy sources that will increasingly be represented, and their use will contribute to the savings of non-renewable sources. According to the EU's Sustainable Development Strategy, the future and development of humanity will increasingly be based on renewable energy sources. Our greatest inventor in the history of mankind, Nikola Tesla, said that energy in the future would be a matter of life and death. Renewable energy sources, like all natural resources, represent Serbia's potential wealth, as well as an important factor in economic development. Yet there is a part that must remain above economic and economic flows and that should be preserved for both present and future generations. The application of the proposed law would lead to the possibility of reducing the exhaustion of renewable sources, as well as reducing environmental pollution. The best way to save these sources is by substituting them to renewable energy sources. They represent the future both in terms of finding new technologies and ways to use them, and in terms of raising awareness and the whole community about the planned availability. It is of paramount importance that renewable energy is used and that its application is almost without harmful effects to preserve a healthy environment. Renewable energy is derived from natural resources, which are constantly being restored, and most of the renewable energy sources are being directly or indirectly powered from the sun. Solar radiation, i.e. solar radiation energy, is the largest, with a completely clean renewable energy source. The sun is a direct or indirect source of almost all available energy on earth. This energy source, or direct use of the sun, can be used by solar panels, or collectors. Solar energy is turned into heat in this way and in most cases it is used to heat water. Since I come from the south and have the most sunny days, I will look back at my town of Nis, the city that has the greatest opportunity to use the sun's energy in Serbia next to Vranja and Kursumlia. When the territory of the city of Nisa is seen for a year, the inflow of solar energy directly obtained from the sun by research ranges from four to four and a half kilowatts per metre square, while this value is measured at an angle i.e. With a 30 percent slope, it's a little over four and a half kilowatt hours. So we can conclude that Nis has the incredible potential of solar energy, but that it doesn't use enough. That a shift has been made in terms of the use of solar energy, however, is the fact that Nis is the first city in Serbia to have received, even two solar trees since 2017. These solar panels are used to power mobile phones and laptops by turning solar energy directly into electricity. By the end of 2017, i.e. The same year Nis got another five solar trees. According to the 2014 Sustainable Energy Development Action Plan of the city of Nis, solar energy in this city contributed in terms of water heating, i.e. as aid to the classical heating system, but unfortunately the application was only in private direction. Education to the public on the importance and benefits of the use of renewable energy, as well as media promotion, is essential for understanding the need for all citizens to contribute to the creation of business environments that will allow for the increasing use of renewable resources. Given that the use of renewable energy sources is in the interests of the Republic of Serbia, which has been established by public policy documents, the implementation of this law is a priority for decision-making in the coming period. The Socialist Party of Serbia is a state-run party that advocates a better and better life for citizens, and therefore my parliamentary group will vote in favour of this, as well as other draft laws, in the day for the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-15-0.u5449	Thank you. The MP's time has been used, it's a little bit down. The word has a folk MP, Ivana Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-15-0.u5450	Thank you. Dear Deputy Prime Ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, today we are talking about four laws that are the basis for major changes in energy, which are the basis for investment and the production of heat and electricity from renewables from hydropower plants, gas and solar power plants, as well as wind and biomass plants. It is very important for Serbia to make the most of the capacity and that the more energy it produces from renewable sources, and that this is made possible both by the economy and by the citizens, and it is very important that the end-user, or someone who is a user in the economy, has as little energy bill as possible at the end of the month. The Energy Act addresses the system issues of the entire energy cycle, starts from production through transfer or transport, distribution to end-user supply. When we talk about the effects of the change and addition of the Energy Act, I want to point out that energy operators operating on the Republic of Serbia market have a direct impact, given that the law defines the way they should carry out energy activity, and in terms of economy and society as a whole, this has an indirect impact, given what you said this morning as regards general security, energy security in the Republic of Serbia. It is also very important to point out that this area will certainly affect the growth of GDP of 6% and how much the fiscal strategy for 2021 has been designed. It is also important here to point out that Serbia recorded better results in the first quarter of this year than planned for the 2021 budget. The GDP decline in this first quarter is only 0.5%, which is, I repeat, a better result than was projected, than expected, and in the second quarter, we expect up to 10%, which is a far better result than in the same period last year. This will enable us to achieve a 6% growth, which will contribute to the continuation of the implementation of infrastructure projects, both those that we are already doing, and everything that defines all those areas that we are talking about today and that we are editing these legal solutions. It is also important to note that unemployment in Serbia was below 10% last year, which is a huge success in these conditions of the global crisis caused by the Covid 19 pandemic, and we managed to have such parameters and indicators thanks to the difficult reforms carried out by President Aleksandar Vukic since 2014 and thanks to the responsible policy now leading and responsible government policy of the Republic of Serbia. We're guarding our economy. We also had significant aid packages for the economy and for the citizens. We'll also have significant ones in the next period. We'll talk about it next week at the National Assembly. Also, Serbia is among the most successful countries when it comes to the number of vaccines and the number of revaccinated citizens, and the most important thing is to preserve the lives and health of our citizens first, and then to strengthen the economy. Today, when we talk about the Energy Efficiency and Rational Use of Energy Act, it is interesting to mention that it will enable the implementation of a long-term strategy relating to the promotion and investment of buildings, and when we look at the period from 2021 to 2050, it is worth several hundred million euros a year, and when I was preparing for today's debate, I looked at the analysis of the effects of this law and, among other things, it is said, given that about 100 million squares of living space would be recovered, given the energy savings, given the environmental impact of this law, it is interesting to point out that the participation of investment in GDP is 1.7%, so over 150 000 jobs would continue to be opened up to seven jobs per million euros. It is an approach and it is a responsible approach by the government of the Republic of Serbia and one example of responsible policy, unlike Dragan Gilas and the former regime, which fired hundreds and thousands of workers for one million euros in their account, the factories closed down. The unemployment rate at their time was 26%, and we, as I said earlier, dropped to below 10%. The same Dragan Gilas took care of energy, here's an example, when the Belgrade elections were held, he went to Tent to Obrenovac, where due to lack of concrete ideas for cheap political points, he promoted how Tent would privatised and how he should be given support as a candidate to preserve the "Nikola Tesla" Termo power plant, how he would succeed in helping Obrenovac after the 2014 floods, appeared after a few years, and a dozen and a number of false promises, but Serbia's citizens know very well that Serbia had the potential, that Serbia long deserved that everything that has been done today and what Aleksandar Vukic was doing had to be done before, but Serbia could also be one of the largest construction sites in this part of Europe, as it was, but it was not in their time and in Serbia no more infrastructure projects when the most privatisations were made. The most privatisations were during Dragan Djilas, Boris Tadic, Vuk Jeremic and the measurement unit for the immorals of Borislav Borko Stefanovic. There was the most privatisation, the most money, but it wasn't built then, roads, hospitals, power plants weren't built, energy wasn't thought about the environment, environmental protection, GDP didn't grow. At the time, private accounts were built and amounts were raised on the same account according to Mauritius, Hong Kong, Switzerland, etc. Then this same Dragan Gilas comes before Serbian citizens and says Vučićev destroys and leads to the beggar stick "Electroprivred Serbia", the one who brought the citizens to the beggar stick and who admitted that he placed 600, 700m euros in his account during the time, while in power. Because of such a policy, Aleksandar Vukic had to carry out difficult reforms, as I said earlier in 2014. That's why we can talk today about building hospitals, roads, railroads, building schools, kindergartens, thinking and organising such a good vaccination. Here is the great news today, and that is to start producing a Russian vaccine at the Tolak Institute. The first European country to start producing a Russian vaccine is us. This shows Serbia as a leader. Serbia has shown great humanity when it comes to neighbouring countries when it comes to the most important subject, it is to preserve the lives and health of our citizens. It is also very important and has proved to be a major and significant investment in health, one of the four pillars of state power. Serbia is also fighting hard to boost the economy and continuity, as I said earlier, when it comes to the realization of the most significant projects. Speaking of which, I would like to point out that one project that, not only is of great importance for the Ub municipality, the municipality from which I come, but also of national interest, which is a confirmation of everything that President Aleksandar Vukic has and presented in the plan "Serbia 2025" to continue working on it. It is a question of the Kalenic "Colubary B" Termopower Plant. This is very important for the stability of supply and independence of the energy system. Serbia will function at its highest, which is what you insist on and what you said this morning, according to the highest environmental and technological standards. Technical documentation alignment is under way, as well as financial negotiations with potential performers. The state has allocated 400m euros in just one year for this project. Here I have to say that the last recorded activity on this project was long ago in 1990 and that nothing has been done on this issue ever since, and the Colubar B Termo power plant has always been an interesting topic ahead of the elections. Also, an interesting topic in pre-election campaigns was the opening of the “Radljevo” surface spear, which is part of the base “Colubara”. The spear was conceived more than 40 years ago, but it obviously took the SNS to come to power, to make the President of the Republic Alexander Vucic, to make Ub municipality president Darko Glisic, in order to realize this project, is the same story as with the Termopower plant "Colubar B". Ub has been enjoying for several years the benefits of the implementation of the “Radljevo” project. The Elektroprivreda of Serbia and Ub municipality have an agreement concerning the implementation of significant projects and a significant investment in Ubba infrastructure worth 6.3 billion dinars. Finally, I want to say that both mining and energy have a significant role to play when we talk about the prospects of Serbia's development and future. It is important to adopt proposals for actions on the agenda today, to start applying them as soon as possible, in order for Serbian citizens to feel the well-being of all that we are predicting and what we are talking about today, as defined by these laws and to see the benefits of using renewable energy sources, and, of course, to be as conscious as possible when it comes to preserving the environment. We must bear in mind that there is neither economic stability nor economic development without the stability of the electricity system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-15-0.u5451	I thank the MP Ivana Nikolic. The word has been made by the Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-15-0.u5452	Thank you for everything you've said about energy and mining. I'd just like to put an accent on something that we're starting practically together today. Somehow I think we're all on this job together, and we're all together, after all, and in the previous period you're in parliament and we're in the government, and a lot of other parties are interested, we've been working on the preparation of these laws. What is and represents an energy transition and what is waiting for us in the next period is certainly a reduction in production, as I said, electricity and thermal energy from thermal capacity. This means that we will do everything to ensure that our existing thermopower plants, of course, produce electricity through their desuming projects with sulphur dioxide emissions and all other particles according to the EU standards and standards of our own. What is currently working from thermal capacity is “Kostolac B3”. Unfortunately, it is a long run, and it is a shame that Serbia has practically been building such a facility for ten years. What we are thinking about is stopping further building any thermal capacity because it will cost Serbia a lot in the future if it builds new thermal power plants. That is why Serbia is turning through this investment plan to renewable energy sources, turning to clean energy, turning to large hydroelectric power plants, say one Đerdap could be another built, not just what we have, medium power plants and gas power plants. Gases that will give us the stability of the system over the next 20 years because the stability of the system currently gives us thermal power plants. Therefore, it is a vision of green Serbia. So, we need to think slowly about how we're going to get out of the thermal power plant and how in the next 20, 30 years, we're going to shut down and not build new thermal capacity, but we're going to build exactly what we're going to do, or what it's going to bring green energy. The 16 billion euros I mentioned are billions of euros that will primarily go to green energy and sustainable energy. That is why I am pleased that we will be able to implement all this in the next period and to present to the citizens and, of course, MPs and MPs, as well as to the citizens of Serbia a new energy investment plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-15-0.u5453	I thank Minister Mihajlovic. The word is made by MP Borisav Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-15-0.u5454	With great pleasure, I welcome the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister and the review team she came with today. I suppose these people on this team have been involved in preparing and making these laws that are before us today, and it is normal for them to attend the debate on these proposals and their fate in terms of adoption. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, I don't know what your impression is, but I would have been unhappy if I hadn't been to the session today. I think we almost didn't have a session more constructive, a session with a debate where we at least, I don't know when it was less, at least diversified from the agenda and did some other things. We were extremely focused on the agenda. It's probably, not likely, but I'm sure the merits of these laws we have before us today. I mean, we don't often get a set of laws in the Assembly, I'd say border, a set of laws covering a whole and comprehensive problem of a branch, in this case of energy. I guess that's the credit and the online participation of the person who ran the main word. I assume he played and played an experienced president of the Assembly who had passed what had been passed by, by the Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister, Minister, the previous years, a long experience of parliamentary etc. Further and most importantly, the minister who has great experience and who has an extremely uninterrupted, at least according to what I am following and how I see it, one extremely responsible relationship with what she is doing and, of course, we have an experienced prime minister who, if those three components have agreed and started working, it seems to me, Madam Minister, since December of the month when you said that the work on these laws is starting, means, like, four months have been seriously working on serious laws, there could have been nothing else but what turned out to be, that we have laws here today, four laws that are comprehensive, which have shown everything, even set out in some proposals and giving directions to implement these laws. And there's a lot of talk here today, and I'm trying not to say anything that was on the agenda today, that it's our most important thing right now. What I'd like to suggest is a little wider than this. Given that it is the way it is, if we had laws today that covered a comprehensive problem, I am sorry that the President of the Assembly is not there, but I would like to ask him and the Government, the prime minister and all ministers to try to make it a practice for us in the future in law making, that the Government prepares and delivers it to the Assembly, just as I freely called them, border laws. So let's cover one significant area at a time from which we're going to do the roof law and all the other laws that need to follow it, and we have a lot of these things. I'll, for example, just mention that it's very important for us, and I'm not going to think about it right now, but when it does, and if we open up a debate about it, we have an extremely important safety component. We have conditions both within the country and outside security to this country that won't allow us, be convinced, will make it difficult for us to implement well-lawed laws and good laws, not to say, I said, I won't elaborate. But we have in that same area and, in my view, the prevailing national security strategy, but what is fundamental, in my opinion, we need to first adopt a national security strategy, and then we need to make laws, because that strategy needs to be a security policy, and then we need to do laws to achieve and such policies. To go back to these laws. I'm only going to talk about this roof thing a little bit, so the Energy Act, so I'm going to ask the Minister one question in the end. This law is the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Energy Act. In doing so, about 170 laws have been amended, about 130 laws have been completed, with a total of no less than 53 members being deleted. Even one whole piece complete from 65th to 87th members, so 23 members to each other were approved, which means they were thoroughly analyzed and worked thoroughly. So only about one third of the current law left her intact. Two-thirds were either completely rejected, even two-thirds, or completely new members were created, including 38 members, each of which was on a page or page and a half. Now, why did I say all this? It seemed to me when I read it and saw that this could have been a whole new law. I ask the Minister – was that what you were thinking about when you joined? Since you haven't made a new law, don't be angry, I'd like to hear the reasons why you didn't do the new law, but we stayed at the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Energy Act. So much so I don't bother anymore.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-15-0.u5455	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-15-0.u5456	Let me answer you first. We've thought about it, but in order for it to be a new law then 50% of the law and members should be changed. This isn't the case, since you've already measured it all. This part that was no longer in the law was primarily about renewable energy sources, because once renewable energy sources were within the Energy Act, and now we've practically created a new Energy Act. So we didn't meet the criteria that we could go to the new energy law, and that's why these are amendments and additions to the law. Most importantly, this law has taken certain steps that have not been done in the past six years, as the Energy Act was adopted in 2014. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-15-0.u5457	Thank you, Deputy Prime Minister. We're moving on. The word is made by the MP Goran Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-15-0.u5458	Ladies and gentlemen, a respected minister, when the Serbian Parliament, on behalf of the society, lays down laws to regulate its role as market regulator, it's always good laws for me. The reduction of norms implies a higher degree of democratisation in the economy. Greater freedoms always lead to lower prices, higher levels of competitiveness, higher levels of employment, in fact, growth and economic development. All of this is passed by these laws. In fact, these laws bring demonopolization, decentralisation of jobs in the economy, and above all in energy, which means also decentralisation of profits. It must be good for the citizens of Serbia. If we go from economic theory, and above all also from philosophy, today we can hear that capitalism is no longer capitalism of the free market and it is not the capitalism of states, but it is the capitalism of stakeholders, so it is said, we live in a society where stakeholders are the essence of functioning primarily in Anglo-Saxon civilization, and then it is perfectly normal that different stakeholders have an interest in energy. Energy is one of the key human actions that creates an incredible amount of profit. This amount of profits has been combined with the importance and strategy of energy. When you put these two things together, then you get to third, that energy is an extremely intense branch that involves a high level of investment. These three things give the essence that energy was, in fact, always through human history, the momentum of technical change and that major change in economics, in the field of technology, was created in energy, and then ended in the shifts of economic civilizations. That's how it was in history, nothing different today at the beginning of the process. The dilemmas that this congregation, each of us, states have in energy, are not our own, but worldly. It seems to me, my impression of these dilemmas, I could best see two years ago in the small hall of the Assembly when we had Mrs. Crom on one side, the famous representative of the European Parliament green rapporteurs for Kosovo and on the other side of Mr. Rotenberg, representative of industrial capital. On the one hand, you had green energy at all costs, without any excuse. To be honest, I realized on that panel that green energy has no alternative like communism has no alternative sometimes and on the other hand a clear understanding that green energy is the future. That's what mankind's future is, but that it has a series of problems in technology, in the area of price and that we have to solve these problems over the next period of time. You're absolutely right, I totally understand when you say we're at the beginning of the process, because this process is primarily limited by the development of technology and financial resources. And, of course, they're different interests. Different countries have different strategies in the field of energy. If you look at today's key strategy, essentially in the EU, is carbon output, but Mrs. coal consumption in the world is growing, 4% has increased consumption and coal production in the last year, by 2024, coal consumption will grow continuously. The European Union is reducing due to a lack of economic sources of coal production and consumption, but Asia is growing. It's where it's produced in thermal power plants like never electricity. The wrong assumption is that because Asia grows in coal, Asia does not grow in green energy. Asia today invests twice as much in green energy as Europe and America together and invests in three sectors, in green energy production, invests in scientific and research work and invests in the possession of resources that will be key to green energy in the coming decades. Of course, when you look at how it works, you can actually understand that the EU is actually protecting its market by decorboning tariffs. Decarbonisation essentially became a fiscal term more than an ecological and climate-based and cross-border decarbonisation, in fact, the protection of the national economy. Of course, when you look at how the world works, the key example that we in Europe in Serbia say is Germany. What does Germany look like, maybe from a slightly different angle? Germany will leave the coal in 2038 after checkpoints, which will have only 2023 and 2029, and will continue in the 1930s. When it's all over 2050. Germany will have slightly more than 50% decreased carbon dioxide emissions. If it wants to achieve 80% of 2050, it will need 1.5 billion euros and practically total changes, not in energy areas, but in energy, metal complex, buildings and agriculture, and 80% of these businesses in 2050 will be economically unsustainable on the market, it will have to be subsidized from central state financial resources. It's Germany today. Poland is asking for such a process of 150 billion euros from the EU. Of course you're right and they're right when they say Serbia is not the best in the decarbonisation process. When you look at professional sites that monitor carbonisation at the daily level, Serbia does not look good. The fact is that carbonisation is measured in Europe and America, but there are countries that are worse in the EU than Serbia. Serbia, I repeat, is not good, but if you happen to go to the nuclear power plant site what is green in carbonisation, neutrally, it's black in nuclear power plants. Those who don't produce electricity from coal, produce it from nuclear power plants, and it's perfectly fine for me that nuclear energy has become environmentally and climate-friendly and that it's not spoken of. They honor us that our thermals are old and then you go to Green Scriptures and you see that in Europe, because it's an area of Europe, Ukraine and Switzerland, you have a 151 nuclear reactor. Sixty-six nuclear reactors are over 30 years old, 22 of 35 years old, the nuclear reactor's life span is 30 years old. Practically 80% of the nuclear reactors in Europe should be shut down at the moment, but that's not the case. As never in the history of the nuclear reactor work and achieve the greatest possible capacity, the Green Scriptures say – it creates a problem because the consequences are possible, given that it is 80-year-old technology. When we talk about wind parks, when winds blow north of Europe at a speed of 10 meters per second, or 36 kilometers per hour, it's twice as much as in southern Europe where it's five kilometers, or 18 kilometers per hour, but it's not twice as much production, but it's eight times smaller. I've listed this as just some of the strategies and different excuses that apply today in the world of energy. Some look hypocritical, but none of them seem hypocritical to me, each taking care of its economic stability, each taking care of its energy efficiency and each taking care to make maximum use of the resources it has at its disposal. I completely agree with you, and I agree with your deputy, who somewhere on the panel said that Serbia is lagging behind in the application of green energy. I think it's the only area in social life in which Serbia can afford to lag behind, because modern technology in the energy field is new, it's a whole new technology, its results prove only in time. When we discuss what technology will look like in the field of energy in twenty years, we don't remember how we predicted our use of technology in our little personal lives twenty years ago. Who today can say what technology will look like in your lives in 20 years? There are too few experts in the world today that can predict what will happen in the energy sector, in scientific and research work over the next twenty years. We can talk about it, but it all comes down to predictions, our visions, our speculations. No one for green energy, no governments, no ministries, no MPs in the world has done as much as the cost of renewable energy choices. It's the essence that pushes mankind towards green energy. I can also tell you how to get the data out, 40 years ago, the panels were hundreds of times more expensive. Ten years ago, they were eight times as expensive. There hasn't been a shift in the last ten years in a lot of technology, there's been a lot of production. With the increase in production by four times, the practical price is halved. Today in Shumadi, for my great pleasure, you can see dozens, hundreds of panels, you're just surprised how much solar energy, green energy has entered every citizen's life. It would be incorrect to avoid one of the key issues, fully supporting all the laws, aware that we cannot solve these laws or you in the ministry, or anyone, the problem that is crucial to green energy, which is the energy balance. That is what Serbia needs to respond to, Madam Minister, and that is the topic that is crucial for me and for this debate and for all discussions in the field of energy, that Serbia will increase the level of green energy to increase the level of energy stability, i.e. to say professionally, establish a balance. Energy is a commodity like any other, in economic terms, but physically it's a specific commodity. You don't have any supplies at this point, you can't produce at any time, you only have a few milliseconds to react from the moment someone turns on the key in the household, or run the engine in the drive. In these few milliseconds, the operator's response must be quick and clear. Unfortunately, human technology today has failed in green energy to ensure full predictability of energy sources. That's right, and that's a technological problem. We don't have a solution. We don't have solutions that are strikingly applicable today, hydrogen as well as lithium batteries, are not today an effective tool for these things. Today, Serbs remain three or four options. It can, as a balance, continue to use coal, it can import electricity, it can decide to generate nuclear energy, and it can generate energy on gas. Each of these three coals will cost us more, perhaps not, but we will see in the next period of time what it will look like and it is undeniable that EPS is a key company in the functioning of the Serbian state, a cornerstone of Serbia's economy, a company that can change, which can look better, which has a million problems in its operation, a company that employs 27,000 people, has 3.5 million users from digs to billing. I'm fully aware that, for example, when you take the workers off the counter, you can reduce the number of employees by a few thousand, but at that point you'll have five, six million commissions in the banking sector more. You have as many solutions as you want in the EPS. Serbia must take care and protect its economic interests because everyone in the world is protecting them today. And I'm protecting, I'm part of an interest group that protects its interests. I am a MP and my interest group are citizens of Serbia. Serbian citizens, thanks to the government of the Republic of Serbia, are paying Alexander Vukic the lowest, one of the lowest prices in Europe, a product that is always competitive, which we could always sell, which Serbian brains have made and they are satisfied. They have a low price standard European product and they wouldn't objectively change anything. I don't think they're ready to change if it means that for the same quality of services they'll get an increase in price, no matter how different excuses they are. Why am I telling you this? You know very well and I know that there have been different examples in our close environment when certain things have happened. There have been some reactions, such as in Bulgaria when changes occurred, not directly green energy, but concerning some changes in the energy sector. This caused the reaction, and these reactions happened by eventually having the government react, Serbia should not go through these experiences. To thank you, your ministry, the Government of the Republic of Serbia because we may be pioneers on the hard road. I think the road is much harder in economic terms, that the road is much more difficult in technological terms, but we are here to always make difficult decisions and go the hard way. What we should never forget is that we are part of the global world. We can be Europe as much as we want, we can be Serbia as much as we want, but if you look at the graph of electricity consumption in the world today and when you see China consume more electricity than Europe and America do together, then we need to follow not only what Europe is doing, which is not controversial, but to follow what the world is doing. Of course we're going to vote for this proposal all four laws I think are changing things and moving for the better, but I hope we're only at the beginning of the process and we're going to see each other more often, because this is a terribly dynamic matter that requires and legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-15-0.u5459	Thank you. The word has been made by the Deputy Prime Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-15-0.u5460	You said somewhere during your presentation one sentence, which is why I react, you said -- my interest group is citizens of Serbia. I think that an interesting group of all of us here in Parliament, you as MPs and MPs, me as members of the government, and the complete government of the Republic of Serbia, together with the president of Serbia, are just citizens and citizens of Serbia. So we're on the same assignment. Same way. We change habits and we change consciousness, and we think, we have a vision, because anything to do in sectors like energy, earlier in traffic, but above all energy, and energy policy isn't just energy, it's life, it's economics, it's finance, it's politics, it's geostrategic policy, that's all, it's the future. So when we do that, then we all work together, given the interests of our country, national interests, economic interests, the interests of our country's security. So it's a matter of self-satisfaction and how much of our resources we have to produce sufficient amounts of electricity and heat for our needs, so how energy safe and independent we are, issue number one, with all the other additional issues and factors that are necessary, so that we can have what's called energy security, in every sense, and electricity, and heat energy, oil, gas, etc. But also, if we really want to be financial, economic and energy security, then we have to change some things. I may have misunderstood, but I understand from your exposure, and you will correct me, that the existence of a thermopower plant is something that is one of the best, most economical possibilities for Serbia's further energy security, with all of course what we want to do further. I don't mind that, and I don't mind the example of Germany and Poland, it's the only two countries in the EU, which and how they produce electricity from thermal power plants and the question is whether they're going to close the TE in 2038, and I think it's going to be a little later, like 70 of those years when there was that Facebook car around nuclear power plants, so they were finally building, and it's all true. But on the other hand, we can't forget each other's things. It respects Serbia, not a single age of power plants, but ourselves and all of us, respect the emissions from these thermal power plants, and the source that these thermal power plants use, which is lignite. And you and I know as well that there are different kinds of these coals, and that if the most invaluable one of them is, unfortunately, lignite and that now production in the thermal plants is ours, the cost of costing and electricity, the most noble kind of energy, therefore, that's the most noble kind of energy, the cost of costing is much higher than that of course, which is the price we give to our citizens, because now coming to this lignite, is asking for a lot more cost, and investment to at all get one kilowatt hour of electricity, plus all the emissions that we have and which are really high, regardless of all the projects we are doing, it will take us a long time to get to that green branch, which is called produced electricity from the thermoelectric power plants in Serbia, which work on lignite, and that electricity is as clean as possible, in terms of emissions. That's why our energy transition is related, not only to green energy, you've made excellent mentions and mentions of gas power plants, therefore, because of the stability and security of the system, the gradual shift of the thermal power plants and the positioning of any new ones, but at the same time alongside the hydropower plants of large, green energy and gas power plants. The question of nuclear power plants, if we want to think about them for many years, then we have to and how we care about what our people's qualifications are called, and if we even have people who can work in such nuclear power plants and what we do with what's most sensitive, and that's nuclear waste. So what we're thinking about right now, and these laws are just one little step, so there's a lot more to do, is how to be safe, at least in the production of electricity and heat, because we're not safe still in the production of gas, not to talk about oil. It is that gradually over the next 30 years, if we're already talking about years, which means by 2050, we're slowly coming out of what's called a thermopower plant, and at the same time building, we're going to need more installed capacities, what's called green energy. It may seem like a long period of 30 years, but it's nothing in energy, it's just the beginning and some first phase of energy transition. So this is something that is likely to be discussed and debated in the following year, this year and next, when we do all our strategies and our national climate and energy plan and when we see clearly what the shows are, and when we also see what you mentioned, decarbonisation, when we put in at all, and how much it might cost us to leave the thermoelectric power plants, and how much yearly we as a state, we're going to have to pay, because we're part of this system, we're part of Europe, we have certain obligations, and we can't be anywhere on the side. Is it normal and will it be acceptable for us to pay a billion euros for some different fees, instead of these billions of euros, to invest in some other capacity, which will allow us to be energy safe? So we're just at the beginning, this is the framework we're talking about, when we're talking about what our energy policy is going to look like, which doesn't mean that some things aren't going to move. The years we're talking about must be by 2050. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-15-0.u5461	Thank you. The word is made by the MP Goran Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-15-0.u5462	Thank you. Madam Minister, I completely agree and I'll be very brief. I think it's a key line you say today, and we think it's crucial, too, it's "lower." Simply, the technology in green energy is going slowly. We need to get out of the coal slowly. Easy, that's the whole point. Madam Minister, we have this unfortunate fate that we are part of Europe, and in fact we are not Europe. That we're part of Europe when we're supposed to pay tariffs, and we're not Europe when we're supposed to get incentives for those same tariffs. It's our accident. You know, Poland isn't asking 150 million of its sources, it's asking the European Fund. Germany can do that easily when it has a primary show and that's a complete difference. But essentially, Serbia must know and the citizens of Serbia must know that any change involves financial resources. The financial resources of countries like Serbia can only be found in two ways. They can find either in the budget, which means that financial resources come directly from the budget or from an increase in prices or from debt. Serbia is not fortunate that its energy transition can work with other people's resources. This is our unfortunate fate, to say again, that we are Europe when we have obligations but we are not Europe when it comes to the budget of the European Union.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-15-0.u5463	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-15-0.u5464	Thank you. I do not view our relationship with Europe that way, nor with the EU. I think the standards we want to achieve can only be an extra chance. These billions I mentioned are not billions that will leave us without a job or reduce our GDP but are billions that will invest in new investments, create new jobs and make us certainly more developed. About whether we are part of Europe's energy sector when we formed a common energy community, we are, but when we haven't done anything in the past six years at the opening of Chapter XV, then we haven't. So, now about why we haven't done some things I think it's all behind us, but I believe that the Green Agenda and Green Energy can be a chance for our economic development, which is why I agree with you gradually and slowly about the thermo, but also about investment, we need to be efficient and fast. Because it is our chance as our chances have been in other resolutions where we invested billions or, say, "Serbia 2025," so it is also now a great opportunity in the energy sector to make one investment boom, and thus we raise this country much faster when we speak in terms of economic development. I apologize for answering again.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-15-0.u5465	No problem. The promoter has the right to speak as much as he wants. I'm glad it's really a constructive debate. The word has a national MP, Dubravka Filipovski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-15-0.u5466	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Deputy Prime Minister Mrs Mihajlovic, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, respected citizens and citizens, has for the first time been regulated in the legal system by the energy sector in this way, an area of special national and national interest. The proposed laws are in line with European standards, all procedures have passed, public listening has been held and talks with businessmen have been conducted, which I find very important. With this set of energy laws, we're going to have to reduce problems, reduce coal thermal power plants, reduce individual coal deposits, start concrete activities in the energy transition process. The proposed laws provide a basis for meeting standards when it comes to sustainable development in climate change. In order for Serbia to be an energy safe country and a safe country is important three directions. The first refers to renewable energy generation, the second concerns rational use of energy, and the tape refers to mining and geological research, as Serbia has large reserves of coal. We can't give up coal production in due time, we can't give up as mentioned in this high house, as neither Poland nor Germany did, but we have to reduce underground exploitation and apply environmental standards. For the first time, it is predicted that we have an investment plan in the power sector. In this tall House, you proposed a clear investment plan worth 16 billion euros in debate with colleagues, clearly in areas. I find that very important. I am also encouraged by the fact that 1,6 billion are planned for mining in the area by 2030, and that 600m euros have been spent so far. When it comes to amendments and additions to the Mining and Geological Research Act, it is also important, in my opinion, to the new procedures for issuing licences for geological research, then to set up a Mining and Geological Chamber and a request that I consider very important, which your Ministry has proposed to the Ministry of Finance, which is to increase the mining rent in Serbia ranging from 3% to 8% of income, in Croatia it is 12%, in Slovenia, 18%, while in Russia it is 22%. Encourage plans in a five-year cycle related to GDP growth, in the field of mining and energy. Instead of the current 5.5% share in mining and energy, the plan is to make it between 7% and 9%. The estimated value of investment in this area is at least 16 billion euros, and it is no doubt that this set of laws will give one momentum to the economy, which is necessary. Serbia has huge potential in the energy field, and Serbia must use this potential in one rational way. Citizens and local self-governments must be actively involved, incentives are needed to start, but this is something I intend to do and what I consider mandatory. I would especially like to point out, as an important newspaper of the Energy Efficiency Law and the fact that every company, every home, every school, provides solar panels as an opportunity to produce green energy and thus reduce the costs and production of energy from so-called dirty sources. A set of proposed laws is heading towards protecting Serbia and its population from destroying non-renewable natural resources and heading towards preventing environmental pollution in which we live. These laws will make a special contribution to the health of citizens and the quality of life of every citizen. No doubt we need economic and financial stability to apply these laws. I also find it very important what you said at the beginning of today in explaining these laws, that Serbia's goal by 2040 is to produce 40% of energy from renewable sources and in 2050 50%. I think it is very important that Serbia is heading towards regional integration with this set of laws. You also mentioned the Green Agenda in explaining these laws today. It is about nine billion euros proposed by the European Union for the whole region. My question to you is how much will Serbia in the field of energy benefit from this money? Has Serbia already applied for these funds with some projects, i.e. the Resort Ministry and the Government? Finally, I want to point out that these laws are proof that Serbia is taking important steps in the field of energy, in the area of environmental protection, and that, regardless of the right to its own opinion and views, recent environmental protests were undoubtedly politically motivated and with irresponsible rhetoric. What I particularly want to point out is that each result needs one responsible, serious approach and work and that is the most important. I will support this set of proposed laws in the voting day, as well as my colleagues from the Serbian Progressive Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-15-0.u5467	I thank the People's MP Dubravka Filipovski. The People's Messenger George Komlensky has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-15-0.u5468	Thank you, Chairman. Comrades and comrades, ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Madam Ministers with Associates, I would not like to repeat what my colleagues are and what you have been saying about this law today, but what is good is that in a few basic things I definitely agree with, which is that electricity is a strategic product of national interest that depends on the sovereignty of the Republic of Serbia. It's something that has no price and it's been shown for the past 30 years. If it hadn't been for the EPS, if we hadn't had our own power generation to the extent that it took Serbia, and at some point even for exports, the question is whether today we could say with pride that Serbia has preserved its sovereignty and that its state interests are not at risk, because others can affect the functioning of the economy in the Republic of Serbia in a way that does not suit us both citizens. With this set of laws, we regulate a lot of things, we create a base for some future period, we regulate the question of renewable resources, we regulate a strategy towards non-renewable resources, and what we don't touch in these laws, but it's also important for all of this that we're talking about today is hard renewable resources. What I mean by hard renewable resources, I'm going to do something later, and you're going to realize that they're very important and important for all of this. So far experience and currents in the environment, and in the world, we are clearly told that we must be extremely careful not to question our own production of enough electricity, no matter how much it costs. I absolutely agree that as soon as possible, dirty technologies are replaced by the purest possible technologies, but, right to tell you, I wouldn't want to live in a country where someone else is managing because they don't have their own electrical energy, where someone else can dictate how they're going to live and work, and at the cost of that, and I'm suffering the air that I'm having at any moment and it's not so tempting. We also have many examples in the environment, but also far enough from Serbia, such as New Zealand, which in time sold its electricity to another country and today, practically, this country is almost completely controlled by another country. So every step we take must be well measured, it must be based on the experiences that we have ourselves, and it would be very good to have other people's experiences, positive, but also negative, apply, because we don't have to learn from our own failures and nonsense every time. The citizens of the Republic of Serbia, ordinary citizens, can understand, can be pleased, but they simply have to have a serious interest in investing their own resources, to suffer and invest in the production of green energy, to reduce energy consumption and to be receptive to them. Since I like to talk about practical reasons, it can read like this. A decade ago, after I lived in the country, in the family household, we decided to replace the coal heating system and move on to the pellets, although at that point investment for pellet heating was not worth it. Why did we do that? We just haven't been home all day so we can keep the fire going, and I haven't even been able to get through the Employment Agency to find someone decently paid for the conditions that these employment and employment agencies are working on, to come here three times a day to order a fire, clean up the ashes until we get home this afternoon. It was a basic stimulant to move on to a more expensive heat variant, to switch from coal to pellet heating. Pellet was far cheaper then than he was today. The market is an inexorable thing. Now, after this series of years, we've come into a situation, believe it or not, but we just have to change that oven, because it's just not functional anymore. We now have one serious dilemma – whether to buy a new oven or change energy again. I think that Obrenovac and the territory of Obrenovac finally deserve, as probably many other environments, attention when it comes to the systematic change in the warming of individual households. Ten years ago, in land on Obrenovac territory, 32m euros were buried, if I'm not mistaken. A complete gasification installation has been set up that rots in the country for ten years and has not been used to this day. Why am I saying this? When certain types of energy to be used in the perspective instead of coal are stimulated, consideration should also be taken of the specificities of individual environments. It is quite logical that the moment, and we hope that it will be as soon as possible, when that pipeline is connected and has full capacity, then it is quite logical that the price of the shed, boilers, the necessary gas-crossing equipment is forced into Obrenovac, because if we all move on to the pellets, we in Serbia, knowing how individual services operate and how we behave, we will not have a single forest. It is not our goal, so I say that every step must be very carefully and selectively approached. I think it would be very interesting to look for ways to further stimulate people for their own electricity production, and I'm going to be quite laity about it like this. Not only the user manufacturer, but perhaps in some way bind a complete story in some future practice in the sublegal act of new amendments to the law, to enable the supply of this excess energy that the household will produce from solar panels that are installed, pay off these panels and pay off the house isolation, the replacement of the window and all that, because it is the interest of Serbia in the long term. Serbia's much greater interest is that every household in Serbia becomes energy efficient, that every roof in Serbia is used to set up a panel, than that we have 50 positions with 10 or 15 hectares of solar power plants that will produce electricity. Why? This way, when Serbian citizens have a personal interest, realize that it is favourable for them, that it is profitable for them, in the end and for our entire country is extremely useful, then it will go much easier, faster and simpler. One object that I reconstructed last fall, although I have heard that this bill is being done and that isolation will be stimulated and that it will be one general campaign, fortunately I did the job in the fall. Today, the stimulations that this law foresees as a possibility would mean nothing to me. The question is, would I even be at zero? Meanwhile, completely unfounded prices of insulation materials have gone by nearly 25%. So speculative capital is very fast, very fast and it uses everything it can use for its own personal wealth and abuse in some way the very good intentions of the Republic of Serbia, which is ready to enter this whole project in the long term and to invest well. If we had a state-owned company that produces insulation material, I believe that prices in Serbia today would be 30% cheaper. We don't have them. They say it's against the principles of market economy, capitalist thinking, and I don't think it cuts. It's easy for us oil, if we jump to 200 dinars, to replace with pig's fat, there's still enough in Serbia, but I don't know how we're going to do house isolation if the whole market, which some of the monopolies of the isolation material, is going to jump to the point where everything you're making an effort, that all of this we're doing, completely dissipate for the sake of our own interests. So much for that, and these are some things that are practical moves that have to be practically drawn. I know there aren't too many mechanisms here, because it's crazy to expect intervention imports of insulation material now, unlike stock reserves for the oil market or some other stuff, but the mechanisms have to be sought. Speculative capital must be punished. How? We'll come up with some good ideas, so we should work on them in the future. I said that state-owned companies, a lot of them claiming to be past, that they're unsuccessful, that they're dysfunctional, I'm not so sure. We have state-owned companies owned by the Republic of Serbia, which have shown that they are very functional, very important, and I will talk about it in the next segment of this discussion. These are hard-to-renewable issues, and these are human resources. We don't have them defined in this law, but we have them in practical action and work, as well as this ministry, as well as the Republic Government, as well as ourselves. You said yourself that if one day Serbia defines itself as building nuclear power plants, the question is whether we will have people who are qualified to work in them. Personally, I may be too old, from a long time ago, so I'll say I'll be happy if we don't have to deal with nuclear energy in any way. What is dangerous is that because of the behaviour, which is justified, which is unwarranted, in the last thirty years, especially in the 1990s and first ten years of these two-thousands, we have lost one and a half generations of good masters, who work in EPS, in power plants, who work in service companies serving EPS, lost one and a half generations of trained, willing and capable engineers. That's a fact. In practice, it has to be taken good care of, because these people and masters who are mostly retired or retired today, engineers who retire or are about to retire, are not ready, able, know their jobs, trained, but committed to their work and stimulated, because they were workers of Tent or Kostolac or Elektrodistribution, I'm not sure that when we came to power in 2012, when we came to power, they would still be in such a well-acceptable state, sustainable, because if it hadn't been for today we wouldn't have talked about thermoelectric power plants and their revitalization, we would probably have imported electricity into the angro. It's a good thing in the past ten years it's been realized that one philosophy, which was devastating after 2000, is that in power plants it should only work production, it doesn't need maintenance, it doesn't need investment sectors, it doesn't need other monitoring services, it'll do some external contractors, it'll work people on the side, it'll do other companies, it'll be cheaper, etc. Where are we today? Today, that we don't have a firm that's been trained to jump into these jobs at any time, and we have it trained because since 2000... When it was founded in 2002, we called it "a bus out" from the power plant, which is Pro Tent, and that we do not have a trained staff who is ready to jump in and do the job technically properly for EPS, I'm not sure how our systems would function today. Thanks to Alexander Vukic's policy, thanks to the government's policy of the Republic of Serbia, Pro Tent has shown that a state-owned company, owned by the Republic of Serbia, can operate positively, can carry out very responsibly all tasks set and at any moment be available. I'm afraid we don't forget some bad experience and bad practice from the 2000, 2010, 2011, and when we gave up a trained human being so easily and questioned the business of Pro Tent company in Obrenovac. Namely, I welcome the steps that led to the very determined and quick resolution of the issue of electricity distribution, as we have called it, or the ODS from the EPS, if this is a further strategy issue, but at the same speed, it had to be decided and solved by 1,500 people who were permanently employed in Pro Tent, and they are employed because according to the earlier policy that we followed, they were fully tied up and served the EPS. You know, it's really incomprehensible to me sometimes that everything the Government of the Republic of Serbia does well, some individuals can question, especially individuals we've put in some way in charge of certain businesses. I can't understand that someone can give up 772 trained electromounters and say – they're not needed. Who needs them if they don't need a distribution system? That they were necessary showed precisely these two situations when we had exceptional weather accidents. If these people hadn't, who knows when the electrical system would've worked for us and when the power would've reached every village. It's not just a problem with them. The problem is, it has to work fast. I expect this ministry, as you did in the previous ministry, to make useful and good decisions very quickly, to resolve the issue, because the profit that Pro Tent achieved in some previous period is melting. We better spend that profit on investment, perhaps, in a state-owned company for the production of insulation material, if that is the interest of the Republic of Serbia, so as to prevent speculative capital from reducing the activities that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is carrying out and investing both itself and its citizens and all to do, rather than simply by itself, because decisions are not made quickly and in due time, but we question the month and a few days. We have no right to do such things. These are things that concern heavily renewable resources. You know, these people, like I couldn't find through the Employment Agency someone who was going to fire for small money, didn't deserve to have decent working conditions and it doesn't matter how Serbia works, whether they're going to be Pro Tenta workers or whether they're going to be ODS workers. Where they are needed, obviously necessary, because what they can, they know and know in the future with everything you've been saying, that the next period must bring and ensure that this system of electrical networks works properly, to ensure possible imports and possible exports, there must be both needs and jobs for them. If we lose them today, we'll hardly make it again in a few generations to get good and quality masters. Therefore, they are not easy decisions about anything, and as you know, I am always interested in Obrenovac, but these people are not exactly from Obrenovac, and I am familiar with this matter, and I simply need to take care of practical moves, not just about the legal bases that are good and give a good perspective. When we close the power plants, what we do, of course, will show some future time. The general climate, global warming, at least depends on Serbia. Much bigger consumers and contaminants are the ones we have no influence on. Of course, it's not an excuse for us not to do everything we can to live in a healthier but stable environment. It may also happen that, which would not be good, the temperature in Serbia is increasing so much that we need less heat to heat up, but now it's something that looks like forecasts, calculations, which don't have much ground and I don't want to deal with it. We're all here for co-operation, but we need to take care of both renewable resources and non-renewable resources, but if we lose the human frame that needs to carry it all, then we're only in big trouble. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-15-0.u5469	I thank the People's MP, George Komlensky. The word is from Deputy Prime Minister Zorana Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-15-0.u5470	I thank you for your concern and for everything you've said. You don't need to worry about electromitters, if someone has a place and they're never enough, then it's the electrics, they were at Pro Tent, they were in Serbia's Elektroprivred or they were in Serbia's Elektro-distribution. So that question is settled. That's right, we've separated Serbia's Elektroprivreda, we've created two companies, there's production in one company, and there's a distribution system in the other, and we think it's going to make these companies even more efficient. What I've come to think of is that we don't get the wrong impression that we're not getting out of here without maybe bringing a dilemma. The dilemma is – Serbia's electricity and electricity production self-satisfaction. So there is no single reason, neither today nor for 10 years and who knows how many years, that Serbia's Elektroprivreda is going to any privatisation. It's number one, because at one point you mentioned at the beginning that there were no similar things, etc. The other thing – there is no single reason for Serbia not to produce enough electricity from its own sources. That means they're not made by someone else for us or we're going to import that electrical energy. A third thing that is important – Serbia's electricity industry must be able to be much more efficient, because only the "Capeks" of Serbia is below the cost of amortising this company, because this company has not built new capacities for very, very long, for years, almost decades. So, we all, through everything we're doing right now, and through a new investment plan, we have to invest in new capacities, because at one point, maybe some in 2012 or 2013, the price of electricity on the stock market was very low. But as time goes by, it won't be like that anymore. There are other expenses to be paid. Therefore, the third very important thing for the EPS is efficiency and certainly investment in new capacities. One small example, when we're talking about thermal power plants or, say, hydroelectric power plants. Today, if we wanted to build a thermal power plant, the most modern, most modern, as it is said, with ultra super-critical technology, it would cost us four and a half billion euros of 600 megawatts. Today, if we want to build a new Gjerdap 3, a reversible hydropower plant, much better than a regular hydropower plant, 600 megawatts plus 600, so 1,200 megawatts, that costs us up to a billion euros. That's if we talk a little bit about finance and economics. What one MP has already said and what we are talking about, the story of thermal power plants is a story in the process, and that is the time it takes for such a thing, and in that time we must also train our companies that must be strong enough to function, both in the electricity sector, new capacities and green energy. And just one more thing, you mentioned replacement carpentry. I have that information, too, but we've provided for the law not to go and get the citizens by companies, but first we'll have a public call, that's a tender for those companies and a list of those companies that will work and provide that carpentry. Therefore, these prices can raise as much as they want, but they certainly won't get a carpentry to do a replacement and raise energy efficiency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-15-0.u5471	Thank you. The word is Gjorge Komlenski.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-15-0.u5472	Either we didn't understand each other, or I may have remained unspeakable, but at the very beginning I said that electricity is a strategic product and that I'm sure we all agreed that it couldn't be changed and that Serbia must always have it. What I was talking about, I was just talking about some experiences that should remind us that if anyone comes to mind in the future, I'm not talking about you, because we're not all eternal, we're not like MPs, we're not supposed to be in the ministry, but for the future time to know that it's something that's a matter of strategic commitment and it can't and can't be played with. Clearly, that is one additional reason and motive for why all this is supported. I'm glad we're going to solve the issue of these electromounters, but I'm telling you, through practice, there's still a way to take care of difficult renewable resources, and that's about people, whether they're electromounters, whether they're thermo-engineers, whether they're electric engineers, because they're simply the previous period from the '90s to the 2010s, they've thrown out one and a half generations that through practice today could be at the best, most mature age and most capable of carrying a complete job. There is still time to resolve it, therefore, through practice it must be taken care of. It's more of a management business, I agree, but it has to be a definition that the ministry has to take into account because it also depends on whether these four laws will be the real basis for achieving what we're talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-15-0.u5473	Thank you. Minister Mihajlović.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-15-0.u5474	When we talk about human resources, I fully agree with you. I was employed in the EPS 1998, 1999, 2000, etc. and I know perfectly what Serbia has to do with electricity, and only in 1999 could we get electricity in 15 minutes when we were hit with graphite bombs. If it hadn't been for that profession that was everywhere after that known around the world, I wouldn't have had electricity for a month. So I fully agree with the profession. What we all have to work on together, which I don't think we've worked on, is how we take care of that profession and who's where and how we work. You mentioned "Protent". Today, we are in the EPS together with Serbia's Elektro-distribution and we are counting 41,500 workers. It's no problem that we have a large number of workers. The question is exactly the relationship of these workers, the question is how many dependent companies rent their workforce to the parent company, the question is how many administrations there are, how truly there are those we need to run these companies. It's something that the EPS itself will face in time ahead of us, and we have to as a state and as the people responsible for taking care of it, because it also depends on the stability of our electricity system. Human resources are number one. If we lose them, I agree with you, there's no EPS. But on the other hand, we're responsible for what the EPS structure itself looks like and we need to make an account in the next period. I hope you agree with that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-15-0.u5475	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Tiana the Davidite.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-15-0.u5476	I thank the chairman. Dear Vice-Presidents of the Government with co-workers, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the proposal for a law on energy efficiency and rational use of energy will allow significant savings, but also security of energy supply, which will significantly reduce the impact of the energy sector on the environment and climate change, as well as contribute to the rational use of natural and other resources. Today, mankind uses much more energy than ever before, but the ecological consequences of using different sources are also very unfavourable in the environment. Since there is not a single source of energy or a combination of several different sources that are not harmful to the environment, the most important thing that people can do is save energy, because it's the only way we're going to achieve a sustainable development of civilization. It is now the establishment of a Funding and Encouraging Energy Efficiency Authority with legal personality that will enable incentives, other than local self-government units, to be allocated to other users, which so far has not been possible. It is particularly important that the funds will be made available to citizens through funding models involving units of local self-government, economic operators performing works on energy recovery and the banking sector. It is foreseen that the funds are allocated to projects in the residential sector that include house insulation, carpentry replacement, gas boilers and renewable energy sources, such as solar collectors for heating water, heat pumps and biomass boilers. The establishment of the administration will establish a sustainable financing mechanism for energy efficiency, a condition for obtaining the European Union's grants from the IPA Investment Funds in this area. The pilot project to allocate funds to citizens is expected during the year, while larger investments are expected early next year. According to available data in Serbia, between three and a half times more energy is spent to create a gross national income unit than in the European Union countries, and if we compare heat consumption by household, average consumption is 214 kilowatts per metre per square metre in Serbia, while the average at European Union level is almost twice as much as 112 kilowatt hours per year. The establishment of a Funding and Energising Energy Efficiency Board will enable the implementation of a long-term strategy to boost investment in the reconstruction of the National Fund of buildings of the Republic of Serbia, which means energy recovery in accordance with new rules on energy characteristics of buildings in the period from 2021 to 2050. Investments would amount to several hundredm euros annually over a period of 10 years. With these resources, a total of about 100m squares of living space would be recovered, and at an annual level of energy savings would be around 500,000 megawatts, with a reduction in CO2 emissions of 37% over the 2020 period. In this way, investment in GDP would be 1.7%, which would create nearly 160,000 jobs, i.e. on every million euros of investment, would create seven new jobs. In the day to vote, the parliamentary group Aleksandar Vukic – For our children, will support the proposed set of laws. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-15-0.u5477	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Zoran Bojanić.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-15-0.u5478	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues really have nothing new and epochal to add after such good discussions and quality discussions all day long. There were also conflicting opinions, but with reason both sides. What I would particularly point out at this point is what I mentioned several times in the previous session. This government, the President of the Republic and this assembly majority are truly implementing what our wings were in those elections both before and in this last one, for the future and for our children. That's exactly what this set of laws says, these two laws and two amendments and additions to existing laws. We are talking about the future, we are talking about what Serbia is waiting for in some period that follows us and we are talking about that unlike people who abuse ecology, especially environmental and green energy with some protests that end up with political demands. No, unlike those who had cleaned up Serbia during a previous period, they had really cleaned it up, cleaned it from money, from businesses, from factories, from young people who went abroad during that period. We look to the future and talk about the future. Here I would agree with my colleague Goran Kovacevic – slowly, and this is a small step as Mrs. Minister said – a small step in all these laws for our future again. So I don't repeat myself, I'm just going to mention something that I've experienced as a member of the Committee on Economic Affairs. I was in a parliamentary delegation that was in the Federal Republic of Germany, and there we saw everything that they had predicted in the past 25 or 30 years already working on, and these are the green cities. We were in a small town up to Berlin where we saw all those benefits of renewable electricity. So, from cooling, heating up housing units, from buses, cars moving on solar power, up to a million new things. What's the problem with Germany? That's what we can't go into, and we don't want to go into this moment, so energy addiction. Serbia must be stable, be energy independent and therefore agree with Goran when he says -- slowly. Take it easy with the thermal power plants. It is our goal, it is our task to at some point not to have a thermal power plant and not to have that production, and in Germany that's the case. The most expensive electricity is produced right from the thermal power plant. No one has yet to lock up in Shalazi, or Rohr, or anywhere in the country, because of these mines, some Germans are living in support of their families, which is the same case in Serbia. I know that Mr. John Kopač and the European Energy Community are well-intentioned, but there is no hurry. We need to look for all these new ways in the production of primarily electricity, and I think this very set of laws brings about what Mr. Komlenski just mentioned in his presentation, that as private persons, as households, we produce a certain amount of electricity. I'll go back to some abroad, for example from abroad, and I saw in Italy that every highway supplies, or serves itself with electricity through solar panels. So there's no object that works on what's already called their energy producer. I noticed that in the malls. Every mall has made parking lots covered and all these parking lots are actually covered with solar power panels, so that's how all these malls are supplied. Speaking of wind parks, Serbia has already gone into an aggressive one, let's say, wind parks open campaign, but I also noticed it as a problem in Germany. Those in the north have millions and millions of wind parks, and what happens? It happens to be a imbalance in production and demand. Then in that period when you don't need electricity, wind parks create huge amounts of energy, you take down the price, which is still not good for whoever invested it and who invested in it, and at the moment you need that energy, you don't have it. They're trying to solve it, and I think we can design buildings in the future, when we're working, and it's all heating and flying cooling on the same system and from the same energy source, and then there's no imbalance. Not to be too long, because there's still a colleague behind me who would say a word, either way, me and my MP group will vote for these good legal proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-15-0.u5479	Thank you, Mr. Bojanic. The word is Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-15-0.u5480	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Dear Vice-Presidents of the Government with their associates, honourable fellow MPs, I am very looking forward to it because it is a very constructive and very high-quality discussion here in parliament. It means we all understand the importance of these laws ahead of us. Energy efficiency and should be seen as a means of achieving the overall efficiency of resource utilisation, as improving energy efficiency will achieve the objectives of sustainable economic development and mitigate climate change. We, as you know, adopted the Law on Climate Change on March 18th, because we are aware of the time in which we live and the danger of flora and fauna and all mankind. We are small, but we show that we are far more responsible than many large countries whose capital is above all else, at the cost of destroying the planet. As they show projections in our future in some scientific shows or movies, I really don't like it the least. That's why we're doing everything in our power to prevent a catastrophic scenario. That's exactly what we're doing through the Economic Efficiency Act. The basis for understanding the concept of energy efficiency is certainly the flow of energy, from primary energy contained in energy to useful energy spent by society in various activities. Energy efficiency is all that is involved in preventing energy losses from the system, losses resulting from transformation, transmission and distribution of energy, as well as from the final consumer. Often, the unnecessary use of energy by a better organisation, better energy management and a change in consumer behaviour could be avoided, therefore, and the change in lifestyle, which is, you must admit, the hardest part. In order to continuously improve energy efficiency, energy consumption needs to be managed, knowledge, adequate measurements and information and communication technologies. This is based on the fact that a price of energy should be determined which would be more precisely maintained by actual costs, including, among other things, environmental, health and geopolitical impacts. Then, the increase in population and growing demand for construction services and higher comfort levels, along with an increase in time spent in buildings, in houses, show that the trend in energy needs will continue in the future. This pandemic that has hit the world has accelerated even more, because now more and more people are incarcerated and energy consumption is increasing. According to the official statistics of the European Union, about 40% of total final energy consumption and about 36% of total SO2 emissions are going to the buildings. It's the largest final energy consumption sector followed by 33% traffic, industry 24%. For this reason, energy efficiency in buildings is today a very, very important goal of energy policy at regional, national and international level. Green construction is a concept that refers to the overall process of designing, designing, building and functioning of an object based on the sustainability principle. These can be investments in already existing factories that store natural resources, then distribution, renewable energy sources, etc. These four laws in the realm of energy are very large and complex. I really want to commend you, Minister, as well as your associates, on the efficiency of your work. Then, in the last term of the Deputy Prime Minister, as you know, her colleagues, she was, in addition to the Minister of Finance Sinisha Mali and besides Minister of Education Mladen Sarčević, really the most here in the Assembly, because she was very valuable, but tradition continues, the new ministry and experienced, I will not say the old, minister and she is really here again with four innovative laws for our country. I would also like to point out the problems we can find in practice when we want to produce our own electricity using solar panels. The first step is the project and the location conditions and the solution in the conditions where the panels are placed, whether it's a roof or a wall, then obtaining conditions from the Elektro-distribution, and only after that are the panels installed and connected to the installation of the household. If we were to massage this, and the process was easy and simple, we could produce as much energy from the thermoelectric power plants. So our goal is not to individually, but to defile this. What scares me is that the distribution at the bar will be as complicated a procedure as it has been until now, honestly. Therefore, the Law on Renewable Energy Sources and the Energy Efficiency and Rational Energy Use Act are very advanced, but it is only necessary to pay attention to the flow of the operationals themselves. I'm from Mladenvec, and I know from experience that so far there's a business unit that's making things so complicated and when they don't know something, they just say, we're not in charge, then the citizens come to us from the MPs to solve these problems. It's just that I'm sure that you're very, how can I say you've gotten into the essence of everything and that you're going to slowly get rid of it, just to pay attention to that operation, so that the citizens can come quickly and easily to a solution. The co-financing model, which provided 15m euros to increase energy efficiency of 50% for carpentry, façade or roof isolation, has indeed come across a great deal of citizens' interest and you can see that this is well-accompanied in the media. As far as I understand it, the same public hearing I was on is that local self-government defines a part of its budget, calls for a competition, and citizens appear with a request and a professorship for a carpentry or a facade. So, 25% is refunded from local self-government funds, and 25% by the Energy Ministry through the Energy Efficiency Authority. What's the big deal here? What if the local self-government does not have the means to call a competition this year, given the large resources that are being allocated and for the control of the pandemic and other matters and citizens will be dissatisfied and expect implementation immediately after the adoption of the law. I'm afraid that all of this that we're talking about today, which is positive and really great for the individual and society in general, if we don't work out to the smallest details of the procedure, that it's going to remain a dead letter on paper, and that's because the budget is going to be directed to another side. I'm fully aware of the real importance of what we're talking about today, but you'll admit that we're not all. As an example, as my colleague Komlenski said, here are traders who raise prices and what economists would say – it is a psychological price. As soon as they read in the paper that there would be a greater demand and not knowing this part that the minister later explained that it would not go so far, they immediately raised prices. What guarantees the success of applying this law is in fact – think globally and act locally. It means that from the government, through the Ministry, through the city, municipalities, and to the citizens, a clear indication must be developed and the education of officials who will do this part of the job, because it only guarantees efficiency and general application. It is important for us to de-household households that will be energy efficient through saving and producing healthy green energy. So much for me. Thank you for listening to my suggestions.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-15-0.u5481	Thank you. The word has a minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-15-0.u5482	I'm an optimist regardless of what you said would be difficult and difficult and with distributions, local distributions, and also about local self-government units themselves, because somewhere I don't think, or that somewhere I think, but I know that our national interest is the issue of increasing energy efficiency and we're going to work together with local self-government units. Those who don't have it in the budget this year because they just couldn't assume something like that will have to plan in their budget next year, because we need to know what our priorities are. What is it that we really want. If the state is one of the most important priorities to raise energy efficiency, because it certainly means that we try to reduce what we spend four times as much energy as the EU countries and that it practically means that we want to save the production of one power plant a year, then we will do it together with those units of local self-government that are somewhere on the grasshopper, if we are talking about their incomes. The second thing about local distributions, the law itself requires, therefore, local distributions that they must, so the law states, that they must simplify the procedure for concluding contracts with small producers of renewable energy sources. It will not, of course, be by working alone, but will certainly have us from the ministry and, in agreement with us, that simplified procedure will be made. I'll remind you that, and I understand why you're commenting on it. Let's say, on the Dujing business list we still have the connection of electricity to the distribution system to last 150 days which is inadmissible. So our goal is to make it fifty days, and we're doing it now, among other things, with Serbia's Electrodistribution. I think that's what we're gonna do. So we tried to use this law, when we talk about prosumers, or producers and consumers of electricity and heat and solar panels to be very clear in steps and very simple. The design of the project, then the approval of the works, therefore, is not a building permit, because to ask for a building permit then it would take longer and after that contract with the distribution that enables that speed. What we're going to pay attention to is every step of the way, and especially what you just said. I really am an optimist, if as a state we could do a lot of things from electronic building permits to digitization almost in all spheres, I'm sure we'll be as efficient and active as we were in all other things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-15-0.u5483	Thank you. Since the parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, I ask if any of the authorised representatives would like to speak again. Mr. Zoran Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-15-0.u5484	Thank you, Chairman. I would just like to thank all my fellow Members and fellow MPs at the discussion and you vice president, Mrs. Mihajlovic. Given that today we have shown the most important task we have here at the tide, which is that all the legal solutions that are the well-being of both the citizens and the state itself and its economies are properly presented to the citizens and that all the dilemmas we have to make. What I want to say is that these legal solutions, as I pointed out, will be pioneers when it comes to renewable energy and further development of energy and decent pioneers, heirs to one of our famous scientists, Branislav Branko Lalovic, who was otherwise a pioneer when it comes to the development of technology used today in solar energy and where today his famous patents are used. So that vision he had in his head as a scientist in the 1980s about then Yugoslavia, and today Serbia is first a country that will not only apply technology and develop renewable energy production, but we will also pioneer in the development of technology itself. I can say today that we have clearly shown our political will, our desire and our struggle to implement all of this to the end and that we are really and truly improving our environment, to ensure that our economy develops on the basis of climate neutrality and not only to be worthy heirs of our scientists such as Mr. Lalovic or Nikola Tesla, but actually to be something that our children will be proud of in the future, because these are actually important steps for their future and we have shown to politicians now outside the Assembly, and sometimes they have had opportunities here as an opposition to express their opinions, that unlike those who are only good at words, we are actually those who deal with the works and the results. Once again, I thank you all for, above all, clarifying the many provisions that we have interpreted here today, and I am sure that in the voting day, we will absolutely all unanimously support these proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-04-15-0.u5485	Thank you. Since there are no more registered on the lists, does anyone else on behalf of the parliamentary groups want a word? Deputy Prime Minister? (No) I am concluding a joint principled search on the draft law referred to in points 1 to 4 of the agenda. We'll continue the session at 10:00 on Tuesday. First, there will be a proposal for a decision on the selection of members of the Commission to control the enforcement of criminal sanctions, and then a debate in particular and then a day for voting. I want to thank Vice President Orlic, who worked hard on his birthday today. [[The session was suspended at 18.50 hours]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Eighth Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly in 2021. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 94 MPs attend the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., I ask the MPs to insert the cards into the MPs' units. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, it is found that there are, at this time, 137 MPs, or that there are at least 84 MPs present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? (Yes) Samir Tandir has a word. Here you go.
