ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-17-0.u4069	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Third Session of the First Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2021. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 86 MPs. Please specify the exact number of Members present in the room to insert your cards into the MPs' units. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that, at this time, 144 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that there are at least 84 MPs present and there are working conditions. I would like to inform you that they have been prevented from attending Borisav Kovacevic and Aco Petrovic. We continue to work and move on to a unique search on the 2nd item of the agenda – Proposal for a DECISION ON THE OFFICIAL STATISTICS PROGRAMME IN THE 2021 Period. Until 2025. YEAR According to Article 90(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that the meetings were invited to attend Siniša Mali, Finance Minister Irena Vujović, Environment Minister Tatjana Matic, Minister of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications, Dr Miladin Kovacevic, Director of the Republic Statistics Institute, Miroslav Jankovic, Assistant Director of the Republic Statistics Institute, and Natasa Cvetkovic, Head of the Department of Statistics. You have received a proposal for a decision on the Official Statistics Programme. I ask the MPs' groups, unless they have already done so to report immediately, with a number of MPs. According to Article 192, paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search into the proposal for a decision on the Official Statistics Programme between 2021 and 2025. Also, I would like to welcome Minister Matic and ask her to give an opening statement.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-17-0.u4070	Dear President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, honourable MPs, you today have the Official Statistics Programme in the period from 2021 to 2025, which establishes an institutional and programming framework for the collection, production and dissemination of data and information in the system of official statistics. The system of official statistics in addition to the Republic Statistics Institute, as the main producer and co-ordinator of the system, is also made up of NBS, the Ministry of Finance and other responsible official statistics producers listed in this programme. The five-year programme builds annual plans for official statistics adopted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The components of the programme are – a strategy for the development of official statistics in the Republic of Serbia, then a review of the expected results of official statistics in the fields and ultimately a review of the most significant infrastructure and development activities. The main objective of this programme is to complete full harmonisation of official statistics with international statistical standards, particularly with standards of the European statistical system and the EU. The current high degree of consistency of our official statistics was achieved by the implementation of the previous five-year programme, which was confirmed by the opening of Chapter 18 – statistics at the intergovernmental conference of the EU and the Republic of Serbia, which took place on 10 December 2018, as well as by the report of the Pir Riving Mission organised by Eurostat in December 2017. Also, the European Commission's report on the progress of the Republic of Serbia in the 2020 European integration process recognises the progress of statistics under Chapter 18, with the conclusion that a significant improvement in the calculation of macroeconomic statistics is in line with the European System of Accounts, as well as continued work on further improving the transmission of statistical data to Eurostat. The report stressed that it is necessary for the Republic Statistics Institute to retain highly educated and professional staff and to engage new ones in order to meet the envisaged obligations. Other objectives of developing official statistics between 2021 and 2025 are, above all, improving the quality of the results of official statistics while ensuring a high degree of international comparison, then ensuring the independence of official statistics and improving coordination within the official statistics systems, then developing a system of decision-making support - decision making support and other modern information solutions that are tailored to the needs of different types of users. Finally, the provision of adequate resources for the functioning and development of official statistics is also foreseen. In addition, I would also like to say something about the priority development activities of the programmes defined in the following areas of official statistics. Under one, demographics and social statistics, including the implementation of the census, households and apartments in 2021. Under two, economic statistics, including strengthening the quality of macroeconomic indicators, notably improving the build-up of national accounts in line with the European System of Accounts ESA 2010, which is potential in the European Commission report, and improving indicators of structural and short-term business statistics, and all for the purpose of managing and monitoring the results of economic policy. Under three, sectoral statistics, such as statistics on agriculture, energy, traffic, tourism, science and technology. Under four, environmental statistics and statistics covering several areas – regional statistics, geographical, information systems, indicators of sustainable development and gender statistics. When we talk about infrastructure and development activities, so-called horizontal activities will include, above all, the harmonisation of the methodology of official statistics, the improvement of the legislative framework, the improvement of the coordination of the statistical system by setting up a national coordination committee, responsible producers of official statistics, the development and application of an integrated quality management system, where we have already progressed in the light of the international context, further development of the software package for integrated data processing of the ECT fully developed in the Republic Bureau of Statistics and the implementation of projects in the context of European integration and international statistical co-operation, which is of paramount importance to us. The implementation of the programme should meet the increased needs for official statistics data and lead to an improvement in the efficiency of the production and dissemination of the results of official statistics by using new data sources and modern technological solutions. Harmonisation of statistics, standards, methodologies and statistical practices will ensure the highest quality of the results of official statistics and their full international comparability. Additional activities under the European Commission Report will be the implementation of the list of population, households and dwellings in 2021 and further work on harmonisation, improving the compilation of national accounts, macroeconomic statistics in line with the European System of Accounts of the ESA 2010. Finally, we hope that we will have a constructive debate and hope that in the voting day you will support the proposed programme. For starters, I thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-17-0.u4071	Thank you. The word is made by the Committee's rapporteur, Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-17-0.u4072	Dear President, honourable minister, fellow MPs, we have had opportunities with the Director of the Department of Statistics, Mr. Miladin Kovacevic, to really discuss this programme in detail. What we had a chance to hear is that this is actually one result and an upgrade of the entire quality improvement system when it comes to official statistics. The objectives to be achieved over the next four years are, in fact, the part relating to harmonisation, meaning the application of the EU directive, to the application of a methodology that is characteristic of EU countries and the part relating to data comparability. Why are we saying this? Many of the political issues that we have had here to hear, while other representatives of the Gilas Party sat down, then Vuk Jeremic, I will remind colleagues who were then MPs in the Serbian Parliament, we have received the honour that statistics in the Republic of Serbia are being damaged, i.e. that it is adapting to certain political moments, which proved to be the moment when we started applying the European directives six years ago that, of course, this issue is falling into the water. Why are we saying this? So the harmonisation of the EU directive and the possibility of comparing data should be the same methodology as for one Germany, Italy, France, so it will apply to both Serbia and BiH and Macedonia, i.e. all Western Balkan countries. We are really pleased that it was recognized during this most difficult period for Serbia, when it carried out economic reforms and fiscal consolidation at the then prime minister's place was Mr. Vukic, which he recognized that something like this should have been done in parallel with this whole reform process. Because in order for someone to acknowledge your results, you must have the same way of observing data and Serbia, but also members of EU countries. If they look at you the same way and they put you under the bat, and then they just admit the results, that means that you really did a good job for your country under the same conditions that everyone else did the moment that political conditions were created. Serbia then also showed Mr. Vukic, along with the SNS, that we are capable of doing something like this. Statistics are just one witness that shows exactly how difficult we have been from 2014 to today to have such good results. Of course, the need for investors to come here to invest is precisely the result. They watch the results, they watch the statistics, and the EU, Eurostat says – it's okay, the Statistics Institute is working according to our standards. When they get such results then investors decide to invest, they create new jobs here, which for us as a country represents one economic growth and development. Therefore, this today's plan and programme is in agreement with the plan and programme of Serbia 20-25, in fact our desire to advance both economically and politically and in every sense, and our platform for this is actually a programme of official statistics. So, I think we've really accepted this kind of plan on the Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-17-0.u4073	Thank you. Since we've exhausted this, we are now going to the presidents, or authorized representatives of the parliamentary groups. The word is made by the Vice-President of the National Assembly and by the People's Messenger Muamer Zukorlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-17-0.u4074	The Honorable President, the Honorable Ministers, the Honorable Representatives of the Department of Statistics, Members of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, we, MPs of the Justice and Reconciliation Party, are giving support to the proposed decision, because it is clear that a very important effort has been made in its formation and beyond any doubt that this decision on the Official Statistics Programme for the given period will advance the entire statistical field, but it is also this opportunity to talk about the importance of statistics in general, the Institute of Statistics and the improvement of total statistics in our country. Statistics are the basis, the inevitable foundation of quality science, quality policies and general quality of life. So that's the basis for establishing higher levels of truth. Statistics are actually, we can freely tell some kind of basic or fundamental truth. So, having the truth and real information about what we're interested in is the basis to make any conclusions, and if you care about the conclusions and what you finally want to come to, to be accurate and true, then statistics are actually the basic data from which the process of carrying out certain conclusions actually begins, the basic material without which it is impossible to imagine this process and without which it is not possible to come to the right conclusions and the right settings. It is not the case that we have this etemological or linguistic relationship between the concept of statistics, the concept of status, the concept of status, the concept of "state" – state. In fact, all of this and the state and all of the statuses that exist are based on statistics. So all systems are based on statistics and there is no system without statistics, and there is no good system without good and accurate statistics. Therefore, this, however procedural the subject may seem, is about one of the decisions that is periodically made. It is not good or that we MPs should not simply allow this topic to pass through parliament and be another day or another part of the agenda or another decision that we have actually adopted. If we look at the experiences of others now, it is very clear that the basis of developed countries, first of all in the West, if you are considering the causes or foundations of this development, what you will first become of your view is the precisely arranged statistics, the very truthfulness of the data based on which all development processes are planned and programmed. So that's what at first glance separates developed from undeveloped communities, developed from undeveloped states, the arrangement in general, but the basic arrangement or basis of order is actually the order of statistics. The point of the state is otherwise to introduce order, to maintain order and to improve order, however, there is no way that any system can succeed in any direction of editing, or there is no way of achieving an even respectable level of order, without regulation, order of statistics. So that's something that's basic, that's something that all of us, first of all the MPs, but also all the other officials and officials of the state, to know and to simply refresh awareness and memory of the importance of statistics themselves. As for historical experiences, therefore, if we look at known empires, as long as they had quality statistics they existed. The moment the empires began to lose orderly statistics, it was the first sign that they fired the seams. Of course, since empires, as they do not quickly and quickly fail, take a few decades to pass at least, but it was the first sign of irrevocable decay. You have, say, one of the medium-fresh experiences, the Ottoman Empire that had its various levers of power, but so on. sijili, i.e. their statistics was one of the most orderly, especially in the peak of their power, meaning in the 16th and 17th centuries and today in archives available from Istanbul through Skopje, and even something in our archives here, you can find out from the perfect statistics of that time, and what actually was the basis of all the other plans and development programs. So that's what actually points to the necessity of our relationship with the highest degree of seriousness in terms of statistics. Now, you have what's the other side. This one of ours, let's say, Balkan mentality, is now something that's not exactly our strong suit when it comes to statistics. We Balkans have our advantages, but whoever has the advantage has the disadvantages. In this cultural mentality of ours, we are by some nature individuals, and of course, for the formation of such mentality there are historical, psychological, social and various other reasons, but that is one fact. We are individuals because of the fact that here for many centuries we have been under various occupations, under the influence of various foreign structures and authorities, developed this, to say, rebel mentality, and rebel mentality, it's a hiducical cometarian mentality, he doesn't like statistics, he doesn't like to record, because it's not right to leave clues as much as you've made or attacked there, etc. Then, over the centuries, this mentality of ours developed that we don't like to write down, we don't like to have leads because we're working, and that's definitely where we inherited that flaw, and that's what we should be working on. Of course, this should be compensated and can be compensated for by a quality organisation of all the structures involved in statistics. True, the Bureau of Statistics is a headquarters, but it cannot be responsible for statistics alone. So unless we force our consciousness and culture on statistics, therefore, in all segments of society, in terms of the official system of the state, above all, but also, in the case of citizens, in the economy, in the private sector, in the public sector, etc., so unless we set ourselves a task and an important, cultural, civilizational task to slowly change that mentality, because the purpose of human knowledge is that what is good with ourselves or with our community, we affirm further, and what is not necessary to correct. It's the meaning of cultivation, it's the meaning of further improving the culture and civilization of every community. So, in addition to what is done administratively, through, say, these programmes, through decisions, through our legislation here, it is necessary to invest more significantly in public communication through the media, then through education, to highlight the importance of statistics, because it is also a cultural dimension, it is not just an administrative dimension and for it to change or improve something through mentality, it is necessary to do so from the early years of childhood, through education. So it's a matter of discipline, a matter of order, a question of order. So it's my suggestion that we actually commit ourselves more significantly in this field to actually have better mental-cultural effects. Now, what is also some kind of aggravating circumstance is that we are, in fact, all of what the country has been experiencing for the past three decades and what's called the Colloquial already as much and shabby as the transition, which never ends, certainly we have in the entire system of certain anomalies, deficiencies, which came for that reason, because when wars happen, when it happens, when it all happens, it's like a big earthquake, it's like a big accident that hits you and it always reflects negatively on different systemic aspects, of course, and this system aspect. Now, there are probably certain anomalies that have occurred in the system of responsibility, in the system of discipline, etc., but there are also some things that have happened specifically in terms of non-professional data relationship. We used to have, and now maybe we have, some policies that we'd like to make statistics on, it's not just here with us. All extreme policies they would like to influence statistics. Whether they really influence changing numbers in reality through various mechanisms, unfortunately we have witnessed what extremely radical policies bring about from conflict, wars, crimes to changing data through various administrative influences. So, unfortunately, it exists, and we can't say that we've gotten rid of it completely, and I'm not sure that we've been rid of the consequences of all kinds of influences and attempts of that kind. Because we can also find concrete indications now that there's data for something, and specifically, let's say, if you live in a certain space, you're going to see that these data are in the way. So this programme, but we'll probably be adopting the List Act soon, which is going to be broader, and I'm not going to say too much about it now, but I'm just pointing out that just in addition to these needs that I've highlighted, we have the need to probably check certain data that someone under certain circumstances, for certain reasons, under certain political or other pressures and influences, has falsified. We have to make it right. We can't say, the state has its own continuity of responsibility and cannot say – that's this authority, the previous one, etc. No, I'm sorry, anything a government does, however wrong, the next government can criticise it, but she has to correct it. She has to fix it, why? Because what's done on behalf of the state, whether it's Tadic or Kostunica or I don't know whose authority, it doesn't matter anymore. So it has to be fixed. Responsibilities are always on the system that comes that actually certain irregularities amount to. I'm not saying this for no reason. Because I have a concrete experience and such an important experience of what happened in 2007, and it's about the Bureau of Statistics and it's about the problems facing the Islamic Community. It is known that there was then some kind of aggression against the Islamic community where, after the Islamic community had functioned for decades, that is, since it was founded in that form after the Ottoman Empire went away, a certain political structure or certain political structures, then unfortunately and rulingly, decided to make some new, some Islamic community. Everything that is done artificially means the traditional Islamic community, as well as the traditional Serbian Orthodox Church or Catholic and each other, cannot be made traditionally new. All you try in those formulations, in these frameworks to make with the ambition to be traditional is actually quasi traditional, quasi spiritual, quasi religious, ultimately sectarian. So then there was this aggression against the Islamic community and it was actually supported by the position of that authority, by the authorities then led by Vojislav Kostunica and in fact this first thing or the key thing that happened in terms of administrative violence actually happened through the Institute of Statistics. So, you had a whole system, a whole composition of the Islamic Community that had all its legal entities registered in the Statistics Bureau by the central authorities of Meshihat, through the lower organs of the Merujs, through their educational and other organisations, institutions and institutions, they had their registration at the Statistics Office. And what happens? During the night, by some order, without legal basis, contrary to the law, an absolutely criminal act happens, that someone commits aggression, and that simply rewrites, without any procedure, at certain addresses, at the same addresses that until then were related to certain traditional existing bodies, that it actually counterfeits and falsifies the structure of a newly-composed, actually a paraverine formation that was then the invention of this political structure and certain local political structures, and in fact, since then, we have difficult problems because of all of that. Now, after all these years, I doubt it's possible, although it's not impossible, to investigate who's to blame. That's important, but it's less important to me. However, truths are important and it is important to remove injustices. These are things that have their serious consequences to this day. You know well, the smallest thing about injustice when done to anyone she has consequences, let alone when it comes to spirituality. You're witnesses, it's not hard to be fair. It's not hard to know what's right and what's wrong. Axioma in formulating justice is—what you don't want to do to yourself, does not do to others. We are witnessing attacks on the Serbian Orthodox Church, attempts to rewrite certain status issues, not now me as a Muslim to plead, but as an observer and what happened last year in Montenegro, and it was about property issues, and then various attempts from earlier, etc. So, you've seen how Orthodox the population was on this sensual. Well, imagine what it was like for us, members of the Islamic community. If you are as sensitive as the majority church, as the majority people, who have all the mechanisms to protect their church and protect it, it is, and should be protected, but under the Constitution of this country all churches and religious communities are equal. This guarantees them the Constitution and other laws, as well as the Law on Churches and Religious Communities. So that moment, one government abused the state, misused the state apparatus and violated that constitutional principle and certain legal provisions. Thank God, when this power came, the relationship changed, and I repeatedly pointed out, the relationship was changed as it was no longer continued with the insistence of these unfair procedures towards the Islamic community. But what has not been changed and what I want to insist on is – in fact, it has not been approached to eliminate the consequences of this violence that occurred between 2007 and 2012. It's five years of administrative state violence. To remind you, at that time, by order of that authority, the police were entering the mosque, in their boots, you know it's desecration, the mosque is not getting dressed because there people are praying to God by putting their foreheads down, putting their foreheads on the mat, then the police in Sjenica, Tutin, Prijepolje, Novi Pazar, entering, being abused, entering mosques, debauching these objects, so that one imam which is not at will and disposing of others. What does someone expect now? Forget it? Well, you can't forget that. It must first not be forgotten because of the lesson itself, that it never happens again, and secondly, in order to overcome it, it is necessary to remove such effects. Then you wonder why the Bosniaks, Muslims in Sandzak, don't trust the system? Here, this morning I'm watching one television, "First", I'm going to mention it on purpose, it's sectarian I have to interpret the regulations on the vaccine. And then you wonder why they won't vaccinate. They don't believe it. Why? Because their trust is violated daily, because the sectarians are brought to them to interpret their regulations, and then people say, "That's right, we won't." That's what disaster is all about. Then we have systemic disorders. We can't do that. Trust's been thrown out. We've got to fix it, but we can't keep letting that trust get in the way. That's why he has the support of the Bureau of Statistics and our cooperation to remove certain shortcomings from the past and that we actually have the Department of Statistics and Overall Statistics, as I said at the beginning, as a basis for truth, and the truth is the basis for justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-17-0.u4075	Thank you. Next is Mr Branimir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-17-0.u4076	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister, the Honorable Directors of the Republic Statistics Institute, colleagues and colleagues, when we talk about the Official Statistics Programme for the period from 2021 to 2025, I would like to set two goals. The first is to improve the quality of the produced results of official statistics compared to five years ago, and the second is to bring the area into line with international statistical standards. When we talk about the quality and extent of the produced results of official statistics, I must point out that one of the requirements, or most important tasks of official statistics, is to provide a realistic picture of social and economic flows in the country and that this is one reliable basis for making decisions at all national levels. Statistics are equally important for all authorities of the state administration, for all state institutions, but it is also important for businesses, entrepreneurs and any citizen with an interest in this area. Based on the unbiased and reliable data needed to provide us with statistics, which are comparable, we as a society can see in which areas we are making progress, but we can also see which areas are our weak spot and therefore we can identify the problems that arise and therefore we can get into solving these problems and improve them. And the Minister of Trade in his work is certainly aware of the importance of statistics, and when we talk about external trade, imports, exports, when we talk about the consumer basket and how much this data directs the work of the Ministry and how important it is that they are just focusing on certain areas that need to be improved, because all this data again provides quality work by the Republic Statistics Office. We, to remind ourselves, and based on these official statistics concerning and on demographics, have set the alarm on, and the state has taken concrete steps to address the problems in this area regarding the unfavourable relationship of birth and mortality, as well as the poor relationship with migration. I think that these statistics in future times, in a few years' time, will be a good tool to draw the line and see how much these measures really have contributed to solving the problem in practice and to direct further work in this area. In the time in which we live, there are dynamic changes in our environment, and we are forced simply to follow these changes every day, to analyze them and to make concrete conclusions on this basis. In this conclusion, in these conditions where there is a turbulent environment, where when we talk about the economy is a sharp competition, it is precisely this statistical data that helps us a lot, and I have already said that they have to be reliable, that we make quality decisions. We are increasingly inclined to rely on statistics in any business activity. It used to be a rule that to start a business is the first condition of having an entrepreneurial spirit. Today, the rule is that the first condition is to do one quality market analysis, which is precisely statistical data. Perhaps Mark Twen had predicted a century and a half ago when and when he said that one day statistics would be needed for every citizen as long as it takes to read and write. The Sumerians understood the importance of statistics five thousand years ago. They used it to collect taxes. In Serbia, statistics officially began to apply in 1862, when Prince Michael passed an act that the finance ministry then committed to keeping statistics and since then Serbia has official state statistics. Today, when we talk about the Official Statistics Programme, we are talking about harmonising statistical research and methodology of producing results with international statistical standards, specifically with the standards of the European Statistical System, or the European Union. This is one good indicator that we as a society accept the practice of the European Union, to accept these standards to improve our legal framework, to improve our quality of life. It is good that we do it this way, because it shows that we are doing it for us, not because we want to satisfy anyone, or to meet the expectations of anyone in the European Union. For this year, the population list is planned to be realised. He was delayed, scheduled to be in April, was postponed for October, justified by an unfavourable epidemiological situation. I must point out that right now the census is one of the most popular statistical actions and most famous in the people, as it is recognized and it has a demanding and complex organization and it must be the most expensive statistical action that is being conducted in our country. The Republic Bureau of Statistics knows that it is already conducting preparatory activities and in 2019 a sample census was conducted. It has been successfully completed and represents the introduction to this big action. It was this trial list of the population that was one good polygon to test all the methodological, organisational, applicative solutions to try new instruments, new patterns. In the trial list, in three major cities in Belgrade, Novi Sad and Nis, in three of our largest cities, a new method was applied, it is a method of self-recording. The citizens had the opportunity, of course, to fill in the data they refer to themselves and that are useful for the census, via the Internet. The test list introduced another newspaper, and it implies that the censusors on the ground have a laptop, use electronic forms and directly enter on the spot the data needed, and on the other hand, such a process allows the Republic Bureau of Statistics to monitor the work of the censusors on the ground in real time, to process and publish the results far faster than it was otherwise. That way, a bunch of those papers and paper forms will go back in time, and the filling of the pen will go back in time. Another list that has been used to test methodologies and new applications for data input and sending is a test list of farms that has also been successfully completed and has been implemented as part of a trial work for the agricultural list which, if I am not mistaken, has been delayed for 2022. The previous agricultural list was completed in 2012, and I will remind you that such a list was made recently half a century ago. We can only imagine what the gap was made here and when the data were compared and when an analysis was done between those two periods, how much they changed the image of the agrarians in the meantime, and that we were not aware of it, at least not officially by statistical data. By carrying out the agricultural list, we provide the continuity of structural data in this area. One of the objectives of the agricultural list is to obtain comprehensive information and to make important decisions in this area based on this information, to look at the potential of agriculture and to point to some gaps again and how to improve these problems. In this way we also learned the exact number of agricultural holdings. We also learned how to define the criteria used as subsidies for agriculture. When I talk about statistics, I wouldn't, of course, bring everything down to statistics. It's not all statistics in life, and I can't get statistics to tell us exactly how we live, we can't even use that metaphor, how can I say, if we have one hand in the fire, and another hand in the ice that we have optimal temperature. Of course, statistics say something else. They should serve as one instrument, improve the quality of life and improve the standard of living for Serbian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-17-0.u4077	Thank you. Next up is Mr. Vojislav Vujic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-17-0.u4078	Thank you, Your Honor. Madam Minister, Mr Kovacevic and his associates, Unique Serbia, the party I belong to always advocates transparency, and the basis of transparency is accurate information and that is what we as MPs, what the Government and what all state authorities expect of you. In relation to this information, it is easy to make guidelines and plans for the future for both the government and the ministries and public enterprises. The Institute of Statistics, i.e. not the Statistical Office, but some first act on statistics was brought to Serbia in 1862 by Mihajlo Obrenovic. You have been officially established since 1945, and then you started to do what has been done since then, even to this day practice, that there have always been excellent staffs in the office, the best college students who are directly or indirectly connected to the basis of your activities have found a job in the office. What I can now conclude from some of the committees you've been on, that you have a problem with the lack of such personnel, that you lack more people. The ones you have are of course good but that you lack more people. And we have a problem going on in the entire public system, which is that good companies recognize good students, good staff and lobbying them for their own needs before they even start a working relationship somewhere, those with great experience, of course, recruiting them to move on to them. The state needs to find a way to deal with it. What I think is easier to help and easier to do when it comes to your office are rooms, because I have information that there is a very tight space in which you work and how much I understand that it is recognized and that in any case a solution will be found anytime soon and for that. Today's day-to-day program is actually one practice and we do this every five years. We're adopting this program and what it's been, let's say, some kind of already seen practice, that's that methodology. Reports carried out are consistent with other statistical institutions at other countries' level. So it's important that we have key information that we can compare ourselves with all these other countries. You're the most official one, simply put, the balance of one country's state and success because literally your work is about everything, from economy, demographics, let's say the simplest, all the results that are publicized anywhere. Today information is the most important and expensive thing in the world. So, in a time of modern technology that has good information, I have the ability to be faster and better than competition. But as in politics, it doesn't matter what you're told or what information you're told, it's always about who's transferring it and who's telling it. You're a reference institution, you've always provided accurate data, and that's one power that Serbia has at a time when I said that information is very important and important. The most important part of the work you do, at least by some modest estimate, is the census. This year you're late justifiably due to this pandemic that hit us and as your colleague said earlier, of course, the minister said that, in October, he's moving with this job, if everything is right and we all believe that we're going to somehow deal with this pandemic and get to that data that's very important to us. He's been arguing for a while, and I think you can get that kind of information in the media, you can argue with the information that you're giving us. Now you know what? Me and all the other citizens know that you're dealing with facts, you don't have any fictitious data but the state of the field, you're transferring it to certain programs, and then it's all a matter of mathematics. Whether someone likes these results or doesn't like it eventually doesn't matter, it's important that they're right. For the party I belong to, JS is very important to this census because it paints the demographic situation as it is. As a party, we have always pointed out first and demographics is the main indicator of whether Serbia is going in the right direction or not. Is there a mechanism that we can fight against, first of all, stories at local level, on the global state has taken everything that is up to it but there must always be some input from the locals. Jagodina, not because party president Dragan Markovic Palma is from Jagodina, but I always take as a good example precisely because of statistics. What we can see is that every year there's a class of champions in that town that's been enrolled. Personally, I think it's the biggest victory of politics in this modern time that we are in, since we know that everywhere in the environment and Europe there is a trend in population decline, not just because people move, as they say, "the belly after bread", but because of this picture where more people die compared to the number of children born. If Jagodina could find one mechanism and a way to change it then we all need to repaint and copy these programs, first of all, of the social character that changes that picture. What's important for this demographic policy, me, as far as I've been able to read it now, is that for the first time, you have very detailed access to statistics on violence against women and of course to all sensitive groups, these are some European trends, world trends, we absolutely support it, violence against women has always been condemned as Dragan Markovic Palma says, such actions are not condemning but are also seeking the strictest penalties for those who apply force against women. It is very important to see very clearly in Serbia as well, there is a growing difference in incomes between men and women, it was at one point an insurmountable gap, but here, the last few years through your data, first of all, and the Department of Statistics, we see that this difference is drastically smaller. What shows the picture of our Parliament is that we have more and more colleagues in this House and that we may be among the first in Europe if I am not mistaken, we are here somewhere among the first five, which is certainly commendable. When we talk about your data, the most important thing for a Serbian farmer is exactly what you can give him. It may be some connection between you and the Ministry of Agriculture that can very easily help the peasant to know in which direction to invest what to sow, what to plant, those who deal with livestock production to have information about what is the current deficit. We can come through you very easily, I mean now that I'm talking, we can come up very easily, we can come up who we are, let's say, somehow in information and easily talk to them, but we need to find a mechanism and a way to get to that peasant gentleman, Mr. Peasants, as my party president says, to Mr. Peasants, and make it easier for him to go to exactly what things I was just talking about, that he gets a direction in which he needs to invest what he needs to do, because we don't have to tell our peasants how to do what's going to happen, but we just need to guide him to what's going to be a deficit on our market, to secure the price, and then there's certainly no problem for our agriculture. The same applies to the economy and ultimately to all other branches. Not to extend the path, I confirm to you that the JS parliamentary group will support what is on the agenda today, but I must also say that, yes, we need to coordinate with the EU, we need to coordinate with the UN and that is the least of the problems, certainly we are not avoiding it, but what is most important and what you are founded for in 1862, when the first act declared that you must give information to us, meaning, to our Parliament, our economy and our citizens, with all due respect to all the other major international institutions you are harmonising with, you still need to be that guide that you are here, first of all, because of the citizens of Serbia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-17-0.u4079	Thanks, buddy. Next on the list is National Assembly Vice-President Elvira Kovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-17-0.u4080	Thank you. Dear Vice-President, Minister, other guests, ladies and gentlemen MPs, for the SVM parliamentary group debate on the proposal for a decision on the Official Statistics Programme in the period from 2021 to 2025, means, in essence, a debate on modernisation and Europeanisation, because statistics as we have heard in previous exhibitions, and to us is an important step in building the institutions of modern society, and this has always meant harmonising official statistics with international statistical standards and security, which is extremely significantly comparable indicators, in order to know in which direction we should go, what we should do to improve, for example, the educational level, the standard of living of citizens respect, protection of human and minority rights, etc. The development of statistics means accepting good statistical practice from other countries, adapting to EU standards, specifically the European Statistical System, and of course, is an extremely important part of the activities in the EU accession process. As we heard in the opening statement of the distinguished minister, statistics is one of the areas in which negotiations with the EU are held, under negotiating Chapter 18. It's one of the 18 chapters that's open. This chapter, as we heard, was opened at the Intergovernmental Conference, as early as 2018, December 10th, but it was not temporarily closed. If we look at the European Commission's latest report, specifically, published on 6 October last year, the European Commission, when assessing this area, says Serbia is moderately prepared in this area. Recommendations concerning our specific obligations, because the European Commission always shows us what we should do in this field, they say we should pass a new Statistics Act in order to increase the independence of the Republic Bureau of Statistics, of course, to continue to prepare for the list of households and dwellings in 2021, and to improve the production of macroeconomic statistics in line with the aforementioned European System of Accounts. What we are praised for, in conclusion, is the finding that continued work on improving the delivery of statistical data to Eurostat and the report has been particularly highlighted, the Minister and she will speak and my distinguished colleague since the time of our parliamentary group, it is important that the Republic Bureau of Statistics retains highly educated, professional workers, that it employs new workers, and all in order to fulfil the obligations that EU legislation provides for us. The development of official statistics is linked to the EU accession process, i.e. the criteria for the ability to take over from EU membership, as well as to the monitoring of indicators of meeting economic criteria for membership in the negotiations under the process. In addition, the obligations of our official statistics stem from relations with other international organisations are not exclusively related to the EU, but also to others, such as the UN and various UN organisations, if I may say so, the IMF, the World Bank, and so on. The main mission of official statistics is, and we have discussed this, which is kind of logical, providing relevant impartial, reliable, timely and internationally comparable indicators of the results and information of official statistics, coordinating responsible producers of official statistics, coordinating responsible producers of official statistics is an active participation in international statistical co-operation that allows these published results of official statistics to meet the needs of, of course, what is most important, decision-makers, researchers and other users and to give results, in fact, to be the basis for monitoring and directing policies in the areas of economy and society, as well as policies related to the process of joining the Republic of Serbia. The main strategic goal in the area of demographics and social statistics is, of course, the implementation of the census, households and apartments in 2021. On 3 February 2020, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia adopted the Law on the List of Population, Households and Apartments, which we have heard, implementing this list from April 1st to 30th, but aware of that, the government's decision has been made, we have received amendments and additions to this Act, which we are likely to discuss in two weeks. This list, for the time being, has been delayed, but we will see, depending on whether it will happen in October of this year and for the same reasons, a list of agriculture has been postponed for the next 2022. For us in the SVM parliamentary group, the area of demographics and social statistics is of particular importance and that is why, in the follow-up of the time of the authorised representative of the parliamentary group, I would actually talk about our joint work leading to the same goal. On the one hand, the main goal in the area of demographics is social statistics, of course, to implement this census, households and apartments in 2021. On the other hand, for us as representatives of the Hungarian national minority, SVM conduct of the census is a legally regulated situation in which freedom of expression of nationality can be achieved and language identity confirmed. For us, the results of the census are extremely important, because on the one hand, we view them as a condition of enjoying certain rights and freedoms in the community, because the data are obtained by a list of relevant laws and other legal acts, in particular in the area of the exercise of the rights of national minorities. Statistics are important for assessing the results of certain policies and represent a guideline, as I mentioned, in which direction they will go, how to change and adapt policies to some real needs. For example, the Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedom of National Minorities, we call it the roof law on national minorities, prescribes measures to ensure full and effective equality between members of national minorities and members of the majority, and the Law on State Administration specifically recognises affirmative measures, measures so-called. positive discrimination and regulation that state administration authorities are looking to implement specific measures precisely in order to achieve full equality between a person or a group, persons who are essentially in an unequal position with respect to the majority or with other citizens. Provisions mentioned, so-called the roof law on national minorities, therefore, the Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedom of National Minorities, recognises the legal relevance of three parameters – the national composition of the population, etc. appropriate representation of national minorities in public services and knowledge of language spoken in the area of the functioning of organs or services. Logically, it follows that a necessary, necessary precondition for applying these standards is the existence of precisely statistical data on the national population structure in the area of the competent authority or service on the national structure of employees in that body or service, as well as data on language competences, knowledge of the language in which they have completed primary or secondary education employed by the competent authority or service. Of course, the management of national sensitive statistics, i.e. the processing of data on national belongings, is not at all a simple job, especially if it is taken into account that the declaration of nationality is, of course, free, and that the processing of data makes it difficult to recognise the status of particularly sensitive data. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia declares that the expression of nationality is free and says that no one is actually obliged to declare his nationality. By respecting this constitutional principles on freedom of expression of nationality, SVM MPs still submitted in 2009, when at that time, namely before the 2011 census, we discussed the 2011 Bill on the List of Hosts and dwellings, an amendment that was then accepted, which we suggested that in the list form for the issue of nationality, the native language, the answer be, in fact, an open type response. Why, then, in 2009, did we insist and why do we continue to insist, or do we feel that it is important for this response to be open-minded, that citizens declare their nationality in this way? It is precisely that the expression of nationality would still be free. This right by its nature and content belongs to one of the freedoms of displaying a person, but the Constitution does not explicitly and exclusively guarantee this freedom as an individual, means not as an individual right of an individual. On the contrary, in its nature this constitutional freedom can be enjoyed in the community, and community membership implies the collective dimension of this right, which is extremely important that our Constitution recognises collective rights as well. Advocacy for open type answers to issues concerning national belongings are, if we are talking about international recommendations and international standards, in line with international recommendations for the implementation of the 2010 census, which provide that information on ethnicity should always be based, based on a fully free self-declaration of a person covered by that list, that ethnicity, or nationality should be able to respond to an open type and that censusors should refrain from any suggestion of a person to answer that question. In the context of data processing, as I mentioned, two requirements are actually conflicting about nationality. The first request is about respect for privacy and protection of personal data. The second requirement is to obtain the existence of objective parameters on the basis of which the exercise of the rights of members of national minorities and their full involvement in society are assessed. By including the issue of national membership in the census, it allows monitoring of the national population structure, which is extremely important for the creation of minority policy, but also the starting criterion for a later assessment, as I mentioned earlier, of the appropriate or even representation of members of national minorities in public authorities, public service, public administration. There is and it is good, we certainly support it, which there is awareness of the need for greater involvement of members of national minorities, so back in 2006, the then government of the Republic of Serbia only reached a conclusion, but again it was a significant step, on measures to increase the participation of members of national minorities in the authorities of the state administration. Finally, in the past few years, a lot of things have been done on this matter. Among other things, a legal provision has been laid down to provide information on national membership in the register of employees, which is, among other things, the result of the involvement of the Parliamentary Group of the Alliance of the Duchy of Hungarians and this is one of the further, following signals on the strengthening of awareness of the need to deal more intensively with the problem of insufficient representation of members of national minorities in public administration bodies. Furthermore, under the provisions of the Law on State officials on the keeping of accounts on the national composition of the population and the proper representation of members of national minorities, there is a obligation to ensure that the national composition in the employment of public authorities is, to the greatest extent possible, a picture of the structure of the population. As is known, one of the conditions closely monitored in the EU accession process is minority rights. This area is elaborated in an extremely significant chapter 23, which is one of the so-called “Subject People’s Republics. ” the fundamental blocking chapters, but these issues are even more detailed and in particular so-called The minority action plan. In particular, this issue in Chapter 8 of the minority action plan, the appropriate representation of members of national minorities in the public sector and public enterprises. In the area of fundamental rights, the European Commission's report on 6 October 2020 reiterates the multiannual evaluation, as if it were prescribed year after year, that a legal institutional framework for respect for fundamental rights has been established in Serbia, but that it is necessary to ensure its consistent and effective implementation, that human rights institutions should be strengthened and their independence guaranteed, and that, despite the legal obligation to take into account the ethnic composition of the population, national minorities remain under public administration. The criticism of the sub-representation of members of national minorities in the public administration appears not only in the European Commission report, but also in some other reports. I'll name a few. For example, in my opinion on Serbia's second 2009 report, the 2009 Council on the Framework Convention for the Protection of National Minorities, I am now talking about the Council of Europe, says that there is no comprehensive information on the application of adopted measures and their effect on representation of members of national minorities in the authorities of the state administration, and that there is no centralised data on the representation of national minorities in the public administration. So it's an old report. A lot has been done since then, and the register mentioned earlier is extremely important. For this reason, the Advisory Committee recommended that authorities in Serbia take measures to collect data on the representation of national minorities at all levels of public administration, with respect to international standards on the protection of personal data, as well as to take energy measures in relation to sub-representation of national minorities in public administration. The next opinion of the Advisory Committee on Serbia's Third Report, five years later, from 2014, also highlights the taking of decisive measures regarding the sub-representation of national minorities in public administration, especially at the state level and continuing efforts to create multiethnic police. The Council of Ministers' Resolution of the Council of Europe of the next 2015 on the implementation of the Council of Europe Framework Convention by the Republic of Serbia, notes as one of the problems that national minorities remain significantly sub-represented in the bodies of state administration and public enterprises. If we look at regional experiences on these issues regarding data collection in relation to the ethnic and cultural characteristics of the population, the countries of the region actually collect these data, if we talk about a wider region, except Slovenia, leaving the possibility of freedom of expression for individuals in this matter. In Albania, for example, unlike the 2011 census, when these issues were open, on the next list expected, these issues or the possibility of an answer will be semi-open. The respondents will have the answers offered, where in the case of ethno-cultural groups only groups will be defined by their current minority law, leaving also the possibility to indicate the case that the subject, for example, does not find himself in these offered answers. In Bosnia and Herzegovina, in line with the provisions of the law, persons covered by the census are not obliged to declare national, ethnic and religious membership, although the form contains questions about it. So they don't have to. An important recommendation regarding ethno-cultural characteristics is that countries with culturally different populations can collect information on the ethnic identity or composition of the population, on the native language, knowledge and use of language, as well as on religious communities and religion. Of course, ethnicity has a subjective dimension and therefore information on ethnicity should be the result of free self-declaration of subjects. Questionnaires, therefore, are still standing at that point of view, should contain open questions, open-label issues, and, as I mentioned earlier, censusors really refrain from suggesting any answers. It is recommended, of course, that representatives of ethnic, linguistic, religious communities be consulted when drawing up list issues, definitions, ways of classification, implementation of lists among minority populations, to ensure transparency, which is extremely important, an accurate understanding of issues and full participation of the population. To sum it up. Issues about the census, the introduction of ethnic census categories is of unquestionable political and social importance. Being listed, classified and numbered as a member of the national minority on the official state list means being recognised, but also means showing identity and belonging to the political community. To go back, since I have worked really hard to link the matter of the statistics list that we are talking about today, we are looking forward to having time and discussing this detail on these important topics, because when we had the same question in 2015, we did not deal with it so much in detail, but we are urging us to speed up our activities as much as possible, so that this open chapter, where we are really well prepared, soon and at least temporarily closed and take some steps forward. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-17-0.u4081	Thank you. Next is counterpart Snezana Paunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-17-0.u4082	I thank the chairman. Dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, the most respected citizens of Serbia, said my colleague Kovac one important sentence at the end, which is that in 2015, unfortunately, we were less concerned with this important issue, not because we considered him irrelevant at the time, but because there was simply less time compared to today. By bringing in the five-year official statistics programme, with a Development Strategy for the period 2021-2025, which is on the agenda today, above all, we provide one legal framework for the production of necessary data to monitor and measure the results of all activities in our society in the next five-year period. With the support of the EU, the Republic of Serbia is making significant efforts towards harmonising our statistical system with international standards, particularly with the standards of the European Statistical System and the EU, with their methodologies and procedures, and examples of other countries' good statistical practices have been accepted so that statistics from Serbia can be comparable with statistics from European countries. By comparing all relevant statistics, Serbia becomes part of the European statistical space and this is very important. The official statistics programme is based on a key task -- to provide a realistic picture of the country's social and economic movements and to provide reliable basis for analysis and decision-making at various levels of society, from state administration and other institutions, through business entities, to interested citizens. The programme also includes a review of the expected results of official statistics in areas with data on their periodicity and planned activities, including planned activities to introduce new indicators to ensure compliance and application of international standards in areas where this has not been done so far, as well as a review of the most significant infrastructure and development activities. The importance of adopting such a five-year statistical programme is also in fact, and my colleagues said that at the end of this year, in October 2021, we all hope that we will overcome this difficult moment when it comes to the pandemic, a regular ten-year census, which will be the most relevant source of statistics for the Republic of Serbia. It is also a significant fact that we adopt this statistical programme in the year of holding the census, as this five-year statistical programme also plans to produce long-term projections of the population of the Republic of Serbia for the period 2021 to 2051, based on the results of the list of populations to take place in 2021. Statistics are the only measurement indicator of population movement, but any change in those areas for which statistics are simply conducted. To remind us of the basic mission of official statistics, it is to provide relevant, impartial, reliable, timely and internationally comparable indicators of results and information of official statistics. This is the key importance of statistics, whose role in social development planning is, unfortunately, often reduced or expressed mistrust with statistical data and methodology for obtaining statistics. They can often not be positive. They warn, sometimes they destimulate, but every responsible society must face phenomena and problems, trends, and numbers. Statistics not only register and compare data, statistics take particular care of data obtained in the census is actually the basis for designing many sectoral strategies. Therefore, statistics are there to warn us, to strengthen strategic state measures and activities, so that trends first change in a positive direction. We have already heard that the system of official statistics of the Republic of Serbia makes the Republic Institute of Statistics as the main coordinator of the system, but there are also numerous sectoral statistics producers, such as NBS, City Administration of Belgrade for the Territories of the City of Belgrade, Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development, MUP, the Republic Fund for PIO, the Republic Fund for Health Insurance, the Institute for Public Health of Serbia, the Republic Geodetic Institute, the National Employment Service, the Environment Agency, the National Library of Serbia and others listed in this programme. I will refer to statistics on demographics and other data on the population of Serbia at this time, because the structure and movement of the population is indeed a pillar of all other development processes in the country. One of the most painful questions is certainly the age structure of the population. According to statistics for 2019, Serbia has over 20% older than 65 years with a forecast that by 2041 this percentage will be more than 25%, which says that our population is in the deep ageing process. This statistics also warns that we also have a serious depopulation, i.e. to reduce the number of newborns. In the previous 2020 alone, the number of newborns was 2.8% lower compared to the previous year, and the number of deaths in the Republic of Serbia was 13.9% higher than in 2019. This statistics draws attention to the need to implement, as soon as possible, solutions from the Birth Encouragement Strategy, which was adopted by the Government for these reasons in 2018. However, we cannot talk about statistics for 2020 without realizing that the pandemic has left a number of social consequences, so the indicators are probably a little more scary about it. Over the last year, it's natural, we got married less, less babies were born, and we had to adapt the education system somehow to the new situation. That is why in 2020, it may be irrelevant to compare data, but in any case it must not be ignored even that impact of the pandemic on all sectors of life and also on the population policy to a good degree. In addition, it has affected people to change, adapt, change priorities. There was a drastic decrease in the number of marriages, only in the capital there were 3,000 fewer couples compared to the previous year in which they pronounced their fateful yes. This, unfortunately, may not be just the result of the coronary virus. Years back in Serbia, the number of marriages has been growing. The average number of years of newlyweds is growing. It's about 35 for men, and for women, 32 years, if I have the exact information. In addition to getting married later in Serbia, statistics show another negative trend, which is divorce. Concerning data suggests that we have 290 or slightly more thousands of single mothers, mostly in Belgrade territory, and nearly 77,000 single fathers, and even 600,000 families without children. Whatever the population in Serbia is in the constant aging process, this statistics could be linked to the pandemic of the coronary virus that the whole world has been facing for more than a year. Studies show that a large percentage of young people, nearly 60% of them in Serbia between 25 and 34 years old, still live with parents. It is unfortunately a far greater number than most EU Member States, but somehow an integral part of our mentality. I don't think we can do much here as a state, but first of all, we have to change somewhere, which is difficult when it comes to us. The government of the Republic of Serbia has done much to stimulate young people and to get married and to separate from their parents, and in the end we had decisions about this housing policy that we might be able to adapt a little more to young people and their needs and somehow enable them to become self-sufficient and form their families as soon as possible. So all the data I've been talking about are the result of official statistics and collected from the law of established sources or producers, as this decision on official statistics says, and it's always fortunate when you have the opportunity to report good results. That's what my colleague, Djordje Milicevic, will talk about in the follow-up of the prey. I didn't deal with those economic indicators that are far better than these demographics. But we simply have to allow ourselves the luxury of identifying what is missing in order to otherwise overcome them and improve them. I would like to conclude by pointing out that independence is a fundamental principle based on the position of official statistics, i.e. national statistical institutions, which is the Republic Statistics Institute, which represents the responsible professional institution, organiser and co-ordinator of the entire system, which integrates, crosses, compares and publishes the data of official statistics. By supporting the programme of official statistics with a strategy for the next five-year period, we certainly also support the activity of you as the Republic Bureau of Statistics, without which we would not have available with this many official and important data, which we use daily and which as a state enable us to improve, change, develop and strategically plan all segments of the development of society. However, there is yet another statistic that, unfortunately, is not beautiful, but I must remember it. On today, March 17, 2004, we also record a terrible historical balance. Seventeen years since the March pogrom, during which Albanians had an unambiguous idea, intent and almost implemented it to the end of the work, which is to banish everything that is Serbian with KiM. Why am I saying that this, besides being a matter of national interest, is unfortunately statistics? Because we have precise information that 4,000 Serbs had to leave their homes on that day, that eight Serbs and 11 Albanians died, that more than 1,000 people were injured, and among them dozens of international forces, because what I'm going to point out is that the entire pogrom happened in the presence of international forces and was so well-organised or they simply didn't manage or simply didn't need to cope. About 1,000 Serbian houses, 10 Serbian schools, health homes, mail and other institutions of the Serbian state were burned or severely damaged. In just 48 hours, the monasteries of Bogorodica Ljeviška and Devič were incinerated in the Serbians, Prizren's religion and the temple of St. George, the church of Christ Spas and the monastery of the Holy Archangels near Prizren, the monastery of St. Cosma and Damjan in Zočište was mined. The Church of St. Sava, St. Nicholas's Church, was burned in southern Kosovo, and the Albanians gathered in Podujevo broke the cross from the St. Andrej's Church dome. You remember that video that was creepy. In two days 35 churches and monasteries were defiled or completely destroyed, more than 10,000 valuable frescoes, icons, travellers, and many other church relics disappeared. The Serbs were expelled from Kosovo, Polje, Obilic, Novetina, Lipljana, Uroševac, Djakovica, Gjilana, and for the second time, Serbs from the White Field were expelled from the Pecs, who returned there as returnees, all in the presence of 38,000 KFOR soldiers and 8,000 police officers. These are statistics that we must remember today, but in order to be fair to ourselves and to everyone who listens to me, that 17 March in Belgrade awakened the anger and protests of displaced Serbs who could and knew exactly what would happen to all the countrymen who remained in the territory of the southern Serbian province. And it's abused and we owe an apology, even after 17 years, to the Bayrakli mosque, the Mufti Jusufspahiæ who was never someone who was the advocate of anything that was against Serbs and Serbian, and then Bajrakli mosque by a group, eventually said, some fans, unfortunately burned with not much damage, thanks to the rapid reaction. But we owe it to the entire Muslim community to remember that, because that's the cross we took that day. Why am I saying all this? Because sometimes, when we're dealing with politics in this room, and we had this situation yesterday, we'd have to at least be honest with ourselves and the people we represent, so when we try to be kind, kind of patriots over members of other national communities, then we remember everything we're responsible for. It wasn't my motive to react today on March 17th. This is my moral obligation, and I believe that you're all thinking what I'm thinking, it's just that it's just that in order for me to talk about it first, and in the hope that we'll never have statistics that will remember our history and that they're this guy. I note that on the basis of distorted data, this is why it is important that we do this, even try to get all these churches, and even one good part of those that they have destroyed and burned, introduce themselves into their property, and show themselves before Europe as someone who should enter UNESCO. It's fortunate that one such attempt has been despondent. I'm saying all this because of the fact that it must be a reminder to us for all future times, because I'm afraid that across the street we have people who don't run away from anything, who don't have any problem hiding anything in their favor. That's why it's important all that's going to happen when it comes to the population list, but also all the statistics you're dealing with and that you're processing on a daily basis. Appreciateing the importance of official statistics without dilemma, the SPS parliamentary group will support the motion for a decision ahead of us in the voting day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-17-0.u4083	Thank you. Next up, she's a colleague of Marina Ragush's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-17-0.u4084	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, today we have an unhinged area ahead of us, but most often one of the most significant areas. We have a problem in the 21st century to understand what data is, what is the sovereignty of data, especially when we talk about what this five-year programme predicts, such as the introduction of innovative technologies, data processing software, and I believe, I believe, and artificial intelligence that will deal with the processing of statistical data. Since I've seen who all the manufacturers are and what all the data will be in different databases, and I've had through scientific research projects with both data collection and input and data processing and finally trying to get results with certain error options that every statistic has to predict. The engineers will rarely tell you, and mathematicians – the machine cannot sin, the software is not wrong, only man is wrong. My first encounter with statistical data processing was within the SPS, it was a social study. Of course, in order to do social research in the SPS, you need a team of researchers who will go to the field, collect that data, monitor the cipher and input data and very precisely insert data into their surveys. It was a problem for me to understand, if I were to get this data into the input, how we're going to get some results, and what percentage of the error is going to be in the end exactly for the reason that even though you have a controller who checks all that data on the ground, you can't know with what prejudices the surveyor enters into public opinion, how he records them in the survey, what prejudices the data enters into software, whether he respects methodological procedures. What my biggest nightmare was on a regular basis – what we're going to get from research, especially what every social research of course has to do with the creation of public data and then we're in trouble. On the other hand, until recently I participated in another international research project that dealt with essential content analysis, of course based on an internationally accepted methodology and using software that is internationally recognised. It's not our software, it's our international recognition software. It took 10,000 pages, which text, which photo, not to talk about audio-visual records. We realized that it takes us about 10 or 15 years with huge teams to reach very precise conclusions. This, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I am also telling you to understand how complex the process is, very responsible and finally produces results that will affect our daily lives. Because when you create a database, the main database from which you will then draw, whether by certain criteria or by other databases, you are literally depreciating the process in order to be precise, I am now trying to be the simplest to make the citizens of Serbia who are following this understand, to get the most accurate possible result with the slightest percentage of error. Statistics are an amazing science that can look in a wide variety of ways, but not just statisticians participate in this process, and we rarely hold them responsible for the final results. What is expected here and is, I am very pleased to see, in this five-year programme, that you have paid particular attention to human resources, technology and innovative technologies. I know that in Serbia, there is a problem with experienced statisticians who can respond to such demanding projects as state statistics, especially the Republic Statistics Institute, which is our reference institution. It is very clear to me that it is the process of harmonising our methodologies with EU methodologies. Finally, we cannot be comparable or comparable if we use completely different methodological approaches, it is quite clear. What should be at the end and what I would like to hear from you during today's debate, and it is always a great challenge for me, given that we have launched a public hearing process here that deals with digitalisation in Serbia, is precisely the sovereignty of data, data storage and, of course, how these data will be made available to everyone. Here's a parallel of what statistics are and how it can be misused. Before the disintegration of the former Yugoslavia, here are only parts of the material, the truth of the will of some of these materials and entered this scientific research project that I was talking about, just as contextualization of the work we were working on, every intelligence service, especially the great forces after a certain period, has a legal obligation to disclose a lot of data. So does the U.S. Central Intelligence Agency. You go well into their virtual library and find a lot of things in key words. Not all of them, of course, because some of the processes are still under way. That's what all other forces do, is it about Great Britain in the territory of Europe. I have to tell you that the databases are mostly open, very well systematized, but what I did during my work on this project is that we were statistically ahead of the collapse itself as former Yugoslavia were closest to membership of the European Community, according to all statistical indicators. So as for the political system and the economic system, therefore, we were seen in the membership of the European Community and imagine that in '88, '89. A year. Susan Woodward, here's her book I also have here, and it was one of the references to contextualising this project, which was written by the book "Balkan Tragedy" is one of the few women, otherwise she was a professor at Yale, who used statistics in the right way. They're impertinent when you look at them. Everything required of us then is fulfilled. The economy was decentralised, the level of human rights at the highest possible level. Everything Europe has asked of us, we have achieved and then, for a miracle, there has been a bloody break-up of Yugoslavia that has been seen to be a member of the then European community. According to all the statistics. One of the few honest women, an intellectual who used these indicators in her book "Balkan Tragedy", chaos and disintegration after the Cold War, was Mrs. Susan Woodward. Rarely where I came across the objective use of statistics found in CIA reports from those years. So here's just a review from 1971 and beyond. As trends moved in the territory of the former Yugoslavia and we were heading towards the European Community. Then something completely different happened, and we fell into an external political hook because it was preparing a mastrict in 1992 and it was signed. There was a huge disagreement on European soil between big partners like France and Germany, the Mastrict was preparing, of course, during everything that was happening with us. We, for good, and during these bloody wars, then as a seen member of the European community, have been returned almost to the level of development since the 1970s. It's also a statistical balance, and after bloody civil wars. What I'm trying to say is, what's most important to me here and where the SPAS Parliament Club is going to give full support for this kind of quality programs, but with only one imagination as it belongs to this country, and to show that we have personnel, and our software, our own algorithms. So that's where I see this digital sovereignty. Thank God, we have our Data Centre in Kragujevac, which will be in perspective and Serbia's brain from where many data will come from, and that we can enter into a order of highly developed countries in an area that is today the only relevant, that is to be in line for the most developed countries in cyberspace, in digital trends, in the digital revolution. The future has arrived, and we have all the capacities to do it. The Serbian Patriotic Union, I hope I haven't exceeded your patience, is a big subject, it's a significant topic, it will support every programme that implies this, with one note that we are setting our country up by all relevant and quality standards, and everything else is decided by some other moments, some other plagues that are outside our country's framework. Another small note, don't think when it's been said recently, we've had a chance to hear the president of Serbia, that the idea when Serbia raises its head, to bring it down as much as possible, not to get out of the region's average. Don't think it's not true, it's always been our destiny and it's always been our truth. But what's very important is that we don't deal with who's going to experience us, understand why the pressures and do everything we can to strengthen the capacity during the time that has arrived and that can reach us in a way that technologies that we can't even imagine right now form us, not us. What's the point here, and there's a big role of the Republic Statistics Institute, I would define huge resources for them, here is the essence that we prepare our capacities for the end-user, that we understand that all of this is done, collected, processed and analyzed, should be subordinated to the interests of citizens, not technology and some of the pressures on the outside. It's the only way we can, in fact, escort and enter a revolution that has already changed the world forever. This digital revolution, the fourth industrial revolution, and now to think about it, has changed the world in ways that we can't see right now because of Kovid. In a post-civil period, and some historians, I'm not a historian, I appreciate their opinion, this time compares with the time of the '30s, some others with a time that's much worse than the '30s, but certainly, everyone agrees only in one, the world won't be the same. What we have to work on, and here next week over comes a certain agenda that will be very interesting in terms of broadband Internet for our rural areas, is that we understand how objective statistics, no matter how insulting we are, are very important for policy making, just to improve life, standards and predictable future, each individual citizen of Serbia, regardless of national, religious, or any other specificity. It will be a great responsibility, not only to this calling, but also to this one you will see by the legal proposals that will come here, but also to each of the following because this industrial revolution brings challenges that we must now think about. I'm just going to end up with this, prognosis for losing my job, for inability to respond to new jobs because we're digitally, functionally illiterate, I can't even say it now, but if in the banking sector now one software replaces three levels where some people are employed, one software, can you imagine how many people in the perspective can be out of a job, and we need to absorb it in wise ways. I'm sorry if I took a little more of your patience and attention. You have all the support you can get. This is your house. Let's look at every possible potential problem from every angle and do our best to help you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-17-0.u4085	Thank you, colleague Marina. The next is MP Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-17-0.u4086	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think it is very important that the National Assembly brings one of these, namely the proposal for a decision on the official statistics programme to the Republic of Serbia from 2021 to 2025. In essence, this may not seem very important or significant to some layman, but I also believe that the serious policies that the Government of the Republic of Serbia should implement in the coming period relating to this statistical period are also concerned. What bothers me the most, and it bothered me, and when we passed this law that regulates it, there are certain expressions. You know, I'm still a folk MP, just a folk MP, a representative of Serbia's citizens, and I think it's time to start correcting certain, I don't know why, made mistakes in our legislative process, because there are some expressions that really don't have a place in our laws. This is what Bozidar Djelic began to bring into the Law on the Budgetary System, later I see again, only from French to Latin. I think there are certainly nicer words in Serbian than there is a word of dissemination – publishing data. What's that for? Let's change the law, at least in this part of the first time. It is a shame to break through the laws of the purity of Serbian language. I will always argue that in the National Assembly we speak Serbian, at least we who represent members of the Serbian people. It's our official language. Well done, members of national minorities have the right to speak in their native language, I do not ask that question, and I will always support them. Why is this area so important? Because through the results published and collected by our Republic Statistics Office, the Government of the Republic of Serbia has certain information and can take certain measures to remove those poor statistical indicators through the implementation of these measures. I would especially, although there are no areas of social, economic, and also political life that are not important and that are not handled by the Republic Statistics Institute, but I would talk about those economic parameters most. These are a census of population, households and dwellings in 2021. Someone's gonna say it's purely statistical. No, because this information speaks of economic potential, how much Serbia's economic potential is and how much it has been used so far. Also, migration statistics are very important because the government of the Republic of Serbia advocates a balanced regional development and no serious state likes large migrations from one part to another, let alone when it loses its citizens who go on temporary leave and later a somewhat longer work abroad turns out. Through these statistics, we can determine the reasons for these migrations and if they are not desirable, we can also determine the measures, stop or slow down these migrations that are happening, so that as the 50s and 60s, we don't have one accelerated industrialisation of Serbia under the Communist Party of Yugoslavia, and now because of this accelerated industrialisation in the first place, we are being shut down and the second place is being reduced. There's one mistake that was made 60 years ago, now you can see the consequences. Employment statistics, unemployment. It seems to me, somehow one of the data that has been most attacked in the past, the credibility of that data. And the credibility of the mirror was in that, and it was the easiest thing to do, so just remember, the Fiscal Council was attacking the results published by the Republic Statistics Institute, attacking it at the “business Forum on the Kopalnik”, with the next topic – Growth of Employment that did not occur in relation to GDP, or something where, in a serious way, from a scientific point of view, the founder of “Ces Mekona” it was the firm that ruined Serbian companies in privatisation and Paul, Grandpa Paul, as they call it, who ruined it, challenged the results of the government of Aleksandr Vukic. The easiest thing to do is check it with data published by the Republic Statistics Institute – how much revenue in the Republic of Serbia's budget is from an increased number of employees – easily verifiable, easily available, but, behold, our Fiscal Council has decided to deal with politics. Of course, the statistics on earnings and labour costs are also often disputed, and yet it is seen through revenues to the Republic of Serbia's budget. All this is very important, and all this data collected by our Republic Statistics Institute defines a policy that will be run by the Government of the Republic of Serbia in every area. Of course, at this point, the current statistical data is also how much has been vaccinated in the world against the Corona virus, the current statistical data is that Serbia is among the top five countries in the world by the number of vaccines and that this is certainly due to one policy led by Aleksandar Vukic, first as Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia and later as President of the Republic of Serbia. We are now coming to what I wanted in this part of the exposure to point out, and that is, although many statistics have been published, I propose to the Republic Bureau of Statistics to do one research, because as statistics are not conducted, I think, in real time, that, but to discover all the consequences of the country's negative statistics, we need to determine first the causes and how the causes have affected these negative statistics. Here is one statistical data published by the National Bank of Serbia – that five and a half billion euros of foreign exchange reserves were sold between 2008 and 2012. Also, from 2008 to 2012, the euro jumped from 78 dinars to 119,80. We also have information that nearly 400,000 people were out of work during that period. Is the global economic crisis that took place in 2008 responsible or is the policy implemented by the then government responsible? Then all that data to compare with the data from 2014, 2016, 2020 and 2021, to determine what the negative consequences were and what it had to do first by the Government of Aleksandr Vukic, later Ana Brnabic, and the President of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandar Vukic, in order for these negative consequences to be removed. And most importantly, I'm only talking about foreign exchange reserves, money has also been made out of exchange transactions, some others, and I'm going to talk about it later, because there's also one statistical data showing up, and this statistical data refers to the kind of credit that Serbia has raised during that period, at which interest rate, and let someone not think seriously about the possibility that these economic disturbances really occurred at the time of the global economic crisis, because the global economic crisis is a small baby with an economic crisis caused by an anchor, and we, under much more difficult circumstances, have no negative trends, or we have them at some acceptable limits. Why all this data? These days, the topic is that one of the former regime's representatives, Dragan Gilas, has funds in accounts around the world. Due to statistics, I would like to see how unlawfully this has been taken out of the Republic of Serbia of foreign exchange funds, in which countries have been placed, so that eventually the state can initiate some proceedings, bring the responsible ones to justice and make a reparable claim for a robbery that took place and which is even a few billion euros. Here's the thing. The 2008 global economic crisis was just an excuse for someone to put more money in their pocket. This is the biggest problem Serbia had in 2008 to 2012. That's the period when Dragan Gilas took the most money. However, Dragan Gilas received funds that are dinar, because he worked here in Serbia, he could not steal around the world but only in Serbia where he was in power. In order to obtain the foreign currency that was safe for him, while failing to pay taxes, he first established companies around the world and as the founder of his companies, for example in Mauritius, set up a invoice for imports of goods and services into Serbia of the company that was taking money from RTS. Based on this transaction, he bought funds, paid goods and services that would never happen and thus amounted money from Serbia. Another problem arises now, at that time it is a crime, so the thugs led by Dragan Gilas along with him remembered to amend the Foreign Affairs Act and that it was no longer a crime. When we changed that law in a certain way, we officialized what it was for Gilas and that law was changed, it seems to me, at the end of 2010, at the beginning of 2011. What do you have further as a consequence? Now everyone can do it and everyone's doing it. I can't blame the foreign, let's just say, banks for bringing these foreign funds up because they're not guilty that Dragan Gilas made it possible for them through his MPs at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. It's Dragan Gillas' fault. And what do we have the consequences? Only one part I mentioned, which is close to 400,000 people who have lost their jobs, a terrible difference in course compared to the national currency compared to the euro and five and a half billion foreign exchange reserves sold. We've got one more thing, how the tycoon used to use the former regime to power all of that to adapt to itself, and that's, you see... where the owner of the legal entity is the founder and owner, the revenue generated by the legal person shall not be subject to the work of the Anti-Corruption Agency. I can't. Because we can't connect the founder to the legal face. A legal person is just some subject to himself. That's what Miskovic didn't know, so he went to jail, because he said - Delta it's me, Serbia it's me and I can do whatever I want. That's why, dude, you're going to jail. What's that money road look like? Mauritius is just one small example of all this. When the Direkt Media pays that money to that company that is also Gilasov in Mauritius and imports of goods and services are not carried out, the state is acting under the laws of that time as a foreign exchange credit that has placed one of our companies abroad. But in a year's time, this legacy of limitations and the Direkt Media has written off their claim as non-profitable, reducing the base for taxing income, and the money is already in tax havens. What's the name of the IRS? Because at very low tax rates, you get the money. No one was defending Dragan Gilas from raising money in Serbia. He had two basics. One is through personal income, the other is like dividends, but one has to pay taxes on the other, and on Mauritius it doesn't have to. He cheated on Serbian citizens by trading with seconds on the national public broadcaster. The public broadcaster is financed from the Republika Srpska budget. He earned hundreds of millions of euros, placed in tax havens, and made every effort not to make that data available to our Anti-Corruption Agency because it adapted legislation to not be subject to the work of the Anti-Corruption Agency itself. When we add all that data together, then we can see that this same Dragan Gilas was for himself, because of Miskovic and some other tycoons changed the laws that ruined the national economy, which brought our citizens to the brink of economic survival. When we look at the data published by our Republic Statistics Office, because of this robbery, I am interested in how many households we really have in Serbia, how many of our citizens have left Serbia, because of the freak policy run by the former regime with Dragan Gilas, how many of our young people have left Serbia between 2009 and 2012, and how it is now back in 2020 and 2021, have we managed to slow down those migrations outside Serbia, because there was little that stole 100m euros, but has solved 600, as if it had no one left and to blow them all over the world? What will happen to us in Serbia? We will be private property either until we move out of Serbia or become slaves of Dragan Djilas, Miskovic and others. So I think that the field of statistics is very important, because it will certainly be, perhaps not today, it doesn't matter, but that we have some kind of historical clue that will be about condemning everything that the former regime has been doing in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-17-0.u4087	I thank the People's MP, the authorised representative of the parliamentary group, Aleksandar Vukic – for our children. Honorable Members of Parliament in agreement with Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that today the National Assembly will be working after 18 hours, for the need for the National Assembly to bring in acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Since there are no more authorised representatives, we are moving on to the list of registered speakers. The word is by Prof. Dr. Jahija Fehratović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-17-0.u4088	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. One of the key foundations of any society's arrangement is statistical data. The statistical data is the base, the basis for understanding all of those processes in the past, for understanding the present and creating the future. It is the primary source that brutally faces us with reality and which requires us as consumers of this reality to leave all illusions, emotions, delusions, desires, desires aside and understand the essence of things. It's just like when a patient goes to the doctor to scan his blood count or biochemistry, so he faces his own analysis of his body or biochemistry, so he faces his own analyses of his own body and sees where the problems that date from his irresponsible behavior in the past, which is due to his present condition, and then, thanks to these analyses he gets, he has to plan his own relationship with life, reality and environment if he wants to have a future. In fact, these statistics that collect this Institute are such that they point to the past, give us a real picture of our present and prepare us for what we need to do in the future in order to overcome everything that was our weakness, our intentional error -- unintentional, and that led to the state in which we are today. We know a lot about the past today that conflicts with our emotional states, with mythical perceptions and perceptions, precisely because of the brutality and truth of statistics. That's why it's very important that we have the right statistical data that is aimed at showing the reality of our society, our country, so that we can have indicators according to which we will also create our steps, or the map of the road in the future. What is very important and what we have heard several times today about the adoption of this plan is the upcoming census, just following the statistics of previous censuses from the position of minority peoples in this country, we can see exactly how and during what period the minority community felt and how it had security or had no security. Let's say, as a member of the Bosniak people, as far as I monitor and analyze all the signatures in the 20th century, I can accurately analyze how any regime applied to my people, because this has always led to that people either making a large number of migrations from this country, or living in prosperity. Unfortunately, the 20th century has shown that we have been involved in a number of migrations, the emigration of the population and not only of the members of my national community, but of all the national communities in this country, and even of the majority of the Serb people, which is an indication of what we need to change in order to contribute here to all the differences between us and what is the main power of this society and this country, united and to create that policy that will lead to all the nations in this country feeling so strong and important that all their capacities are directed towards solving these problems and creating a common future. That is why the Justice and Reconciliation Party has made an agreement with the Serbian Progressive Party, because we are convinced that these are indicators, that they are recognized by the acute conditions that are necessary to stop all those actions or those bad policies that have led to the outflow of the population. For us, the main or acute problem of the infrastructure of our regions is Sandzak, and it is recognised and we believe that these strategic projects will lead to everything that has been the past decades, deliberately or intentionally, because of some different policy or political belief being done badly by many parts of the state of Serbia, and especially by these rural ones, especially these edges, such as the Sandzak part, repairing and that the future censuses show that this policy is, and that these agreements that we as members of the minority people have made with the majority of the peoples, lead to all nations in this country being equally developed and that they all have the same chance of always getting security, security and the opportunity to make economic and certainly different progress. Therefore, this upcoming list is extremely important to show, point out and encourage all members of all national communities to make themselves freely, transparently known about their religious definition, about their national definition, about their language and letter, given that we have such a legal framework that enables it and which is best in the essential sense in Europe when it comes to the laws that this Assembly has passed in the previous period and which it will bring, but that now is the time to implement it in the field as well. The first step is to make all the lists, which are members of all different and minority nations, literally and transparently known about their religious, national and any other definition, because we believe that it is the intensity of this state that is made up of different values, cultural and civilizational. On this path, healing should be built and a healthy society should be built which will be an example to not only this region, but to all Europe, as well as to how healthy tissue is built, how and how malignancies are removed, and how and how all the destructive forces in the past are regenerated, and how we leave things, one great, important, historical legacy to our future generations, whether they belong to Serbian, Bosniak, Hungarian, Albanian, Roma or any other people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-17-0.u4089	Thank you. Because of the importance of the subject, I didn't want to interrupt you, but please, MPs, you are all aware of how much time it is scheduled for the parliamentary group. I thank Parliamentarian Jahja Fehratovic. Next is Natasa Mihailovic's National MP Vacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-17-0.u4090	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, the minister with associates, besides the fact that statistics can be very interesting, as they are read and analyzed are certainly an excellent tool in everyday business not only decision-makers. They help to see the past, to understand the present, but also to assess and predict some future events, trends, phenomena, changes, etc. and also affects decision-making in both government and economy, the academic community, etc. In 2019 35,570 marriages were completed in the Republic of Serbia. A student's bag of Fridays in Serbia and on average weighs seven kilograms, while about 60% of children aged six to 14 have a wrong spine. The average net earnings in Serbia in November last year amounted to 60,926 dinars. In 2020, 81% of households in the Republic of Serbia owned an internet connection. In January 2021, the number of tourists arrivals was lower by 40.4% compared to January last year. In courts of general jurisdiction in 2019, 70% of judges are women and 30% are men. These are just some of the statistics and examples that citizens face daily. How do these data get collected, processed, and are they true? It is important for all those using them to trust data collected by statistical institutions. Each individual statistical system should be independent, impartial and objective, and the data provided by the timely, quality, accurate and, of course, available to the public. In the process of European integration, official statistics have enormous importance. The negotiating chapter 18 in the EU accession process refers precisely to the field of statistics and opened in December 2018. This still does not mean much, since this chapter is not closed, which is actually a real and only indicator of full compliance with European standards, but is not irrelevant either. The huge support and assistance of the EU and in financial and professional terms contributed to the good part of meeting the conditions and obligations set out in negotiating Chapter 18. In addition to this chapter, official statistics should also provide data for 16 other negotiating chapters of 35, especially in the areas of economy, finance, agriculture and regional policy. Like I said, the chapter isn't closed yet. The country's progress in the European integration process is measured solely on the basis of official statistics. What may be a challenge in the coming period, in which it is necessary to complete the process of harmonisation and harmonisation with what is required of the EU integration process, is that some experts state in the field of statistics that the essence of domestic statistics is not only the collection of data but their analysis and interpretation. Various analysts, we are also witnessing in the media very often and the public, abuse data just received from the Republic Statistics Institute, so that the public does not remain confused by such phenomena, in diametrically opposed interpretations of the same statistics, it would be good to pay attention to that in the next period. My colleague will also discuss the process, i.e. the official statistics plan, in the follow-up. The Social Democratic Party of Serbia parliamentary group certainly supports the proposed plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-17-0.u4091	Thank you. The remaining time for your colleague is five minutes. Mr Slavenko Unkovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-17-0.u4092	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Minister, Mr Kovacevic and his associates, respected fellow MPs, is a prerequisite for the quality functioning of society as a database of reliable and objective statistics, which provides information that can be used further to define decisions at all levels of government, but also in the business sector. The Official Statistics Programme for the period 2021/2025 has been prepared by the Republic Statistics Institute in co-operation with other responsible official statistics producers and the Institute guarantees the security and confidentiality of collected data. The five-year official statistics programme with the Development Strategy is one of the major segments in the process of adapting to EU standards and practices. The programme defines activities that will achieve full harmonisation of statistical research, as well as methodology for producing the results of the official statistics of the Republic of Serbia. The main strategic definition of the official policy system of the Republic of Serbia is to provide quality and internationally comparable results of official statistics and achieve full compliance with international statistical standards. The most important task of official statistics is to provide a realistic picture of the country's social and economic movements and to provide a reliable basis for analysis and decision-making. This is achieved on the basis of a unique methodology, definition, classification and statistical research. The development and progress of official statistics is linked to our EU accession process, i.e. our ability to assume obligations for EU membership. As a rule, the EU requires candidate countries to make statistics based on professional independence, impartiality, reliability and confidentiality. Chapter 18 was opened in 2018 and a high degree of compliance of our legislation with EU legal assets in the field of statistics was then established. The European Commission's 2020 report, on Chapter 18, found some progress in implementing the recommendations, as well as in submitting Eurostat statistics. Eurostat is the EU Office for Statistics, and its main task is to process and publish comparable statistics at EU level. The objective of Eurostat is for Member States and EU candidates to align the national statistical system with the EU system, leading to an improvement in the quality of availability and comparison of statistical data. The country's progress in the process of Eurointegration is measured solely on the basis of official statistics. According to the European Commission's recommendations, on the basis of their report, the most important task of the Institute this year will be to increase the independence of the Republic Institute through changes and addition of laws, as well as to continue preparations for the census to be carried out this year. The Republic Statistics Institute has decided that due to an unfavourable epidemiological situation, which could significantly jeopardise the preparation and field implementation of the 2021 census, the census is delayed by six months. The implementation of this most complex and expensive statistical survey will not be conducted in April, but in October of this year. The census will last for a month and this will be the last census to be conducted by censuses on the ground, and the next census in 10 years should be implemented through the Central Population Register. The census will establish the total number of residents, households, housing facilities. Reliable data will be provided on migration, on ethnic, economic, educational and other characteristics of the population that are necessary to obtain a precise picture of the current situation, but also on projections of future movements and objectives. Speaking of the census, I would like to point out that the first census in Serbia was carried out long ago in 1834, and since 1862, the country's national statistics have been conducted. Many European countries are considering different scenarios for the implementation of the census. We find it most interesting that the list will take place in our region, or in neighboring countries where our countrymen live. We know that the census in BiH will only be in 2023, and in Montenegro, Macedonia and Croatia should be held this year. We are very interested in having this big job done without various political campaigns, pressures and irregularities, which has been the case in some countries of the region on the previous list. One of the biggest problems is that on the list in some countries it is not possible to declare national and religious membership, as was the case in Slovenia in 2011. Similar problems were also in Montenegro and Macedonia. Serbia's position is not to ask for anything more and nothing less for our peoples than what we provide to members of national minorities in our country when it comes to the census. This five-year programme is necessary for our statistical system and the JS parliamentary group will support this proposal in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-17-0.u4093	Thank you. The word has a national emissary, Rosalia Ekres.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-17-0.u4094	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President Kovac. Dear Minister, respected representatives of the Republic Statistics Institute, official statistics were established in Serbia in 1862, when an act was adopted that required the Ministry of Finance's economics department to conduct and coordinate statistical affairs for all branches of the state administration. The development of a society of statistics gives it a growing role and importance in the creation of politics, social and economic development of the country. Its presence is necessary in the development of society and state. The current legal framework for the production and publication of data and information and for the organisation of the official statistics system in the Republic of Serbia was established by the 2009 Official Statistics Act. The Republic Statistics Institute is defined as the main producer of official data, as well as the responsible professional institution, organizer and co-ordinator of the official statistics system in the Republic of Serbia and represents official statistics in the international statistical system. It has just coordinated the development of a programme ahead of us, actively working with other responsible producers of official statistics, such as NBS, the Republic Fund for PIO, the National Employment Service, the competent ministries and agencies, which gives real expectations that this programme will be implemented successfully. The adoption of a five-year official statistics programme with the 2021-2020 Development Strategy is one of the important segments in the process of intensive activities of the Republic of Serbia on the adjustment and harmonisation plan with EU standards and practice, which we in SVM certainly support. The law on official statistics provides that the activities of official statistics, i.e. the implementation of statistical research and the provision of statistical indicators by responsible producers of official statistics, are based on a five-year programme adopted by the National Assembly, as well as on the annual plans adopted by the Government. Despite the high degree of consistency of the statistical system of the Republic of Serbia with the European, preparation and adoption of amendments and additions during this five-year period, the effectiveness of the organisation of the official statistics system in the Republic of Serbia, as well as the professional and long-term institutional independence of the Republic Bureau of Statistics on objectivity and impartiality in relation to current policy holders, as well as all in line with EU recommendations. The programme defines activities that will achieve the basic objective of completing full harmonisation of statistical research and other activities, as well as the results of official policy with international standards, in particular with the standards of the European Statistical System and the EU. Also planned is compliance with other laws that have touch points with the collection, analysis and publication of statistics, or laws governing data sources, such as business registers, cadastral records, customs records, payment records, earnings, education, as well as pension and health systems. It is of particular importance and compliance with the rules governing the protection of personal data. The final part of the programme concerns the expected problems and conditions for the implementation of the programme. It is particularly stressed that the capacities of the Republic Statistics Institute should be strengthened by continuous training of employees' skills, by introducing advanced information solutions, by requiring the provision of adequate resources, notably financial resources, infrastructure and increasing the number of professional staff, by creating better conditions and by establishing greater co-operation and coordination with users and data producers, as well as by further building and strengthening the capacity of all participants in the production and use of statistical data. Finally, we from the SVM parliamentary group expect that the strategy for developing official statistics in the Republic of Serbia in the period from 2021 to 2025, which is an integral part of the Official Statistics Programme for this period, which we are discussing today, will ensure full harmonisation of statistical standards, methodologies and good statistical practices, with a view to obtaining reliable, or relevant data of official statistics, as well as their comparison with statistics from EU countries and other countries of the world, which is certainly an important part of the activities of the Republic of Serbia in the context of EU accession. This is a process that involves continuing monitoring the development of international statistical standards, as well as instruments for their application, strengthening and comparing co-operation with relevant international organisations in the field of official statistics. Finally, the parliamentary group of the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians will support the Official Statistics Programme between 2021 and 2025 in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-17-0.u4095	Thank you very much. The speech is held by the president of the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group, Djordje Milicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-17-0.u4096	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. At the very beginning, I will not talk about the topic, I would like to say immediately, that today's session of the Republic's parliament is not attended by a number of MPs as stated in the European Parliament's report, due to be adopted at the end of March of the month, which is being pressured by the ruling coalition. I will express my dissatisfaction and regret that they are not present today, counterpart Paunovic spoke about it, because on today 17 years ago, one of the most brutal attacks by Albanian extremists on Serbs in Kosovo, violence and ethnic cleansing in which 10 members of the Serb community were killed in 2004, and more than 4,000 were expelled from Kosovo's territory, destroyed around 935 Serbian houses, damaged 10 municipalities, a hundred religious objects, including 18 cultural monuments. I would like to hear what they have to say today on the subject and whether at least they will make an apology based on everything we have been able to hear and what they have been saying in parliament in the past few days, and what they have been saying in their language, even though no one has challenged them. When it comes to what is today's agenda theme, therefore, the Official Statistics Programme with the 2021-2020 Strategy, under the Official Statistics Act, is based on the five-year statistical programme and annual application plans. The programme of official statistics is brought by the National Assembly, and for the same reasons today the document is in front of the MPs. The goal of the adoption of the Official Statistics Programme is to provide quality and internationally comparable results of official statistics, to achieve full harmonisation with international statistical standards, notably the European Statistical Union and the UN, are the basic strategic definitions of the official statistics system of the Republic of Serbia. This document, I would say, is multiplely significant. It is a alignment of Serbia's official statistics with international statistical standards and an integral part of the intensive activities of the Republic of Serbia in the process of Serbia's EU accession. Statistics are subject to a specific negotiating chapter 18. On the other hand, the Programme that is ahead presents a set of strategic and operational activities of all producers of official statistics, as defined in the law. Statistics are, can be said, an x-ray of each society because the most precise figures and very precise ones determine at the annual or monthly level of the situation in all sectors, these data give a picture of progress or stagnation by comparison. By definition, statistics are a field of mathematics dealing with the collection, analysis, interpretation, explanation and presentation of data relating to a wide range of activities of each society from science to indicators of economy and social movements. The law on official statistics, but this programme has also defined a circle of official statistics producers and what is most important is the roof organisation of official statistics in Serbia, which is the Republic Statistics Institute, which is the main professional foundation, organiser and co-ordinator of the country's official statistics system. The Republic Statistics Institute also has a coordination and a role in the statistical co-operation of domestic producers of economic statistics with international organisations, which we also consider to be of paramount importance and importance. The goals to be implemented by the Republic Bureau of Statistics have already been heard, so due to the time, I won't talk about it. Official statistics aren't just, as the people say, dry data. Statistics are the basis in every society for creating sectoral policies and strategic development documents, statistical facts and their comparisons are the most explicit indicator of all changes, whether positive or negative, whether they are like them or not. In this context, I want to talk about something else, and these are economic indicators, because economic indicators are numbers and figures, and they're related to statistics. I say again, like it or not. Like it or not, you know, when you're talking, you can't tell the truth, you can try to cheat, but when it comes to numbers and numbers, there's no lying and there's no fraud. Why am I saying this? You can't fool the fact that the state of Serbia, the government of the Republic of Serbia, the president of Serbia since March of the month, I'm talking about the first aid package for the state and citizens, singled out 700 billion dinars or six billion euros, which is 12.7% of GDP. You can't argue that the system worked when it was the hardest and not only worked, but it achieved extraordinary results, and here I think, first of all, on economic indicators. You can't argue that that blackest scenario has been avoided and that the measures that have been implemented are now heading towards those target groups that are completely justified. I mean the existence, the standard of living of citizens, I mean the economy, especially the private sector, but this third package also covers large enterprises. Therefore, it takes care of public interest, takes care of citizens' interests, but takes care to preserve hard-earned fiscal achievements and to accept all those incentives and initiatives leading to growth and development. Let me remind you, Serbia is the first country at an economic growth rate, i.e. falling in Europe at the moment. The question arises – did a country in Europe accept this much of the crisis on itself from the beginning of the pandemic to today? We now have a third package of measures covering 1,505,093 entrepreneurs, money aid to citizens of 250 billion dinars, 1.7 million pensioners will receive additional assistance, city hotels also, sector, first time, transport passengers and road traffic and bus stations. So when we add all of that up, that's about eight billion euros in total. Do you know what the essential issues in Serbia are today? When you talk to citizens, the key issues are whether there will be factory closures, whether there have been layoffs of workers and whether foreign investors have given up investing in Serbia. There were neither layoffs nor factory closures nor foreign investors gave up investments in Serbia. Just because they moved their programs for a certain period of time doesn't mean they gave up, but the facts, the figures say something different. Foreign direct investment over the past year was 2.9 billion euros. When we look at the Balkans, the total amount of foreign direct investments that arrive in the Balkans is 60% right in Serbia. It is no accident that the Financial Times has been putting Serbia back as a leader in attracting foreign direct investment for years. So, in 2021, Serbia enters an economically strong, secure and stable, with who knows which time I will repeat, with full confidence that it will realise that the projected rate of GDP growth of 6% and that with total optimism, because it has reason to do so. We listen to critics every day, but this is an economic policy that is socially responsible, and this social responsibility, this economic policy that is socially responsible puts man, living standard and existence in its centre, primarily citizens. She'll always have SPS support. On the other hand, we listen to critics who are both less professional and professional. Let's look back at those who are professional. This narrow professional policy is not a magic wand and they do not understand what living politics means. Living politics is when you talk to citizens, so you see whether the citizens are satisfied or not. What's the standard of living for citizens? Now, that living policy has brought Serbia's success in fighting Corona, which is certainly a priority, brought a homage to the infirmary, a hospital in Batajnica. This living policy has defined two key pillars. The first pillar is citizens' standard of living through an increase in pensions of 5.9%, through an increase in public sector wages, at first 3.5%, and in April of the month by 1.5%, minimum labour price 6.6%, health workers 5%, Army 10%. Other pillars are capital investments, infrastructure projects and never more isolated, 330 billion dinars, which is 5.5% of GDP and which should encourage the implementation of the projected rate to rise GDP by 6%. We had a situation to criticize us when it comes to public sector wages. We were the sole opponents of this kind of criticism. We believe that the government acted responsibly and rationally and that, with great understanding, the budget for 2021 was made, that the priority, above all, was, I repeat, the standard of living of citizens. Therefore, the government did not charge to pay salaries and pensions, but did so from real income sources. And we will always support the government's view that every invested dinar is going towards an increase in wages and pensions, because we are talking about young people, so how are we going to keep young people in Serbia from increasing salaries, especially in the public sector, if we talk about professionalism and expertise. Capital investments have shown that when the state invests in capital investments it raises the level of foreign and domestic investments. It's also completely justified. How'd it go? Let's take a pandemic period and last year. From January to November, 146 billion dinars. That's 14.7% more than the same period of the previous year. So we don't have a dilemma at all, we don't have a dilemma that even this year, these 330 billion dinars will be realised. As for the criticism of bond emissions, I must say so. It was refinanced by a debt that came toll in September 2021, since it was a favourable situation with a dollar. We redefined the set of credits with an interest rate of 7.25% with a rate of 1%. In the absolute amount of public debt remains the same, but over the next ten years we will pay 40 billion dinars less interest and that is the responsible public debt management. Criticism at the expense of the economy. They say, Serbian President, the government of the Republic of Serbia does not understand the economy well. It is good for the economy to understand in a different way than this quasi elite, the opposition, because both the President and the Government of the Republic of Serbia see the economy as preserving and putting on stable legs, not opening accounts, I don't know in Mauritius, Switzerland and making money from Serbia. So here is the goal of the Serbian economy and here is the aim of the standard of living of citizens. Budget deficit. That's right. We have a deficit, but the deficit isn't expensive, and that deficit didn't come because bad fiscal policy was under way. The deficit is due to the crown, but we have a controlled deficit, a public debt relative to GDP below 60%, and we are moving in parameters that will allow for the achievement of the targets. The goal, it just is Serbia 2020-2025. An increase in wages in Serbia to 900% and an average pension of 450 euros. How to preserve job conservation policy? The following information is given to a serious and responsible state employment policy. Despite the pandemic, the unemployment rate is at a historical minimum of 9%. I said a little minimum labour price of 6.6%, I was talking about an increase in wages and pensions. So in the last seven years, the average salary in Serbia has risen from 180 to 511 euros today. All of this contributes to increasing public spending, and thus to the overall standard of citizens. The next thing, the stability of the early investments I was also talking about, the investment cycle in the capital investment sector in infrastructure above all, which is the second pillar defined by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and 200 factories and commercial facilities and 60,000 employees have been opened in the last few years. So, no matter what they say, no matter what criticism they have made, this criticism should be a compliment to this government, because during the pandemic period this government managed first to pay each adult citizen 100 euros, then 10,000 dinars for every health worker, then 5,000 dinars for pensioners, and 4,000 dinars for pensioners, I'm talking about the first two packages of measures, and then only the third package of measures. I ask the question, has one country in Europe and the world done something like this? How to finance economic recovery policy? The government's reform course, which is the next issue, has allowed us to have a surplus in the budget over the past few years and a low share of public debt in GDP, have allowed us to have enough money in the state budget to help citizens and help the economy at the beginning of the pandemic. This aid made it possible for businesses to maintain production, as well as full employment, and we still have the principles of growing economic activity. Government measures, as I said, are focused on priorities, Serbia has a stable rate of inflation, a stable rate of dinars, currently on the account at one point there were 125 billion dinars, which is huge money, domestic foreign investment and we believe we can count on pre-accession EU funds. Transport infrastructure is strategically important, as Serbia is a transit country connecting the East and the West and that transit will increase revenues. Four highways are currently being built in Serbia, otherwise 350km of new highways have been made, and Serbia today has 924km of highways. It's all facts and indicators. Now just a few more indicators at the very end. So I said, minimum labour price, now I'm talking about exact data, it's statistics, figures and figures. The minimum labour price in 2012 was 102 dinars in March, 115 in April, and in 2021 it was 183,93 dinars. In 2012, the average salary was 41,377 dinars, 2020, 60,073 dinars. We move on, the average pension of 23.024 dinars in 2012, in 2020 27.759 dinars. The average check of 27,700 is now higher by about 1,700 dinars. So, the total increase in pensions between 2012 and 2021 was 30.9% as regards unemployment, I said - in 2012 record unemployment 23.9% we reached the unemployment rate of 9%. It's also exact data. Public debt in 2012 is 52.9%, today 57.4%, less than the level of mastrict of 60%, 60% of GDP is a mastrict criterion that was established in 1991 within the then European community. It refers to the level of debt that countries can have as much as possible to be candidates for membership in the euro zone, or the currency union. Since then, it's been a figure of 60 percent. These are data and indicators and this absolutely no one can dispute. That's what I wanted to say by connecting the economic aspect of the facts, the results that the president and the government have aged with what are statistical data, because we're constantly listening to some kind of aferical, some sort of accumulating affair, some kind of fictional figure. These are the facts, and this is the truth. At the very end, there's one more thing I'd like to mention, it's not about this subject. The President-in-Office, I will say this to the President of Parliament, it seems to me, unfortunately, that parliamentarians who are the voice of the people, who have received the legitimacy and trust of the citizens and have the full right to represent this citizens' trust here in parliament, have become slowly clay pigeons and have to take care of how and how they will express their position. They don't take their stand here, they put the attitude of the citizens here, because Parliament is, I repeat, the voice of the people. I also think of Mr. Bakarec who talked about it a few weeks ago, but I also think of the latest developments concerning Mr. Martinovic. That's what I was talking about yesterday with media representatives very gladly. I see he's been accused by some NGOs. It's a little bit, maybe it's unnatural that I'm defending someone else from the parliamentary group, but we're colleagues, we're working on the same thing, we have the same goal, we have the same task, and our position is perfectly clear. Because someone deals with insinuations and someone doesn't know how to interpret what Mr. Martinovic wanted to say, so that's their problem, that's not our problem. What they call for is a code of ethics that they finally understood – we adopted the code of ethics and that we accepted that code of ethics that were so critical and that they said it was bad, and today they are calling for the same ethical code. So, Mr. Martinovic was misinterpreted, but that was also the goal of some NGOs and some non-governmental sector. I asked these NGOs and NGOs only one question, which I asked them at the Faculty of Political Sciences and in the framework of inter-party – let's define yourself more. Since there's not a part of the opposition here that's talking to us, define yourself. Are you representing that part of the opposition or is it someone else? Because if we see representatives of individual NGOs at the meetings of these political options, they say – we performed there as journalists. Okay, but our perception is that you are a supporter of these political parties and that you are, in fact, their representatives in this dialogue. Let's just define yourself, because before the parliamentary elections, you started a negative campaign long before the campaign for parliamentary elections started. Thank you, Chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-17-0.u4097	Thank you. As you said, it may not be natural, I've been thinking, I didn't want to interrupt you, but you left six, seven minutes of fellow MPs from the time planned. The word has a National MP, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-17-0.u4098	Thank you, Mrs. Kovac. Since my esteemed colleague Milicevic mentioned me, of course not in a negative context, but he mentioned me and quoted some of my words about certain NGOs. Thank you, Mr. Milicevic, for doing this and for allowing me to say more about entities who call themselves NGOs, and in fact they are government organisations, not just the governments of the Republic of Serbia, but some foreign states. These days he was very excited about my words, otherwise completely torn from the context and falsely published in some of their media, very excited Mr. Rasha Nedeljkov. He is one day leader of the NGO, the second day is a journalist, the third day is an expert on the Constitution and the political system, but no matter what quality he presents himself in that day, Mr. Rasha Nedeljkov will not say, and here I am now publicly expressing it so let him deny me if I am wrong, that through USAID his NGO CRTA has won over the past few years millions and 200 thousand dollars. CRTA has a minimum number of employees. I've analyzed some of their projects, at least those projects they brought out in public, and they're supposed to get that money from the Americans for those projects. But then when you compare, here and this has to do with statistics, when you compare the money they got from the Americans, when you compare the value of these projects and when you compare the number of people who were hired on these projects, you get an amazing number, or one amazing number, which is that out of this million and 200 euros they spent, which our people would say, at the top of their head, these 200 thousand euros, or excuse me, million and 200 thousand dollars to be exact, because the Americans gave money, and they give money in their national currency, so these are dollars. So they spent at the top of the head $200,000. My question to Mr. Sunday, who I see is very nervous these days, and where's that million dollars coming from? Here, where grandfathers, ask a few fellow MPs and you citizens of Serbia, where is the seat of that CRTE. You know where their seat is? On Santa's. The villa they're in, so I think it's hard to compare with the facilities that have the embassy of the most powerful states in the world. Ask this Mr. Nedelykov what he's driving, what car? All his associates drive the most expensive and most recent cars currently in the Serbian car market, these are the audiences, Mercedeses, they are jeeps, etc. The apartments in which these independent public opinion researchers live, the heads of NGOs, opposers of the hateful and despotic Vucic regime, etc., live in apartments of 150, 200 and who knows how many squares. I've come up with information for a certain lady, who's probably his closest associate, Vukosava Crnjanski, who lives in Zemun, in a 100-square apartment and drives a Toyota Land cruise. Now I ask you, fellow MPs, who every day cover their own wealth with lies, who among you in Belgrade has an apartment of 100 square meters, and who drives the latest, not second-hand jeep, the latest Toyota Land cruiser? Who's driving it from you? He doesn't drive nobody, but he drives Rush Nedeljkov, but he drives Vukosava Nirjanski. Let's deal with Stevan Dojcinović, here I'm finishing up, I guess we'll have a chance to talk about it during the day, about how he launders the money. Also through the so-called so-called. KRIK NGOs. He launders money from his associates, takes bills through Paypal, they have one app, enter their site, I won't advertise it now, but go to their site, click on that app, and the money comes out of the country. That's what Dragan Gilas does. So it's all the same family. They all work the same way, pump money from Serbia, get money from abroad, spend part of it here, what they fail to spend on expensive cars, apartments, suits, mobile phones, fake projects that have never been made, then that money comes from abroad. I'm telling you, these NGO bosses are richer than all of us together. That's what the people of Serbia need to know. They're not any NGOs, they're actually, we're not lying, and we're talking to an open human, not a bird language, they're criminal associations. They don't pay taxes in Serbia, they don't pay any taxes, their projects are completely non-transparent. We've never seen the results of these projects. The only thing I heard when I was, remember you, Gjorge, on FPN was Rasha Nedeljkov, his most brilliant idea was to adopt the opposition's request to form a transitional government of Serbia, to form, to be careful now, the transitional National Assembly, and to form transitional authorities in local self-government. I told him, well, great, the idea is legitimate, just tell me, Mr. Nedelykov, in which the democratic state exists. Okay, she says now, there's no place, and there's no reason she doesn't exist in Serbia. Well, there's a reason, because Serbia is not one laboratory where various ignorants, criminals, quasi intellectuals, should conduct their crazy experiments and return the country to the period before 2012. So, we want all the political, democratic, legal standards, it's not at all controversial, but those standards that are actually in force in the United States, in the United Kingdom, France, Germany, Italy, the Russian Federation, etc. My question to them, as I see them these days, is running a fierce campaign against Bakarec and against Orlic, and against Sandra Christmas and against me, of course, I'm already used to it, and I don't mind it, but my question for them, when they propose these genius ideas that Serbia should be arranged, the minimum obligations they have are to say, where these ideas have already been implemented and by which countries political systems function as they propose to apply in the Republic of Serbia. Nothing else. I'm telling you, they have no answer to that question. You'll see, when this dialogue begins with that so-called. The pro-democratic, civil, who knows what opposition, their platform consists of political principles that are pure fog. You can't have a serious conversation about it because they're not suggesting anything that doesn't exist anywhere in the world. They want Serbia to make a big political experiment, and in fact, they want chaos in Serbia, they want unrest, they want instability, they want economic instability, because they can only be rich in unstable times. So that Dragan Gilas could get rich in a stable state, in which the Constitution, laws, where the judiciary does its job, etc. is in force. Someone would ask him -- wait, how is it possible that you showed up on the political scene of Serbia in 1991, when you spoke to Slobodan Milosevic, as head of the students, when there was no dog for what to bite you for, today you have who knows how much, the question of whether these 619 million, I think it's already a exceeded figure. Ask God how much money that man has, and, uh, a little in Mauritius, and on Cook's Islands, and in Switzerland, and there, and here. Wait, in which country is that possible? There is no state in the former Yugoslavia where one opposition leader, correct me if I'm wrong, there is so much money, all of them together, as there is only one man named Dragan Gilas. Is there such a thing as Slovenia, Croatia, Bosnia, Montenegro, Macedonia? No, he's a man richer than Milo Djukanovic, and in opposition. Now he wants to come to power, not to make it better for the citizens of Serbia, but to be better for him, to have another million dollars, or euros, who knows where, on the Seashell Islands, on the Virgin Islands, ask God where there are still these tax havens. So thank you, Mr. Milicevic, for opening this topic, because, and how do we have something to say on the subject of those who put the facade in front of them? I am the head of the NGO, I am a journalist, I am an independent researcher, because God forbid anyone to mention me, because it is a political sacrament. No, you're not even a journalist, you're not an independent researcher, you're not even objective, you're actually a politician, so when you get into a political game, then have the courage to put up with political blows. And those blows that I was talking about, it wasn't even my idea to say that any of them would physically beat, because none of us in SNS did, that's what they were doing to us, I was talking metaphorically, they're going to get political blows from SNS and from Serbian citizens. Serbian citizens will not return to the state in which they were in 2012, when one small circle of people was rich, loaded, grown, had dozens of apartments, houses, cars, and everyone else was out of work, 400,000 people, 500,000 people were out of work from 2008 to 2012. Serbia's history in the past 200, 300 years has not remembered such a robbery as was carried out in the direction of Dragan Dilas, Boris Tadic, Vuk Jeremic and all the others together. So, once again, Mr. Milicevic, I think today and how there will be opportunities to continue this very interesting discussion that refers to those who are and that politically engaged will only say that openly but hide behind various names of NGOs, research houses, various screams, birns, cyns and what they're not called. They are all, and I repeat it once again, in the same bag, all of them have the same task, which is that every day, 24 hours, they bring out the most insecure lies, first of all about Alexander Vukic because he is their main theme, neither, Mr. Milicevic nor I, we are the upcoming targets. The main target and their main political opponent is Aleksandar Vukic. Since we're MPs, we're not judges, we're not prosecutors, we're not cops, we can't arrest us, we can't make judgments, but we're right, we have an obligation to tell the truth about all these people, we bring facts and that Serbian citizens know what this is really about. They're no victims, and they're no martyrs. They're rich people who got rich in people's troubles and troubles, so now they'd like to have no choice but to come to power to be even richer than they are.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-17-0.u4099	Thank you. The time spent above the time foreseen for the replica is taken from the time foreseen for the legislator group Aleksandar Vukic – For our children. Now let's get back to work. The word has a People's MP, Zoran Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-17-0.u4100	Thank you, Chairman. A respected minister with associates, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, we have had the opportunity to hear about how important statistics are and when it comes to national policymaking, but I also thank Mr Martinovic, who made excellent examples of those people in the Republic of Serbia who are dealing with statistics but with deep pocket statistics, or statistics that are particularly important to them, but I will look back on them later. What is a characteristic of real politicians, real leaders, fighters is that the decisions they make when it comes to the policies they implement are based on certain facts and data that are an important basis in order to determine the overall strategy and all activities that will be taken to achieve these objectives. Today, this programme that we are discussing is very important because it will actually define what is important when it comes to the creation of statistics that are important for policy holders, to make important decisions, but also for every citizen of the Republic of Serbia, because what I want to mention is that all of these data that we see on the website of the Statistical Office and individual ministries are available, transparent, and the non-believers are subject to the rule that they have methodological clarifications to know simply how this came about. When we talk about the successes of the Republic of Serbia, I would simply remind the citizens and fellow MPs that, unfortunately, in the period until 2012, we were in a difficult situation and that, surely, Aleksandar Vukic, who was then prime minister and now the president, when he made an important decision that was not politically popular, which is to enter into reforms, in terms of savings, made it clear on the basis of important statistics that clearly indicated the trend that Serbia if it continued to move as it moved until 2012, that it would go bankrupt and that we are actually going into something that we do not want to our country and our children. As a result, important decisions and reforms that have been implemented and, as we can see, have yielded results. Again, statistics tell us that we have managed to solve the financial problem, that finances are consolidated, that today you have a stable pension payment, that you have a growth in the economy, that you have a strengthening of it, that in a challenging period such as this time of the coronary crisis we have proved capable and determined to deal with these and the elections and therefore we have had the slightest drop in GDP in the region itself but also in Europe. The policy that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is conducting today, created by President Aleksandar Vukic, is the policy of realising the "Serbia 20-25" programme. When the programme is presented, many of the on-call critics are saying that it is impossible, how it is impossible, but clearly statistics show us today that we are going towards the realization of this programme really having an average income in the Republic of Serbia of 900 euros, an average pension of around 440-450 euros, that we have money, resources and ways to work on raising our infrastructure, colleagues have said that four highways are currently being made, I would remind myself that this programme provides for a reconstruction of a total of five thousand kilometres of roads and other categories, besides the construction of the highway, and what I find very expensive and proud that the Moravia Corridor is being realized and that when I travel to Belgrade or to the King, we see machines that work, regardless of what individuals claim that we have here in fact some fog industry, which they are used to do. In addition, we also work in terms of ecology, we work on building wastewater treatment plants, investing in education, investing in culture, in fact, all aspects are covered. We've had opportunities, when we talk about ecologicality and environmental protection, and at yesterday's session to discuss the results that have been achieved and what is planned, and yet everything is based on real statistics that are measurable, credible and evidence. To sum up in one sentence, the policy of true leaders, the policy of the government of the Republic of Serbia when making decisions is guided by that people - three times, once cut. That's exactly what's important. Note, we are not only using pure statistics, your statistics are not just data collection, it is data analysis, these are modellings that are done, which will give you answers to questions which, by which strategy we should apply, and what effects we can expect in some optimal solution, best and worst case scenario. On the other hand, as Mr. Martinovic also spoke to the predecessors, we have these politicians from the extraparliamentary opposition, weighing 619 and more millions of euros yesterday, some of whom have even forgotten about some six million euros, i.e. in particular Dragan Djilas, and, behold, a beautiful opportunity yesterday to remind themselves that there are still some six million euros, surrounded by their megaphones, starting with Marinika Tepic, Vuk Jeremic, Bosta Obradovic, and to those megaphones at the place who regularly engage as people who are dealing with purely criticism, i.e. spin, to get the topic off of what they did during their power. You know what's interesting? The fact that they tried numerous results, both these and previous governments and the government that President Aleksandar Vukic led, to dispute what they say - statistics are not good, statistics are faked, information and data that we have, they say differently. You see, statistics haven't changed much more than when they were in power and now they're the opposition. Simply, the methodology used is that. It continues to improve with some new knowledge from the scientific segments that we have, further activities towards harmonising the methodology with the EU, in fact, we are improving statistics, which would be worse for us, because it is actually more exacting what we have done and what we haven't done. In their time, it was not like that, but it was clear how much attention they paid to these statistics when they made decisions about what they would do in Serbia, what projects they would implement. I honestly think that they did not look back on that national statistics, but that they were dealing with deep pocket statistics, or their personal statistics, to learn how to complete their accounts, how to further place that money and how to disable or think that it makes it impossible to find out how much wealth they actually have. As we can see, it's not a statistical issue, it's a problem with them. Today, when precisely thanks to such behaviour and behavior and politics that lead, and what Mr. Martinovic says, it is a simple policy of the fog industry, they have become statistical errors in the political sense, that is, in the elections they cannot earn up to 3%, which is a gift in some way, I will remind you, in their time they have raised the censorship from 3 to 5%, in order to prevent the voice of the people from hearing, now that it's downgraded they can't get and yet their statistics are guilty, and in fact they can't understand that they're blaming themselves. They keep saying they have plans. You can see on the wallpapers in their party rooms to write – we have a plan. No, they don't have a plan. The only thing they have is hate, it's that they destabilise the whole situation in the hope that they'll be back on the streets with whistles and some pans and pots to come to power, even if it's for nine months, since some of them weren't in power and otherwise inside those circles and they're messing around because they weren't in power, they might be, like, nine months, some of the commies or whatever they're suggesting. This programme, which is before us today, in addition to the official activities that will be undertaken, as is said, and on the census and the provision of other data, concerns further improvement of the work of our institutions and institutions that are responsible for the creation of statistics, because we will work on accepting new methods, modern EU methods, because simply, we are a country on the way to the EU, we accept their methodologies, which will allow us to be able to do better comparative analysis to work with EU countries and other countries that have accepted this methodology when it comes to statistical analysis. In addition, what I'm very glad to have pointed out here is that it will also work to perfect people who are employed in this segment, because it is this human resource that is very important that we can achieve good results in the collection of these data, because we know that it is very important to have results at the right time and in the right place, that we have this statistics when we need it, to make key decisions. That is why we have decisions that have been made correctly and at times, when it comes to the cove of the crisis, that is, when it comes to taking measures and helping industry, helping our economy, helping other sectors that are unfortunately damaged by the crisis, but also when it comes to building hospitals, I will remind you that we have built them within a record period of four months, and that we are working on building and preparing all the necessary documents to build a new Kovid hospital in Novi Sad, which is again another proof of how much we invest in health, besides fighting these challenges in the right way. Simply, as a person who normally deals with the economy, who is a PhD in economics and who deals, first of all, with this quantitative analysis, I will say that the economy, although not as exact as physics or any other natural science, is sufficiently quantified that it can give us the data needed to make the right decisions, but also the data that will distinguish politicians from politicians, leaders from the interest groups that Mr Martinovic talked about and that we have the opportunity to hear in the media, so that it will never happen again before 2012, when decisions will be taken without consulting with statistics, without taking the necessary data based on which we will say - yes, this time is correct because of that and not because we see in some, perhaps, economic crisis chance. Now, it occurred to someone to say so, and we will never have a situation again that some projects will be megalomantically funded, but statistics will simply tell whether a certain bridge or some infrastructure can be done on that basis and for lower funds than it was, specifically, if you know we're talking about the Ada Bridge in what day we know of today, you're still looking at how much money we actually have built in there, that is, interest when it comes to financing that project. So what I can say here, and what most citizens support, is a policy of true leaders, people who will fight for the future of this country, for the future of children who will make decisions quickly and efficiently and in quality, but still, based on statistical consultations and based on significant analyses that will say in which direction we really need to go. What's important is that in elections and elections alone, it's citizens who say who, what kind of program is running and who turns out to be a real quantitator, a real leader, and who turns out to be a politician. That is why, in the voting day, together with colleagues from the parliamentary group "Alexandar Vukic - For Our Children", we will support the proposal for this programme because we are sure that realising it will help us to be even more successful in implementing the "Serbia 2025", a programme that is facing the future of the Republic of Serbia and the future of our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-17-0.u4101	I thank Parliamentarian Zoran Tomic. The word has a folk MP Sanja Jefic Brankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-17-0.u4102	Thank you. We are today discussing the proposal for a decision on the programme of statistics for 2021-2025, and all in accordance with the Law on Official Statistics, on the basis of which, among other things, this Programme is being adopted for a period of five years. In addition to defining further activities in the fields in which statistics will be carried out, this programme continues with the continuity of harmonisation, i.e. the harmonisation of statistical research that we have so far, as well as other activities with international statistical standards, and above all Eurostat standards. I would particularly underline compliance with Eurostat, because it is the only way that the data we have are comparable, but also usable, because they maintain a real state of affairs in the areas where statistics, which are in particular done, are related. We see from the Programme that it provides for activities to introduce some new indicators that provide for the alignment and application of international standards in areas that have not been done so far, and I think that this is a good start, i.e. progress in terms of improving the way the statistics so far have been conducted. The system of official statistics must respond to the challenge of providing a real picture and social, but also economic movements in the country in order to provide a good basis for further analysis, but also for improving, and thus ultimately to make decisions in different areas, depending on the quality of life of citizens in our country. It is therefore important to apply all the methodological solutions already in place in the existing statistical indicators, i.e. those of the new application model used in the European Union, of course with the establishment of mechanisms to adapt these and such models to those mechanisms that we already have and which are generally applicable in our country. Since the statistical methodology itself and the analysis of the results obtained are very complex processes, all the benefits that modern technology and innovation provide should be exploited, and this will be achieved, among other things, by the engagement of young people with whom modern technologies are close. With their training and training, I think that, in one part of the programme, it is exactly what is stated as a potential obstacle to the implementation of the objectives set out in this Programme, the Republic Statistics Institute must set one goal ahead, namely to improve its human resources policy, not allowing us to one day come into a situation that we both have a legislative framework and a good plan and adopted programme and functional mechanisms for work, but that we do not have personnel to deal with these issues. It may be necessary to pay attention to perhaps a more detailed analysis of the human needs of the Bureau of Statistics in order to improve all the issues it deals with and which, ultimately, the state and its institutions are relying on. Although the Republic Statistics Institute realizes most of the statistical activities, it is almost impossible to create valid data and carry out appropriate research without the coordination of the Institute with some other official statistics manufacturers, with the National Bank, the ministries, the National Employment Service, etc. In the framework of the expected results of the official statistics listed in the Programme, I will look back at several areas that I think may be of importance when it comes to data that will be processed in this context. It's, first of all, the labour market. Since social justice, as well as the principles on which it is based, is the leading idea of the Social Democratic Party of Serbia, it also provides social security for citizens and the removal of inequality, as well as life without fear of each citizen for their own existence, statistical indicators in the field of the labour market, I am above all referring to more detailed labour statistics, then informal employment by gender, structure, age groups. These are all indicators that can be of importance in order to improve the labour market and in order for it to respond as such to the demand for whom it exists. Next, social security. Statistical data in this area must include data on gender, age structure, education, working status, if we want to further develop the social protection system ourselves, i.e. social protection users so much that they feel safe enough in their country that provides them with social protection and protection. The environment as another in the area that we talked about yesterday during the debate on the Climate Change Act, for its full implementation, is very important to make one analysis of investment data in the environmental protection sector itself, as well as data relating to expenditure, as well as revenues made in terms of environmental protection, and in this sense it is very important to plan the funds in a timely manner, or to define them in order to make decisions accordingly. So to conclude, statistics may act at first glance as an area that collects, or processes some of the data that we in different contexts and use, but it represents far more than that. It must provide us with all the elements that are necessary to represent an instrument for improving the lives of citizens through decision-making that will rely on these statistics and rely on them. That's why our parliamentary group will support this programme in voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-17-0.u4103	I thank Sanja Jefić Brankovic. The word has a national emissary Jelena Mihailovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-17-0.u4104	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister, distinguished guests, respected MPs, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, although perhaps today's agenda item is not directly related to my professional commitment and artistic activities, I felt it important to report for the word and to participate in the discussion of the proposal for a decision on the Official Statistics Programme, given that statistics have become an inseparable part of our daily life and that all of us, personally, are referred to the use of statistics in the wide variety of life situations. The official statistics programme, with its strategy and review of the expected results, is a significant document that should provide, as already explained, synchronisation with the standards of the European Statistical System and the EU, which is of paramount importance in the process of our EU accession negotiations. As part of the basic activities of official statistics, you cited, among other things, the strengthening of trust in official statistics both data providers and users of results, which led me to conclude that you are aware that it is necessary to increase citizens' confidence in statistics as an inseparable part of the lives of all of us. For this very reason, it is important that in the mission that official statistics have, which is to provide relevant, impartial, reliable, timely and internationally comparable results of information, you persist and that as a society, we all take very seriously, among other things, statistics that talk about the confidence of young people, let's say, in our system of institutions, which say that 87% of young people feel that there is no impact on the political process and decision-making, 38 of them are not interested in politics, 40% of young people never vote, 44% do not trust the institutions of the Republic of Serbia, while 58% believe that youth care at the republican level does not exist at all. These are worrying statistics that we must take seriously and all work together. As the main strategic objective of this programme, the completion of full compliance with the requirements of the European Statistical System and the EU is highlighted by the end of 2025. In this regard, and given that I am an artist and I am speaking from the point of view of my profession, I would like to point out that it is also desirable that the statistics that are being conducted in the EU for each member individually and at the EU level for the culture and art sector are also relevant for statistics on our culture and art. With regard to this, I must note that the priority development activities in the field of demographics and social statistics, as well as in the priority development activities of sectoral statistics, are not listed in the sectoral statistics sector of culture and art, which is essentially an integral part of the Corps of every society, given the importance of culture and art both for education and quality of life, and for employment statistics, income, social inclusion, living conditions and use of time. We are all witnessing as much as we have music, theatres, cinemas, galleries, museums and all other cultural contents missing from the beginning of the pandemic, and I have the impression that there is no man on the planet who has not felt the lack of culture in his life. I would especially mention at this point of my presentation the sudden loss that our music scene, especially in the field of classical, pop, rock and folk music and acting, has suffered lately, because we have been quietly and perhaps in a state of culture and insufficiently outlined status of artists in society left the greats of Isidor Žebeljan, Misa Alexic from Riblje Čorba, Sanja Ilic, Djordje Balašević, Vojkan Borisavljevic, Dragoljub Đuričić, Jay, actors – Tihomir Tika Arsić, Ivan Bekjarev, Boris Kandić, Boris Komnenic, director and screenwriter Goran Paskaljević and many other artists who have painted our works of childhood and life. Only now, when they are gone, has the whole society realized how much we lacked and how under-absorbed their and all other less and more well-known artists, the social importance and importance of culture and art for society as a whole, and how much concern we care about culture in our conditions, which is particularly evident in the statistics, where we are, according to the budget fees for culture per capita, at the beginning of European countries, but also in the countries of the region. The increase in budget payments for culture is, in my opinion, a strategic important issue, and it has an urgent note in light of the pandemic effect, because the culture sector, especially its parts, is at risk, and if we do not take urgent steps, we may be threatened by cultural harikiri. We must not count on the pacifism of artists as lovers and cultural consumers who will be overjoyed when they are from their talents and what they were born for and what they do best can only survive, but with increased budget fees we must enable all employees in the sector of culture and creative industries to provide themselves and the family with a quality of life from their work and contributions. A positive example can also be that the many-year mortgage of previous authorities in the form of closed museums, with the current government finally removed and the National Museum of Contemporary Art and the Museum of Contemporary Art opened their doors to visitors, but both these open museums, as well as the controversial assistance to individual festivals and funds defined for Novi Sad, the European Capital of Culture, are only individual good steps in the right direction. Some new steps, as well as additions to the Law on Culture, should illustrate a concrete long-term strategy for bringing culture back to the social pedestal that culture deserves, but not only on words and paper, but rather on the increased allocations of funds aimed at culture, as well as pragmatic distribution, which Minister Gojkovic particularly apostrophyd, but we have not so far touched on the topics of Europe's arrival and particularly the region in the country's grantings for culture in the head of the population. This way, I would like to ask the government's representatives to consider increasing budget spending in the culture sector, perhaps already in the first next rebalancing process, in order to specifically increase fees from 15 euros to 22 euros per capita, thus reducing the gender gap compared to the level of giving in Northern Macedonia or Montenegro, in which the amount is 27 and 36 euros, respectively. I would like to remind you that we have recently voted on a loan agreement for cultural infrastructure, which represents a great opportunity to renovate certain cultural institutions and provide them with working conditions, but as a national MP and artist, I would like to suggest that additional funds for the culture sector in an amount of about 50m euros, which would allow the critical survival of cultural activities, and which would currently lead to an increase of 22 to 23 euros per capita. This would open up the possibility for us to catch up with the region, so that since 2023 we can start with a statistical alignment with EU countries and try to get closer to Croatia and Hungary, which now stand out on average about 40 euros per capita. Potentially provided funds of around 50m euros should be identified immediately for as many projects as possible, especially now during the pandemic period and after the pandemic, in order to mitigate the consequences of all existing competitions with the ministry, the work of art departments per school, and the part to bring minimum conditions for the function of culture institutions across Serbia, as well as for financing minimum for the start of art content offered to the public. So, individual attempts in the form of ad hoc film financing, which I absolutely welcome, individual events, as well as the awakening of cultural scenes, even in one place, with the appointment of our prominent artists at the position of institution managers, but also projects, must be widely welcomed and supported, but we must not be distracted from the idea that in order to save culture and maintain and upgrade state and national identity, we need systematic investment and long-term strategy. Capital investment in roads, energy, agriculture is necessary, but I believe that at least the same capital and investment in culture is, therefore, the identity and consequent to the survival of Serbia as the state and all people who accept it as their own country. The essence of cultural giving should be the complete decentralisation of the cultural scene, as regards offerings and funding of cultural content, and even more so as to give in the promotion of creation, especially among young people and the youngest in schools, through the already mentioned resuscitation of cultural and artistic sectors, both in Vranj and in Subotica and other Serbian cities. Increased investment and decentralisation of culture will consistently provide better statistics. We will have more young people in smaller areas and in villages, because when all citizens get living conditions similar to those in larger cities, which can enable them to invest in infrastructure, telecommunications, health care, but perhaps most importantly in cultural content, then we will revive villages and improve the resulting statistics in agriculture. With my presentation, I would like to initiate the relevant factors directly, because that is why I have accepted the role of MPs, which is a huge honor for me, but also the obligation to face problems as an artist and personally, here in the Assembly and try to initiate solutions. I am doing this with a clean heart, and no matter what my participation in Parliament's work puts my artistic career in a different way, because if for a moment I'm only interested in this tall body for problems in culture, which I think should be the face of every country, I'm going to think it was worth it and how valuable my guess is just the current political engagement. I'd like to finish my presentation with the words "ars" long, "vita bravis" or "art" is long, and life is short. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-17-0.u4105	Thank you. Your group's time is down, spent. Before the break, the word has a folk letter from Ljiljana Malusic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-17-0.u4106	Thank you. The Honorable Minister of Associates, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, statistics are a very exact science. Statistics are a field of mathematics that deals with collecting, analysing, interpreting, explaining, presenting, is used in broad spectrum. Speaking of statistics, an American institute has presented its analysis and said that 100 billion euros have disappeared from Serbia, out of which 50 billion euros. Dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, honourable MPs, 100 billion euros, raised 50 billion euros. Can the average mind figure out what 100 billion euros is? Well, gentlemen, we would pay back the debt, clear Serbia for 10 billion euros. It takes us so long to completely revitalise Serbia as far as environmental science is concerned, to clean up all the dumps, to build a complete infrastructure, to bring in an investor, and with 100 billion, we don't need investors. They'd raise a lot of factories, hire what's left, and that's 7.5% of the unemployed. We'd raise our pensions, raise our salaries. All of Serbia would be better than Switzerland. Shame on them. But it's statistics, and statistics are inexorable. Let's take it in a row. Mr. Gilas took, kidnapped, stole, whatever you want, 619m euros, for starters. I'm not sure if it's 619 million or much more. He was found bills in Switzerland, in Mauritius six million euros, in Switzerland not known. Who knows which of them has all the islands and who knows where they are, how many millions of euros. We know that Jeremic received sevenm euros, there is no telling where and why, what he should have done for it. We know that the small thing, Zivkovic, took a grant for the vineyards, half a million euros, never returned. We know that Pitiæ has apartments in Vienna, you don't know how many. We know that that children's board, distracted in development, cost a million euros and only a board, as it was never completed by 2012. Malversion to malversion. We know that during his term in Belgrade, Gilas left the city's debt 1.2 billion euros, plus the upcoming debts of 14 billion dinars. We know that Serbia is devastated. We know that 3,000 companies are privatized. It's statistics. We know that 690 companies are completely devastated, torn, devastationed, and we also know that 400,000 people are out of work from 2008 to 2012. It's inexorable statistics. Unfortunately, either way, it didn't happen again. We know that in 2008 there were 1,000 judges left without a job. We know there's been a lot of suicides, unfortunately, people didn't have anything to eat. Any, it didn't happen again. Statistics are inexorable, so we know that Mr. Mali, the finance minister, has concluded a 580m-euro contract for the Belgrade subway, which has been discussed back in 50 years. Everyone's talking about the subway, we finally made a deal. We know that the fast track of Belgrade-Novi Sad is disgusted. It'll be over next year. We know it was built 350 kilometers of highways. Statistics. We know that four highways are currently being built and two, six highways will be built. We know that there will be roads in Serbia, highways, more towards the population, that we will have the highest percentage of highways. We know that Skyline is being built. We know that "Belgrade on Water" is being built, the business and housing space with the most beautiful promenade in this part of Europe. We know it's being built all over the place. We know that only the President of the Republic opened 230 factories, a total of 300 open factories. They fired 400,000 people, we hired 300,000 people. We know that unemployment in 2012 was 26%, today 7.3%. If we keep this up, if it weren't for Kovida, I'm sure by 2025 it would be the European average, which means 5% of the unemployed. We know that we have revitalised the "Er Serbia" concession with France. Also, we know that the average salary in 2012 was 320 euros, today it is 540 euros. In Belgrade, Serbia, 511 euros tend to be 900 euros by 2025. Also, we know there are over 50,000 construction sites in Serbia today. In Belgrade alone, more than 10,000 construction sites. Statistics. We were on the Duing Business List in 140 and some in 2008, so in 2012, 97, today 42. We know that the Republic of Serbia has allocated money to build apartments for the military and the police, and the apartments are finished, the people in Vranj. Apartments are being built for the military and police in Piroth, Leskovac, Valjev, Novi Sad, Belgrade, Kragujevac, all over the Republic of Serbia. We know that the minimum personal income in 2012 was 16200 dinars. Today it is 32,126 dinars. Finally, statistics, yes, but also a great tragedy, on this day, 17 years ago, Kosovo and Metohija, our southern province, and it will always be, was a great pogrom. Namely, 4,000 Serbs were exiled from Kosovo and Metohija, burned down over 900 houses, destroyed, defiled, burned 35 monasteries, or repeated. You know what else is statistics? Which the state didn't react at that time. They didn't do anything to protect our Serbs. Today, we have provided peace for Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija so that people can live peacefully, build apartments, help materially, in all possible ways, and thus will always be not only Kosovo and Metohija, but wherever there are Serbs. Today, our Patriarch Porphyria holds a moat for the souls of the dead and the missing. Statistics are inexorable. I only know one thing that, since 2012 won the SNS at the Republican level, statistics say that this people live better, that this people are much happier. One more thing, I'm sorry, I forgot, and that's very important. Statistics. We've made two new covids of the hospital, that we've imported two million doses of vaccines, that we've vaccinated nearly two million people, that we've reoccurred over 900,000 people and that by the end of next year we'll have 13 million vaccines in Serbia. Also, we've already given all our neighbors the vaccines again. The statistics are that this people live better and not all statistics are something in love and empathy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-17-0.u4107	Thank you. Honorable Members of Parliament, in accordance with Article 87. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I now set a break of one hour and continue at 15 hours and five minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-17-0.u4108	Ladies and gentlemen, let's get back to work. The word is by Professor Dragoljub Ackovic. He's not in the O.R. The word is Alexandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-17-0.u4109	The Honorable President, the Honorable Minister, fellow MPs, today's programme of the Republic Statistics Institute as an organisation that is the bearer in the technical sense of this proposal and in that qualitative, development of this programme of official statistics from 2021 to 2025, is in fact one document that is our basis for the full growth and development of society and that, by reason of what you can find through the reports, annual reports on the site of this institution is actually the basis for everything we do in our Serbia. Why am I saying this? Because we had the opportunity in today's afternoon debate to hear many times, means that statistics are one part of the mathematics that, in addition to data collection, analysis and work relating to the quality of data processing, and at the end of the presentation of these data, needs to give us some information, solutions for different types of sectoral policies, but these roof policies in terms of economy, when it comes to demographics, when it comes to sectors like we said are traffic, agriculture, energy, construction. So everything that's actually a starting point, let's have a measurable basis for the activities that a country needs to prescribe. Now, when you prescribe certain policies and when you want to, say, do one of the most important documents adopted by this National Assembly, which is next year's budget, then you usually refer to certain statistics that should have a certain structure of that data. The structure also contains the quality of these data, must in a certain way meet certain standards. Why are we saying this? Because this programme is actually the result of work, early work by the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Statistics itself and all relevant ministries, and as such a result, it has proved that Serbia has indeed come in an extremely responsible way in addition to economic reforms and fiscal consolidation, so that Chapter 18 has opened negotiations with the EU in 2018. When it opened this chapter a year earlier, everything that was found to be a qualitative feature of how much we have complied with international standards, or standards, or EU standards in this area, has already come out in their professional journals, especially the Eurostat roof organisation that deals with EU member states' statistics and has set its standards in a certain way and has given great support to our official statistics and said that we are indeed dealing with a very responsible way and this topic. It was important for us to continue this harmonisation, precisely because you would be considered a relevant talker on each issue because at any time you create certain types of policies you have to go to those standards, with those institutions you're talking to. Well, if that is, for example, the European Commission is then EU standards, which are otherwise recognised in the world domain and these standards are aimed at making Serbia accept such a thing, and by accepting it, you are actually getting back-reaction reports not only by the European Commission on Serbia's progress, but also at the end of the international, especially by financial institutions, where they say that there has been a lot of progress in this area, especially when it comes to macroeconomic indicators. This means that what we publish when it comes to macroeconomic indicators is recognised by both the IMF and the World Bank and the Central European Investment Bank, ultimately all other financial institutions when we talk about the world at all. Now, what's important to say today, I think that's what my colleagues have tried to say in a number of ways, which is that certain statistical data from a particular target group, so we're saying whether these are certain political parties that want to show or criticize a certain type of work in certain areas when it comes to the Republic of Serbia or some of them, we've had the opportunity to hear, and some NGOs who want to guide certain criticisms, or some sectors, can at some point use data and simply manipulate, or disabling the public with certain information. That is why it is important for official statistics to be harmonised with EU directives, that it is such noises in information, and we have had the opportunity to hear that, let's say, Dragan Gilas went with his party to the European Parliament, so he showed some statistics that have no basis at all in certain political positions that are in fact one of Serbia's and Alexander Vukic's complaints about the measures of reform conducted by the SNS, headed by Alexander Vukic, while he was prime minister and also when he was president of Serbia. She complained simply of the EU that we do not implement certain things in accordance with the laws, in a certain way in accordance with certain rules that apply and laws that apply to EU members, such as state aid. We had the opportunity to hear all sorts of things when we talk about "Er Serbia", and even some institutions like the Fiscal Council wrote about it, to say state aid for "Er Serbia" are simply not according to EU laws and rules. You actually see in these examples how it is very easy to manipulate and use statistics as one instrument for manipulation of certain information and for political action. We had examples and now recently, let's say, reports from some international organisations such as the energy community that talked about that there was a participation of renewable sources that fell in the total consumption of electricity and that Serbia actually fell to its institutional changes one three places down precisely because at some point I don't think the Statistics Institute itself was able to register, for example, 10 energy objects that had already entered the EPS system. Why am I telling you this now? I'm telling you because, at a time when you have criticism of certain international factors, it's very important that you have recognised harmonised state statistics. So we call it official. You have adequate data that you're going out with against arguments, just like these attacks that don't stand. This is of great importance to us, and therefore this programme from 2021 to 2025 is of great importance to us today because statistics are just showing that the macroeconomic indicators developed by the Statistical Office and that Serbia has accepted that it works in the same way as any member of the EU is recognised by all international institutions. This means that our indicators, that we had the lowest decline in 2020 of 1%, that unemployment fell below 10%, that it was 9.5%, that the projected growth for this year, one of the largest when we see countries in the region in general, that the level of foreign direct investment for the past year is 60% of the total foreign direct investment for the whole Balkans, that the increase in wages and pensions is much higher than those in the EU member states, which have struggled with negative growth, i.e. the decline of the economy from 6 to 12%. So that's something that's relevant to our economy, where just that recognition has to be given to you by representatives of both the EU and the world, because the methodology based on which you get these data is the same and applies to all of these countries. For us it is of great importance to be acknowledged, harmonised when it comes to official statistics and ultimately, that the quality of the data you get is actually the essence of your growth and development. If that was easy, then I wonder why it wasn't implemented by 2012. It was much more difficult for all of us, and I think for the citizens of Serbia to do this compared to what is called economic reform and fiscal consolidation that lasted less than three years and which is practically an upgrade represents all of this and which we have actually started through the high growth and development of these high rates. First, remember that we had a four-year budget surplus, so we had the last two years before, so in 2020, the growth rate was more than 4%, so we had an inflow of foreign direct investments that is much larger than the whole region. Don't forget that the "Serbia 2025" plan was in fact extremely realistic for us, which is investment and growth and development of 14 billion euros for five years and an average salary of 900 euros and a pension of 440 euros. The year of the crown pandemic came, the year came in which all that we were doing and what we were fighting for could have gone backwards and came at the level of what was before the economic reforms, if we had not had had had had the responsible president of the state, the responsible government which at some point gave the government of Serbia to adopt the measures that were economical, which were comprehensive, which were precisely precise and which stopped the complete fall of the economy, which otherwise proved to be late in many developed EU countries, such as Germany, such as France, such as Italy and all those countries that took the issue of Corona unspeakably, today have a problem in economic terms, because this health section, they were simply late. When you look at the vaccination process today in Serbia and the world vaccination process, then you will see that vaccination is one of the instruments of economic growth and development. I can say this responsibly, especially because this official statistics is very important to us, because if it wasn't extremely realistic and it wasn't according to high standards, we wouldn't be able to talk today about the online vaccine application, the choice of vaccination, and that we didn't have Alexander Vukic, who was thinking in advance about how he would allow the citizens of Serbia, first of all, to choose which vaccine, secondly to make that choice of four different vaccines that are on the market today and that have real production, we simply wouldn't be able to talk about economic results today either. Why am I saying this today? Today, a year has passed since the introduction, if you remember, of the state of emergency introduced in all EU countries, when it comes to the Kovid 19 pandemic. Today after a year, we can see based on statistics that the average, when we talk about last year's economic downturn for EU countries, was 6.8%, the United States fell by 3.5% of GDP, Russia by 3.1%, and China had a 2.3% growth. Why are we talking about China now? Because, you remember, China is one of the first countries that has ever had growth and development anywhere between 7% and 9% as a big country, with this expansion growth. She was among the first to start fighting with Koron, but she was among the first to carry out the vaccination procedure because she, fortunately, worked actively to produce her vaccine. Since she was the first to introduce vaccination, quickly vomited, this economic growth, which in the year in which the global economy recorded the decline, has shown how important it is to create and ensure the health of its citizens, because it is the realization of all economic indicators in your country and all business activities. So, that is why we have come into position, thanks to the responsible foreign and internal policy and the government of the Republic of Serbia and President Aleksandr Vukic, that we can talk today about that at a time when we have a leap of the infected in Serbia, when it comes to the tension of the health system, we can say that at this point we have a stable economy, a stable budget and we have an announcement by the Ministry of Finance and the Government of the Republic of Serbia that for the 1,400,000 employees in the private sector we will have a new package of support to stop any drop in the economy, if there is an increase in epidemiological measures. Don't forget that last year was about 12.7% of GDP, which was 5.2 billion dinars spent on support of the private sector, just to stop the economic downturn. Don't forget that in the last year we learned a lot about ourselves, first of all, but we learned a lot about how to fight with this kind of pandemic, because in the world there's not enough recognition of the possibility of fighting with these consequences of the Covid 19 pandemic. Do not forget that as long as this struggle lasted and the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the state with problems caused by the pandemic, in health terms and in economic terms, some people had earned their assets on the backs of Serbian citizens in recent years, while in office from 2008 to 2012, and as ministers and as mayors, such as Mr. Gilas, had taken their money out of their own country and kept it in countries where the paradise islands, where taxes do not exist, sold themselves companies. Yesterday, we had the opportunity to hear the latest information based on statistics that ultimately, you have the right to ask all the countries on certain payments, because we became a member of international organisations, when it comes to fighting corruption and fighting terrorism, when it comes to money transactions, we came to this and to public knowledge, from news articles, which gave these investigative journalism the best evidence that someone like Dragan Gilas has in his account, on certain islands for which, for the first time, some people may hear in the interior of Serbia, own 5.73m euros, in Switzerland 600,000 euros. The issue arises when certain sales transactions between the wealthy themselves are held at 52m euros, which have also been sold, i.e. the issue is fundamentally asked how of the 75,000 euros that Dragan Gilas rules before he sat down at a certain post, as they came up with 619m euros, as they amounted to 105m euros, as the funds from the Republic of Serbia were exported, whether the budget of the Republic of Serbia was damaged, whether the tax was paid for the funds. We heard the information that 15 countries have Dragan Gilas' money, and then in the end you have the opportunity to hear criticism from media that also pays for Dragan Gilas that there is no need to talk about it, that it is perfectly normal for someone to have that kind of money and that there is no evidence at all that any illegal actions have been done there. Obviously, the Directorate for the Prevention of Money Laundering, the Tax Administration will have a lot of work to do because we here in the Serbian Parliament have passed many laws relating to the rules of FATFE, an international organisation that is currently dealing with the issue of money laundering. Then we passed the Law on the Origin of Assets that entered into force on March 12th, and we will also have the opportunity to hear Mr. Gilas' statements to give evidence of how he acquired that property. After all, I think the prosecution will have to call not only Mr. Gilas, but I will ask what about Mr. Vuk Jeremic's money, which received eightm euros for a pre-election campaign for a particular job with so-called. The energy magnets from the world, for his NGO. So this raises a number of questions that I think Serbian citizens will have to do in an exact way with the help of statistical data to obtain information based on which, as they have acquired so much property, whether taxes have been paid and how practically the budget of Serbian citizens is damaged when it comes to all these transactions and the work of officials who have taken their place, who today are keen to return to political life by paying certain media, financing certain campaigns, NGOs in co-operation with international organisations, organising various protests on various topics. I think that these statistics will be of great importance to us because obviously what they did not pay into Serbia's budget are actually some new hospitals, some new jobs, some new factories, some new salaries. That's why I think it's very important that we have statistics that we have to have exact, not only when it comes to state property, economic indicators, but when it comes to business statistics of different companies that are founded here, but whose money, for example, has gone abroad, so they're also established abroad, which are obviously only used to transfer money where taxes are not paid. So, the goals of developing official statistics are quality results, independence of official statistics, support in decision-making and ultimately personnel. It's very important for us that the personnel who work in these institutions, and you know that they're mathematicians, really stay at an envious level. We think that now, in the era of information technologies, mathematicians have really had a boom when it comes to their brand, but it is important that state institutions really recognize the quality of people who work there and keep them as much as possible. Because we all care about the future of Serbia, the future of our children, and that is why I find it important that the programme we are talking about today be a priority in every platform where we make certain decisions as politicians, especially when it comes to demographics. So it's of great importance for us that the statistics are always present to simply raise awareness of very important issues in this area. In addition to demographics and economic statistics and these sectoral and environmental protection areas, we had opportunities to see about climate change yesterday. They cover a number of areas, and it's some future that's waiting for us where we have to change a lot when it comes to the consciousness of the people. I think it is very important that we support this programme, because this is the basis for all the new policies that we will have here in the Serbian Parliament to consider and to vote on. That is why in the voting day, like all MPs of the ruling coalition, I will support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-17-0.u4110	Thank you. The word is by Professor Dragoljub Ackovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-17-0.u4111	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, I'm sorry I'm a little late, so I'm going to try to hurry up with my statement. Today when we speak...
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-17-0.u4112	Don't tell anyone that, because I gave you my word, even though you shouldn't, since you're too late. So keep your mouth shut.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-17-0.u4113	I believe President Dacic is joking. I want to say next. Today when we talk about the official statistics programme in 1921/25, especially in this month of March or a few months later, censuses were made every ten years. It was an opportunity for all citizens to plead, among other things, and which religion, which nation, and which language they speak and much of what is important for the state, but for them themselves. On those lists, the Roma people declared themselves to be when. In the 19th century, about 12,000 families declared themselves Roma, but only a few years later there were 3,000 families. So it got mixed up. Statistics provide us with information that according to the 1931 list, the Gypsies language was the native language for over 72,000 Roma. I note that this is the only statistical document in which the question was asked – which language you speak. This list tells us a lot, and most often researchers of genocide against the Roma, among whom I am, unfortunately use to determine as many Roma as possible in the former state of Croatia, but we know that Ustasha made a special list that has never been published, a list of Roma. I'm going to mention another curiosity regarding that 1931 census. The results of that list were published in a separate document, but data on the native language and religion were left out. That data was later released in Vienna in 1943, you won't believe it. The reason to pay attention to your attention in today's debate is that according to the 1948 census, there were several dozen more Roma in the then Yugoslavia than in the official 1951 census. Now let me also say that there are 149 thousand and several hundred Roma living in Serbia. It forces us to think – is it possible when we know, we all know, that there are many more? Ethnomy is one of the problems the Roma face in our country, but also in the whole world. We don't care about everyone. Let's see what happens to our country. What does our country have to do about it? The document that we are discussing today states that the priorities of development activities and programmes are defined in the following areas of official statistics, demographics and social statistics, including the implementation of the list of households and dwellings in 2021. Under two, economic statistics and a second priority of the development of this programme. Under three, sectoral statistics follow and ultimately environmental statistics covering more areas. Speaking of which, let me also mention the fact that for a census this year, the state has to prepare itself primarily in the field of censusing and recording of national minorities, including Roma. In earlier censuses, censuses were also used by Roma national minorities, but I don't think that was quite enough. I therefore recommend that the preparations in this regard start as soon as possible, especially because of the health situation we are currently in. Dear People's MPs, I would like to point out this occasion a major problem in our southern province that has Roma and especially these days. Namely, like the other citizens and Roma, they applied neatly to the elections that took place about a month ago. Several parties have also reported themselves, and some of them have crossed the censorship, as is the case with the Roma initiative led by Gazmendo Salijevic, but do not lie down, their votes have been taken away because Serbs allegedly voted for them. Well, even if they did, everyone has the right to vote, but I know they didn't, because the Serb list won all ten seats. They had to give votes to the Serb list. The Roma lost their only representative in the congregation. Recently, a candidate for MPs and a spokesman for the Roma initiative, Gazend Salijevic, said it was a civic initiative that took part in parliamentary elections, as he wants to fight for education and economic empowerment, as well as the possibility for Roma to become equal citizens of Kosovo. It seems that Gazdmen Salijevic does not like their central electoral commission, so instead of MPs in the Kosovo parliament, he has won a candidate for their movement in Kosovo, Erdjan Galushi, because he is closer to Prime Minister Albin Kurti. To do so, they would have to cancel the votes of the Roma initiative in the municipalities of Leposavic, Novo Brdo, Ranilug, Klokot and others. I have presented this example as an illustration of something that has happened with statistics on the Roma in Kosovo not only now, but has happened before. I remember the 1981 census when no Roma lived in Kosovo and Metohija. When we pressured the Kosovo leadership, we Roma activists found 30,000 and put it in such an aproximity. We know that this information is not true and that in Kosovo there were around 150,000 Roma living in 1981, many of whom moved to third-class countries and countries nearby. First of all, a lot of Roma came to Serbia. Kosovo officials did not respect the Roma personality and Roma citizens then, so they did. These elected MPs have been elected as we have been elected in this assembly, colleague Sandra Jokovic, myself, but no one has deleted us, but we have received our place as all citizens of Serbia. Lived Serbia headed by President Vukic, who treats us the way we deserve and why we will always be faithful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-17-0.u4114	I thank the People's MP, Professor Dragoljub Ackovic. The word is made by MP Stefan Srbanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-17-0.u4115	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Mrs Matic and her associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, spoke before me about events in Kosovo and Metohija 17 years ago and all I can add is that the Martian pogrom of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija must not forget and that this is something that must never be repeated again. First of all, I came forward today because I feel the need to say a few words about things that I think are important and I don't think there's anyone more invited to do this than us MPs. No matter how hard those who have declared themselves judges, or whatever, to judge or determine what topics we will deal with here, they will not succeed as long as the SNS MPs are in this House. And how we're going to talk about everything they keep trying to hide, unsuccessfully, of course, and get off the agenda. Just a few days ago, in this high house, we passed the Law on the designation of origin of property, which is good and important, because in this way we set up a framework for judicial authorities and their operation and work in the best interests of the citizens of this country. First of all, the President of the Republic came forward and said he was ready to be the first to start, if necessary. I am sure that each of us MPs here is willing to, given that we are performing a public function, be available for that kind of verification, because we have both a legal and a moral obligation to the institutions of this state, as well as to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. We thus send a good message and show that we are different from those who are not happy today, who are nervous about passing such a law. They are not happy that everything, all accounts and all assets, will be checked from Serbia, through Switzerland, to Mauritius and all countries where the accounts have been opened and in which the money of Serbian citizens has been spent. Whether there have been criminal activities, how this money has been earned and where these millions amount, in euros of course, will be determined by the competent state authorities and will be dealt with by institutions such as the Tax Administration and the Directorate for the Prevention of Money Laundering. As I said in the introduction, it is up to us to discuss all these topics and to prevent them from getting their focus off these topics and being forgotten, as was the case in the past. So, not that we as MPs judge something, but that we talk about it, if we have to do it every day. This is nothing new, ladies and gentlemen, I mean everything we read today in the daily press, it's all the result and the result of what is the legacy of Dragan Gilas while he was part of the government from 2004 to 2012. Perhaps someone will say that I was young at the time and that I probably had other preoccupations at the time than to think about what Gilas and Tadic were doing at the time, but I express my views by considering what those who witnessed that time left behind and dealing with this topic. When I mention them, I mean, first of all, the late Verica Barac and her 2011 report. She was still talking about captured media controlled by the government through Dragan Dilas, who she marked as the closest co-worker of then-President Boris Tadic and a man who had performed high state and party functions in those eight years. Among other things, I quote: "Somehow in Serbia the most powerful in the media sphere and the closest to the state summit were agreed, so Dragan Gilas, through his media firms, established control of the media space. The mayor of Belgrade and the vice-president of the DS have two media companies through which the channels for money and the purchase of ads and other media influences go." When we tried to talk about it, it ended with ignoring, like, what difference does it make? The late Mrs. Verica Barac herself says independent institutions were not doing their job at the time and there was no control of state money allocated to finance certain media. That's why we here in this high house are talking about the importance of these independent regulatory bodies and the freedom to present their reports and the results of their work to this high house and to discuss them. The link between Telecom and certain agencies providing marketing services to Telecom is also listed, in turn the company has sponsored certain emissions and certain media agencies with millions of amounts. Now I ask you, my dear colleagues and citizens of Serbia, is it necessary to explain why Marinika Tepic so soulfully collapsed on Telecom just a few months ago, or is it clear to everyone that it was for one simple reason, and that is because the company stopped being the cow of the DS, the people who led the party at that time and this country, unfortunately? They managed to destroy their party, and that's their problem. This country has been tried. Fortunately, they didn't make it. To return to Mrs Barać and the conclusion of her report at the time, which is that Dragan Gilas' agencies controlled most of the leases of media space, all in violation of, among other things, the direct law in order to make a public function and a high party function a profit by operating with budget users, i.e. ministries, certain public enterprises and media public service. For all of this, Mrs. Baraq only got one round of applause at the time, and then it all ended up on top of it. I have one more thing to add, and I think it's very important and interesting for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The bridge on Adi is 996m long and its construction with all access traffic cost citizens of Belgrade and Serbian citizens about 450m euros. The section of Milos Velika highway, i.e. Corridor 11 from Preljina to Požega, is 30.9km long, with two tunnels of nearly threekm long, the loop of Pakorac, 30 bridges of length over five kilometers and four overpasses will cost citizens of the Republic of Serbia about 450m euros. I'm not an engineer, I'm not an economist, but I don't think it should be any kind of expert to figure out how the budget money of Serbian citizens was at the time, and how it's done today. We're not going to let them keep quiet about these and these things, and in particular we're not going to let those who are sick give us lectures. If they are wondering why we always stand in the defense of Alexander Vukic, the message is that we will always do so, that our MP group bears the title “Alexander Vukic – For our children” and it is perfectly natural to be with the man who is the president of our party to whom we belong, and among other things because we believe and follow the policy he has drawn because we consider it the best for Serbia. I also have to say that, although my older and more experienced colleagues themselves know that the defences and responses to every kind of insult and heifer they serve daily, they should know Mrs. Christmas and Mrs. Malovic, as well as Mr. Orlic and Martinovic that they have the support of all the MPs from our parliamentary group, because all they say and all they do is something that we will always bravely stand behind and step forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-17-0.u4116	I thank the MP Stefan Srbanovic. The word has a folk letter from Svetlana Milijac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-17-0.u4117	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. Dear Minister, fellow Members of Parliament, the most important task of official statistics is to provide a realistic picture of the country's social and economic movements and to provide reliable basis for analysis and decision-making at various levels, starting with state administration and other institutions, through business entities, to interested citizens, and through the processing of presentation and archiving of statistics. Today, we are discussing the proposal for a decision on the Programme of Official Statistics of the Republic of Serbia in the period 2020-2020, which is given for a five-year period and based on the Law on Official Statistics. This programme defines activities that achieve the basic objective of harmonising statistical research of indicators with international standards, and above all with the standards of the European Statistical System and the EU. The programme is an integral part of the strategy for developing official statistics, which should provide faster development and should provide a basis for obtaining the most significant statistical parameters and indicators and their compatibility with the statistics of European countries and other countries. Recognizing the needs and importance of official statistics, the Republic of Serbia, with EU support, is making significant efforts towards adapting our statistical system to international standards. Official statistics of the Republic of Serbia, by strengthening their professional and infrastructure capacities and by adopting and applying best statistical practice, achieve compliance with international statistical standards and principles of the European Statistics Code, respecting fundamental values such as expertise, impartiality and openness. The mutual trust of all participants in the process of official statistics, which are data providers, statistics producers and data users, as well as the independence of statistical institutions, is essential and necessary. I would now quote Noel Mojnihan, who said: “Statistic data can prove anything, even the truth. ” And the truth is the following – statistics, i.e. the truth, showed that on 21 June 2020, the electoral list “Alexander Vukic – For Our Children” won a million 953 000 998 votes, or 188 seats in this Assembly. It is true that in 2012, we had a state-level unemployment of over 26%, according to statistics. The truth is, and this is shown by statistics, that good country-leading today, or in 2020, unemployment is reduced and is 7.5%. The truth is, too, that the net earnings in 2012, the average net earnings, 331 euros, and 511 euros in 2021, with the tendency to make the average net earnings in Serbia in 2025, are 900 euros. Good country leadership, led by Republika Srpska President Aleksandar Vukic, whose main strategic goal is to determine the obligations and priorities of national policies, the country's economic development, the preservation of human health and life and the fight against corruption, statistics will show where we will be in 2025. In the voting day, I, as well as other MPs from the "Alexander Vukic – For Our Children", will support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-17-0.u4118	I thank the People's MP Svetlana Milijac. Dear Messengers, we didn't ring your bell, but the rest of them, since there was a little noise. I hope you didn't mind. We're moving on. The word is from the MP Dr Boban Birmancevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-17-0.u4119	The respected chairman, respected fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, the statistics development strategy for the Serbian state is an extremely important job and a job to which both the National Assembly and the Government and all those involved in serious affairs in the state of Serbia will approach in the most responsible way possible. How important that statistics are true and, most importantly, real data, data that are not influenced by either politics or any institution, these data must simply be true and must be available to anyone, whether or not they are relevant to any such data. Whether Serbia is the first or second in this moment on the list of countries that have managed to provide the vaccine and who have managed to give the vaccine to their fellow citizens, we have the answer through statistical data as well. Yes, Serbia is second in Europe, eighth in the world, and that is simply data that is evident and that is recognised by all. Methodology is simple – to millions of people who have protected most people, who thought most of all about their citizens and who has managed to turn their thoughts into action? Alexander Vukic succeeded, the government of the Republic of Serbia succeeded, one serious and above all responsible policy, a policy we represent in this assembly of the National Assembly and policies that currently has absolute support in Serbia. Is the data collection, storage and data control system significant? This is exactly what we are talking about today, and this is – how are we going to raise the methodology of data collection to an even higher level? Of course, in addition to hardware and software, the biggest problem is human resources in these human resources and lies our capital advantage and I think what Alexander Vukic has managed to do for the past eight years is use of that capital advantage, which is actually people and human resources. How will we manage to make the situation that up until a few years ago seemed like an impossible mission to turn into a winning combination knows Alexander Vukic, know the people who work with him and according to that state is moving in big steps forward. As far as Serbia has progressed, the data is simple, visible and easily readable. If someone had an unemployment rate of 26 to 27%, if they dropped that unemployment to 6% to 7% in a few years, smart enough. To others who dispute it, let them take some other glasses or take a look from another angle, as Ilija Cvorovic would say in the Balkan spy – the central one can be wrong but can't be wrong a hundred times. Here's to the case of Dragan Gilas and the whole gang of thieves, it's not a mistake, there's no mistake. Everything that's been said and everything that's proven and proved to be true is true. Whether he has 619m euros or 601m or 592m at the moment, for us in Serbia it is completely irrelevant, it is important that he is the man who sucked the money out of the country, out of the budget, that he is the man who created the system for sucking up money and whose money, the state money, the money from our citizens. What I expect from statistics is that in the next period, we are talking about a five-year strategy, it matches the development strategy of the Serbian state, that in the next five years, we find ways to make these data that the institution of this level has as much quality as possible, which is more transparent, and most importantly, they have to be true, because without true data, there are no statistics. The fact is that we are not making such an institution and the laws we are making and the strategy we are not making for the EU, we are not making for Russia, because of China and Brazil or any other state, we are making for the citizens of Serbia. At the same time, these data must be recognizable, usable and accessible to all of them, both the EU and the East and the West and the North and the South. What's the fact is that the figures that we have in the Republic Bureau of Statistics, these are the figures, whether they're translated into Russian or English or Chinese, Italian or German, the figures remain. The figures are the data behind which this institution stands, and we as a state are standing right behind the Bureau of Statistics who has to work on even better, even better, and most importantly, the most transparent data. I keep repeating to the most transparent, because at this point, this is an independent institution that is the only control and control it has right now by the Committee on Finance of the Republic Assembly. My colleague, that is, our colleague Aleksandra Tomic, is really good at this, and the questions she is asking are exactly going in the direction that we are not going with data that is not 100% or what our people would say, 110% accurate. Of course, when I was talking about statistical data, it was the first piece of information I think about right now. And it is a list of one of the basic tasks and indicators of what we did, how we did, and it is a really good announcement that in a very short time we will have a quality list that will answer many of our questions, but there is, on the other hand, a series of data that primarily affects the development of economy, agriculture, future investment, bringing foreign investors. That's the data everyone needs. It is impossible not to mention my way of making decisions, i.e., publishing data that is available to everyone. They are being checked in several ways, sources are also different in the next period of control which will be strengthened and which will lead to new data will have the full support of this Assembly. As we have begun, it is impossible at this time, since on this day 17 years ago, I hope, for the last time in history, someone has driven the Serbs out of their historic hearths, that on this day, the data that four thousand Serbs have been expelled, that they have experienced the pogrom and at the moment when several thousand foreign armies, or members of the foreign army, were responsible to protect these Serbs. That's exactly the result of four thousand Serbs being expelled 17 years ago. Well, that's why, among other things, statistics are important. We know it's four thousand Serbs. We mention today 17 years ago that it never forgets and never happens again. What we expect is that Serbia, of course in these five years, given that Serbia's plans and development strategy do everything that has not been done and achieves results that have not been achieved to this day, but all that has been done for each one is commendable. What I would like is that statistics as a serious organ, independent, are really important and I repeat that independence of statistics to try to get information on those people who put their hand in the state register, how many millions of euros have embezzled and kidnapped or alienated Dragan Gilas. Whether and at this time in 15 countries there are those 600, 700, 580 as many as there are, millions of euros, Serbia expects to receive official information, of course it is difficult, because we are going to have a hard time getting it, but we expect that in some future period of statistics, it will throw out a list of all those who have become rich at the expense of citizens. The law we adopted just a few weeks ago is excellent as an opportunity for such thieves, that these state usurperers, state-owned usurpators, simply experience what they deserve, which is that they experience justice being applied to them and that the law that provides for all the funds, i.e. the assets that have been acquired, which are not paid, is 75% returned to the budget, i.e. to the citizens of Serbia, and for the property that has been created from the criminal act 100%, is being returned to the citizens of Serbia, is just being applied to Dragan Gilas and to all those who have done so, regardless of which party they belonged. In the day to vote, support for the statistics development strategy, support for Serbia's development strategy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-17-0.u4120	Thank you. The word of the People's Messenger is Adam Shukalo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-17-0.u4121	Thank you, Chairman. Honorable promoters, honourable MPs, statistics really are a serious science. This Official Statistics Programme for the period 2021-2025, which I have really read from the beginning to the end, shows only that we are seriously preparing our way of statistical processing and results and that the state of Serbia is not ousting statistics through its Republic Statistics Institute ad hoc or... but a serious strategy, a methodology that is increasingly coordinated with the European normative, and on the other hand serves as a tool and guidance and state leadership, and the public in which we should go, what our results are, and so on. I'm not just any statistical expert, statistics are a serious science, and I'd be very hard to get into that kind of controversy, but as a MP, I'm more concerned about some other things. First of all, I'm worried about the results we're planning to report to the public during this period, which is the period 2021. - 2025, for what reason? It's primarily because of an epidemic of the coronary virus, because of Kovid-19 and all that it will, unfortunately, leave as a consequence in all the statistics that you've processed here, both in terms of Natalie and in terms of economic development, growth and everything else, which is unquestionably the best in Europe. The great thing that is happening in Serbia and which, in some ways, gives good statistical results, both globally, here in the region, so in Serbia, that growth will make it impossible for it to go to those capacities and spread its wings exactly as the predisposition has been made for the state of Serbia to progress. For that reason and since it's so important that we're in one... I want to use this speaker and this time, above all, to appeal to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia to be vaccinated, that the process of immunisation, which is best in the region and among the best in Europe and the world, goes even more seriously and at this new stage after this two million to move quickly towards four million and so on, because in this way we will contribute to the economic and every other development and prosperity of the Republic of Serbia. Today it is top patriotism to vaccinate, protect their most important members of the family, especially the oldest, and all others, and thus preserve their health, the health of their closest, friends, neighbors, citizens, and thus enable Serbia to recover and deal with this virus as quickly as possible and achieve the best and statistical results. The comparisons work, which is very important, to understand in the right way the position of the Republic of Serbia, its state leadership that has allowed citizens of Serbia to choose between four vaccines, tomorrow and new factories where we will produce vaccines, and practically supply not only the Republic of Serbia, but also a complete region, as the president said, at very good and quality prices that will be commercial, but in any case friendly and neighbourly for the region. To make only one small dipression and a partnership with the region and to realize that the vaccine, practically, in Bosnia and Herzegovina, except for the assistance that has arrived from the Republic of Serbia and something that Republika Srpska has acquired, Montenegro, Northern Macedonia, Kosovo and Metohija, Albania practically does not exist, and that the citizens of these countries and these areas, unfortunately, are crying out and looking for any possibility to be vaccinated and saved. I received countless calls from Bosnia and Herzegovina, personally, to ask me friends which way, do not ask how much it costs, but it has no price, nor was it defined any price or opportunity to come to Serbia to be vaccinated. And, now, imagine a citizen living in Sarajevo, Banja Luka, Niksic, Skopje, anywhere in a region that cannot be vaccinated, can't vaccinate his old mother, his old father, who can't infect a citizen in any part of the Republic of Serbia, who can choose, who is still thinking? From this point on, I want to appeal and motivate every citizen and send a message that at this point, the most significant and most important form of patriotism is the one that goes in the direction of immunisation, or vaccination in a single sense. Another thing that is extremely important, which I have failed to do, although you have seriously prepared this Programme, to determine which concerns me and how concerned I am both as an MP and as someone who cares about the future of his children and all the children in Serbia, which is the statistical model former representative of the regime Dragan Gilas used by the number of days he spent in power in accordance with the number of millions he garnered and which he has in his bank accounts. How we managed to see on the basis of a very serious and credible daily list of "Evening News", which published these data, and no one invented it, but it's serious investigative journalism, exact data, that in these statistical models that are only known to him, he even managed to forget, as he told us, and for the millions he has on the exotic island of Mauritius. We're waiting for that answer. We can't get ahold of him. Says Deutsche Bank, Mauricias, limitid, 5,730,000 euros, the number of accounts and that, Deutsche Bank, Aksanius company, Dragna Gilas. Here, all of you once again who didn't buy today's daily press to see. I still haven't heard that Mr. Gilas answered, and maybe he's already gone, so somewhere on a flight to Mauritius to pick up these millions as soon as possible, so we can't get the answers that we already got from him the other day, but they were false answers, and maybe, here, not to be sarcastic, but also to say, maybe the man, how many millions, forgot about these millions there, so he ran away and couldn't get back to the public of the Republic of Serbia where he got so many millions of why he as someone who was a representative of the regime, was a regime in the Republic of Serbia, which apparently planned to return to the positions of power quickly, so, here, something extended that. In what way does he think he represents the Republic of Serbia, and that the money he spent here through state-owned companies, through city-owned enterprises, accounts for exotic sites, islands or known banking states, such as Switzerland or anything that will still be shown in the future? Is that the patriotism where you introduce yourself to the people, so you drive here by city transport, you go to a press conference, you talk -- we don't know what you're talking about here, I've been on a little trip, I've been with my family 20 years ago, you know what, I'm such a modest, nice man, I don't know what it's about at all or it's patriotism when you're fighting for your country, when you're discovering crime and corruption, when you're getting vaccines when no one can get them, when all the world normally admires you in the way you managed to secure it, and when you're taking care of your citizens, when you're working on road construction, when you're working on a good and positive atmosphere in which every normal businessman, who's fighting in the pandemic today to save jobs, to create a new value, to get support from the state like he's at any point, or is the patriot Dragan Gilas that he's been with millions of citizens that he's who's been robbed? So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-17-0.u4122	Thank you, Mr. Schucalo. The word has been made by MP Alexander Mirkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-17-0.u4123	The Honorable Chairman, a respected minister, respected MPs and fellow MPs, today's presentation cannot begin with one topic that previous fellow MPs mentioned, as regards the pogroms of Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, which took place 17 years ago and which left great consequences on our people. Somehow this March month through history always carries some difficult dates, some of the situations that are happening, and they are in no way in favor of our country. Today, we must remind ourselves that more than 4,000 Serbs were expelled 17 years ago, that at 33 locations violence against the Serb population was synchronised, that in this violence 21 people who were guilty were killed just because they spoke, baptized, thought differently or called and renamed otherwise. More than 35 churches have been destroyed, monasteries, where some people have shown all their savagery and all their frustration, destroying and breaking, burning something that has been there for centuries. What hurts especially is the fact that almost no one has ever responded to these things. If you consider that over 60,000 Albanians participated in this in two days, then you know that the action was synchronised, well-prepared, advanced and organized. In that pogrom, more than a thousand houses were destroyed, and it was only convincing that what followed four years later was a unilateral declaration of independence, so to speak. Independence, Kosovo and Metohija. When we talk about it today, we need to look back and say that people who represent one part of the opposition today, and then they were in power, and today President Alexander Vukic and the Serbian government are accusing of some kind of betrayal of Kosovo and Metohija, they did nothing. They left our people down there with no moves whatsoever. They were released as clay pigeons to fight for their own lives, and today they represent themselves as some of your patriots and they are talking to us today about fighting for Kosovo and Metohija. As they acted in 2004, they also took place in 2008, when they were in Romania, when they hid themselves, and, imagine that, by a miserable statement, they showed their struggle for the interests of our country. I will end this topic in a sentence that best paints the position that Serbia is today, how independent and strong Serbia is today, and President Aleksandar Vukic is a man who cannot be pressured. I'll quote his words that he said today. Nothing like this can happen today without Serbia responding clearly, seriously and primarily responsibly. It was something that was necessary in 2004, but because of the inability of the then government and the position in which we were brought very quickly by those years, but especially in 2008, that response was lagging behind. As far as today's topic and statistics are concerned, previous fellow speakers have spoken and discussed very well on this subject and I think that this Programme is very good and everything we have heard today I think is good and, above all, useful, but what statistics is a general question and we can look at from a different angle – are they just numbers, are they some parameters we're looking at, is it facing multiple numbers, is it simple statistics where we discuss ten data or are we discussing ten of some results. All of this is statistics and there are different definitions and it depends on how you view statistics, but what is more important to me is statistics that directly refer to the lives of Serbian citizens and where, if you view it as a sports term, you clearly have results that are visible and that represent something that was until 2008, 2009, 2010, 2012, and something that happens today. Because of this statistics and what is most important to the citizens of Serbia, I want from this place just to go through some data together, so let the citizens themselves assess whether what the statistics show is true, the exact data, or the truth of what people who were in power until yesterday, represented by Dragan Djilas, Boris Tadic, Vuk Jeremic, is true what they do on their own media daily, so that somehow they try to mask their own results and the disastrous policy they have led. In 2009, BPD growth, imagine growth, and we're talking about a minus 2.7% was. Imagine what our economy was like when we were at minus 2.7%. In 2019, if we take as a parameter, not taking 2020 because of the crisis, growth was 4.2%, among the best in Europe. The gross social product per capita in 2012 was 4,677 euros, while it was 6,600 euros in 2019. Inflation in 2008 was as much as 12%, while in 2019 it was 1.7% in the ranking of the most developed countries in Europe. What I was particularly interested in, and today we discussed it here, is the fact that the number of employees in 2012 was 2.2 million people, while in 2019 it was almost three million people. Here you can clearly see that it's a lie when they tell you that unemployment is shrinking because people are moving. No, people are hiring. And you can see that in this data. And here you can see just how hollow their stories are and what lies they're about, what lies they're using to pick some cheap political point for themselves. The average profit in 2012 was only 366 euros, while today it is 562 euros. The growth of public debt, which they've been talking about for weeks, referring to some data from the hats of research, which probably only they know where they're being conducted and they know where they can find them, probably in some nut basket, pulling them out, and trying to convince someone it's a serious study, that it's a serious research. They didn't fool anyone, because the growth of public debt stopped in 2015 and then it was about 70%, and then we went down to 56% in September 2020. As good a result, you can only see from some of the public debts of the strongest countries in Europe. According to Mastricht, the public debt of Germany is almost 80%, Croatia 83%, Spain 117%, France 114%, Italy 157%, while Greece is as much as 212%. This clearly shows you how strong Serbia is, how healthy the economy is and how painful the reforms we implemented in 2014. Total exports of goods and services amounted to around 11 billion in 2012, with as much as 24 billion euros in 2019. They call us for our good co-operation and everything we develop with China, not estimating everything they do for our country, both on international and investment in our country, and in 2012, the total exports to China amounted to 4.9m euros, while in 2019 the exports were even 300m euros. I will end with this, the best indicator of how stable and strong your country is, is the conditions you provide foreign investors and how you attract investment in your country. Foreign direct investment was then 753m euros in their time, while in 2019 we ended up with as much as 3.6 billion euros, thus showing Europe and the world clearly how Serbia is ready to develop, to step up with the world and how suitable we are for investment, and that is seen at every turn. As for the investments, the ones with them, the wolves and the jobs. Today we were able to hear certain data and yes, the fact is that in their time, and that's statistical data, more than 500 thousand people are out of work. The companies shut down, people stayed on the street without any income, while they just got rich. Today Serbia is developing in every respect and sense, new factories are opening up, new jobs are opening up, and we can clearly see it from this data. When we talk about how they led both Belgrade and Serbia, I think we were able to discuss the previous months and years together. And, unfortunately, somehow, whether because of the lack of good laws or the sufficient interest of the competent institutions, everything we talked about didn't come up with a good answer from those institutions. And since yesterday, we can't look back on the main topic, and as far as one island is concerned, the exotic place where Dragan Gilas hid more than five million euros, convincing us for weeks and months back that he never had an account there. President Alexander Vukic has been accused for days, months and years of any imaginary affairs. They lied that he was involved in the murder and organisation of Oliver Ivanovic's murder, lied when it came to the "Jovanja" affair, falsely accused him in the "Krusik" affair, no lies they didn't mention and tried to attach to him and his family. His brother was bound by the worst possible affair, and that he owned some chain of bakers, exclusive restaurants in Belgrade, so some agricultural land and never brought any evidence anywhere, and that if all these were false and naked lies. However, when concrete evidence appeared that Dragan Gilas is hiding five million euros in Mauricias, in Switzerland just over half a million euros, when it began to talk about such accounts having a minimum of 15 more in various destinations, here it is now about 16:30 p.m., last night from that man no sign of a voice. Dragan Gilas, who was such a brave man, broke his hands on March 12th before the session of the Belgrade City Assembly, unknowingly trying to explain that he has no account in foreign banks, especially in Mauritius, has been advertised since last night. It's possible he went to raise that money. It is also possible that he went to another exotic destination to hide and hide his money. But the ignorant ones who were employed by him at the company, such as Marinika Tepic, tried to justify their boss and justify the earned money by some unmistakable explanation that it says that the bank was shut down in 2018, while concealing the fact that their daughter company continues to operate, which continues to work and can be seen well that the account is active. What everyone owes citizens, and above all Dragan Gilas, is the fact that it can be viewed as a statistical data that is impossible to explain, how to get into politics with 75,000 euros of declared profits, and then in eight years of politics, you come out with a thousand times increased, a minimum of thousands of times with increased wealth. Now, I don't know what kind of mathematics this could explain to us, and what statistics it would do and how and in what way it would draw out as a relevant data, where citizens could understand how it is possible, especially if you add that as a state official, he had a salary of no more than a thousand euros per month. There's a lot of questions we're going to discuss tomorrow. I will also use my right as a national MP to ask the competent institutions the question that finally once and for all, here is the Law on the Origin of Assets that came into effect on March 12th, when Dragan Gilas tried to justify himself, so let's see how that comes from gum dealers, the best window washer and the failed manager comes to one of the richest people in this part of Europe. I will only agree with the president of our parliamentary group, Mr Martinovic, I cannot remember any politician in this part of Europe, I cannot remember any businessman that in eight years he has acquired such an enormous wealth that has long passed the 619m euros. I am convinced that a little when he recovers from this shock when all these truths have come out, that he will come out of that hole a little bit now, and that he will reach the range, so perhaps in the next few hours, he will try again tragic statements, and perhaps even his eyes full of tears, because it is not foreign to him, to answer us and finally explain to us why he lied to the citizens of Serbia that he has no bills on Mauritius. As far as statistics are concerned, all I want to do is tell the citizens, and with this end, statistics will show that by 2025 we will fulfill the promises that we have made to you, which are in the 2025 programme, that the salaries will be over 900 euros, that we will increase pensions, that our Serbia, the place where we all live and work, will be exactly as we want to leave for our children and generations to come. Thank you and live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-17-0.u4124	Thank you, Mr. Mirkovic. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-17-0.u4125	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't see Mr Kovacevic. I want to tell him there's no reason to be afraid. Bosko Obradovic is no longer here. Mr. Martinovic, Mr. Atlagic and I have done everything we can to solve this problem. As you can see, no more censorship, no more his party, no more stone, no more violent attempts by Boško Obradovic, so please Mr Kovacevic to return. He's perfectly safe. We've solved that question. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, statistics is mathematics. It's a mathematical evidence from which you can draw a certain claim without it being a political manifestation or a political assumption or a political desire for us who speak. I'm going to ask today that we don't appreciate how Gilas came to power and deliciously how he got into honey in the sugar cane country, but to see some other problems that need to be solved. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the condition left by the party of the former regime, the future of the village has failed. We do some repairs, but we would do well to know on statistics exactly how many rural people we have, how many inhabited areas without residents, former villages, how many villages with less than 100 inhabitants, how many of these villages without inhabitants and less than 100 inhabitants are located along the borders and administrative lines with our southern KIM province? From this we can conclude that villages are empty, and the worst part of it is that it happens along the border belts and along the administrative lines with KIM. This can especially be a problem in the part of that administrative line. If villages along the border of the administrative line are empty, conditions are created for other people to come to those villages. The white plague is the most effective ethnic cleansing, and the aggression of cradles is the most successful aggression. We experienced this in KIM and would not like to experience it in another region, namely that territories especially in sensitive areas are empty and that they are in a certain way easy prey of a population that does not have a very good intention towards the rest of the population in the rest of Serbia. For this we need very precise statistics, as well as data on the size of land, livestock, type of property, surfaces. Let me remind you that it is not true that we have too little possessions, because 60% of EU properties and more than two-thirds of them are less than five hectares. We need to deploy the population. Statistics is a golden science, like math, that can show us where we're wrong. Also, statistics need to show us, not how much the average salary was during Gilas's fall into power and wealth, and he fired 400,500,000 people. At that time, the average wage was 330 euros, and the minimum one seems to be around 150 euros. Today, it's 560 euros and about 260 euros, and the minimum one seems to me to be 32,500 dinars. That's a 70% increase. What I'm interested in in is statistics -- did anyone include those 500,000 people with no pay and salaries and dignity, if we put them in from zero pay, would the average salary be 338 euros at all? I don't think it would have crossed 220 euros. Also, statistics clearly show that pension funds and health care funds have been emptied in this way because there were fewer employees and pensioners' grants were 54% of the budget, and today it is less than a third. This shows, also statistically, that we have employed our people and that we have brought them from empty plates to full plates, that there is work and bread for almost all inhabitants. I will set an example of India that currently has more exports to 47,000 inhabitants, according to statistics, than the whole of Montenegro to which I want to improve its situation in industry and its situation in exports, if they have the ability to rule, and are on their way to replace Djukanovic with some authority that will pay more attention to the economy, not just tourism, which is making the crown a huge loss of money. Ladies and gentlemen, statistics is a science of all states. I will try without the intention of being a sad merchant to provide statistics from Bosnia and Herzegovina. So, statistics from Bosnia and Herzegovina compared to 1991 and from 2013 when the lists took place before the war and after the war. I'm saying this because it's "quo vadis" Bosnia, that we know exactly who did what in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Assumptions are political that Serbs, and in part Croats have done ethnic cleansing of Muslims, that is, since 1993, since their parliament, are called Bosniaks, so now they are declared, so let's see what statistics that are some kind of exact science, and I repeat, in the spirit of tolerance, use data from authorities from Bosnia and Herzegovina, means, their authorities. In 1991, ladies and gentlemen, there were 4,364,000 people living in Bosnia, today and in 2013, respectively 3,791,000. Of which, in 1991, the Bosniaks were 43.47%, and now there are 50.11%, 7% more. The Serbs were 31.21%, now there are 1% fewer. So, the Serbs have 1% less, and the Bosniaks, according to their lists, have more than 7%. The Croats were 17.38%, now there are two percent less. So, Croats and Serbs have fewer, and Bosniaks have more than 7%. In the number of Bosniaks, or Muslims at the time, there are fewer in Bosnia 66,000 people, the Serbs have less or twice as many and the Croats have almost 200,000 fewer. Yugoslavs are absolutely gone, 240,000 Yugoslavs are gone. So the people who claim to be ethnically cleansed from Croats and Serbs, according to their statistics, who are exact, turns out to have 7% higher, the Serbs have less 1% and the Croats have less 2%. There were 259.000 Bosniaks living in Sarajevo, today 87,000 more, 346,000. The Serbs were 157,000, today there are 13,000 or 144,000 fewer. The Croats are down 17,000. Yugoslavs disappeared in Sarajevo. In Tuzla 20,000 Serbs less. In Zenica, 17,000 less. In Mostar, 19,000 less. In multiethnic Sarajevo, Mr. Martinovic, so Bosnia was multiethnic, nearly 600,000 Serbs lived in the Federation. Today there are 46,000 or 2.5%. In Republika Srpska, as they call it forest or aggressor, there are 14% of Bosniaks, and Serbs in the Federation now have 2.5% instead of 20%. There are 460,000 fewer, so I don't know who the aggressor is and who did the ethnic cleansing there. But, multiethnic Bosnia, I cited an example of the Federation. Now I'm going to give you an example of central municipalities in Sarajevo. It's the most multiethnic part of Bosnia and Herzegovina's multiethnic Sarajevo. It says this, the centre of Sarajevo -- in 1991, Bosniaks made 50% of the population. In 2013, the Council adopted Decisions (EU) It's 25% growth. The Serbs were 22% in 1991, now 3.7% or almost 20% less. The Yugoslav was 16%, and in 2013 they were gone. It's a community center. That municipality from which Seselj was excluded from the Communist Union. Looks like he was right. Novo Sarajevo – In 1991, Bosniaks were 35%, Serbs 35%, Yugoslav 16%. In 2013, the Council adopted Bosniaks 60% or 25% growth, Serbs 5% or less 30%. The new town of Sarajevo – Bosniaks was 51% in 1991, Serbs 35%, Yugoslav 11%. In 2013, the Bosniaks have 90% or over 40% growth, the Serbs have 3.5% or a decline or less 32%, Yugoslav 0%, all 11%. The old town of Sarajevo – 1991, the Bosniaks were 39,000 and 75% respectively, Serbs 10%, Yugoslav 6%. In 2013, the Council adopted The Bosniak has 92%, the Serbs are only 1%, the Yugoslavs are gone. It's data that makes it clear who ethnically cleaned who. I don't believe 150,000 Serbs from Sarajevo escaped from the bad pushers. That's where it happened next. Those who at least represent themselves as the sole victim, and those who have lost most of the population, according to statistics, BiH statistics, they fall out in a certain way. The main victim becomes a criminal, and the ones he has the most, who have the least losses, turns out to be the only victims. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, these days statistics say that from these cases, Solak, Gilas, United Group, United Media came up with that 52m-euro affair. That's what the statistics say, banking. What do I say? On 9 March, I proposed a law on amendments to the Law on Electronic Media. TV "N1" says I attacked the United Group, which is absolutely incorrect. There's absolutely no mention of the law. The law is in line with European legislation, this is what it says. If they wanted to read, they could read. This law only explains the terms and what REM should do to prevent abuses of cross-border channels and re-emissions. The very word "cross-border channel", the TV channel, means that the television is somewhere across the border, as they claim in Luxembourg. The very word "recasting" tells you that the programme that is broadcast there for their audience is here without any changes and additions can be re-transmissioned in Serbia and such TV channels do not have to register and pay for anything. This law explains everything – prevents abuses from emerging, which are in favour of cross-border channels and does not see that the rebellion is “SNN”, “Sky”, “BBS”, “Rai Uno”, “Rai duo”, Moscow television, etc., classical cross-border television. I don't see them rebelling because I want to prevent abuses from making cross-border channels and domestic channels from being protected from false pirate channels that act as re-emissions and act as cross-border television, and in doing so, the programme produces and broadcasts from Belgrade. It is exclusively in the way of freedom of the media, in favour of media freedom that completely free to create cross-border channels can be protected from re-emitting a program without false competition that plays cross-border channels and plays re-emission. This is in favour of domestic media, benefits and domestic media because such channels take part in the marketing market and thus impoverish domestic media whose freedom is then threatened. It has nothing to do with editorial policy, it has nothing to do with the exclusive "United Group", it simply writes in this law what REM should do, what should be followed and what should be done if acting in cross-border re-emission of the programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-17-0.u4126	Thank you. The People's Messenger Milos Bandur has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-17-0.u4127	Thank you, Vice President of the National Assembly. I have used statistics as an auxiliary scientific methodology in life, though in another area, in the field of telecommunications to study random signals, but I will try to contribute to this brief discussion and topic on the agenda, which concerns the application of statistics or its methods in some other areas. At the very beginning, on the date of the KIM's anniversary, and related to the agenda theme, I would like to say that after World War II, especially after 1966 and 1968, statistical indicators pointed to the process of evicting Serbs and others from KIM, and that then there was a political will to approach the analysis of these indicators, these indicators, could have stopped what was happening. Unfortunately, there was no political will in the country at the time, and a little later, in the 1990s, when conditions changed in Serbia, when Serbia gained the political will to change or stop negative tendencies, then there was no political will in the international community, so we are where we are. I say, statistical indicators have always pointed to a very dangerous and negative trend that has led to the situation that we in KIM have a drastic number, i.e. the decline of the number of Serbs and others from year to year, from decade to decade, which has led us to this, to say, political moment. I have read what we have been offered as material and I see that the five-year programme with the strategy that we need to approve is actually the basis for the work of the Republic Statistics Institute. This is a necessary legal framework or a necessary basis and that the Government of the Republic of Serbia once a year adopts a plan of work of statistics, i.e. the Republic Institute. This is for a period of 2021/25 years. In this period, I see that as priority objectives or a priority goal, it is in fact emphasising the harmonisation of our statistical practice, with EU and international practice, which is good, because in order for the data to be comparable they must not only be prepared by the same methodology, but must be treated in the same way from the very beginning. So we also have to have our classification of appearances or, let's say, work is brought into line with the international, in this case with the European and the one that is in force in the UN, starting from adapting to the classification, to changing the definition of certain indicators, or indicators if there is a need. I see from the program that many indicators, i.e. indicators, retain their form, or definition, but some indicators, some indicators change. Of course, there are new indicators, indicators, that will help them all together to give a better, general picture of the situation. Statistical indicators, indicators along with those who are not statistically together contribute to a certain phenomenon, the process takes a very good picture and they serve us to actually make good decisions. That's also the ultimate goal of statistics. It is not the purpose of itself, it needs to serve us based on this data, meaning those indicators that we get where we should go further, in which direction we should act, both in general and in certain sectors to which these indicators apply. Of course, except for the meaning of agreeing with this European regulation, we have here in certain areas, I read the first is demographics and social statistics, we have some new indicators interesting. Since the census will be this year, at the end of the year, then here they are introduced in a period of 2021/51 every ten years, a ten-year indicator of the processing of these data, in fact an assessment of these data, the movement of data or indicators, both for the state, regional, but also for the level of local self-government, i.e. the municipality. What is important in this strategy, this plan, insists on the classification of both gender and our deeper territorial processing, i.e. to go as low as possible to the city level, or the municipality. In this way we will get indicators that will help, not only in making state decisions, mean global ones, but also indicators that will contribute to making a decision at a lower level, at the level of local self-government. As far as economic statistics are concerned, I see that, in the area of the brand economy, the adaptation of these indicators with EU standards 2008/10 is planned, i.e. the documents of those two years. As far as business statistics are concerned, I see that there are more indicators planned for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises that will also help develop and define sectoral policy in these areas. As far as sectoral statistics are concerned, I would like to stress that special attention is paid to information and communication technologies, both the use of these services in households and social life, e-government, e-commerce, e-banking, then the number of personnel from that area, the movement of ICT services, which is very important for the state, and let's say, its plans in the field of education and education of personnel from that area. As far as environmental statistics are concerned, this is one area that is a special environment and multi-sectoral statistics. I can say that yesterday on the agenda we had the Climate Change Act and that example, or an example of that law, or a more accurate example of climate change, climate change and the moves that should be taken are where statistical results should be used. Let's say, if we say that 80% of CO2 production from greenhouse gases comes from energy and traffic, only 20% from everything else, then it's clear where it's mostly necessary to put an accent on the emission limit, or if socio-economic conditions allow for reducing, or reducing emissions. So, these environmental indicators will be very useful to achieve the goal of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 9.8% by 2013, but compared to 1990, as I recall. What I would add here, statistics are very much used and in medicine, those who know medicine, I don't do it, but I happen to know that it's very much used. It is also used in clinical trials of certain medicinal products, used in studies of these vaccines that are very current. All these data that are obtained are processed statistically. I want to tell our citizens when someone says it takes two weeks after the reoccurring to get antibodies, it's not nailed to everyone, it's one mathematical average, one statistical average that's been obtained based on a large number of third-stage subjects. There are people who will acquire antibodies before the second week and need immunity, they are few, but also one part will have to wait three, four, five, and even six weeks, depending on what kind of organism his reaction is to obtain antibodies. So, don't relax, don't throw away the masks immediately after the second week and leave without them, simply, these results are statistical results. You can fit into the statistical average, but you can be someone who's on the border of distribution left or right of the statistical environment and you don't have to fit into all of that. What I would end up saying, regardless of how statistical indicators in Serbia today are defined in terms of employment, unemployment, active job-seeking, inactive job-seeking, average earnings and everyone else, I can say there is no such manipulation that can lead to doubt that a period of 12 years, or especially 14 to today, has made great progress in all areas. Progress that can be seen with the naked eye. With a simple comparison of data, differences in numbers between today and 2012 numbers, these differences are so great that no doubt in the statistical method, in some, let me say, a detail of the methodology, and results cannot be questioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-17-0.u4128	Thank you. The word is Bratimir Vasiljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-17-0.u4129	Dear Vice-President Orlic and his associates, honourable ministers, honourable citizens of the Republic of Serbia, a programme of statistics for the period from 2021/25, we can see that statistics give a complete picture of important developments in the area of economy, the complete life of a society. These data are for us to see in time the error of planning at all levels. In this report, we see undeniably where serious mistakes were made in previous governments by 2012, where statistics clearly show that between 400 and 500 000 people are out of work, and these are the mistakes that previous governments have made. I'd like to use a few more statistics that are inexcusable when it comes to unemployment. That's where you can see how it worked. By 2012, we had almost 26.7% of the unemployed in this country, today this data is between 7 and 7.5%. This is what these data are statistically important, and it is important that citizens can see movement, given that the opposition is constantly attacking and criticising today's government and the president of the state, that they do not work as well as how much they need for this country, and we see from that data a complete difference in what was then and what is today. When it comes to public debt, it absolutely shows data, where the statistical percentage of public debt was 78% of GDP, while today it is below 60% and that is statistics showing where the state is today and where it was until 2012. Another data in the field of statistics is related to the participation of the Republic of Serbia's budget in the filling of a PIO fund that moved almost 60% in the time to 2012, while it is below 30% today. And that's what Serbian citizens need to know, how much is the change compared to the time until 2012 and today. I would stick to yesterday's proposal for a law on climate change and welcome the courage and what Mrs. Irena Vujovic, our minister, suggested. If it is in that people's way, it is known in the morning, then this is a good way and a good direction in which the Ministry of Environment has set forth. I would ask a question – and what were these ministries doing until 2012 in the area? There's no record of that. The only results are discharge budgets designed to resolve environmental protection and fill their pockets. Many factors affect climate change and the environment. I would refer to what is from experience and life visible. In the territory of the city of Nis, every year the city of Nis sets out tens and more millions to clean up wild dumps and it is regularly repeated every year, as a rule, that it is a practice and obligation and, worst of all, it is done by the same individuals, every year repeats the creation of these dumps, and I would say that one of the reasons is a bad criminal policy. Simply, if you punish someone 5,000 dinars in such a shop, you simply invite them to do so in the future. I think that should be considered to punish more rigorously and more severely those who regularly create wild dumps that threaten the environment, and we know how it manifests. I would call on the Resort Ministry and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, given that for decades there has been talk of a regional dump in the town of Nis that needs to be covered and that waste management is in one more efficient and completely different way impossible to move, for the simple reason that in the Nisa city budget, there is never enough funding for such a thing, and therefore I ask that the funds from the ministry budget be helped to help the town of Nis to fix it as soon as possible. It's still a big city. I followed a visit from the Prime Minister and Minister of Resorship Koseric, there a lot of funds have been promised just to solve the problem of dumps and individual heating, so I would ask that some of the funds be defined for the town of Nis. Unfortunately, the town of Nis, especially in the winter season, is among the most polluted cities on Serbia's territory, if not wider than that, and the reason is precisely those seven-eight dumps that are still being supplied and heated to the maputt. When it comes to individual heating, there's a different picture. And that should be considered, given that Nis is covered with a gas ring, but the connection is very little, below 10%, so that it is stimulated in some way by individual heating users to move on to the gas, because today the gas, given that we are getting it from other sources of supply, is completely acceptable, but that it is possible to make one longer period of payment so that individual heating users can use natural gas. I'm sorry she's not a minister here, but I'm sure this will come to her, and I'd like to remind you that we fought a battle in the past when it comes to renewable energy sources, such as thermal waters. The city municipality of Pantelli, whose head I was headed for the election as a national MP, has an investigative right to be able to open a well, where the profession says that the city of Nis lies on hot water at a depth between 600 and 700 meters. Now imagine what a revolutionary thing would happen if it did. Unfortunately, the city of Nis doesn't have the means. It's about a hundred million dollars. I think the state can help in that direction, because it would be of revolutionary importance for the city of Nis, to become one of the cleanest cities not only in Serbia but also beyond that, for a simple reason that a large number of individual heat users could also join in such a thing. So my request is addressed in this direction, to consider whether it is feasible and whether it can be. In the end, Serbia lived and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-17-0.u4130	Thank you. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-17-0.u4131	Thank you, dear Vice President of the National Assembly. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, I belong to that group of people who believe in statistics and who believe and make decisions and their own opinions and their views in line with statistics and statistical projections, as one of the very, very important aspects that are important for the projection of the development of a country, the development of the economy and all social phenomena. Unfortunately, we in our country have two cannot say the species but statistics that show what is true, what is happening in our society, about what is true and what is based on exact data, and about the economy, it is about trade, it is about everything that our country, headed by President Aleksandr Vukic, has done in terms of our development, improvement of economy and trade in our country, improvements in our geopolitical position, statistics that clearly showed results compared to 2012, results from those and that regime that left over 300 thousand people without a job, who carried out the robbery privatisation. Vukic managed only two or three years to reduce the unemployment rate he inherited in 2012, at 26%, decreased below 10%. He managed to advance the statistics on our country's rating on the Doing Business List of the World Bank by a few dozen places, in this year that is full of challenges, in which we have a covid crisis, in which we are fighting for a health system, for the lives of our citizens, for every job, our country may be the only one in the world to improve its credit rating, that our country continues its infrastructure work, to continue building highways, building infrastructure, building railways, showing that we are a leader country, showing that our leader, President Aleksandar Vukic, can, even in these disastrously difficult circumstances, lead Serbia to a better future. And finally, to mention that those who do not recognise this statistics, those who attack people who are professional, who are not absolutely party-oriented, such as Miladin Kovacevic, are doing this because this statistics also inexorably shows that the SNS headed by Aleksandra Vukic, according to all public opinion studies, which, of course, would need to know statistics and use statistical techniques and methods, has more than 60% of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and those who mind these statistics have the support of as many people, which is considered a statistical error, means about 1, 1,2, 1.3%. But that wouldn't be a problem and it's no shame to have little support for citizens, it's no shame to deal with politics and not have the support of citizens, not everyone can form and run a party like SNS, not everyone can be a great statesman like Alexander Vukic. And it's not that bad. It is scary that these other kinds of statistics that want to bring down Alexander Vukic and our party, those who want to bring down everything that has been done in the past few years in terms of better life for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, their statistics and their score, and the result of their work, are shown in their accounts tens of thousands of miles away from Belgrade, far from Serbia and that statistics show that Dragan Gilas, as someone who is under the authority of a boycotted opposition party, all of what he did as a minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia, as someone who was engaged in the presidency of the Republic of Serbia, worked only for the sake of gaining his own wealth, for the sake of gaining his own influence, and there is not enough awareness, nor courage to admit and say, yes, I have accounts around the world. I see that my colleague Sandra Christmas has also made one very important fact that, besides Mauritius, Switzerland, these same accounts exist in the American state of Delaware. I am sure that there will be many, many surprises, given that hundreds of millions of euros, which I am sure, at this point and we have come in the past period from various businesses that have damaged the state, damaged the budget and damaged the citizens of the Republic of Serbia directly, that we will find such accounts and that we will find such news as announced by Finance Minister Sinisha Mali and journalist "Evening News", that we will hear about it in the coming period. But I also think it is very important that the state authorities, such as the Directorate for the Prevention of Money Laundering, that our judicial authorities, our courts react and simply investigate everything that is related to the situation in these accounts and all that is related to the jobs and transactions that preceded such money being in these accounts in different tax havens. It would be no problem for the same Dragan Gilas to have some production here in Serbia, to have some factory here in Serbia, to hire people, to create from one dinar two or three, to operate on the free market, to export certain goods and services, to contribute and of course benefit the development of our country's GDP, but unfortunately all this money has obviously been obtained from very suspicious transactions that have preceded transactions with certain state institutions. So it's definitely about one clear withdrawal of money and what's worst for this country and for our citizens, and it needs to be open and clear, it's about the fact that it's safe to avoid paying taxes to this country, which directly affects the level and quality of life of the citizens of this country, the quality of life of all those who function and live and work in this country. We need to speak openly about this, we need to speak openly and ask the question especially to those people who want to deal with politics, who want to participate in political life in the Republic of Serbia – why sell one firm or property in one company, why should there be eight offshore companies behind it? Why, what is the reason for anyone who has good intentions and open to this country, who wants to do this job honestly, why should he open a company in Mauritius? Why would someone, by what kind of logic, have an account in Delaware, in Mauritius, in the Cook Islands, in the Marshall Islands, in the Virgin Islands, why would they do that? (Marian Risticevic: Did he mention Cook's Islands? ) I mentioned, Mr. Risticevic, and the Cook Islands, but I am afraid that many such islands and tax havens will be found where these funds will be found. What should be our party's message and should be a message to everyone is that we are in politics, that we have brought into this country's economic life, thanks to Alexander Vukic, a whole new quality, it is that we have made it a day and a day to fight for the business environment in this country to be good. The result is that we have investors from different countries, so from around the world, everyone is welcome and they all come to Serbia to invest, to hire people precisely because they have security, which is Serbia a stable country and, of course, they have various advantages here, but they are all welcome, and they are all based on our quality tax policy, monetary policy and on top of everything because Serbia is a stable country, a stable economy, which has a very good future, which on a daily basis, is modernised, which brings new laws, new legal frameworks that are needed to ensure that the capital invested here is safe, that it can be handled in a good way and that we can employ as many people as possible. I can't say that besides this tycoon money and what's good in finance, and that's what Sinisha Mali talked about, very, very high-quality last night in one television show -- you can't hide the money, you can't hide it either in Mauritius, not in Mauritania, not in any country in the world, and what's important is that money flows are found and that a comprehensive investigation can finally be carried out where that money came from and who's damaged for the wealth of certain people living here in Serbia and who work and who plead to be political leaders. But it's not just about tycoons, it's about all those who get money from abroad want to destroy the reputation of this country and want, of course, to systematically destroy the reputation of this country through the attempt of dehumanisation, and as much as we've seen, thanks to the co-operation with drug clans and drug cartels and the elimination of SNS leaders and the president of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Alexander Vukic, but also of course his first associates, those people who personify our work, our commitment and everything we've done and what we want to do well for Serbia. All that we have changed, changing the painfully tycoon regime, altering the painfully managed management of foreign embassies by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Changing that mantra and that kind of behavior of our politician between 2000 and 2012, when the embassy maid ordered them to do what, to whom to assign jobs and how to behave? And I can't say that I'm missing in defense of the head of our parliamentary group, Dr. Alexander Martinovic, who was brutally attacked, brutally attacked by those like Dragan Gilas, where you can't find out where they got the money, or any of it is known, none of them earned it on the market. No one living knows what the knowledge is, as Martinovic said today, is journalists one day, the other day are experts in political systems and elections, the third day ahead of the presidency of the Republic of Serbia with this so-called. opposition champions who have 1% of their support want to violently join the presidency of the Republic of Serbia. I'll remind you of this same Mr. Nedeljkov, the witnesses are all the media there are pictures, there's evidence that along with these people, these destroyers, he wanted and wanted and was on the front line of entry into the presidency of the Republic of Serbia, I guess what to catch, to violently bring down power, to violently bring down Alexander Vukic. Then you're the next day of the NGO sector, then you complain to everyone that you're being discriminated against. Why? You mind Martinovic because he's a patriot? You're upset because we're working together here to make as many laws as possible, but we're openly talking about having a hard time dealing with organized crime and the mob, because we're talking about no more sacred cows in this country. Why would someone in this country be a holy cow? Why wouldn't he be specifically the subject of an investigation? Why is it that for some people, ordinary people are needed and it is normal for tax administrations or any other competent authority to ask them to give their data, to provide information on how many taxes they pay, whether they pay taxes, whether they pay contributions, how they finance themselves, what kind of work, what kind of business they do, and for some it's impossible? If you mention the sources of their funding, then it's a blow and a finger in the eye, human rights, the development of democracy and the diverse flossules of these descendants of communist leaders and leaders from a time of self-government socialism. Ladies and gentlemen, this time is over. In this country, everyone is equal and we're not talking absolutely about someone being more equal because he's a politician. In the SNS, we are fighting for it, not egalitarianism, we are fighting for people fighting for their ideas, qualities, school, knowledge, value, but we do not want to let you have the same Alexander Martinovic as the head of our parliamentary group, the punching bag. You got very excited, because he said that of course, we'd fight with political means, we'd fight with knowledge, we'd fight with jobs, we'd fight with work here every day and we'd never say, and we never complained because we'd take punches every day. Did you ever get excited by what Martinovic said today when the offended son of President Alexander Vukic, brother, parents, mother, father, when he was dehumanized almost daily by united, combined mafia-political circles? Nobody's a pain in the ass, is that right? But it bothered you that Martinovic told the truth. It bothered you that Martinovic said that you took the right to black out the Open Parliament portal when you evaluated it, allegedly that democracy was abolished in parliament and the Republic of Serbia, as I imagine the Supreme Authorities, the Supreme Institution that determines in this country what democracy is and what is not. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the citizens of the Republic of Serbia in this country who will be and who will lead the country and who will be the leader of this country will determine only the people of the Republic of Serbia, only citizens and they are almost plebiscite, both statistics and what the subject of this today's session says they are determined and determined. Therefore, we are guided by one who has over 60% statistical support for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Also, all of us sitting here and working in parliament with Aleksandar Martinovic will not scare us either, and you will not frighten us by suing an international organisation and institution and sending complaints about the discrimination that someone here discriminates against you. And as far as we can see, you live very well and very richly in this country of Serbia where we fight for jobs. We're fighting for every mile of highway, and you're going to do different projects with some foreign money, and you're going to give us a lecture here on how we should do our job and Aleksandra Vukic goes to the polls and gets 60% of the votes. Gentlemen, if you want to deal with politics, Serbia is a democratic, free country. Go to the election, tell the citizens what your program is. You get some support and we can talk about it in parliament, in the local assembly, anywhere in this place. But, you know, we will not allow these things that have happened in the past few days, that you as a bag and as a freestyle are hitting someone who is the first amongst us here and who is the spokesman for our policy behind whom we stand in the way of commitment, work, of course the development of parliamentaryism, openness and of course the development and growth of Serbia. That's how we're gonna keep going. We are complex here, complex to build Serbia along with Aleksandra Vukic, to open jobs, but of course on that road we will not allow anyone to threaten the will of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, unless, of course, if he is running in the elections, he wins a number of votes. So ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue with our construction policy, Alexander Vukic's support policy and everything the SNS has done in the past six years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-17-0.u4132	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Serbia's Filipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-17-0.u4133	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm shocked when Dragan Gilas shows up on TV and says what morality is, what is immorality and what is justice and what is injustice. This political and human fuck-up, the bottom in every sense, dares to lecture the citizens of Serbia on what is moral and what is immoral. And today he's silent and he's gone, he's not saying anything, just his followers, the small percentage that the other patients are saying that these millions are gone, that all these planes, trucks, millions of bills, who knows where, that all this doesn't exist, that it's fiction, but the facts are different. Today and tomorrow and the next days will be the wrong investigative journalism for Dragan Gilas. So an old and respected daily magazine such as "Evening News" will become a tabloid for them. Probably not some of his conferences will tear him up like drunk Zivkovic did, so he'll call the paper trash, so he'll say some media should boycott. Enough with Serbia's fake and fake, and the play of Dragan Gilas. We've had enough every day to listen to the scum in the media say there's no space in the media. More than 50% of Serbia is looking at exactly the medium for which we have not yet established whether it is from Luxembourg, from Dorcool, New Belgrade, where it comes from. When he's on TV, does he go to Luxembourg and speak from Luxembourg or from some Belgrade municipality, where does he speak from? Is he teleported to Luxembourg, so he talks? Enough of this immorality, that boasting, that living over all of us, like Serbian citizens are stupid and don't know that the nearly six million couldn't legally win. Why didn't you leave them to Serbia? What did you hide that money for? I'm even starting to think that he's seriously ill, because he said that there's no such money and that he doesn't have an account on Mauritius. Who knows how many of those bills he's got. Who knows how many parts he's split all those millions into, and who knows how many bills he's counting on, who knows how much he splits that money into, so he can't even catch himself anymore, the ball, where he put all the money. Is the money gonna take you back now? No, of course not. I don't have that dilemma at all. A thief can't bring back something from the one he stole. He didn't take 619 million to pay back, not a penny of it. How many masks did you buy? How much did you give your country for vaccines? How much did you, you scum, give money to respirators? How much money did you give your kids to heal? How much? But the state fund was made possible by Aleksandar Vukic, from whom we are helping treat children. How many young couples have you made possible for those you care about who don't have apartments, how many apartments have you given them, and how many have you taken from them while you've been in power? How many mothers did you give for artificial insemination, and how many births did you take to the city of Belgrade while you were running the city? Those are the questions you owe the answers to. At least you have the right to appear anywhere in the media and say what's wrong with Serbia today. No roads, fast tracks, jobs, vaccine factory, hospitals. Well, as far as the hospital's concerned, he couldn't fix so many parks. Only the ruins remained behind him. The image and opportunity of what he's walled up are the clothed terraces that have been torn apart in a few months, and it's been paid in tens of millions. And who did it serve as he did? It was for a flight to Mauritius. To mess with us, to say: 20 years ago, I was in Mauritius, I led a small family to kick ass, at that very time they said it was terrible, in the 1990s, in 2000, when Serbian citizens had an average salary, I don't know, I was small then, 50 marks, what was the average salary. He went to Mauritius with his family. What money? Did that money come from Soros, from some other outside? Then he comes to talk to me about morality and immorality. About what is righteousness, what is injustice. It's an injustice to see you on any media. The injustice is that you can address anyone in Serbia's public life. The injustice is that you have the opportunity to run for anything. It's an injustice. The only thing the citizens of Serbia want from you is to get your money back and see your back once, so go, go to Mauritius, stay and never come back to Serbia and you and your partners, your thieves, your friends, the Beloki and the others. All of you who have stolen will answer, you will return what you stole from the citizens of Serbia, but you will no longer be able to win any elections, because people in Serbia are not naive, they know well who works in their interest, they know who puts their head on the line because of Serbia and that it is the only one ready for Serbia, for her children to do Aleksandar Vukic, and only Aleksandar Vukic, no one else. He has not done as much for Serbia for the past 50 or 100 years as Serbian President Vukic has done today. Why do they question him so much? Well, because only the minuses stayed behind. Holes, minuses and rags. Serbian citizens can't come after such thieves for decades afterwards. We barely raised Serbia, brought here where it is, now to be one of the leaders in Europe and rebelled, who? Mafia and scum, street boys, tycoons, out of money. We are eager to ride again on the back of Serbian citizens. Well, he said he wouldn't vaccinate, so he went first to vaccinate. And before the oldest of his fellow citizens, he lets people stay away from being vaccinated, and through his various friends, he lets people stay away from being vaccinated. Buy the vaccines, help your country, tell the truth, say I stole, maybe forgive you, but you'll get the money back. If your citizens forgive you for stealing, it doesn't mean that you keep the money in your pocket, but pay the money back to the citizens, pay the taxes in Serbia, don't take the money out on the islands, and tell us that you flew 20 years ago, we don't care where you flew, we care what money you made, how you made that money, that's what we care about, not where you fly, and if you bought that bathing suit or this one, and that you ignore yourself there like some sister pers at your conferences, making some faces sad, miserable. Do we need to feel sorry for you maybe, do we need to donate some money to you that you have for your next vacation in Mauritius? No, I don't. We'll donate you to one of the striped suits, and I'm sure it'll look nice on you in one of our prisons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-17-0.u4134	Thank you. The word has the deputy president of the parliamentary group Aleksandar Vukic – For our children, Sandra Christmas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-17-0.u4135	Thank you, dear Vice President Orlic. Dear Madam Minister with Associates, today is on the agenda, and we have had the opportunity to talk about this matter exhaustively – the proposal for a decision on the Official Statistics Programme in the period from 2021 to 2025. Many of my colleagues have talked today about statistics as a very complex science, but what I would definitely like to introduce into the statistical programme and statistical science is practically statistics that would include these window washers on the paradise islands, because definitely this statistics of the state of Serbia, and God, and the world, we have heard today, the region has no richer opposition politician, if it can be called the opposition of Dragan Gilas, the world has not seen, it seems to me, a tycoon fighting in the ranks of the opposition and thinks that the people and citizens of the Republic of Serbia take it seriously. We waited a long time after yesterday's, so to speak, earthquakes, and God shook me all the way to Mauritius, the posts that the news journalists came to on the research route, right, allowed and some other journalists to do certain specific research, as the journalists “News” did. We came to the terrible knowledge, nothing, actually, which surprised us, but something that we knew for sure in the past, we just didn't really know how skilled Dragan Gilas was to hide those evidences. We were surprised by God that the 619 million, in fact, is just the tip of the iceberg and that it is, in fact, many millions and hundreds, and who knows how much, I hope that we will succeed in the next period to determine, or that it will succeed the competent institutions, how much money Dragan Gilas was washing windows in Mauritius, other paradise islands and tax havens he managed to get rid of. After that, I say, an earthquake took a long time for Dragan Gilas to speak to us. Indeed, after some unfortunate clucking that we had the chance to hear from some of his closest associates who ran out last night with some paper that actually those accounts didn't exist. We had a chance, Mr Filipovic, you were in the O.R., at the same time addressed Dragan Gilas, of course on one of his televisions, quite, I would say, devastated and exhausted by what was happening, I suppose in their ranks earlier, that is, today and the previous night, which is a fierce panic and hysteria, in which way now to justify something that is defacto and dejure truth. Definitely, what we heard today from Dragan Djilas, and what Marinika Tepic said last night, that there is no, continues to claim that there is no account in Mauritius, but last night the journalists were able to deny and say that what they presented to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, which is that this popular window washer, one of the richest, actually the richest window washer in the world, who managed to make a witness thief a liar, saying that there was no account in Mauritius, and that conference for journalists we had the opportunity to listen to when Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic, practically, gave Dragan Gilas a chance to tell that he had an account, that this account, or the existence and resources in that account, Dragan Gilas went to a press conference and said that there was no such account, that he had all the inventions and that he had been on the road to the island, but he had been lying to the Croatian and to the island. Whoever's lying, he's stealing, obviously. What we had a chance to see from this file is that Dragan Gilas, in addition to the money he has on Swiss accounts, will remind you that there are four accounts in Swiss banks, there are over 6m euros in his account in Mauritius. What would my colleague Jovanovic say if he forgot about that six million, for God's sake, how much of what he managed to put into his memory? I guess last night he was only dealing with the cover-up of his tracks and the memory of where it was still in tax havens all over the world, and as far as I understand it, journalists have information for a total of 17 accounts, where it still hides robbed money from citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I am convinced, just so there is no ambiguity, I say that yesterday we have received evidence that these accounts exist and that this is actually another attempt to hyperproduce the lies of Marinika Tepic and Dragan Dilas, who are only trying to make new lies to this topic, and you have seen that they have tried to cover up some other topics that I would really not give a single comment here, so that the Mauricios affair becomes topic number two, that is to say, in Serbia no more. However, Serbia has been really talking about this only since yesterday, and it will continue here, I hope that it will continue in the competent authorities to discuss exactly these accounts. I hold in my hands proof that this account and how it exists, that the bank has transferred its ownership rights to another company and that this bank is and how it exists. We even have a piece of paper that says that Dragan Gilas is the owner of this account, that he has the right to have the funds in this account. You could also hear yesterday that the owner and several accounts, as I said, in Switzerland where he and his brother Gojko Gilas and another business partner are also in charge of manipulation and in that account. Also yesterday, information that is very important also concerns financial acrobatics and fictitious sales to companies that Dragan Gilas has done with a Bulgarian businessman, avoiding paying taxes. It is quite certain that all of this we have the opportunity to see, in addition to hiding the money of Serbian citizens, Dragan Gilas was a month after he stopped being president of the Democratic Party in 2014, it was practically a month after his official exit from the Democratic Party, he opened these accounts to... Because I said yesterday right out of this place, his wake-up caller, the straw girl got obviously too tight, so he really had to move the money he stole from the citizens of the Republic of Serbia somewhere. He just did it at this location, in Mauritius. As many locations as there are, it remains for the public to know in the future. What is most important right now is that all the competent authorities in the Republic of Serbia, from the prosecution, to the Directorate for the Prevention of Money Laundering, actually come up with all relevant data and that Dragan Gilas is calling for responsibility for all financial malfeasances that, if there are, and as soon as something is hidden, it is absolutely certain that there are, precisely, connected to these available data. You're yesterday, and maybe even today... If you focus enough, for a moment I'll ask you to shut up and listen. Do you copy? I think it is perfectly heard that the wings of Marinika Tepic, who is about to fly over to another party. That banging is so strong that, I think, after yesterday's earthquake, it's the only thing they'll be silent about, because Dragan Gilas announces tomorrow, he says, a very specific address to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I'm just asking that this address not be what we've seen in previous times -- bathed in tears, whines and threats. Everything we could hear from Dragan Gilas today, and he had time, there's Internet, you know, in today's time, to inform Dragan Gilas about it, he could have asked for papers to be delivered to him and confirmed that Dragan Gilas had no bills on Mauritius, that all that the journalists came to was a lie. However, he said--I'll do it in a few days. In fact, Dragan Gilas knows he'll never do it, because it's precisely from Mauritius from this bank that this kind of paper says Dragan Gilas owns the account, but also the owner of 6m euros that he stole from the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and stored in Mauritius, hoping never to know. So his threats have nothing to do with it. We don't care about his threats. He's threatening to sue us, threaten us, and his others are threatening to cut our hair. So everything you're doing is talking about you. I said a little while, at the beginning of the exhibition, except you're lying and stealing, we're in the previous period and citizens of the Republic of Serbia and how they felt. So we'll keep doing our job here, unwaveringly. We will continue to present all the affairs of Dragan Dilas, Marinika Tepic, but don't forget the one who answered and asked – why didn't you find anything for me, how did Marinika and Dragan have millions and thousands of euros in accounts, and you left me poor? I'm talking about Borko Prada Stefanovic, whom, apart from the likely collection of "Prad" shoes, you can't find anything smarter. I guess the man put all of his property, whether she was acquired legally or not, into shoes, but let's keep it on that. Certainly, if there is something that Borko Stefanovic, who is self-applicating for the investigation, is not a problem, we hope that in this network of criminals, corruption, mafias and mob circles we will discover, but also a dangerous fact – whether these criminals are depicted in the regime of the former government, such as Marinika Tepic, Dragan Dilas, but don't forget the others, Vuk Jeremic and others, had ties to mafia circles. For some international courts too, I hope soon, very, very soon at home, and let us put an end to everything called crime, which is called corruption, and first of all, we appeal from here to the prosecution to review the role of Marinika Tepic and Dragan Djilas in an affair of listening and attempted assassination and coup against the president of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-03-17-0.u4136	Thank you, Mrs. Christmas. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since there are no more reports of a word, I ask the presidents, or the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups and others, who have not possibly used the right of Article 96, do any of them come forward? No, I don't. Thank you. I'm finishing the search. I thank both the Minister and her associates. We continue a joint single search on the motions for decisions set out in points 3 to 6 of the agenda. You've received the material. I would like to remind you that the estimated time has been defined as a member of 97 in a known period of time, that it is evenly distributed by parliamentary groups. I ask all groups, unless they have done so, to apply immediately for a word with the order of MPs. Do the presidents, or representatives of parliamentary groups, want the word for a joint single search, which I am now opening on the Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision on the establishment of permanent delegations of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in international parliamentary institutions, which was submitted on 26 February 2021, the Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, with a correction of 25 February 2021, the Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, of 24 February 2021 and the Proposal for a Decision supplementing the Decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the Committee, of 23 February? No, I don't. Nobody's answering for a word. Since we haven't been reported on the lists, I'm asking in the end if anyone who hasn't used his right under article 96 wants to come forward now. No, I don't. Once again, I thank and conclude this joint single search. Thank you, everyone. We'll continue work tomorrow at 10:00.
