ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-29-0.u7955	Dear Chairman, fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament, my question is addressed to the Minister of Health, and that is, when can we expect the full constitution of the bodies of the Prepolje Health Centre? I mean, we have a new scheme of health care institutions, and I want to commend everything the Ministry of Health and all health care workers have worked on our country's territory during the Covid virus pandemic. I would especially like to commend my citizens, as a citizen of the Municipality of Prepolje, who are fellow Members of the Health Center in Prepolje, who were selflessly working and supporting all citizens who were at that time sick and it is very important to put on the way to the establishment of the health center's organs. The government named it v.d. The director and that's what he cares about. What I'm interested in is to support the Ministry to continue with this, but to do so if possible as quickly as possible, to appoint, to appoint the Government to appoint the Management Board, to adopt the Statute and to promote the Health Center. It is very important, a new network of health institutions, because it is approaching primary health care to the ultimate consumer, or citizen. We have a kind of decentralisation, and that's something that the Justice and Trust Party is fighting for, and that way the citizen, the consumer of that service, the patient will be better able to assess this health care service and influence it to make it better. What's crucial is that the state has no new motives, but that simply the whole system that has so far functioned in one way, is now starting to function in another way, in my view a much more functional way. What we had so far when it comes to the health center in Prepolje is that the General Hospital and the Home of Health were under the Health Center of Užice, and that co-operation could be characterized on that famous case of sarma, where they were taking meat for themselves, and the Hospital in Prijepolje and in Priboj and Novi Varosha were getting cabbage and it is therefore very important that the Ministry of Health implements this new network as soon as possible and that the Health Center in Prepolje at full capacity is functioning. As far as the second question is concerned, it is addressed to the Ministry of Justice and to the Prosecutor's Office for Organized Crime, and the question is, what did they do about the criminal charges filed by the Municipality of Sjenica against the former president of the municipality and former municipal attorney? Is the investigation in place even if it is at what stage? I spoke on the subject several times, but now the Municipality of Sjenica, so 20.05.2021, filed, the head of the municipal administration filed a criminal report, because 832 hectares of the country of the Municipality of Sjenica, the country of all citizens and citizens of the Municipality of Sjenica, the country of all citizens and citizens in the Republic of Serbia, without any compensation given to a particular company. If the prosecution does not respond in due time and if we do not have a court epilogue where we will protect the property of our state in this case of the municipality of Sjenica, the municipalities of Sjenica and our state, it will face mounted arbitration, so it is in the contract where the financial conflicts will be borne by the municipalities that are devastated, which is threatened and which is poor. We can't let someone who under-dominated a municipality, where, as we can see, he boasted and held himself in his own way, with state property to go unpunished. We need to help municipal leadership, these are honorable and honest and brave and bold and capable people, and show that fighting crime and corruption will not make rotten compromises and will not be protected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-29-0.u7956	Thank you. The word is Gjorge Milicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-29-0.u7957	I thank the Honorable Chairman, Mr. Orlic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to ask a question to the government of the Republic of Serbia, as regards yesterday's event in the KIM area, which has again seriously upset the Serbian people, and only confirm that there is no indication on the Pristina side of any change in their aggressive behaviour towards members of the Serb people. On the contrary, there's still no day without an excess. That's what happened yesterday on Vidovday. The inadmissible behaviour of temporary institutions in Pristina and members of their security forces, who instead of only taking care of order and peace, on this large Serbian holiday marked in Gazimestan, arrested a Serb young man from Podgorica yesterday, only because he did not allow Pristina police officers to search and harass a nun. How much hatred for everything that is Serbian confirms and for stripping and taking away T-shirts with the image of Prince Lazarus and other symbols of the Serb people, and even the Serbian flag from those who came yesterday to pay tribute to our heroes who, 632 years ago in Kosovo, defended their country from the conquerors. And while on the other side of our planet in the United States, the mayor of Chicago owes it to the Serbian community to contribute to the development of the city by declaring Vidovdan one of the official festivals of Chicago and while Richard Grendel congratulates the Serbian people Vidovdan with his words – today we honor the heroes. On today 1389, I quote: "The battle against Ottomans in Kosovo has begun, they cannot control their hatred and impatience on this day." It is clear that even this way they want to prove that Kosovo and Metohija are their own, that there is no room for Serbs, even when they mark their holidays and remember their heroes. This is part of an attempt to violently capture the work of our territory, but also of our history, which they try every day, and that is their intention they do not hide with daily provocations and such historical forgeries that every serious historian would laugh at. Brooke to Pristina. And while Serbia, on the other hand, strives to continue dialogue and to reach solutions that will be acceptable to both sides, so far, Pristina leaders do not question any gesture of violence. Today they did not allow Serbs to celebrate their great national holiday in peace and dignity. Yesterday, Dragica Gasic, the last Serbian woman in Djakovica, returned to live on her hearth after 22 years. We ask ourselves, what further is expected of them after such inhumans, and I would say non-civilization procedures that only confirm that they don't care about dialogue or peace. The return of Serbs to their hearth that we do not speak. For them, the only objective is obviously ethnically pure Kosovo and Metohija without Serbs. Their narrative is the same and long ago recognized, but we believe that after these events, the international community and intermediaries in the dialogue will react to this arrogant behaviour of Pristina and Pristina police who during yesterday's unworthy day searched even the Serb nun who came to bow down to the shadows of her national heroes. Who could have bothered her yesterday? That's the essential question. How would our people protect against such but worse scenarios of Albanian separatists? I would also like to appeal this time, to establish but also to ask the Government of the Republic of Serbia, can the Government address the international community, to request a response from the international community, primarily Brussels as a mediator in the dialogue, to prevent further harassment and to prevent further intimidation by Serbs who have remained in their hearths, who remain in the space of Kosovo and Metohija, who only want to live in Kosovo and Metohija without fear of marking their holidays and fear of destroying the graves of their ancestors? The international community bears some responsibility for the situation in Kosovo and Metohija because, unfortunately, they often had double arches or stood on the side of Pristina whose goal is clear, which is to create an ethnically clean, independent Albanian state of Kosovo on the territory of the Republic of Serbia. He is right to be a spokesman for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Russian Federation, when he says Kosovo and Metohija are today the black spot of Europe and the black spot of their mentors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-29-0.u7958	Thank you. Is there anyone else who would like to ask for an explanation from the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups? Sign up one more time. Legislative Group Aleksandar Vucic – for our children, Ugljesa Mrdić.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-29-0.u7959	I would like to thank the chairman, Mr Orlic, the honourable fellow Members of the People, the honourable citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I'm giving the competent state institutions a few questions today. First, I would like to refer the question to both the Ministry of Finance and the competent judicial institutions regarding the millions of affairs of Dragan Gilas. We've received on several occasions a notice from the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Finance that investigations have been under way and what have these institutions, which are doing their job well, but I want to hear what they've done now in this period of the past few months, and what concrete steps have the D.A.'s office taken? The fact is that Dragan Gilas has put hundreds of million euros in Serbian citizens' pockets to harm, and when I say the Dragan Gilas affair, they are no longer affairs, they are facts. I mean from the Adi bridge case, where hundreds of millions of euros were taken, as well as to the case of its 619m euros and its foreign foreign foreign foreign exchange accounts in Mauritius and other countries, where have so far been found to have several tens of millions of euros in these accounts? So the public of Serbia and the Serbian Parliament should get answers to that question. And also, what about the affairs, but this is not about the agreement of a politician with domestic frauds, as Dragan Djilas did, but it's about the agreement of a politician with worldly con artists, and here I mean Vuk Jeremic. What have they done in co-operation with foreign institutions of our institution regarding the famous international affair of Vuk Jeremic, where he has put millions in his pockets with international criminals? Also, I want to ask the competent institutions, what has been done so far about the arrogant behaviour of Dragan Gilas and his parliamentarians regarding the incursion of the Republika Srpska Assembly last year and before last year? And, of course, what happens to all those involved with Belgrade Law School Professor Vladimir Vuletic, what have the institutions, the chief prosecutor's office and the competent court and police done about Vladimir Vuletic, the Belgrade Law School professor, lied to the police and gave the police the wrong allegations at the last hearing? So, I expect both the police and the D.A.'s office to find out that Vladimir Vuletic lied about co-operation with the mafia, to take a measure of action. Don't let us get into a situation where individual tycoons and politicians like Dragan Gilas, Vuk Jeremic and Professor Vladimir Vuletic laugh at state institutions. These first ones took millions in their pockets, Vuletic behaves, at the very least, arrogantly, threatening, misleading the public, lying in the police, and in general, what kind of picture of the public, what kind of picture is sent to students and future generations by a professor at the Faculty of Law in Belgrade? I want to ask you one more question next to these questions. What did the competent institutions do about the latest threats sent to Serbian President Alexander Vukic and his family? Are Alexander Vukic and his family the people who are the weakest protected in the Republic of Serbia? Could every criminal, every tycoon who thinks of it, every con man, be boasted by a politician like Vuk Jeremic and his associates, such as Dragan Gilas, like Professor Vuletic, could anyone think of threatening the president of Serbia without any consequences? To follow the members of his family, to threaten, not just on social networks, but on the street, that when he wants to, they can break into the presidency? So, what kind of picture do we have in public? It has nowhere in the world to allow the work of opposition politicians, to be allowed by institutions to behave in this manner. Therefore, I ask the state institutions, primarily the Prosecutor's Office, police and competent courts to do what is up to them, that if they are to prosecute Dragan Djilas, Jeremic, Vuletic and all those who have committed crimes, who commit crimes and who threaten President Vukic and his family, they threaten family members only because they belong to the family of Aleksandr Vukic. And at what point? The moments when Aleksandar Vukic, along with the Serbian government and all of his closest associates, makes it the most possible for our country to lead to a better future. We could see that during the military exercise and during the events for Vidovdan and Kruševec. We can see that based on all the activities. We can see that from the opening of new jobs. So we in Serbia have a government that does everything for the citizens, to preserve the health of citizens, to preserve the safety of citizens, to preserve jobs and to create new jobs with an increase in wages and pensions, and then we have a part of the opposition that threatens, which puts millions in its pockets and they pass without any consequences. Therefore, once again, I ask the institutions to do their job and to protect President Aleksandr Vukic, who leads our Serbia into a better and safer future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-29-0.u7960	I thank Mr. Gristle. Since none of the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups are answering for a word anymore, we are continuing to work. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Josip Broz and Dunja Simonović Bratic. We move on to a principled search on the third item of the agenda - PROPOSAL OF THE COURT OF THE MARKET OF POLYPRIOR PRODUCTS. Before that, I remind you that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, written on June 25th, is a position 1 in Article 159. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, withdrawn from the procedure the draft law on metrology, which submitted to the National Assembly on 4 June 2021. According to Article 90(1), I would like to inform you that the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly have been invited to attend: Branislav Nedimovic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management - I welcome the Deputy Prime Minister - and Nenad Katanić, Assistant Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management. You have received the bill of law submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and from the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to apply for a word with the order of MPs, in accordance with Article 96. In accordance with Article 157(1) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure, I am opening a principle search on the proposal for a law on the regulation of the agricultural products market. Does the proposal's representative want the word? (Yes) Mr. Nedimovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-29-0.u7961	Dear Chairman, honourable Members of Parliament, I would like to say a few words about the proposal for a law on the regulation of the agricultural products market, a law that our legal system has never recognised in this way before. So far, the area of trade in agricultural products has been, and in general, the regulation of the market, in one general way, regulated by the Law on Trade, and you will agree that agricultural products cannot in themselves be viewed as a bottle, as a glass, like this table in front of us, any chair, is not the same thing, for one simple reason, because of their perseverance, due to the limited duration of time. Some agricultural products may be shorter, some longer exist, and they lose their quality and lose their value accordingly. For this reason, we appear with this proposal for a law on the regulation of the agricultural market, which I hope will come across your positive response in the voting day. What exactly did we want with this bill to achieve? The requirements and measures of the organisation of the markets for agricultural products, trade with other countries, as well as other issues of importance for the regulation of the agricultural markets are foreseen. This law gives us first of all an opportunity to react when serious market disturbances occur, regardless of whether they are in a positive sense, negative. Agriculture is such that it happens to us that sometimes we have serious crises, serious problems, and the state, apart from the stock reserve institute, has no tools to react to the market. By this law, if adopted by you, we have a concrete set of measures on how to react on the market, and this Ministry of Agriculture, to try to solve problems, not to eventually end some agricultural production and not to violate some broader relations. You will agree that agriculture in Serbian society has a multiple role, has an extremely large tradition, a large share of GDP, and any disturbance that arises can cause major problems, especially because of a large number of farmers. At this point, we have over 600,000 registered agricultural holdings. They're not all landowners who are constantly and continuously engaged in agriculture. One part of them does it in a professional way, does it as their life's work, some do it along the way, in order to supplement the budget, some occasionally appear in terms of moving prices on the market, so we have different entities on our market. As far as the situation at this point in agriculture is concerned, last year we had an extremely high growth, in 2020, in 2019, when it comes to agriculture. In fact, 5% of GDP has increased in agriculture when these two time intervals are observed. And we had this one situation that's unspeakable -- three years in a row we've had agricultural growth. It is only proof that all the measures the Government of the Republic of Serbia has taken in the last seven, eight, nine years, that they have now, so to speak, conditionally, Colloquially, come to their collection. No one believed there would be growth for three years. We've only had problems for one year in the last five years, which was 2017, when we had big problems because of the drought. But, because of investments in machinery, equipment, new technologies, new seeds, new types of agricultural production, don't forget that 10-15 years ago, some kind of agricultural production like apple growing, growing blueberries, or they didn't exist with us or they were completely, so to speak, devastated in the last 30-40 years. From all of this, there is a need for a new approach to agriculture, because agriculture 10 years ago, in terms of its contribution to warfare, in terms of fruit production, has changed. We are facing some new challenges, some new markets, which require full standardisation of agriculture, in order to make more profit based on quantity and quality. So far, as I said earlier, we've had a stock reserve institute that intervened on the market. You'll agree that stock reserves exist for some other reason. They are not intended to react spotically on the market due to any disturbances. It's a slow system that was built 40-50 years ago and has one of its own completely different purposes -- to protect the state when some extreme situations arise in terms of the state, not in terms of agriculture. So it's a rather complicated system that didn't provide an opportunity to react at all times. For example, we had a situation in 2017 with raspberries. You remember - the low price of raspberries, you remember those numerous conversations with the manufacturers. To solve these problems, if we had such a law on regulation of the agricultural market, there would be a tool for helping these people at all times. When it comes to a small price, this law gives the opportunity for private storage of goods, for the state to pay for it, for one part of the cost, to save your goods until the price is higher and then sell it. I've listed the raspberries as an example. Any other type of agricultural goods on the list to be established, which is here in the draft law, shall be taken into account. We weren't making up hot water here. These were applied by countries that were in the process of transition and the EU accession process. You will agree, agriculture suffers the most until the moment of EU entry, but when it enters the EU agriculture is one of the biggest winners, because the entire EU system is based, among other things, on several basic policies. One of them is agricultural policy. I will only tell you, for example, under all these conditions that are in force in the EU today, that Serbia would have received direct contributions from the European budget worth around a billion and 600m euros. Our budget at this point is 450m euros. Imagine if we had two billion euros at our disposal at this time if we were EU members, how much profit would that be for agricultural producers. I can't look back on one thing and that's why we need this law as soon as possible. In 2009, when the Stabilisation and Association Agreement was signed, the worst part, I underline, the worst part of the SAA and the hardest part for Serbia is in the area of agriculture, worst negotiated. Almost total liberalisation in many areas at the expense of rapid EU entry that has not yet happened today. It's been 12 years since today. Remember that pen they waved at? I think it was Djelic who signed the SAA. At that point, they warned the agricultural, the profession, how badly the SAA was negotiated. I'll give you an example of pigmeat processing. At that point, we had customs protection from, I guess, 32%. That means everything you want to import from the EU's space you had to pay 100 euros to pay 32 customs in order to get it in at all. This defended the competitiveness of the Serbian processing industry in this area. What happened? It is thus negotiated that by 2012, we had customs protection of zeroes, and the countries that negotiated the same, the surrounding countries with the EU, which do not have a fraction of the processing industry as Serbia has, because Serbia is strong, giant in the Balkans, still retain its safeguards until today. Now that you want to reverse it, try to protect the processing industry, you get into a situation where you have to negotiate with all EU member states individually so that you can do it. Almost impossible, Sisif's job. I want to tell you how much this Agreement is, this is just an example, you have as many examples as you want, as many problems as you have and how badly negotiated it is then. I don't get into the reasons why they did it. Now I can say 500 reasons I doubt. After that, a massive inflow was processed from Hungary and Croatia, so you can judge for yourselves why this happened and what the reasons were. As far as this law is concerned, this law is trying, trying and hoping to protect the market from extreme situations. When prices fall on the market compared to the prices of the producers, when our farmer comes into a situation due to the movement on the market to be the price of production, i.e. the market price below the cost of the product... This sometimes happens for various reasons because of the huge liberalisation that was made possible after 2000, after those five-octobaric changes, and then they strike the seal in a negative sense in 2009 with the SAA. This is what we are fighting with today, and that is why we are trying to preserve the parts of agricultural production by introducing such a law into our legal system with several measures that I believe will at least partially solve the problems that will arise in the future. Here's a simple example. We're having a major crisis in the dairy sector these days. The other day, Mr. Palma asked questions about it. What's really going on? There's been a sudden leap in the price of cereal, impute. In particular, those agricultural producers, those milk producers who do not have the ability to rent state land, are in trouble. So where they get the state's lease, they get the state's land for food for cattle, but there's a part of Serbia where these countries are physically gone, it doesn't exist. These people buy food and they are directly exposed to the market in terms of the price of livestock. This law will give us the opportunity to react to crises like this. We have a huge price for war culture at the moment, and we have in livestock relatively low prices when it comes to the dairy sector and when it comes to the pig sector. In the case of cattle, the situation is slightly better, now prices range from 2.10 to 2.15 euros in the bull market. These are prices that, plus state subsidies, are decent. In this second part, where we don't have a chance to give the land for food... In Vojvodina, this is almost possible in every local self-government, there are some local self-governments that are not able to do so, especially in the north of Vojvodina, but in most parts there are countries for cattle. When I talk to cattlemen, their problem is real. The price of milk has not jumped, the premium the state gives is seven dinars still. We couldn't put the lab into operation completely because of Kovid. Don't forget that our lab was running checks, PCR tests all the time. At one point this veterinary sector carried us 50-60% of the complete controls carried out. It's about the same machines. It's about people who know how to work that job. I don't know how familiar you were with that information, but our lab was covering... If we hadn't had it, especially in the first part of the coronary crisis, we wouldn't have anywhere to run that much testing. It was done in a lab in Batajnica and was done at the Veterinary Institute in Nis and some other veterinary institutes. To go back to this law and what are the proposals. Some of the measures are as follows: this is a public intervention where the market price of agricultural products is lower than the reference price that a specific system, which will exist in the framework of the Ministry of Agriculture, will calculate for each production year. What is a new thing, this tool is available to the Ministry of Agriculture as I would say, a pillar of regulation of agricultural products markets. A trade in a broader sense of words, yes, all right, but this is so much, people, specifically, that you have to follow both production and trade. You can't separate yourself from each other. It's impossible. As I said earlier, one of the measures will be to support private storage, to compensate for part of the storage costs when the market price is again lower than this, and to save your product when possible, during the time when the price on the market jumps, you sell your goods. We'll also have special intervention measures. It's direct financial benefits per kilo, a liter when we have a crisis on the market. We'll have one measure that's positive in terms of the wider social community. These are specific support for agricultural products related to support measures, improving children's eating habits and youth. Someone's gonna ask what it is now, what it's about. Here, I translate into the simplest language, as far as possible – school milk and school fruit from Serbia, that students in our schools can get the milk produced in Serbia and the fruit produced in Serbia. Not to bring him in from Poland. What do we get by that? This brings us to the quality of our youngest population's health because of the high standards we have in the production process, and on the other hand, we increase demand for domestic goods. Imagine a situation where we will have at our disposal from the moment of entry into force of this law to implement such a measure with the Ministry of Education in a narrow or wider space. I guess a bunch of people, kids in Belgrade, and they don't know how it all works. They probably think "Rodi" makes that milk, but it's all normal. We have to work on education, and beyond that we can do a lot for branding Serbian products. There's one more important thing I want to say, in Article 6, there's a possibility of this law and we're going to take advantage of it. Don't forget, under this law, we need to bring in 50 sublegal acts to regulate this matter. We'll have a chance to mark for example. meat and meat processing in markets, regardless of which they are owned, whether they are domestically owned or some large chains, to mark the meat originating in Serbia, to stab the Serbian flag into the raf and say – here is the meat originating in Serbia, and this meat is imported, so you people, if you have the desire, the will, the patriotic charge within you, and even more expensive, we can defend Serbian livestock farming like that. These are some, as I would say, small techniques, but which mean a lot, which draw consumption from Serbia and thus the price for agricultural producers. Often in the price-related statements, they ask me why prices are as high or as high. I'm saying, guys, I gotta take care of the agricultural producers. I can't be a goat and watch the cabbage at the same time. There are tools to edit space, and that's why this is one of the tools that we can edit our area of agricultural products. There's one more thing I wanted to tell you about, for example. production plans. This law gives us the opportunity to establish within the framework of the Ministry of Agriculture a specific sector that will deal with planning and at any moment know what is going on in Serbia on any part of its territory, whether private or state-owned. But we'll also regulate the ransom system. Buyers, buyers, as we often call them, will have to register in a special register, meet special conditions to enter it and it will be public. Every farmer will know at any time whether through his agricultural professional service, I go online, see the mobile phone, today, thank God, I think 90 and change percent, people who deal with agriculture in the most recent sense, use these modern tools, we saw it now when it was with the crown how many people applied to different platforms installed by the Ministry of Agriculture, the ability to when buying their goods know if he sold it to a buyer, a buyer, call it whatever you want, which is registered or someone who tries to do it black. If he was doing it with an unregistered agricultural producer, then it's a two-sided relationship, a relationship between him and that person, and then there's little the state can do. So for some fruit and vegetable sectors, we're going to provide for mandatory contracts, mandatory contracts between two people that we can later charge off that buyer, not the state, but the agricultural producer. Something like, now I'm going to banalize it, like with a travel agency -- you have a deposit, so if you don't pay the man, he's going to charge from there, and not to pay for it on the swamp, and I'll see you in half price, in about five years, and you get half cash on your hands. We're going to introduce a new organisational form. That's what they're called. producer organisations that we will look at to stimulate for the development of specific sectors. At this point, we are lacking in several parts of agricultural production, serious these agricultural organisations, producer organisations. Some sectors have jumped out of all of this in a positive way, such as beekeeper. They're so well-organized that with state aid, of course, the state doesn't have to do much to help them anymore, except subsidies. But we're short on np. In the fruit sector, in the manufacturing sector, we lack these producer organisations that could plan production, later negotiate their sales in one organised way, that they do not, for example, have to. that they have agricultural cooperatives, but that they have a completely different form of organization. Of course, the state will help you with all things. I have one more thing to say, this law provides for a single special system, the information system of Serbia's agriculture market, where at all times we will have as a kind of general headquarters management of Serbian agriculture in terms of quantity, quality of goods, regardless of whether it is state-owned, private-owned, primarily in terms of relations with other countries. I must say that this law will be in force, perhaps with some of its changes in the future, but it is expected to last until the moment Serbia enters the EU, if we get there soon. So, one short interval of time. If it lasts longer, it means we have one tool to operate on the agricultural product market. I think that here we have one fundamentally qualitative change, that a new light is shed on agriculture and on the trade in agricultural products. I thank and apologize for perhaps a little longer presentation, and I would like to ask the parliamentary groups that there are some doubts, with our associates, we will respond to this, and in the day of voting to support this bill, because this way we will regulate the issue of national food security in a much more quality way, not liberalism, but that the state has one tool that can manage the processes when the crisis comes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-29-0.u7962	I thank the ministers. Before we move on to the committees, there has just been one announcement that there will be no direct transmission today of 12.00 hours because RTS has taken over some previously agreed commitments, namely the transfer of tennis matches. Do any of the board representatives want a word? Marijan Risticevic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-29-0.u7963	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, RTS has shown in the best way how much agriculture and the debate on agriculture interest them. I almost thank them for paying so much attention to agriculture, but let's just say they're very active in the agricultural emissions in the way they call it, the covert advertising confirms some of their businesses by those who deal with agricultural policy on RTS, whether their businesses or members of their family. The Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management has passed the law and we appreciate that the law is very good, even better than we expected. The Committee had certain amendments to certain areas, especially beekeeping. We have submitted this kind of amendment and at the request of the Ministry of Agriculture, which in consultation with the Ministry of Finance, has informed us that the Ministry of Finance cannot accept that kind of enlargement at the moment, the Committee has subsequently withdrawn these amendments, so that MPs have a law in the integral text. We appreciate that it is very good, that it is European, but it has carried out doubts as to whether the law is enforceable since our budget at this point is tense, especially in this agricultural area relating to the Encouragement Administration, given the debts we inherited and which we have led by broadcasting new rights to the fact that we currently have certain debts to be settled by the end of the year. Hence, it was probably the Ministry of Finance's suspicion that at this point the right to issue the law should not be extended. This law does not only contribute to the safety of farmers, this law contributes to the strategic security of possible new military and economic pressures that our country has once been exposed to and can be re-exposed if such a situation does not happen to God. Also, this law allows for the partial mitigation of the consequences of the signing of the SAA, i.e. the signing and ratification of the National Assembly in 2008, since the previous regime did not take care enough to ensure that agriculture must enjoy one degree of protection before entering the EU, but rather brought customs duties down prematurely and thus endangered domestic agricultural production. This law, predicting various types of intervention, allows the farmer to be sure of the price, while the population on the other hand is safe in the good supply of the market. He assures us that certain quantities will be available for export and that we will achieve from the country of foreign exchange income, therefore, which are such species that we always have far greater exports than we have imports of all agricultural products, and here we think of southern fruit, coffee, etc. This allows farmers to make sure that when the law is applied to the full, their prices will be such as to cover the cost of production and to guarantee them some minimum earnings. We to whom bread smells like the most beautiful smell in the world, especially if we are hungry, should appreciate the bread producers, so in the same way that we appreciate the taste of sweet fruit and the smell and the taste of freshly baked bread, in the same way that farmers supply us with these delicious agricultural products, we should also try to give them back, to be sure of production. I believe that when we enter the EU, and I don't think that we will enter if it involves sacrificing a particular territory, when we enter the EU, when we have that degree of incentives that European peasants have and when that agricultural policy is as predictable as they are for seven years, that our farmers will, within a very short period of time, be trampled on, so to speak economically, by agricultural producers in the EU, because our farmers, farmers, farmers, are far more valuable, resourceful, because the hardships and hardships they have suffered for the past 30 years, have made them more valuable and resourceful and careful in agricultural production. I believe in them that under the same conditions they will be dominant in the EU. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-29-0.u7964	Thank you. Anyone else from the board of directors want a word? No, I don't. ) We are moving on to the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups. The word is Dr. Muamer Zukorlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-29-0.u7965	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen MPs, respected citizens, the theme of agriculture is one of the most important that can be found in front of the People's MPs of the National Assembly. In particular, the Law on the Organisation of the Markets for Agricultural Products is something that is vital for agriculture, for the economy, for society in general, especially for farmers. That is why I have been paying attention and reading the arguments that we have received in addition to this bill, but also today's presentation of the minister who has given us the most important elements of this law in terms of content, but also in terms of the purpose and purpose of making such solutions. I think that all this is happening, especially in recent years, and especially in these two years when we are facing a cove of pandemics, in fact in this unexpected, very brutal way, it shows that agriculture and the attitude towards farmers cannot be just one of the relationships to any social-political and economic issue. So we saw at one point when the world showed its infirmity to a sudden, unknown and invisible enemy called Kovid 19, that at some point all the power of human civilization remained aside. In fact, everyone started to think in the simplest way of survival -- what I'm going to eat, where I'm going to buy, whether we're going to have the groceries and products we need, not for a comfortable and comfortable life, but for the elemental life of survival. At that moment, I'm sure, it's occurred to everyone in my head whether I have a piece of land or who has a piece of land or where I can come up with a piece of land that I can sow for God's sakes, plant, etc. So these are certainly lessons that come suddenly to us and that remind us of those famous folk sayings that are actually art and wisdom, and one of them is – when you want to protect your property, to secure something you've earned, says buy a piece of land, because the country will not buy a wolf or a hiduk. It's an old saying, because the rest of the property in certain situations, war or other, can get hurt, and your country remains as a primary guarantee of your property, your life and your survival. So, no game, no danger from nature that can hit you, no danger from a human factor can endanger an asset called the Earth. But what unfortunately has been a trend in recent years, even in the last two to three decades, is an inadequate and immature relationship towards its country. It is indicated and confirmed by the fact that the citizens of this country, the inhabitants of this country, especially those living in villages, where there is a possibility of agricultural or livestock survival, actually declared their country and their place of life worthless. That's the basic reason for the eviction. For years I have been through various forms of communication, and strengthened for the last five years, as I have been a member of the National Assembly and how I have dealt with these issues and from the position of politics, done dozens, perhaps hundreds of conversations with people living in the country and others living in the country, trying psychologically, sociologically to penetrate the real background of leaving the village. Usually, some superficial answers are given, especially by those of us who view it from the other side or from a different situation. What is a common denominator of all answers, which can actually be seen as the basic reason for leaving the village, for evicting people from the village, is the fact that these people actually declared their village, their country in the country worthless, not just at present, but with great hopelessness in the perspective. So you come to villages that are beautiful, fertile land, greenery, water, sun, all to the ideal extent that this country is and what is otherwise a wider Balkan region. It is a belt that is determined by analysis in perfect living conditions. The space we live in, in a natural sense, falls into perfect living conditions. Now, let's explain that someone leaves a perfect condition for life, so those of us who have had the opportunity to stay in Africa, Asia, in the areas of the harsh climate and the most brutal form of life can only understand that. I've had opportunities during my studies to stay in those deep areas of the Sahara where it hasn't come yet, in some way, human civilization, where people live from the clock, from the water, from a glass of milk, some sheep that I wasn't sure was sheep until they told me, because she's walking in the desert. I watched those sheep live, then I said, if I could pass on to our sheep that they were ashamed of those sheep in Africa, which you imagine a desert of sand and there have some plants that are between thorns and grasses. There's about 15, 20 meters each, and that sheep bites a little bit of that thorn or that weed that's such an ass and a weed, and then it bites there, and then it goes there on 15 meters and there's another weed and then it bites her. Look, the poor one, she's all, I don't know, maybe if that sheep has a whole seven, eight kilos, what the poor one looks like. How does she survive and how does she bring some milk? But that's what happens, and these people are lucky that, I don't know, out of 30 sheep like that, they get a liter of milk, which they survive, etc. Now watch out, they live, when you ask them what you live on, they say from agriculture. So if I hadn't looked at it with my own eyes, I wouldn't have believed it, I'd have said-- oh people 20, then it was the end of the 20th century, it's the 21st century. Another phenomenon, it's Algeria in the south where even the French never came in, where the almost white man didn't come in, and when I came in there with my fellow students, who I was visiting at home, in their specific half-moon houses. There's a group of kids coming after me. First time they've seen a white man in person. They don't have a TV, they don't have anything, you know, there's nothing, there's just no civilization. But let's do it aside, but I tell them I was born in the country, on a land where I have an apple orchard within five metres of my house. My father, my parents have an apple orchard, so much that I can pick an apple from a lying position, not from a sitting place, but from a lying position I can pick an apple. They get together, they look at me, and they tell me it's not true, it doesn't exist in this world, it just exists in paradise. You, he says, tell us fairy tales. I promise them, since there weren't any cell phones at the time, so you take pictures, so you bring them, but I promise them the next year when I get back here, I'll give them a nice picture. I really bring them a photo. People wonder, thank God, out of the surprise that something like that exists. Only when you get out of it, in this prosperity, in this prosperity, am I afraid of God not to punish this whole nation for this kind of ossional relationship with the graces that we have been given, which fall from the earth and fall from the sky. Look, so you have, and it's a question of culture, it's a topic that we need to run through our intellectuals, through our media, primarily through education, because we deal with agricultural cultures, and we don't deal with agriculture culture. We don't have agricultural cultures without a culture of agriculture. So that's something that's very important, and that's why I was impressed by the part about consciousness, which now refers to a part of the program that will be implemented under this law with special home supplies for schools, for students, etc., I'll come back to that a little later. That's what we need to approach. Now it's started, thank God, so they get the villages asphalt, which is necessary, but don't think it's enough. It will not be enough, for you see, he who has judged himself in his head in the country, he is not removed by an asphalt of seven metres, not by three and a half feet. He's already said it's over. I talked to those peasants. They've been repeating a sentence for 30 years -- this has no future, there's no salvation here. Then when you have your own young people, the female population who, of course, has other motives, a desire for entertainment, different elements that not only apply to the real quality of life, but to each other, and you get the atmosphere of suicide. You go - go, and then he's out of the village that's perfect where he has five acres of land, he leaves it with snakes and weeds, and he buys three acres down in some wave in New Pazar on the corner of the city, where it's not an urban settlement, where a tractor can't make wood for him, but it's a wood for 200 meters and he's a wheelchair, because they left the streets two and a half meters away. He, watch out, judge himself, leave that beauty of four, five acres, buy two and a half acres, scrape up some houses that only another generation will obliterate and down without a job, without anything he replaces, because he simply agreed to his own hysteria, to a mass suicidal thinking followed by that movement, etc. So we, among other things, the intensity, as far as I can tell, is this law, but it has to be wider than the law itself. We have to hit the root of the country's self-inflicted virus. We have an idea of self-respect in the country, and that's what we would have to focus on and actually try, and it's possible to get that wheel back. Of course, not easily, because it's always easier to roll than to stop, especially as it's the law of physics to make something that goes down almost never fit in half, but by the law of inert is that it's closer to the bottom, it's moving faster and it's harder to stop it. The easiest thing to do is to let him go completely to waste and then save him or do something new. But I'm not sure when it comes to these sociological, psychological and economic phenomena that it's good, that we need to let it go completely to waste and start over, because I'm afraid there won't actually be anyone to start with, but we need to stop the car from going downhill. These are the measures, but I want to underline that it has to be even wider and deeper. What's a very positive aspect of this law is, first of all, that we finally get this law and that it actually contains all of these elements. The issue of protection of the agricultural producer from market abuses. It seems to me once or twice we've talked about it here, about a case that happened in Priboy. Now imagine an illustration where our poor woman, who is trying to stand up to this decline trend, find a little money, loan, security, and start producing raspberries or blueberries. Watch out, they get on their feet, they get some optimism. You know, who didn't do agriculture, you can't deal with agriculture exclusively for economic reasons. You have to have for agriculture, so you say agricultural culture, it's not an accident - culture assigned to agriculture. So it's about something that you have to put emotion, aesthetics, specific ethics into. You must fall in love with that order of the raspberries, that order of that blueberry. You must enjoy this scene, because only then can you devote yourself to agriculture. The agricultural business is very harsh, difficult, and if you just have that profit, at first you take the elaborate, and even with all these risks and problems you have, you will have to believe you will raise your hands. On the other hand, you look in the neighborhood of some mechanic, not to mention a drug dealer, but also some petty smuggler who's down by the border getting along, nothing, he's making a little trip to the neighboring country, something across the river, something across the lake, something over the woods, what you have to do with agriculture, driving a BMW, driving this, driving that. Come on, now, how is this gonna be a motive for him burning in that sun at the risk of the city, the risk of flooding, the risk of the mob, the rent of buyers, etc. It's very difficult to motivate yourself, find a motive if you don't have that consciousness, actually culture and emotion within that culture towards agriculture. Now watch out for this poor man of ours, who's made an effort and decided to stand up to that trend, goes the hard way, invests everything he's got, waits, goes. And what happens at the end of the year? There's a criminal, from where he came from, from close range, and he takes those people's goods and never pays them. So I know that we can look at it formally and say – you haven't made good contracts, yes, it's an illiterate poverty, people, you haven't protected yourself, and so on, go to court. Well, those people don't have a dinar to pay for a lawyer, man. What's wrong with you? Yes, we can legally remove it from the state, from us, to say -- mistakes are made, but we can't do that, because it's not just about the amount of damage that was done to these people. It's one aspect, it's a legal aspect, it's numbers, but don't forget that they're people. And not only are those people who are citizens of this country, whose constitution and law guarantee protection, you realize that they are a message to dozens of other people who are supposed to be based on their experiment, that based on what happened to them, they decide to go back to smugglers and criminals, to do a little drug dealing for our known dealers down there, or to roll up their sleeves and deal with honest, honorable, but very difficult agricultural business. There's a difference, please. And that's where we have to find a way. All right, this law is going to fix it now, that is, put the legal basis, and it's a wonderful idea in the law that we're going to have certain guarantees from customers and so on, that's all right, but we also have to leave these people unprotected for what we inherited. We have to protect them. And finally, this idea that's mentioned, it's a question of consciousness. I stayed at a hotel over the weekend and I was impressed by a detail, which is fantastic to me, and that's why I have to share it here with you and the citizens of Serbia. So, classics, breakfast, the hotel is a very luxurious, Swedish table and then a special little table that says they're products from the economy of that hotel. Homemade products from the economy of that hotel. Of course, now is the question – are they all organic now, is it true, but the psychology itself said there were products from the economy of that hotel, and it is known that this hotel has its own economy. So there was just a crowd for the same cheese. I didn't really see any difference, but it was very important, and I've seen it so very much, and I'm glad that there are such thinkings and such ideas that actually show this string between agriculture, between tourism, here, these people have come to realize that they themselves are expanding and actually making co-operation between two layers of business, so to speak, but this can also be shown in all the relations of partnership and association and organisation that, among other things, this law makes it easier. Just because of all these moments, this law deserves support, but I suggest the Minister and the Ministry to expand this front on raising the culture of agricultural awareness and very gladly and as an individual and as a party we will participate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-29-0.u7966	Thank you. The word has Minister Nedimovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-29-0.u7967	Dear President-in-Office and honourable MPs, I just want to briefly look back on some of the things that were in the previous presentation. You're absolutely right when we talk about this change of mind over agriculture, especially when it comes to agricultural culture. So that we can realize all of this, don't forget what we've been through for the last 20, 30 years, in the 1990s, through wars, and then those crazy privatisations that maimed the most food combinations, cooperatives, whatever you want to call it. It was literally everything, the stone on the stone did not remain, until the free agricultural production. When you combine the lack of infrastructure with it, to, behold, we return to that raspberries again, but anyway, every commodity that has first class, second class, cherry in Prokuplje, Meroshini, it doesn't matter, if you don't have the infrastructure, then you can't get 100 bucks, but you get 30 money. While you're moving from point A to point B, it just falls apart, it's not that quality anymore, and you can't get the money that you've earned with your misery. Here, I'll take an example, you know what I'm talking about. The other day on the Cave, the story of infrastructure and traffic, and related to dairy. That these roads are not now being built by the Cave, that there is no road of Sjenica-Aljinovići, there towards Novi Varoša, now it is being done by Duga Poljana – Karajukića Bunari, so all these shops, regardless of whether it is a long Poljana, Borca, any place, Dolicim, anywhere, these people, if they can't get to them, to pick up the milk they produce, is not then 30 dinars of liters, but it is 24 dinars of liters, because it has to come somewhere through an atarian road, to break through, and when it's a nice time. When it snows or something else happens, then if you don't have the infrastructure, you can't even get to it. Why am I saying all this? These are all the necessary conditions, but the only necessary conditions are work and desire to work in agriculture. If you don't provide these market conditions, that desire and that work can fall, just like you said, in five seconds in the water and break up like nothing ever happened. I found it interesting in the Middle East when we were a few months ago, along with the president, the story of Emirat and Bahrain. People realized that this crown wasn't all about money. When you produce food only 25-30% in relation to the needs of your population, you waste all the oil of this world, free all the dollars of this world, if you have nowhere to buy for your people to free their existence, no matter how incredible it seems, but remember, don't forget, our mind is often short. Don't forget the March moon, that psychosis in Europe, in other places, in America, anywhere in the world. She then saved us in that cultural sense, in a psychological sense, national security in the area of food, which we could provide at any moment for ourselves almost everything. And what we didn't have at that moment, where again because of these crazy privatisations, we destroyed everything, we provided at a very short time interval. So, the story of food is stories, much wider has its context, especially in Serbia. I'll just say one thing about access to communication with those people who deal with agriculture. You remember all of 2011 and Arilla and the Malian protests in Arile on the way of Požega-Arilje towards Ivanjica. What was the reaction of the authorities back then? Does anyone remember that? Pendrek – on the back. Because of the demands, here, they want these papers to fall, and they must be sick when they think of it. It was an irresponsible government reaction, and it's a story about the culture of relations with the agricultural producer. What's been going on for the last few years? We also had crises, and this government was years old when agricultural production in a sector was less or more good prices. And what was the relationship to humans? It's a conversation. Talk and change of ways of communicating with people and finding solutions, and when it seems that there is no solution. Now on the one hand you have a pendrek and on the other you have a word. And what's changed? Consciousness to farmers. Just as you can't hear a fly in this room right now when we talk about this, because everyone is aware of the importance of food in Serbia for the survival of the Serbian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-29-0.u7968	Thank you. Replica, Muamer Zukorlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-29-0.u7969	Just to confirm in this first part what you said. So, I witnessed, say, the village of Delimeđe, that is Donja Pester, the municipality of Tutin, there was the milkmaker one who was very ambitiously built, and by combining and helping the state and private investment from the diaspora and that milkmaker was soon closed. Key reason, I talked to investors about why they closed down that dairy store, was actually a lack of asphalt roads, because actually those tanks that collect milk, they can't actually save that milk, it's broken down, or as it says, they get washed up through the macadam and through the bad road, and by the time it gets to the dairy, it's already changed its condition, and they just didn't have any chance of keeping that milkmaker, and then, if it's a very important and big village, even from the New Market to the Delimedes, there was no asphalt. What is now is a trend and what I want and to encourage and praise and it would be good to make a plan in which we will say that I do not know by what year, as we have these various plans, we will not leave any village in Serbia without asphalt. It doesn't matter if it's a long time, it's a big ambitious project, and we don't have to give people false hopes, but we have a simple vision where people will know it's not a selective approach, it's not about some ad hoc activity. This is also very important in this respect full of encouragement and encouragement, and I am glad that you recognize this idea of raising awareness, of a culture where we should work together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-29-0.u7970	Thank you. The word has been authorised by a representative of the Social Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary group, Jasmina Karanac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-29-0.u7971	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Ministers Nedimovic, Mr Katanic, colleagues and fellow MPs, the Law on the Organisation of the Market for Agricultural Products is a key law in the area of agriculture and are two basic reasons why we are passing this law. One is the harmonisation of our legislation with EU laws and we all know why it is important, above all, because of exports from imports, and another reason is that we have so far not had a law that allowed the regulation of the agricultural market. So far, agricultural policy has been based on two laws, the Agriculture and Rural Development Act and the Agricultural Incentives Act. However, neither production nor incentives alone can have a full effect unless the market is regulated, or if there is no stronger link between the manufacturer and the processor, or the buyer through the conclusion of the contract. Here at the centre of attention must be a farmer, a gardener, a farmer, a cattleman, because if we don't encourage agricultural producers, if we don't provide them with logistics and conditions, to prepare a plant for planting plantations, to set up farms, if we don't follow them through the production process, if we don't provide them with a safe placement and a proper price, then the laws we adopt won't be worth it, because we won't have anyone to bring them in. In order to have anything to place, to sell, the farmer must first produce, and to produce the necessary basic conditions and the state has done a lot of work on this matter, it has never happened before that the state is subsidising and raising plantations and obtaining fruit material and a system for watering and supplying cattle, building farm facilities, purchasing agricultural machinery. It's a big thing when the state subsidises 10,000 euros to buy tractors and anyone who deals with agricultural production and who has registered agricultural land can achieve that subsidy. They are not negligible subsidies for both mechanization, sowers, sprinklers, and you may notice, if you pass through Serbia's villages, that farmers have quite renewed their machinery, if it hadn't been for Serbia's help, it would have been difficult or would not have happened. What they also need and what is one of the basic conditions for survival in the country are roads. And there's a lot done, but not everywhere. There are municipalities that invest in rural roads, and also the state rarely intervenes in building and connecting locals with regional roads. Good examples are in the territory of the municipality of Novi Pazar, Sjenica, Tutin. The country's part, days ago, was visited by Serbian President Aleksandar Vucic and SDPS President Rasim Ljajic, in a direct conversation with the residents of these remote villages, to familiarise themselves with the problems they are plagued and to meet their needs. Basically, you were there, too, Mr. Nedimovic, is what the locals pointed out and what they asked for, the roads. It was agreed to build a road from the village of Buce to Golia, as well as several other rural roads, and you said how important the road infrastructure is and how bad the roads are to collect agricultural production. Also, highways built through Serbia are important for safer and easier communication, as well as for the arrival of investors, but the highway should be connected with regional and regional roads, because people from the village will not be able to make much difference if they can't reach them. When the highway is completed to Bolar and to the Long Field, the picture of the region will be completely changed and local roads in that part of our country need to be built, recognized as an important and good preparation for the moment. There are other good examples, but there are also those who are not. I will give an example of the village located on the three-way municipalities of Cačak, Požega and Gornji Milanovac. These are villages on the slopes of the Cablar and the Suvobor, producing large quantities of raspberries, potatoes, meat and milk. It is the end of Serbia in which, despite the harsh conditions, there are young people who have remained to process their properties. The municipalities of Požega and Gornji Milanovac have crossed their villages with good roads, and the rural shorts leading to the last houses in the village are paved by young people to stay in those parts. I visited the area a few days ago and attended the completion of a part of the regional road on the periphery of the municipality of Požega, in the village of Gornja Dobrinja, which leads on a regional road to Cačka. In fact, it's the same path, same importance, but in two municipalities. Now the already built part of the road on the territory of the municipality of Požega is excellent, wide enough and with two layers of asphalt. When you step on an administrative line that separates the municipality of Pozega from the Municipality of Čačak, I said, the same way and the same importance, there is a clear difference and you see the border. On the one hand, Požeški side, is a path full of profile, freshly paved, and below on the side of the Cachanical Municipality, a bad, built 40 years ago, impact holes, muds that no one can repair even in spite of requests and address to take action, and there is no promise that anything will be done. It's the same thing with the country roads. Then you have a reason for the dissatisfied citizens of the village of Vrenčan, Rožaca, Jančić, who belong to the Municipality of Čačak and who ask, how can these of Požega be, and these of ours cannot? And I wonder why that is? Therefore, there should be a single plan policy and priorities set and that villages receive evenly the necessary infrastructure, not that they should be neglected, but that they should be favored. And it's not that, Minister Idemotive, it's your job. We have the Ministry of Agriculture and that is exactly what the Ministry should look at the problems of people in the country, to coordinate between the municipality and the state, to point to the need of these people and to fight for better conditions and the survival of each village individually. We need equal importance for every citizen and least place in Serbia, because agriculture is one of our leading branches and we need to see perspective here. We can produce enough food and for our own purposes, and for export, but we must have a clear strategy and clear goals. We must not neglect any end of our country, because each of them is specific, in some form of production and this production should be stimulated. We must not forget that the basic task of agricultural production is to provide sufficient amounts of food for the population and that there is a growing need for food today. Exporting agricultural and food products is a great opportunity for Serbia. What was the case earlier was that most of the agricultural production achieved with the exception of cereals and meat was mainly realised through green quantum and livestock markets. Offering and demand for agricultural products in the markets has largely affected the organisation and planning of agricultural production in Serbia. However, in recent years of intensifying exports to the countries of the former Soviet Union, but also the countries of the region also have a significant impact on the planning of agricultural production. That is why this law, which we are discussing today, is of great importance because it will allow the elimination of a large number of disadvantages in agricultural products. The linkage between manufacturers and purchasers allows production planning, i.e. the choice of product type, and in this respect the Law on the promotion of the agricultural products market allows for the conclusion of contracts which will provide a safer purchase. This law will have a direct positive impact on agricultural producers who, by including the producer association, will be better organised and thus affect their position on the market, because they will have a concentrated production within their producer organisation and thus a better negotiating position when it comes to both the placement and the price of their products. What is also foreseen by this law is a market intervention mechanism that should protect the producer from losses that may arise from market disturbances. This is mainly due to the growth in the supply of a particular product and the drop in price or vice versa. That is why the measures provided for in this law for farmers are valuable, because the state has to implement measures and find mechanisms to protect the agricultural producer, to guarantee that its products can be sold and that they are adequately paid, and that people who are engaged in agriculture can live decently from their work, but also that they can plan production for next year. What farmers would have to know and keep in mind is their obligation to adapt to consumer requirements and an increasingly selective market with regard to the selection and quality of their products, especially under the conditions of new wholesale systems that exceed domestic standards. By meeting the standards dictated by the market, as well as large sales chains, starting with varieties, product quality, organoleptic properties, classifications, then packaging, down to food safety, the risk of our producers being excluded from this game is reduced. Personally, I think all of these standards can be achieved, but they collect the production itself. Therefore, it is necessary for such products that producers get a higher, or more adequate price, and that we are not going to say a farmer for a kilo of raspberries gets 300 dinars, which you will agree is not a small price, but if you take into account that in supermarkets in Serbia, it is recorded that a package of 125 grams of raspberries is sold for 700 dinars, which means that the kilogram of this fruit in the supermarket costs 5,000 dinars, then the price that producers receive is low and for end-users is too high. It's obvious something was wrong in the market chain so far. You, ministers in the village of Butce in the far southwest of the municipality of Novi Pazar, when residents of the region complained about the purchase price of milk, which is 30 dinars per litre, which has not increased in years, and the price of cattle has jumped by 60% to 70% as well as the price of oil, said you must find a way to make purchasers pay for the price of milk so that people have an account to keep cows and to deal with livestock. Your statement gave hope to all dairy producers in Serbia and I expect you to find a solution. Correction of such diversity must be an obligation, and the task of agricultural policy is to create and implement measures and solutions that will help to improve the efficiency of the market chain among other things, so that everyone in that chain gets as much as they deserve, not that individuals make enormous profits, and that those who invest most effort remain deprived. I hope that the Law on the Organisation of the Markets for Agricultural Products will contribute to the improvement and development of agriculture and bring security to agricultural producers and enable exporters to export more. In this religion, the SDPS will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-29-0.u7972	Thank you, colleagues. The word is held by the president of the United Serbia's parliamentary group, Dragan Markovic Palma. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-29-0.u7973	Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, JS will support this bill because the first time I've dealt with agriculture, and since birth, is this bill that when a market disturbance occurs, whether in a positive or negative sense, there is a state to react. It is positive what you said, Ministers, to preserve milk and fruit producers by giving schools to buy Serbian milk and Serbian fruit, which was not an agreement in earlier years, the SAA destroyed agriculture and the agricultural producer. I think 12 years or 10 years ago, if I'm not mistaken, that law was passed. Now it is much easier for EU agricultural producers, they have much larger subsidies because they have a fund where 27 EU Member States have one budget and that budget is being allocated, and Serbia is not an EU member, and we acquired all the conditions five, six, seven, ten years ago to become an EU member. The biggest problem is when it comes to milk production is to lose genetics, because we have a lot of agricultural producers that have two, three, four cows. I've never built a graduation -- he's a big producer, he needs help, and he's a kid, he doesn't need it. The one that has two cows and he would like to have ten, thirty, forty cows, but he produces cheese, milk and in some ways, for some of his needs can provide an average salary at the monthly level in Serbia. Who benefits from market disturbances? Processors. We had three, four or five months of market disturbances when it was the price of living cattle, and that the price in the slaughterhouses and in the processors and in the barracks remained the same. Who makes that money? Here to see how the state can control that price hike, or the price of agricultural products and agricultural producers, and on the other hand, we have to realize that when a farmer loses, what's called profit one year, and it receives twice or once a year, it takes him five years to get back to what he was before the disorder. We're also lucky there weren't any major natural disasters this year, so it destroyed a lot of agricultural crops. And that's where the state did the same thing, helped secure as many anti-urban missiles as possible to make protection much better and more efficient. We need to see how to reduce meat imports without breaking the SAA, whether it's through some order of discreet large markets, because we came into a situation to eat frozen meat and meat from imports, a minimum of 50% of what's on the market. I live in central Serbia. For example, in my village, Conchareva, every house has a barn or a barn, maybe only 10% of them are guarded by calves, junada, pigs, and everything else is empty, precisely because every year whoever had ten cows he lost one cow on an annual level to a price difference. It is known that pigs up to 25 kilograms must eat a sack of concentrate, that 40% of the price of livestock has gone up, so we have farmers who have both cattle and cattle and they have no use for the price of livestock food going up when they give that food to eat the cattle they store in the barn and they better sell it, but then they say – what about the cattle in the barn. So it's a delicate question for the state, and the state is powerless. The price of cereals and cereals, as every year, is regulated by the stock market, not by the state. The people don't know that, so they think -- yeah, here's the guilty minister, the president of the state, the Prime Minister, etc. Don't think I'm flattering you. I can say for myself that I'm a little familiar with agriculture because I've been saving and saving today. I've got a cattle fund and I've been working a lot of land, more agricultural cultures every year, but someone like you can't stop being on the ground, not just where the hotspot is, when farmers are complaining about something they're always right, but they need to be explained, they're right, but what's the solution, how the state can help. And the state has been helping a lot in the last few years when it comes to the subsidies for the connected machines and for the seed units and for vegetable and fruit production, etc., but we have lost the brand. Once the Serbian brand was a plum, and the whole world from Americans to Chinese even Li Manchang, a former ambassador of China, was a guest to me several times, he says – do you have Serbian plums and that when he came in, in the first year of office. I ask -- how do you know about the Serbian plum, so it says -- there's talk in China about Serbian plump. So, plums, you know it better than I do, there are far less plums in Serbia now than there were years ago, and now we've moved on to wine, grapes, etc. And that's what people need to understand. Whoever has less than 30 acres of vineyards, he can't make money, only if he wants it to be an extra piece of work and to say, uh, here, I, next to, I don't know what I'm doing, there's vineyards, etc. And that's what I'm telling you, I have two plots, three, five, six and eight acres of vineyards, so I know how hard it is. So every day it's work in the vineyard. When you come out of the last pitch, it means about twenty acres, you're going back to the beginning and it's the hardest job and you depend on both the weather and the strength of the sun, rain, etc. But you have to appeal a little more to local self-government. You know, not everything can be singled out and the local self-government budgets have to look at what's separate for agricultural production, what's not supposed to be in local budgets, and what's necessary. I never speak casually. Here, for example, I paved all the roads 11 years ago, all the roads in every village. So there's no way he's not paved, and there's a house on that street. Now we've done over 50% of the rocks on the side of the roads, i.e. by the fields, and now in the field, Mr. agricultural producer, who has a good car, is taking the Mercedes into the field. We have roads where I'm sure they tell you – Ministers, set me up, etc. The mistake is, this is advice to presidents and mayors from Serbia, it's a mistake for a beam to be cleaned every year, because you take off that hard surface from the road, you get to that soft country, it rains and holes are made again. Four years when a beam is working, and an hour is expensive, you come to make it cheaper for a rock that will last a minimum of 12, 13 years with the repair of these roads later, etc. What else should local self-government do? To provide credit to farmers. Agricultural producers pay the principal, but the interest that is large for the agricultural producer, if we look at it today to sell 10 liters of milk, which is 300 dinars, buy Marlboro from those pairs, one pack of cigarettes, it's huge money for the agricultural producer to take on an annual level or for two or three years, and the state has made it possible for banks and placed funds for the loan to farmers. People are afraid. Here I can pay the principal, but they're afraid of some interest. They're in fear and they've had a phobia in recent years because the euro course you know has not been stable and you take some credit with, I don't know, the cost of costing something 10, that in seven months it's no longer 10 of some units, whether it's a dinar or a euro, that it's 15. So you have to help the farmers. I drove to Paris 12 years ago to a farm fair of 250 agricultural producers and we bought 220 heifers and divided it into 440 agricultural producers. Someone got a heifer, a calf from that heifer. I don't know how many thousands of these high-milk heifers are out there today, and that's some genetics we have to guard. When we look at television and specifically in Vojvodina, I saw, there's a lady out there having a farm, all of these are high-skilled, high-milk cows, how we help these agricultural producers keep them safe. It's a good thing it's going to provide storage capacity, that when a farmer is now a harvest and he reaps grain, he has a place to lager and wait two, three, four months, because the price is much higher. We must not forget, there are 600,000 agricultural holdings registered in Serbia. For two workers, it is a million and 200,000 employees, plus those who engage occasionally, campaigning, when they need to work on the dependence on the agricultural culture that is sown. That's where the same prices went, the prices of the workers. Today the price of workers is from 2,500 to 3,000 dinars per day, plus you should give the least man breakfast, lunch. It's all some money to pay for that farmer, who doesn't have a hot meal, or a regression, or a sick leave. All he has to do is secure it himself. The state has been very helpful to the agricultural producer and to take care of the agricultural producers, but you must know that we also have lobbys like in all trade markets, chains, etc. Lobby is the one who buys or monopolists, and we also have monopolies when it comes to milk processors, buy some production, and you get into a situation, or throw milk, or produce cheese, and there are no people or anywhere to place huge quantities when it comes to the production of cheese, caymacks. What's the biggest problem? The biggest problem is that the biggest damage in the chain is the agricultural producers. Customers, buyers and processors earn ten times as much. What else is important, Mr. Minister? To make a recommendation. What is the recommendation in the next period of time, called agricultural culture, where will the farmer benefit from this agricultural culture? If we say grain and corn is necessary, grain in particular, that Serbia has certain supplies etc., of course, we have plenty and even exports, is it vegetables, is it blueberry? Borovnica, in the fourth year you have 24,000 euros in contributions. When you refuse 24,000 euros, there is also an expense, somewhere you have 17,000 euros per hectare. Ministers, those who have plenty of countries and have no livestock, they issue a hectare per hundred euros and an average lease at an annual level, so you see how much money there is and the state already gives subsidies? Are there any other agricultural cultures that are tied up, that have a safe market in the future? So, when it comes to fruit and what it is from vegetables that we can export. We have exported apples, the apple is one of the best quality apples in the Balkans, to Russia, and has now reduced the purchase of apples. How come these people who make apples to place their products? That you're thinking in the direction that we can build plant processors, I don't know, fruit, vegetables, etc. No one in the world has fallen apart who processed fruits and vegetables. I know at Val's fruit-processing factory, juices, I don't know what it's called, "Serbian," but it fell apart because of the management staff, not because there was no market. This strategy in the next period of time, not to solve the problems of ad hoc, today is the problem, you go there, wait for you 50 tractors, etc., because you are not a man who irritates and who fights and this state, but how to help the agricultural producer. What have you been sowing this year, what have you been through? Let what is tradition, that my grandfather used to sow corn and sugar tail. I used to sow sugar tail, too. I was the largest producer in central Serbia. But who do I give it to now? How many factories in Serbia are working? It is known that sugar always has its own price. So, coolant. That coolant, you don't have to give money to a farmer, because he can't pay it on an annual basis, but to someone who's doing some other big business, who's got a bonus, which has big companies, let's say, man, you're here and there, here's the state will give you 30%, you 70%, the freezer, the juice processing, the jam, I don't know what it is, but there's four to six times the price of raw materials when the agricultural producer picks up from the field. What's a Serbian brand today? The Serbian brand is beans. And who eats beans? Serbian brand and cabbage, Serbian brand and turkey. You know, turkey used to get ready for a good day, it's a good day when it's some Orthodox holiday. For example, in Jagodina, they call us turkeys. We don't have 300 turkeys in the whole city and in the territory of all the villages and still eat. I took it as an example of turkeys, so they changed it later. Now we're like a giraffe, so I don't know what, but I prefer to be called turkeys because there's some money that can be made, that agricultural producers come to money. You know what else? Let's make a list - how many empty stables are there in Serbia? Each of these people has a tractor and a plug-in machine. It is the age of tractors over 15 and 16 years old, but the tractor is never old. The tires change, the battery and the tractor goes, you understand? Yes, there is no climate in that tractor, but he learned a Serbian agricultural producer without climate to process his country and he wants to work, but he wants to know how much he will make, how much he has to invest, how much he will make. Now here's the price of grain per hectare, when a man calculates everything he has to pay he can't make between 200 and 250 euros per hectare. Whoever has three acres, that's 750 euros, let's be 300, let's be 900 euros, but no more. On average in Serbia, you know better, farmers have between two and 6.5 hectares per household. We also have those who work both in factories and in agriculture, and they need help. What else do local self-government need to do? To give free gigs at the market to those whose basic interest is agriculture. He brings in confirmation from the local office that it's his only occupation, that he has three or four or five members and that he doesn't pay for the gig. I'm looking at some cities and there's a bidding going on, like there's a bar being issued in Prince Michael's. It's not big money in the crowd. Every time I do something, I watch what brings me to the crowd, do individuals where the mass is small have any damage, and we who come to the mass have no use at all, you understand? I want to give you one more support and congratulate you on what you've done and what you've been fighting for. I know one of your colleagues from Vojvodina who was a minister and now he's starting to beat something up, that was in 2001, I say - listen, tomorrow I'm bringing four jars: barley, oatmeal, corn and wheat and I'm going to ask you which jar is corn. Do you know what he told me? Don't get carried away, Palma, off that jar, what do you need jars for? His face is as white as a man's fish in that cave, you understand, and you see how dark you are, you weren't at sea, but you're in the sun with agricultural producers, and only by first hand can you know what ails agricultural producers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-29-0.u7974	Thank you. The word has an authorised representative of the SVM, MP Arpad Fremond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-29-0.u7975	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Presidency, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, allow me to confirm at the beginning of the presentation that the SVM parliamentary group in the voting day will support the proposal for a law on the regulation of the agricultural market. I'll state the reason in one sentence. This bill answers the question of how to translate agricultural potentials into competitiveness, to better profit and quality living standards, to increase agricultural production and stabilise agricultural markets. There's no doubt that we're aware of our potential, but also our weaknesses. We ourselves wrote conclusions in the Strategy for Agriculture and Rural Development of the Republic of Serbia from 2014 to 2024. Our agriculture is characterized by inefficientness, disorganization and fragmentation of the agricultural and food chain. In order to translate our potentials into a policy of agricultural, ecological and rural development, and these strategic policies into the improvement of society as a whole, it is necessary to bring our legislative framework in line with the rules governing the EU's common agricultural policy, in particular with the rules of the first pillar of the EU's common agricultural policy with the sustainable and even regional development policy and with the policies of sustainable management of natural resources. For the SVM parliamentary group, it is important that the Law on the Organisation of the Markets for Agricultural Products regulates the specific segments of the number of strategic policies, to regulate key issues in the area of the organisation of agricultural markets and the value chain of agricultural products, including the regulation of contractual relations, as well as the development of association in agriculture. We must not ignore the fact that half of the rules that Serbia must adopt in the EU accession process apply to agriculture, that is, Chapter 11 — Agriculture and Rural Development, Chapter 12 — Food safety, veterinary and phytosanitary policies and Chapter 13 — Fisheries. The three chapters of cluster five – resources, agriculture and cohesion policy, chapters 11, 12 and 22 – regional policy and coordination of structural instruments are not yet open and it is therefore important to meet standards in the area of agriculture and rural development in order to ensure the opening of clusters with open chapters 13 and 33. The importance of the EU market is data. Exports of agricultural products from Serbia have been more than doubled in the last decade, recording a growth of 640m euros in 2009 to 1.3 billion euros in 2018. At the same time, EU agricultural products were also doubled from 440m euros in 2009 to about 1.1 billion in 2018. Of the total exports of fruits and vegetables from the Republic of Serbia, 58% is placed on the EU market. There are a number of reasons why the bill is important, but I think that in the long term, from the perspective of the future, the preservation of the health of the population, we need to point out in particular Article 29 of the proposal that will establish a system for improving the food habits of children and youth, so to speak. School fruit and vegetables and milk and milk products schemes. Raising public awareness of the importance of healthy nutrition in the development of children and youth is particularly important when data are analysed that show that obesity is the most common condition or disease, and according to research by the Institute for Public Health of Serbia in 2017, 40% of the population has a normal weight, a third of the population is overweight, and each fifth adult is overweight. In the population of children of primary school age, 23% of children were overweight, while obesity is registered in 7% of children of this age. It is therefore important to pay attention to the MOTO project "Supposing school development planning in the field of culture, feeding students in primary schools, healthy food at school for healthy citizens in life". The Union of Duchy Hungarians has paid particular attention to the part of the draft law aimed at strengthening the negotiating force of small farmers in relation to the processing industry and retail trade chains. In view of the small volume of production, i.e. reduced supply, unstable supply and low specialization, small producers are the weakest link in the chain. Also, an underdeveloped system of buying and paying based on the classification of agricultural products according to quality classes is underdeveloped. For example, cattle are bought and paid per kilogram, without establishing meat and other production characteristics, small dairy farmers pay milk based on milk fat. The manufacturer’s activities on the plan for the introduction and certification of a food safety system, organic products and products marked with geographical origin are insufficient. There was a lot of talk in the public about one solution to the proposal. In fact, the law is expected to provide better conditions, so that small agricultural producers' products can be found on the shelves of large supermarkets. No wonder about that, because they're still in the memory of a few years ago, let's just say, at a time like that. The "supermarket revolution" that led to trade chains selling agricultural products to a final consumer at a price lower than any purchased in the product's supply chain. Turns out our farmers have been the biggest creditors of the trade chains for years, because they've been waiting up to 180 days without interest to pay for the goods delivered. There's nothing better going on than cattlemen. We bear witness to the cartel association of slaughterhouses and large shops, so the cattlemen are exposed to blackmail both when buying and when trying to get into large trade chains. They were blackmailed to pay for entry into megamarkets by a certain amount of meat, which increases costs and reduces the profits of the bidder. The good news is that the bill provides for the rules on how to classify pig carcases on the line to be laid down in the conditions for classifiers and prices to specify the conditions of payment per percentage of meat, because in conditions where the price of live vaginal pigs ranges from 120 to 130 dinars, when there is no permanentity for pigs and for junados, there is no price safety and continuous exports, when there is no solution for the problems that can result in the loss of livestock at the end of the cycle, it seems almost impossible to squeeze the buyers out of that chain. In addition to the number of unfair practices, our farmers are also exposed. fear factor. The weaker party in the business or supply chain is often afraid that the launch of a court dispute could lead to a stronger break-up of a business relationship and therefore do nothing. It is important to think about the experiences of EU Member States, for example Croatia, which has solved this problem by adopting a law prohibiting unfair trade practices in the food supply chain. One of the objectives of the bill is to strengthen the negotiating position of the producer in the supply chain, and therefore, the provisions that provide for support in the formation of producer organisations and to strengthen their role and powers in the collective bargaining process and the price of delivery. In the case of buying milk, we see both unfair practice and fear factor and the importance of association. Last week, the Federation of Cattle Breeders in Serbia indicated an alarming situation among milk producers because the buyers paid the same ransom price for six years. The average producer price of a litre of milk is 56 dinars and the average purchase price is 30 dinars. The breeders are in charge of loans in hopes of reaching some deal with buyers on an increase in the purchase price of milk, but there is no agreement. An additional blow to milk producers is also the addition of cereals and olives from 50 to 80%, as well as the fact that there is a large supply of dairy products from imports on the shelves of the hyper market. The organisation and association of small farmers is important, especially given that in the last decade there has been an expansion of retail chains, supermarkets, hypermarkets and discount stores, and the decline of small shops from the neighbourhood. The problems are numerous and are long waiting for this bill, and although the revised national programme for the adoption of the legal flows of the EU from 2014, the adoption of the Law on the regulation of the agricultural products market was planned for the first quarter of 2016 only today discusses the text of the proposal but should be realistic. The EU's common agricultural policy is developing and coordinating nearly 60 years after it began to apply in 1962. During the first decade, analyses of positive and negative effects began. In this respect, the 2013 reform of the common agricultural policy is probably the most significant reform since the 1960s. One of the results of this reform is Regulation 1.308/2013, and the aim of the adoption of the Law on the Organisation of the Markets for Agricultural Products is to bring it into line with this Regulation. The organisation of the agricultural products market is a complex area. At this point, we can count at least a dozen laws that bring this proposal into line - from the General Administrative Procedure Act, Inspectives, Customs Law, Customs Tariffs Act, Trade Act, Food Safety, Veterinary, Organic Production, Agriculture and Rural Development, agricultural and rural development incentives. In addition to the application of this law, appropriate regulatory activities are to be undertaken which are primarily based on the adoption of sublegislative acts and the draft law provides for a total of 41 regulations, regulations, decisions and orders. That harmonising with the EU's common agricultural policy really enables capacity to be translated into a better standard of living and balanced territorial development also shows an analysis of the agriculture of the Republic of Poland, so that we must not forget that farmers were exactly the most productive part of Polish society before joining the EU. Statistics show that the development of Polish rural areas has accelerated since accession, especially through the use of EU funds intended for rural and agricultural development. The growth of wealth among the inhabitants of the rural area in Poland is more dynamic than in the case of urban residents. Since joining the EU in 2004, nominal income per capita in rural areas has increased by almost 80%. According to the Central Bureau of Statistics, 80% of Polish agricultural food exports were sold to the EU market in 2019, while around 20% of production was exported to third countries. In order to reach the EU market, standardisation and certification of products is important, but regardless of the fact that the national rural development programme from 2018 to 2020 provides incentives for the introduction and certification of food safety and quality systems, organic products and products marked with geographical origin in Serbia remain extremely low. In the year 2019, the Council adopted Decision (CFSP) 2019/35, on behalf of the European Union, the European Parliament and the Council, the Council, the Council and the Council, of the one part, on the one hand, on the one hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, and on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand. 6,261 manufacturers were included in certified organic production, of which 534 certified carriers and 5,727 In 2015, Serbia had 334 certified organic producers, and on 11 June 2021 the total number of certificates issued under the Organic Production Act was 178. One of the reasons for a small number of certifications is probably the length of the procedure. For example, it was only after eight years of the process that the Association of Farmers "Gozdakon" from Fzetić received a certificate in 2013 on a special variety of cherry from Feketic. For eight years, the process of determining the quality and geographical origin has taken place, in order to make a decision to recognise the cherry fectic as a special variety of primates. The question of standardisation is also the issue of organising a system of classification of carcases in slaughterhouses. The good news is that the slaughterhouses that will be included in this system have invested in the purchase of necessary equipment and training for employees in the previous period, so it is expected that 14 cattle slaughterhouses and 40 pig slaughterhouses are ready for the process. With the good news, however, there are those who point to a difficult situation in our livestock industry. The Republic of Serbia has the processing facilities in livestock production - 1.176 objects for slaughtering cattle, pigs, sheep, goats and livestock, and the classification and processing of meat of cattle, pigs, livestock and fish, but their level of exploitation is well below projected. A small number of objects are registered for export, only 114 objects. The EU country's export licence has nine slaughter facilities, as well as eight meat processing facilities. The difficult situation in livestock also confirms that Serbia can only meet 10% of the 8700kg reference quota for exports of juniper meat without customs duty to the EU market, as set out in the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. In order to achieve exports of 8,700 kilograms of juniper meat, it takes 100,000 heroes to get them, and in Serbia, there are currently between 12,000 and 15,000 throats. The provisions of the bill on standardisation, classification and certification are important, as it will allow for the introduction of the pig. Domestic consumption of pork is at a low level of 14kg per capita, and in Europe it is 30kg. It is important for Vojvodina to announce that after 30 years, there is the possibility of exporting pigs to the EU and that the bill regulates the organisation of a carcase placement system in pig slaughterhouses, as pigs are grown at the highest percentage in Vojvodina, around 42%. After the vaccination obligation against swine fever ceased in December 2019, the conditions for this pig to be organised in accordance with EU standards, since the circulation of pigs in Serbia has 20 days longer, the unequal quality with an average of 55.5% of meat per cent in half. Citing only part of the problems faced by small agricultural producers, whose resolution of the Law on Organisation of the Markets for Agricultural Products offers mechanisms - compliance with EU standards, the Union of Vojvodina Hungarians will vote in favour of the draft law, as the regulation of the agricultural products market in Serbia will have at the time of EU accession a legislative and institutional framework necessary for the implementation of EU mechanisms and will be partially in line with EU Regulation 1308/2013 establishing a common organisation of the agricultural market. Since full compliance with this Regulation is expected after obtaining membership of the Republic of Serbia in the EU, we hope that full compliance will take place in the foreseeable future. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-29-0.u7976	Thank you. Before I give the Minister my word, after he's called, one word. In accordance with Articles 27 and 87, paragraphs 2 and 3 are replaced by the following: Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will work today after 18 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to pass laws on the agenda of this session as soon as possible. The word has Minister Nedimovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-29-0.u7977	The Honorable President, honourable fellow Members, as there is no transmission at the moment, I cannot say that I would like to say something for the public, but it is important for the debate we have with each other. I won't answer after everyone, I'll try to sublimate everything. Look, before dawn, it can't be dawn, it can't ever be, it can't ever be. So is the story of the Agricultural Market Regulation Act, what you just mentioned, Mr. Fremond, about the first quarter of 2016. I wish that was what it was. This text of the law has been for two years, however, this crown has taken matters under its own and has not simply been an opportunity for it. I think it's better to pass a regulation like this anytime than never. What is doubtless and what you just said and what your predecessors, Mr Markovic and the lady said before, we are passing this law because of Serbia. I agree, our path is the EU, it is our goal and it is not disputed. I am also grateful to them for the IPARD, for the funds we receive and for all the other support they give us, but we are changing this to change Serbia, to change the Serbian agricultural product market and to protect, as Mr. Palma would say, small agricultural producers from the market. They were once referred to cooperatives. Everything they produce takes away his cooperative, so whether it was first class, second class, 19th class. That's what happened, but it's gone, and we need to adjust to the time we live in. I absolutely agree with your claims about Poland and about Hungary, skepticism, Euroscepticism that existed among agricultural producers in the EU, but the biggest Eurofanatism has been right among agricultural producers since the moment of EU accession, related to the implementation of agricultural policy. Imagine what a minister of agriculture I would be if I had five times the budget. Anyone, when you have 450 million, someone else gives you out of the European funds a billion and six million. You know, the IPARD is 175 million euros in five years, and this gives you a billion and 600 million, both for hectares and for kilos and for liters and for all living. Again, there's one other thing. We have to do this all for the future and to solve and protect our small agricultural producers. You just mentioned one thing about body classing standards, paying by quality and milk and meat. I'm just gonna take a quick look at that. That's the best way to pay. Whoever has the good stuff gets the bigger money. Whoever has the milk that's white gets less subsidies and less money. In doing so, we must keep an eye on what space it comes from, not just that. That Mr. Palma is absolutely right, we need to protect through this... (inaudible) a project with two, three, four cows, because the largest number of them with that numerous condition on their farm. Again, on the other hand, we need to get those who are pulling the whole system, as I would say, to spray them. That's why we built a lab to control the quality of milk so that milk can be paid in quality. That's what it's supposed to be. It's not a one-night stand, we decide from today, we only pay quality, the rest we don't care about. What would that look like? It's also about classing the hulls. We already have such things going on in some slaughterhouses, but there are no bodies authorized by the state that controls that regularity. For example, I've known about the situation, "Mitros", for three years now, paying for meat by quality, literally as if it had taken effect classing the carcases, and it's not, it's only now. Some agricultural producers who have better meat, it suits them and carry them there. Then he doesn't get a kilo of live scale, as we figure it out, he doesn't get 160 dinars, he gets 167, 168 dinars. If his meat is better or 156 if the meat is smaller. It's a thing that we have to strive for and it's just like that. If you want to participate in one global market, and we've all defined ourselves for it, then that's how it has to be. I just have one more thing to say in the end. This law will greatly benefit those who implement agricultural policy in the years ahead of us, for the next four, five years. It will have a tool that when the crisis comes to response, and we have so far not had that tool in full capacity of that word. We had some manual methods that couldn't solve all the situations, and here for 20 goods, including all the fruits and vegetables, all the meat, we just didn't put the antelopes and the gnomes inside, because there isn't any in us, but everything, whatever comes to mind, is covered by the intervention measures that the state can carry out. You will see, God gives, whoever does this, and if he has the will to do with it, how much demand for a Serbian slave, I say deliberately to a slave from all over Serbia, jump when we implement this law, when we mark in every shelf of goods that is from Serbia, so buy if you want anything, but you have a choice. When a man has a choice, he can always make progress.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-29-0.u7978	Thank you. The word has the mandated representative of the SPS parliamentary group, MP Dijana Radovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-29-0.u7979	Dear Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly, the Honorable Ministers Mr Nedimovic, the Honorable Mr Katanic, fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, as my colleagues have said before me, is before us today the law on the regulation of the agricultural market, extremely important, which promotes our legal framework in the area of agriculture. The position of the SPS parliamentary group is that this bill represents a significant step and significant progress, as for the first time the rules on the agricultural product market are regulated by law. For our country that has huge agricultural potential, this is extremely important and therefore whenever we talk about the aspect of agricultural production, we start from the fact that agriculture is one of the development priorities of our country. Folkly speaking, in Serbia, not only is it born of things that are not planted, and that is indeed the case. We know that the country that produces its food is a safe country and for our country is a strategic sector of agriculture. If we look at global estimates of food shortages, in the next decades our ambition and our interest in improving agricultural production will be increasingly important, as far as our development priorities are concerned. This is also reflected in the affirmative management of our agricultural policy, in the country's responsible attitude towards agricultural resources, but also in all those measures that the Ministry of Agriculture is implementing to encourage our farmers to invest as much as possible and to make as many products available. The importance of agriculture and its priority in our country was also an opportunity to see in 2014, when the then Ministry of Agriculture and Environmental Protection developed the Strategy for the Development of Agriculture and Rural Development for a 10-year period, from 2014 to 2024. This strategy looked at all the development potentials of our agricultural production, but also of rural development and proposed systematic measures to strengthen this sector, of course, where it also takes a significant place for rural development, as well as for the development of the village as a carrier of overall agricultural development. The strategy highlights a multi-sectoral approach, which we talked about earlier, i.e. the cross-sectoral conditionality of agricultural development, with a focus on sustainable development, but above all, environmental protection. It is also based on the approximation of the European Union's international standards and requirements. It is this strategy, as one of the five starting grounds for planning a new agricultural policy in this period, that defines what we are talking about today – the need to increase the efficiency of the food chain, but also the competitiveness of the agricultural and food sector. So, at the heart of this strategy itself is to link production to processing, in order to achieve a strategic goal, which is to sell finished products instead of raw materials, simply to sell our finished products, to produce a higher degree of processing than to sell raw materials. What we should continue to insist on is that agricultural production has an accent on the development of the agricultural, or food industry, which would be much more processed by agricultural products. Also, I think this is extremely important because we have the opportunity to motivate our agricultural producers to process their agricultural products more, but also to motivate them not to think exclusively as farmers, but also to think as businessmen. Therefore, the formation and sale of the final product instead of the raw product is something that will help us transform from the exporter raw materials to the exporter of finished products, i.e. all those products and foods based on agricultural resources. That is why regulation of the agricultural products market and the introduction of new market regulation mechanisms is necessary in order for our agriculture to continue to develop and meet European standards. Also, I think it is extremely good that Serbia has decided to pass the Law on the regulation of the agricultural products market, so that the state can regulate, that is, in the event of market disturbances in intervention measures, protect domestic agricultural production. This law is the representation and management of agricultural risks, in order to preserve agricultural components in all market circumstances. It's too expensive for our country to allow productive and market oscillations that would mean loss, collapse, but also the stalemate of certain sectors of agriculture. The proposal for this law also allows us to systematically influence the position of each participant, i.e. to affect the entire chain of manufacturers, buyers, trades and consumers, of course, if there is a need. What we have a chance to see in this bill is that the Agrarian Payments Authority has just received one new authority, namely that it has a special body to deal with the determination of producer prices, price monitoring, regulation of the situation, if there are any market disturbances. This law is particularly important for me to regulate the situation of buyers, which means that buyers will have to have certain guarantees, i.e. if they want to buy their products they also have to invest a certain deposit in order for manufacturers to have the security that they can sell and charge. A moment ago, Ministers, you also mentioned 2017, the season of raspberries, which I believe, and how it remained in the bad memory of all raspberries producers, especially in the district where I come from, the Zlatibor County, especially in the municipalities of Priboj and Prepolje, where we had perhaps the most drastic examples and the negative situations where certain agricultural producers not only had a low price, but did not charge the entire family for that year. This is extremely important not only from the point of view of financial loss for these agricultural producers, but from a broader impact that has had on our area, given that I know some agricultural producers who have had such experience and, unfortunately, they are no longer engaged in agriculture. They have abandoned their raspberries, they have been discouraged to continue to participate in this, and that is something that we are about to warn these situations by this law, namely to enable our farmers to be safe to regain that confidence in the system, which has just been questioned by those years. This law introduces clear standards to make the placement as simple, more transparent and secure as possible, because if something is important in this process from field to table, it is precisely the predictability of agricultural production and the responsibility of all participants participating in the agricultural product market. Most importantly, in my opinion, the component of this law is to protect our agricultural producers from potential malfeasances which, we had the chance to see, were exposed. In order for this law to be applied as best as possible, it will be necessary, of course, in the coming period to adopt and appropriate sublegal acts, in order to better regulate and what is important is that it is in a certain way in line with the elements of the primary and secondary law of the European Union, which is a condition that our agricultural products are also more representative on the European market, which is more than 500 million inhabitants. In that sense, this law is the legal basis for all forms of standardisation of our agricultural product, in order to put them on the market. The law treats all stages of production and processing, which should provide the required quality, from way of production, through classification, sorting, or classification, method of processing, ultimately to storage and goods and to agricultural product placements. The organisation of the agricultural products market covers products in the cereals sector, of all kinds of meat, milk, tobacco, bee products and other products, and the marketing standards prescribed, of course, vary from the type of agricultural products. I believe that the adoption of the laws on the regulation of the agricultural products market will also create a single legal framework that will allow for further improvement and development of the Serbian market information system, in order to collect, process and use data on prices in small, large, whether this is the amount of agricultural products offered or other inputs. The bottom line of this data exchange is that at home level, through the provision of information from participants on the domestic market, they get relevant domestic institutions, but also that other countries that are interested in buying our agricultural products also come forward. You spoke to ministers earlier on about Chapter 11 as we join the EU, which is that it is extremely important for our country, but also that one of the most demanding chapters. It is very important that what precedes this process is to gradually adapt to production and market rules through the application of the predictable customs regime that you just spoke of, the fight against monopoly, the introduction of state aid control rules, etc. and part of this process is certainly the introduction into the legislative framework of the functioning of the agricultural market, which we will achieve just by implementing this law. The basic objectives that we should expect and which we will achieve by adopting this law are by establishing market regulation mechanisms, by connecting them to a single legal framework, by increasing the capacity of agricultural holdings to engage in global trade chains, by improving our export potential, by reducing the grey economy, which is extremely important, by strengthening visibility, but also by identifying domestic products on the market. This last time I mentioned it is particularly important because agricultural products with a geographical indication represent a kind of branding of our country and give Serbian agriculture an additional impulse, because it is the highest level of quality of products, which is the best opportunity to valorise our agriculture. Thus, according to the data I came to from the end of 2019 of 53 products marked geographical origin 47 belong to the category of agricultural and food industry. This is very important because many Serbian agricultural products are our brand, known on the international market, and since I come as I just said from the Zlatibor County, I can mention that it is probably the most representative of our Aryan raspberries, Užička prosciutto, Zlatarski and Sjenički cheese, therefore we are recognizable, but nothing less is important than any other recognizable brands that come from other parts of Serbia such as Leskovac Ajvar, Futoski kukus, Pirotski kakavalj, Fruskogorska and Vršačka wine, etc. Our task is to keep the list of these brands as long as possible, to protect our agricultural producers from any risks, but also to achieve the quality that will best recommend us to a selective and demanding market. Finally, in general, to recapture this law has two fundamental objectives, it is one to protect and improve our domestic agricultural production and another to help us achieve a quality that will enable us to match equally on both European and global markets. For this reason, this bill of law, the SPS parliamentary group, sees it as a significant step towards that goal, the achievement of agricultural policy, and we will be pleased to support it in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-29-0.u7980	Thank you. The word has the mandated representative of the PUPS parliamentary group, Tri "P". Mr. Hadji Milorad Stosic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-29-0.u7981	I thank the chairman, with an apology that I violated the small order of the list since I had a meeting with delegates in the Serbian-female business of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce. The Honorable Chairman, distinguished ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, respected citizens of Serbia. In today's debate, we have a bill on the regulation of the agricultural market, which the government has submitted as a very important law for the wider population of our citizens. At the very beginning, I would like to point out that the PUPS parliamentary group, Three "P" in the voting day, will give its support for the adoption of this law. Agriculture in the Republic of Serbia is a specific sector, which unites and imports everything from producers to customers and consumers. The importance of agriculture is reflected in food production and, therefore, agriculture should be recognised as one of the strategic directions of development and at the republican level, but certainly also at the levels of local self-government. The need for this type of law also arises in order to regulate the market for agricultural products, and to create conditions for the activation of the requirements and measures of the regulation of the market with a view to the existence of a legislative and institutional framework for the organisation of the common market in agricultural products at the moment of EU accession. The adoption of a market regulation law on agricultural sales is one of our main obligations, when it comes to the EU accession process in the area of agriculture and should implement more measures to better monitor the situation and trends in the agricultural market. This legal framework will allow trade, regulate between producers and buyers by contract and thus avoid abuses and damages for producers themselves. In the past practice manufacturers, direct producers had various unpleasantness, precisely with various purchases, purchases and others who were interested in their goods. There are firstly prescribed obligations for purchasers of certain characteristic agricultural raw materials, such as milk, sugar, tobacco, hops and others, to provide information on contracted production, to sell on the supply of these products in order to obtain real indicators in these productions and their market movement. I would like to stress that in practice we already have one system of collecting market information from the field of agriculture being carried out by the competent ministry, but now certain legal bases will be laid for its functioning, since it is currently functioning, primarily on the basis of sublegal acts. The new law, in particular, puts an emphasis on increasing the capacity of agricultural holdings, the conclusion in large market chains, through interconnection and the establishment of market standards. Strengthening the motivation of manufacturers for various forms of association, as well as increasing visibility and visibility of domestic products on the market. Now you can see the full importance, the launch of a project in 500 cooperatives, 500 villages, which has exceeded all expectations instead of 500 we now have close to 1,000 newly founded cooperatives plus available cooperatives that will allow better integration of the agricultural producer with the market. On the other hand, this law introduces in Article 25 the possibility of public intervention on the market of certain products of cereals, meat, milk, in such a way that these products will be bought and stored from the manufacturer, in cases where the price occurs on the market will fall below the reference price for those products, which will be determined by the Government. Their later sales must not be made in a way that would potentially cause market disturbances and result in a new drop in prices. Also, besides the public, it is now as a special category, recognised and private storage of these products, and potential private warehouses will enter the system of storage of agricultural products and be able to use state support programmes, and this should encourage other entrepreneurs to engage themselves in this area of business. We have had some cases that in some parts of the country sometimes come to protest agricultural producers, among other things, because they do not have the right places to store their products in some, above all, in their own age. Almost every year we have had and we have a rabble protest, cherry growers, cabbages, potatoes, dairy producers, but also other agricultural products. I also believe that it is very positive that this law in Article 29 recognises the need for the first time to promote the healthy diet of our children and grandchildren, so this law requires the Government to prescribe specific programmes for these purposes and, within them, concrete measures to improve nutrition in pre-school and school institutions. Since the whole law makes it clear that it refers to domestic agricultural products, I think there is a good potential here, that domestic producers connect with these institutions and thus create multiple useful co-operation for all sides, especially for organised and secure purchases of domestic fruit and vegetables. What is still the most important newspaper in this law is that production organisations are recognized as a new form of integration of agricultural producers within their business, processing, distribution, packaging, control and organisation of the storage of agricultural products. We today have specialized cooperatives that can be identified as production organisations, but certainly complex cooperatives that can be in full capacity both as production and as market operators. It is particularly important that Article 18 of the proposed law provides that those in the performance of their activities will also be able to receive financial support from the state for five years where, in the first year, they will be, even 100% cost-covering, with a gradual reduction of up to 80% in the fifth year, while users of such types will be helped to set up a basic requirement for the rational spending of funds and production information. These organisations will have the right to association that will be registered with the ministry, so that they can have more serious performances towards the state, the banking sector and other market participants with a higher level of security. If we consider these measures, they should give significant results in creating a significantly more favourable business environment in agriculture in a more stable position for our farmers on the market, thereby in the ultimate line of life conservation in our villages. The village's ministry has launched a series of projects that meet the conditions for a better and more desirable life in the country, and thus rebuilding and reviving Serbia's village. This law further achieves better conditions for living and working in the country, thus remaining young people in the country, on their property and on their own. We are witnessing that the biggest problem of agricultural producers is the insecure price for their products that can only be solved through the State guarantee for safe prices of strategic agricultural products. In order to establish, each year, the price for certain products and, where the market price for certain products is established in advance, for any reason lower than that for which the difference has been found to be paid to the farmer. This can be resolved if certain financial resources are provided in accordance with the proposal of the academic board for the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts and the Ministry of Agriculture, which is the establishment of a National Guarantee Fund, which would provide producers with a guarantee price for certain strategically important agricultural products. Following the adoption of this law, the government will have a very responsible task of implementing these provisions in a proper manner through appropriate sublaws, which we hope will be done very quickly. Given that this law, with these benefits towards agricultural producers, is considered to be very good legal proposals, and therefore the PUPS parliamentary group - "Tri P", will give its support in the day of voting for its adoption. Also, the PUPS parliamentary group – "Tri P", will support other proposals and legal solutions discussed at this session in the voting day and vote for it. Dear friends and respected citizens of Serbia, I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-29-0.u7982	Thank you. For our children, Mr. Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-29-0.u7983	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there is no country, there is no state in Europe that cruelly places agriculture on the market. There's no such state. If someone thinks that the law regulates the Serbian market in a certain way, that is not true. This law does not regulate the market, but regulates the market for agricultural products. So it introduces some order into the prices of a single market, a large market called the Republic of Serbia, and God gives me a bigger market called the regional market, which is more accessible to us than some European and Russian markets. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, agriculture is a rare branch. The production of the dinar is turned once a year, and sometimes, in livestock, it takes you three years to make the first piece of money in the production of milk, if you start from a wrapped female calf. This type of production requires state support and there is no economically developed country in Europe, regardless of their economy and industry being very strong, which does not take care of agriculture, such a country in Europe simply does not exist. Often our people misread the European common agricultural policy, it is primarily due to the interests of EU countries, or earlier the European Community. It is rare for those who know that in Roman contracts, the European Community, apart from coal and steel, took agriculture as a third thing. So they felt that the development of agriculture, then in the European Community, now the European Union is of strategic importance to the European Community, that is, the EU. I, as president of the People's Peasants' Party, knew in 1999 that we would never exercise power on our own, but we courageously entered the programme, as our goal, to join the European Community, which has now grown into the European Union, precisely because of agricultural policy. The biggest profit since joining the EU will be for our agriculture. Currently, Bulgaria, which has about 100,000 -- 200,000 hectares of less processed land than Serbia only gets 789m euros for direct payments, plus rural development of over 300 and a few million people, Bulgaria gets over 1.2 billion for a boost in agriculture only because it is an EU member. It is expected that one day when we are members of the EU, and I have already said before, not at the cost of sacrificing our territories that Serbian farmers get about 1.3 billion from EU funds because 45% of the European budget is defined for agriculture in their common agricultural policy. I must say, thanks to this huge money, their agricultural policy is predictable and long-term. It is changed every seven years, or only mildly complemented because they basically do not have any sudden change from the first seven years in which they draw their agricultural policy. At this point in seven years, the EU will allocate 385 billion euros in the next period. It's at 104 million acres as far as they're working, it's over 500 euros per hectare if you take a hectare as a measure. It's thanks to their strong industry and a rich budget from which they can single out. At this point, we have increased incentives by two or more times compared to 2012 and our overall incentives for this year will be somewhere at 400m euros, which is three times less than that of EU members. The money they would receive from them is money not only from our taxpayers, but also from taxpayers all over the EU, while these 400m euros are coming from our budget from our taxpayers. I have to tell the farmers when they watch this delayed transfer that they need to get more involved on the IPARD project, because at this point the EU and our wish is that our agriculture is adapted to the European common agricultural policy and that is why IPARD 3, the next measure, and another IPARD 2 has another round of competitions. So my request is for them to apply as many as possible and compete for these European funds, because at this point the money we receive from the EU is exclusively from the EU taxpayers, so we are not singled out. What's fracking me in a certain way is that we use the national measures with 130% and use our funds that separate our taxpayers, and that, let's say, what the EU sets out, to prepare us through IPARD projects, that we've used and so far paid for, say, 10-15 percent of those 175 million euros, as far as we can withdraw in accordance with the IPARD II competitions. This year is the final year for the IPARD competitions. After all, we can only use the funds that we approve of this year, and in the next period, but now they have to compete as much as possible to meet those 175m euros, because if we don't meet it, the EU won't regret it because it hasn't placed those funds that were intended for us, but they can thank us for being so naive as farmers, for not competing enough for those funds and not using them. I think it's the last time we do that, given that the controls are a little tighter and more rigorous with IPARD's resources. I believe that because of this, a certain number of farmers have not benefited from these funds that are currently available to us. Just to warn those critics who claim that because of the size of the property we cannot run a common European agricultural policy, to tell them that 70 % of the property is less than five hectares in the EU, and it seems to me that around 30 % is less than two hectares. So they only specialize in a certain way in their agricultural production and rich, generous EU support through subsidies, incentives, regressions and so on, to make their farmers more satisfied than we are right now. What we need to do, not only this law, is that agricultural policy is predictable to us, that our rules are permanent and that subsidies are paid in good time, which has not been the case so far, because we've always had more agricultural producers showing up at the competition than we've designed on the basis of previous and previous years. That is why it would be good for the Ministry of Finance to know that farmers will not take money to the White World Sea, Mauritius, Kukova and other islands, but that every payment to farmers is noble for Serbia's agriculture and economy, because farmers will not take that money to the sea, 95% and they haven't seen the sea, those 5% served the navy. They'll invest it in agricultural production. So it will go for more quality seeds, fruit material, anti-urban networks, better cattle and so on and thus raise GDP. Every penny invested in agriculture like potatoes he throws out. If you visit him, throw out 10 dinars more than you've invested, and that's why my appeal to the Ministry of Finance to pay special attention to agricultural production. What else do we have to do? To pay special attention to small farmers, because they are important, like small businesses and medium-sized enterprises for industry and economy. So small farmers are rich and very important for the development of agriculture, because there are many and most small farmers still have something of cattle, so at this point, thanks to small farmers, we have no more serious problem with livestock than we would have if their production were shut down. That is why subsidies, regressions and all other incomes are needed to try to focus to a slightly larger extent for small farmers, because they are very important for sustainable, long-term and organic agricultural production and thus keep them tied to the country. It's not just a agricultural issue anymore, it's a demographic issue now. If we support small farmers, they are mostly along our borders and along our provinces, administrative lines, most of these small farmers live in these areas. If we pay them in a certain way for farming and living in these areas, in this case we have a demographic positive impact, because if these territories are emptied because of the trend of metropolisation, because regardless of the birth rate in Belgrade is also weak, it does not lose its population and there is a risk of moving to several major cities and leaving our territories empty. It may occur that we live in 80-90 percent of cases in Belgrade, Novi Sad, Kragujevac, Nis, Zrenjanin, Subotica, Kruševec, Kralje, and that our territories, along the borders and administrative lines, remain empty and in such situations, if we empty our territories with our own people, there is a danger that some other people may eventually settle these territories, and therefore this is an extremely demographic issue, to bind through small farms of these people to the country, or to safeguard the sovereignty of the country. The country's food sovereignty is also very important that a country that has surplus food in this region, and this has shown itself during the pandemic, has a certain political advantage in the region because it has excess food compared to those who do not have enough food and do not have enough drinking water. In this way, through agricultural and food production, through these surpluses, we can gain some political power in the region and the best witnesses were our citizens who had no problem in supplying, and we have also supplied the market for the surrounding countries in the region and the largest surplus in agriculture and the food industry are being achieved in the countries around us. Also, these ultranationalists, I belong to the nationalists, to say that we both care about the EU and Russia, and I will set an example of raspberries and apples. So 95% of our apples go to Russia, and 95% of the raspberries and blueberries go to the EU market, so we have very clear market views from agriculture, that Russia is important to us, but that we also care about the EU because of the market for certain agricultural and food products. I always cite an example of Denmark and the Netherlands, which in agriculture should be some example of how we should look at it. For example, the Netherlands that has two times less land than Serbia, a far worse climate, is a leading, say, producer in vegetables. These special mirrors make up for not having enough sun, unlike Serbia. For example, the Netherlands has exports from agriculture and the food industry of 87 billion euros and is second in power in the world. In front of them, there's little U.S.A., which has several hundred times more territory. Also, for example, Denmark should be taken. Therefore, it is necessary to see their co-operation and how they ensure that there is no conflict between manufacturers and processors for the simple reason that they have cooperatives or cooperatives that are not only producers, but also processors. They are also farm owners, and on the other hand they own a percentage of processing facilities today, for example, Denmark exports 28 million pigs, which is ten times more than we do, although Denmark has slightly less agricultural land. Do you know how many Denmark exports its agricultural products, or cereals, that it produces in millions of tonnes, as well as we do? Their exports are zero. All uses for our livestock farming, and therefore my appeal is always to make plant production through livestock production and processing of meat, milk, eggs, in such a way that we increase income per hectare, because now in Vojvodina we can reach income of 1,500, and at most through the tail 2,000 euros per hectare, but if our plant production was used for our livestock production, in such a situation we would earn 4,000 euros in a hectare instead of 1,500 euros through the production of meat, milk and eggs. Reworked, not quite finally, that would bring about five to six billion to this country's additional income, and that money would somehow reach all of us, as well as the MPs. We'd all have bigger salaries. In order to have higher wages and to have higher and stable pensions, we have to earn it. We can't, unlike the previous regimes, live off the man in charge alone, but about now we're living on the earned part and we're paying back that part of the debt when they didn't raise the economy, but the salaries and pensions were only on loans that were very expensive. We as a country need to produce good food, like Danes. The Danes do not have farmers on the road for a simple reason why, on the one hand, producers, if they lose something in primary production and livestock production, earn it through processing, because there are owners of certain slaughterhouses and relatively delivered agricultural products, relatively share profits, so they do not care about the most important things that matter to us, the ransom price. With our agricultural producers, of course, want the ransom price to be as high as possible, so when pigs are 230 dinars, they don't rebel, but when they drop to 120 dinars, then we have a riot to the road. That doesn't matter with the Danes because they have this predictable long-term agricultural policy that we just need to create and this law is an opportunity, I don't know if we're going to have enough money to make this longer-term, more stable, predictable agricultural policy. I urge that we establish a fund that will be like the RFZO, that the Ministry of Agriculture monitors, and that it is filled by all consumers, to introduce one dinar per article, one dinar per article. So on three meals as much as you use three items, about food agriculture or food charge three dinars. Today, 20 million food and agricultural products are sold in Serbia, which are juices, eggs, fruits, vegetables, etc., bread. If we raise just one dollar, we have 20 million a day. That 20 million times 365 days, that would be seven million and 300. It would be a fund that would be filled and empty only if it were necessary for farmers, through those processing organisations, to conclude that this intervention is needed, that the Ministry would give consent so as not to abuse and intervene in such a way, and that this is not classical state aid and in such a way make even more stable prices, i.e. for farmers to be paid off, for consumers to be secure in good supply, and for the state to be safe, strategically secure from possible economic pressures, military, some sanctions, etc. To conclude, to finish the discussion with two sayings. One of Kissinger's -- who controls food, it controls people. A second saying - whose food you eat, you sing his songs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-29-0.u7984	Thank you, Mr. Ristichevich. We're going to go to the list of signed up for the word. The word is Milija Miletic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-29-0.u7985	I thank you, Dr. Orlic. Dear Ministers Nedimovic, fellow MPs, citizens of Serbia, I am Milija Miletic and I come from Svrlig. It is the most beautiful municipality in Serbia located near the town of Nis, which is the most beautiful city in Serbia. By the way, I was selected from the list Aleksandar Vukic – For our children and in the Assembly I represent the United Peasant Party. My colleague Marian, who spoke before me, represents and is president of the People's Peasants' Party. We here in the congregation are trying and in every place we are talking about problems, things we have to solve in agricultural production. I think this is another law needed to regulate the agricultural production market, to regulate those things that had a lot of problems. By the way, I'm here in the Assembly a supporter of what's going on in these small areas, in mountainous and mountainous areas, in these areas are the more difficult conditions of life, where our village, our farmers are much harder to exercise their rights, much harder to fight for every penny so that they can survive tomorrow, where the chance in agriculture is, I speak rhetorically, when it comes to realisation, these people are much harder to realize all of this for the benefit of all of them. The conditions of the lives of all our people in such areas, in such villages, are bad, there are some things to change, but as far as agriculture is concerned, our farmer and our peasant have always fought for their country. These agricultural producers will never ask for social assistance, they will never give up their piece of land, and that's what's in their hearts and souls. Otherwise, this law that we are talking about allows the state of Serbia, through the competent Ministry of Agriculture, to intervene when it is a difficult situation, as it has been before, whether these are problems with the amount of milk to be sold, some dairy products, whether it is meat, whether it is some grains, some fruit or anything. The situation has been so alarming many times, and where the state is on a proposal from the Ministry of Agriculture, and where we have spoken on our Committee on Agriculture many times, intervened, to help these people to at least extract what they have invested, that there is no profit. It is now a law that will be able to help these people, to be given financial assistance, to be able to overcome these problems, and to return what was invested, as I said earlier, but on the other hand, we had proposals under the Committee's law, several amendments, where we had amendments concerning beekeeping. That's what I was talking about, and I think beekeeping is a great chance, that there's a large number of our beekeepers dealing with agriculture. There were amendments to cattle farming. What else can I say? This law will eliminate some things. In particular, I mean some things that are bad. By the way, let me remind you, I've been a veterinary technician on the ground for 17 years, doing that job. In the past 10 to 12 years, and even now, there is no organized ransom, among our agricultural producers, different personalities come to our peasants who do not have a company or have a company that is both a purse and a bow and they cheat people. As for livestock, we have small farmers who have a few cows, 10-15 sheep. Such is the production in these villages and in these municipalities, such as my municipality, where there are a large number of such producers, these small ones. When someone, say, has two calves to sell, no ransom, some people come to him, cheat on his scale, when the measurements of that calf cheat on him, cheat on him when they're paying, because they're waving at our old cattlemen, so this law gives us the opportunity to eliminate it, because that's what it takes. Whoever wants to deal with this ransom tomorrow, whether it's about livestock, about fruit growing, what they're doing must have some guarantee, must have some possibility that tomorrow, if a man or those people don't pay off that goods, and that goods for these people is life, because they don't have another source of income, these people will be able to be charged from those guarantees they give to the Serbian state so they can do so. It's the right thing to do. One of the good things is what the Ministry's recommendation is to provide our children who are at school with our own milk, so they can consume it, that they can drink it. It's a recommendation and it's a really good move, Minister. It's on the line of recommendation, but it's a good thing. Otherwise, when we touched on this topic of dairy, we had several milk organizations in southeast Serbia that were working on milk processing, buying milk and everything else. There was a strong company that got the approval of the Anti-Monopoly Commission where certain milkers were functional on our ground, in Nis, Svrlig, Zajecar. These milkmen worked to produce, purchase, buy milk and everything else. They had a placement in these areas, they hired. For example, the low-milk man had over 150 workers, the milkman in Srlig had over 50 workers, in Zajecar. Now I can say that these milkers no longer exist, that there are no ransoms, that these workers are no longer busy and we have to work on it, we have to protect our agricultural producers, that there is a ransom, but that they are employed in this production by our workers, in dairy, livestock, or other branches in agriculture. Once again, honourable ministers, I will vote in favour of this bill because it is good and I am sure that what we are saying will be heard by Marijan Rističević and the Government to change some things for the sake of our agricultural producers, our village and our agriculture. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-29-0.u7986	Thank you, Mr. Miletic. The next reported is Vladan Glisic. He's not here. He forgot to sign up again. The word is Milimir Vujadinović.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-29-0.u7987	Okay. There will be opposition as an opposition. They forgot to come to parliament, but I guess that's a good thing for the Serbian opposition. Well, thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues, respected ministers, respected citizens of Serbia, somehow when you say agriculture, ministers, and when you say Vojvodina, it's kind of two related concepts or associations or one by one, with all due respect to all other regions and all other agricultural producers. You, Minister, went to Vojvodina a few days ago, Sobota, first of all. You were on the spot with what is the situation and what is the state of agriculture in Vojvodina, but also with what the city administration and mayor of Subotica are doing when it comes to this area. It is clear that warfare is one of the striking things about agriculture in Vojvodina, and the fact is that in wartime things are quite solid. However, this could not be said when it comes to livestock farming and there are certain problems, but I must also point out what you do and your ministry and government together, when it comes to subsidies primarily for dairy producers, which seem to me to be some seven dinars per litre if I am right, if you do not correct me, and what is an important advantage, which should be pointed out and an important measure, because in Vojvodina where there are a lot of state land producers, cattlemen, all milk producers, hectares of land receive 160 euros, which is far below the market price that is at 400 euros, if I am not mistaken, and that is a good incentive for agricultural producers, i.e. milk producers in Vojvodina. If we were to add it all together somewhere, it seems to me, I've added it here, that approximately that state aid for every producer somewhere at 600 euros, Minister, less, more is a good thing. However, I want to point out, when you were already in Subotica, and the city administration's contribution, because in addition to having a seriously difficult year behind us burdened with pandemics, the city singles out 90 million dinars for agriculture alone. Of that, about half goes to the army routes, and thus is practically a serious partner to the government and to your ministry in this business. Together, you and the city are following politics, or your ministry is following the government's policy, and above all, the president. I think it's important that you persist. Why am I saying this? Well, you saw the European Bank's assessment of reconstruction and development this morning where estimates for the development of the Serbian economy have been raised to about 6% since this morning. So, GDP growth is projected to be 6%. To continue this trend requires serious work and a serious push for both your ministry and local self-government and each of us in particular, and at the head of these affairs and at the top of the policy that we are doing today, which delivers these results, the president of the state stands above all. That is why I am telling you that this start is important to us to endure in this, because agriculture is a clear and important part of what awaits us by the end of the year, GDP growth of 6%, and this GDP growth is a condition for a better life for all of us, not only in Serbia depends on our farmers and our people, if you want to go to Krupa in the Union in the westernmost part of Republika Srpska and Vranja and our people in Igal and those below Horgos. I'm saying this to make you understand the importance, and I don't doubt that you're doing it, but to further understand the importance of the work that you're doing today and that we are ultimately discussing in this distinguished Parliament today. Finally, while, Minister, you are certainly doing this job in this way, while the government is doing the job, do not doubt that you will have the support of both this law and other things in parliament, and most importantly in the people. For the end, one thing's interesting. On today 1877, Petar Kocic, a Serbian writer and MP in the BiH Parliament, was born with one of the most significant works of "Jasvac in front of the court", which not one metaphorical way speaks of the Serbian peasant's resistance to the great powers of that time and great powers. It is said that at the time, the Serbian peasant was someone who was a paradigm of the struggle for the survival of the people and the state. Incidentally or not, today in parliament, the debate on a farmer or a Serb peasant again seems to have not changed much since that time when this work occurred, that the Serbian peasant remains today a dam and a protector of the interests of the state and the people against the great powers of this time. Always keep that in mind, and we'll certainly support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-29-0.u7988	Thank you, Mr. Vujadinović. The word is Branimir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-29-0.u7989	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Ministers, colleagues and colleagues, we often discuss laws in parliament, amendments and additions to the laws concerning the alignment of our legal framework with EU standards, but today when we talk about the Law on Organisation of the Markets for Agricultural Products, it has a special place. In addition to the Law on Agriculture and Rural Development and in the Law on Incentives in Agriculture and Rural Development, this law provides a strong basis for the development of agricultural activity in Serbia. By adopting this law, we will create a single framework, create a favourable environment to improve the market for agricultural products. Quality standards, market intervention, market information and compliance with other countries' standards are just some of the segments treated by this law. When we talk about trade already at the beginning we're talking about that this area is regulated only by the Law on Trade, we have to realize that the principles of the market economy can't simply be translated into the area of agriculture. Simply, every country in the world that deals seriously with agricultural and agricultural production is subsidizing in this area and it is a common practice everywhere in the world. That's the only way we can secure a stable and supply market. Imagine what kind of turbulence would occur on the market if the agricultural sector applied the harsh laws of the market economy, the harsh laws, I can say freely, offers and demand without any interventions and without any subsidies. This law allows us to have new mechanisms available, that the state reacts on the market and implies four types of intervention. In addition to special and urgent interventions, I'll set up two more. These are public interventions and support private storage. Public interventions mean that they will know what the reference price will be, how it is determined and during what period it is determined. On the other hand, another clear message is sent to manufacturers that the quality of their products will also be taken into account and therefore the price of the product will be determined. As regards support for private storage, we have already said enough and it is important to open up a new mechanism in this way, to balance the price on the agricultural product market in a situation where certain disturbances occur. Examples of raspberries and meat are listed where certain subsidies will be sent to warehouses to store certain goods until prices on the market are stabilised. It is also important that the control body, especially the professional body, build credibility, that manufacturers gain full confidence in such a system and that these evaluations be objective to stimulate producers on the one hand to focus on quality, but also that buyers do not remain short sleeves. It is important to avoid situations such as before to evaluate the quality of purchasers exclusively and therefore they determine the price of the product, and manufacturers do not have any mechanisms to prove the quality of their products. What farmers need is certainty, that they have some sort of guaranteed price. We left this concept of guaranteed prices in a literal sense 20 years ago, but it is therefore important for the state to find mechanisms to help farmers never to be lost. There are mechanisms that are acceptable and such a system exists already in the European Union. Producers have every right to expect some kind of guaranteed prices, as this is the only way they can secure income for themselves, but also the future for agricultural production. The adoption of this law will allow the contract to regulate the relationship between the buyer and the manufacturer and in this way avoid any abuse against producers, but also to protect buyers. The aim is to improve the development of agriculture by new legal proposals, so that farmers themselves can count on security when we talk about buying and buying-in prices, and by adopting standards to achieve such quality of products that our products are competitive on the world market. And that will, of course, have a positive impact on the export of agricultural products. These are just some of the reasons why the Social Democratic Party of Serbia will support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-29-0.u7990	I also thank Mr. Jovanovic. The word has a National MP, Slavenko Unkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-29-0.u7991	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers, Mr Katanic, Mr Nedimovic, dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, has been through a very crisis years and has shown how important agriculture is for the economy of our country and how it has helped keep our economic stability at a high level. In 2020, it was a record for an external trade exchange of over four billion dollars. Agriculture was the only one in the past year to achieve a growth rate above 5% and GDP participation, according to all estimates, was certainly over 10%. One of the main problems in our country's agricultural policy is short-term planning. Strategic planning for up to five years would be particularly necessary for agricultural producers who want to know what to sow and grow and want guaranteed prices for their products. Unique Serbia has been insisting on this issue for years and points to problems of this kind. Agriculture production anywhere in the world depends on the free market, and our country has to provide mechanisms that can ensure the stability of production and supply of markets, and that is the essence of this law today. Dear Mr. Minister, I'll remind you that we today in Vojvodina have a rich Dukeland of 19 undeveloped municipalities. And how can we explain to someone who's guilty, and why is that? Of course, it's our fault for decades back. Perhaps now is the right opportunity to adopt a long-term strategy that would systematically address the accumulated problems. Just to remind you that aside from your ministry, these problems are now being addressed by the Ministry of the Village and the Ministry of Undeveloped Areas, and it seems to me as if we have never had favourable circumstances before and that we can make a major step and move in our country's agricultural policy. The basic objectives of the Law on the Regulatory of the Market for Agricultural Products, which is presently before us, are the functional establishment of market regulation mechanisms, their interconnection in the legal framework and the policy coordination and regulation of agricultural products markets. The market mechanisms in Serbia are not in line with the measures of the common European market, and we must implement in our system measures that will introduce order and security for both producers, both traders and consumers. The law allows trade between manufacturers and buyers to be regulated by contracts and thus avoid abuses and damages of producers. Any supply of certain agricultural products to the purchaser or processor must be covered by a contract, as well as that the negotiating organisation may negotiate on behalf of its members in pre-delivery contracts. If the farmer enters into a contract with a processor or a buyer, he will be safer on market demand and some contractual obligations to the processor and processors towards the farmer. This theme years ago was a big problem, we remember various affairs. A very important provision of the law is to regulate the position of the redeemer. There were many problems and from now on only those registered and those who have a deposit guaranteeing the safety of the manufacturer will be able to collect the goods safely when they sell them. Systemically, everyone's place in the chain will be arranged and we'll get tools to regulate the extremes at the highest and lowest prices on the market. Stock reserves have regulated such a situation so far, and there have been a lot of misunderstandings. The Agrarian Payments Authority will now have a special body to deal with monitoring and harmonisation of prices. In cases of major disturbances, the government will be able to regulate the price with three measures: public intervention, it is activated when the market prices of cereals, meat, dairy products fall below the reference prices. In this case, the state will be able to purchase these products at an intervention price or the collection of public offers. The second measure is to support private warehousers, to illustrate when the market price falls below the reference price, to support, or to compensate for part of the costs, will be calculated by private warehouses of sugar, meat, milk and milk products. The third measure is extraordinary intervention measures, which are taken urgently to prevent market disturbances from rising or lower prices on the market in due time. I would especially like to highlight the problem of the dairy manufacturer. These people have had an understanding over the past year due to the pandemic-induced crisis, but in the last few months, there has been a major market disturbance caused by rising grain prices and livestock food prices from 20% to 40%. At the same time, the price of milk remained the same because processors cannot pay a higher price because of high competition and cheaper imports of foreign milk. For the past six years, the price of raw milk has been on average 30 dinars, with larger producers about 35 dinars, while smaller producers receive about 25 to 28 dinars. In addition to all subsidies provided by the State to farmers, this is insufficient to preserve this domestic milk production. They require the introduction of an appropriate safeguard price to preserve this important agricultural sector. We had something like that with pig breeders. After intervention, the problem has been solved and a national strategy for the development of pigmeat is agreed that will certainly help solve the problem of breeders in the long term, and that seems to be the way to go. I think that by passing today's law, we will make a significant contribution to the systematic arrangement of one part of agricultural policy. That is why the JS parliamentary group will support this law in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-29-0.u7992	Thank you, Mr. Unkovic. The word is Borisav Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-29-0.u7993	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister Nedimovic's respect to you and your associate. Dear fellow Members and fellow Members of the People, the first thing I came into contact with the text of this law was how much he handled and operated on the strategy of agriculture and rural development. I must say, from that point of view, I am very pleased with this law. I think a law like this was long ago needed, but what you said once when Mr. Minister spoke, better ever than never, for some other thing he said, and so on. What prompted my greatest attention in this law is what will have the greatest impact on the further market position of the development of agriculture, which is the issue of supervision and inspection. I don't think, as the law otherwise predicted, and what he's predicted so far, he couldn't have gone without that existing legal function. Only in this way could there be an assumption that the law is being implemented as usual. When you take there that you have the inspector's jurisdiction in some 25 items listed, and then his control and orders in as many as 15, 16 etc., then I think there's a big job in organising and building functions and functioning of a complete inspection system in the area of agriculture. I think there's a big job coming up. I think this part, this inspection, will have great importance in monitoring the realisation and achievement of the agricultural and rural development strategy, the development of the rural population. I mean, by the way, in the event that all the strategies that we bring in from various areas, social, economic, etc., and should in practice have, like the one that has survived for seven, eight years, you would have to now, and this will be possible through this instrument of inspection, to create a cross-section and say, wait, on this plan from the strategy we have done this and we have done it enough, we have not, because often these strategies that are approximately four to ten years of duration, in fact and we don't look at them in terms of the realisation check, until the deadline is over, and that's not good. I think this is the first time and the first strategy that will have provided systematic monitoring of its own realization. That's good. I think there's plenty of space here in this law dedicated to what the strategy has done, and that's the concern of the village. We care about the village at a time when we haven't even, I don't know, maybe it's the government, not to offend anyone, but in general, we didn't even dream of having the Ministry of Agriculture. We're in a different situation now. There is one thing that is particularly underlined in the strategy, which is the creation of favourable conditions for the development of integrated and organic production. I don't think we've given this segment enough time and due attention so far, and we have not a small amount of land on which to start immediately with organic production. That's why it's good to talk here, too. In this context, it is mentioned, however, when the strategy is written, that when it comes to creating conditions which are spoken of in the law, waiting for favourable prices for product placement, etc., and the need for coolers, at the time when the strategy was written were 363 refrigerators of capacity of around 500,000 tonnes. There's one thing that was bad there, and I don't know what the situation is right now, I'd like to hear from the minister that only 75% of those 550,000 were used at that time, which means that we didn't take advantage of our capacity either, and that's a sign that we didn't do these things well back then. It is particularly important through this law that everything regarding rural areas. What the strategy envisions is one of the most significant directions for rural development is to raise, as it is formulated there, I mean quite well and generally, raising the well-being of the rural population. There is one thing very large in the strategy, which was envisaged at the time when we did not have in mind the Ministry of Environmental Care, which is a question of improving the social structure of rural areas. This is one of the key issues, apart from cultural and other, in the development of the village in general, and especially these areas that Mr. Marian was talking about, when it comes to border areas that they have, and that's what someone mentioned the security significance the other day. If we preserve the population of those areas, we have a natural defense against the incursion of tomorrow's enemy, and if we empty it, then we leave it at our disposal. In this regard, the rural population and especially the social side of this and the rise in prosperity, the first thing that is important, and it is mentioned in these documents is the halting of negative demographic trends, and the promotion of cooperative organisation and the inclusion of cooperatives in local action groups, greater availability of social services to rural populations, the reduction of rural poverty, or the poverty of rural populations, the improvement of the social status of agricultural labour force and an extremely important thing for that strategic concern to stop people from leaving these areas in urban or out, then affirmation of women and young people's entrepreneurship in rural areas. Now, a colleague, Stosic, mentioned that he was at such a meeting with women from the Chamber of Commerce. What I would like to say in the end is also mentioned in the law and in the strategy, which is a controlled re-purpose of agricultural land, which is one of the most important things to me. So that means that in that way, it assumes that we're going to plan to define what it's going to be produced. If so far there's a Sword, I'll take it, Mr. Minister, since it's been in your neighborhood, it's been an exclusive cereal, and it's got conditions, it's lying on warm water, it's got quality land, it's a possibility of irrigation because between the two big rivers, it could be another Egypt tomorrow. Let me just mention that 40 years ago, don't hold me by my word, a few years up or down, that France asked us to grant her concessions and then offered a condition for each farmer to pay every year off a hectare through what he's doing right now. So they had a reason. Why? Because it wasn't one harvesting, it was a year-round land use. I think those things should be considered. Time's up, I'm sorry, and thank you, Mr. Chairman, there's still a lot of things but there's no time.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-29-0.u7994	There'll be plenty of opportunities. Thank you. Last presentation in this part of the session, Prof. Dr. Ljubinko Rakonjac.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-29-0.u7995	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Professor Orlic. Dear Ministers, Mr Nedimovicu, Mr Katanic, respected MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, the agenda of today's National Assembly session once again confirms that agriculture is a significant place in the government's legislative activity, and that the creation of good legal conditions also confirms the importance of agriculture for the country's overall economic development. If we follow statistics, she says that in 2019 the participation of agriculture in domestic GDP was 6%. On the other hand, if we follow our agricultural resources and its development potential, it can and must be more. The proposal for a law on the regulation of the agricultural product market, which is before us for the first time now, has been seen as a serious step towards this development goal. The importance of agriculture and the potential for agricultural development is also reflected through the Strategy for the Development of Agriculture and Rural Development of the Republic of Serbia, which was adopted for the period 2014-2020. The aim we seek is to make our agricultural product more available on our and on the world market, primarily through the modernisation of the sector or through the integrated development of villages that will increase production and allow our agricultural product to be made available on our and on the world market, i.e. that our agricultural resources become better economically valorised, thereby increasing the share of agriculture in GDP, not to mention some of the long-term times in which Serbian agriculture has fed the entire former SFRY and half of Europe. I'd be back in our time in these last 7-8 years, since our government has been seriously working on rehabilitation and accelerated development of agriculture and rural revitalization. It is dedicated to the implementation of the strategy and thus to finding the best development models of agriculture and state incentives that could give the best effects. I must point out that for the implementation of our agricultural strategy, as well as bringing closer to European standards and European requirements, it is very important quality of legal solutions, especially those that encourage production and stimulate producers to develop and modernise their production, to make it cheaper and better quality. Our rules that we consider roofing for the development of agriculture are certainly good and stimulating legal solutions for our farmers, but what was missing from this legal framework is the regulation of the agricultural product market. This, here, seems to be this bill, whose adoption I would like to welcome, because it confirms that market rules and marketing standards are definitely introduced in the agriculture sector. This law is also the result of our obligation as a candidate for the EU, to continue to bring domestic legislation into line with EU rules in the area of the common agricultural policy, which is one of the priorities in this community, which is also natural, because it is food production. In addition to harmonising with EU rules, the objectives to be achieved by adopting this law relating to the provision of a free market for agricultural products, as well as the introduction of modern arrangements for the regulation of this market that has not been fully organised so far. In addition, the adoption of this law meets the important objectives of our strategy. These objectives are: growth in production and growth in competitiveness, which involves technological modernisation of the agricultural sector, sustainable management of agricultural resources, while ensuring environmental protection, as well as improving the quality of life in rural areas. I would add here a global millennium goal, which is to exploit poverty and hunger, which can certainly be achieved by producing food and developing rural areas in Serbia. Here I would like to commend our agricultural policy and our policy of equating regional development, right through more intense rural development. So it's about the policies of affirmation of the underdeveloped and devastated areas of our country, which are exactly the rural environments in which our food is produced. Investment in life in the country, creating infrastructure and other conditions for remaining young people in the country, is now strengthening the base of our agriculture. Further development of agriculture is directly related to the comprehensive development of villages and rural areas which, we could say, are both our gardens and our fields and our tables, but also our forgotten demographic potential. In order to achieve the objectives of our agricultural policy, we need not only increased production, but also a good organisation of the placements of our agricultural products, but also the support of the state in cases where unforeseeable market developments destroy huge quantities of some agricultural culture. We remember, for example, when the ransom price of the surplus and the raspberries was below every minimum, and the work of our farmers is invaluable. It is therefore important to regulate relations on the agricultural market, in order to protect domestic producers on the one hand, and on the other hand to achieve the quality of the domestic agricultural product guaranteeing the valorisation of labour and cost of production. In this context, this bill has great importance for our agricultural production, and its implementation needs to provide several key preconditions for quality market valorisation of agricultural resources. First, we need to raise the level of competence of our owners to connect and strengthen the motivation of association through cooperatives and other forms of business co-operation, then, we need to ensure greater visibility and visibility of domestic products on the market, because in the sea offers, especially imported agricultural products, domestic products, although they are often much more quality, do not always manage to win the market. In this respect, both horizontal and vertical networking of agricultural producers, ranging from the production phase to the placement phase on the market, is important. Here I would certainly highlight the importance of the development and revitalisation of our food industry, which in a much more efficient, more effective, economically more cost-effective way is placed our agricultural products in the form of a final product rather than raw materials. We cannot help but remember that we had a highly developed food industry throughout Serbia. Here I mean not only the processing of meat and milk, but primarily the processing of fruits, vegetables and cereals. A lot of these factories are privatized and working successfully, but unfortunately some of them are completely gone, so I don't count them. As regards the draft law, I would like to mention the importance of provisions whose implementation should contribute to improving the quality of our agricultural products by prescribing mandatory standardisation of goods, as the basic principle in domestic and international trade is clearly defined through the market standard. Accepting international standards will allow positioning on the foreign market and the equal participation of our products in the competition. We have repeatedly mentioned the golden rule of placement of our agricultural products, which I think, six, seven years ago, we called "three K" Serbian agriculture, and up to: quality, quantity and continuity. Quality is improved through strengthening the competitiveness and diversity of food supply and safety that is being delivered to the market. The quantity through the increase in production and continuity in the regular supply of the market. The growth of agriculture's competitiveness depends largely on the formation of a market chain that is not fully profiled today and has been diversified. A wide range of new products, market services and participants should be included, I mean all the participants in the chain, from the manufacturer to the buyer. This law draws us closer to that goal. I would also underline the importance of provisions that protect domestic production from possible leaps and surprises on the market, which, as far as I can see, is one of the essential objectives of this law, and that's good. The intervention of a country which is as a measure of the regulation of the agricultural products of the market is essential to this law because we know that the market for agricultural products is sensitive and prone to frequent and sudden changes and oscillations. So, very often prices stay below every minimum. We know that prices depend on many factors, from quality to movement on the world's productive stock exchanges. I would remind you here that two years ago, we passed the Stock Exchange Act, which includes agricultural products. State intervention will be carried out as a measure of market regulation for certain agricultural products in the cereals sector, beef and veal, milk and milk products, and will primarily cover purchase and storage. This measure will apply when the market price of agricultural products is lower than the reference price. In addition, the law provides for protection mechanisms against irresponsible buyers who often blackmail our farmers with dumping prices, unorthodox and do not pay even bought-out products, so that manufacturers suffer huge damages that essentially no one has compensated. Now that kind of risk is shrinking, as conditions under which someone will be able to be a redeemer are prescribed. I would also mention an important newspaper that would be a kind of guarantee to the manufacturer for the safe placement of their products, which is the introduction of a bargaining mechanism. The manufacturer may contract the quantities of goods to be produced for a particular trade chain of purchasers or processors. This will contribute to greater production security, and this will also contribute to the economic viability of agricultural production. Finally, I want to say that this law is innovative, that it follows European standards that we must pursue, not only for Europe, but also for us, because if we want to go to the world market, we must meet the demanding conditions of that market. The law creates legal conditions for the improvement of all forms of agricultural production, encourages association, i.e. the accumulation of production, which is an important condition for achieving profitability and cost-effectiveness of production. We believe that this law will benefit all participants in the chain of agricultural production. The SPS Parliamentary Group, which advocates life from its work, has always been on the side of the better future of our agriculture and our village, and therefore we will support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-29-0.u7996	Thank you, Mr. Racony. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm now setting a regular break. We'll continue at 15 hours and five minutes. [[after breaks]] We're going back to work. The word has the People's MP Veroljub Matic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-29-0.u7998	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the proposal for a law on the regulation of the agricultural products market regulates the way and procedure to solve problems when there is a disturbance in the agricultural production market. Of course, when we have rules and laws, it is much easier, easier and faster to meet agricultural production, that is, on the agricultural market, to overcome the problems that can arise at that time. So far, we have often had problems when agricultural prices are disrupted, especially in conditions where agricultural products have a lower market price than the production price. For example, this happened in raspberries, cherries, those who do business with you, etc. With this law, we get tools and a mechanism to alleviate market disturbances, say, through stockpiling. Stock reserves can function both ways, and when prices are low and when we have high prices, etc. So the stock reserves, in addition to the basic functions they have, can fix the market when we have market disturbances. This law provides for security in agricultural production, predictability and sustainability. When our agricultural producers have the real price of agricultural products that's what they're mostly looking for and they say something like this – give us the price, we don't need any help. Of course it always needs to be helped and the outdoor factory is the hardest factory. With this, when we get stability, security, predictability, more young people in the rural area remain, demographics improve, other young people who could have offspring would have more children in the country, which is our goal. I come from the municipality of Koceljev, located in the centre of Podrinja and Kolubara and, aboutly, represents one and the other district, although there is a basic fruit production. The next branch is livestock. Warming is quite developed, but it is mostly in the function of livestock, and in the framework of livestock farming is developed dairy. As part of the fruit industry, alongside the plums as the main fruit which is dominant, it has recently taken serious steps to produce organized production of apples, pears, and especially blueberries. It's intensive production with full application of agro-technical measures. I hope that this is a trend and that in all of Serbia we will have, of course, in the areas that are suitable for fruit growing, that we will have fruit growing at a high level. Fruit production as a branch, especially this high fruit industry, is subject to weather conditions or not conditions. The greatest damage to fruit growing can bring storms, and the weather is a city. What is done in Serbia and in certain parts of Serbia, which has been done automatically against construction protection, gives excellent results. Of course, there is no effective anti-urban protection that knows how to protect agricultural areas 100%, but it is a huge percentage or a much higher percentage than it has ever been in the protection of agricultural areas. In this context, the protection of agricultural areas, i.e. agricultural products, is certain that the insurance of agricultural products plays an essential role. I hope that these insurances will be more, too, that the state will find a way to subsidise those areas that are most threatened by the city, and it seems to me that the district from which I come from, the Mačvan County, is quite compromised and I suggest that the ministry, with respect to certain procedures, engages and subsidises insurance in agricultural production with that higher subsidy percentage. About agriculture, Koceljeva is held every year on the last weekend of September, which is Friday and Saturday, the Winter Festival, which is absolutely tied to agriculture, as it is the agricultural end. There was also a great factory that had great winter products, so it was also a tradition of the region and only last year we didn't have an organized Winter Festival for famous reasons. This year we will have the Winter Festival, provided this situation with the pandemic, i.e. with Kovid-19 is at least one way or another better. It's a festival that has its soul. It's basically wintertime, it has additional content, and I think it provides one image of a good and useful event related to agriculture. We had participants in the winters so far from the current president of the state of Alexander Vukic, Prime Minister, Minister of Agriculture present with us and others who from the level of the Republic government contributed to the success of this winter and to its success. Of course, I invite colleagues here and the public to attend this year on September 24th and 25th, to have a good time and to prepare a very high quality winter in two, three hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-29-0.u7999	I thank Mr. Matic. The word is Samira Ćosovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-29-0.u8000	Dear Ministers with Associates, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, Proposal for a Law on the Organisation of the Market for Agricultural Products, which is before us, regulates the requirements and measures of the organisation of agricultural products, trade with other countries, as well as other issues of importance for the regulation of the agricultural market. The Republic of Serbia has so far had no such law as is necessary to regulate the agricultural product market, but also to comply with EU regulations in the Republic of Serbia. A legislative and institutional framework is necessary for the implementation of EU mechanisms relating to the organisation of the common market in agricultural products, as well as for Serbia's agriculture to continue its development. The bill we are discussing today will allow protection for agricultural producers by regulating trade between producers and buyers. I think it's a good way to avoid abuses and damages for the producers themselves so they won't be left at the mercy of the redeemer. The bill also regulates the situation of buyers, so they will have to deposit on the name of insurance so that producers do not stay short sleeves in business with unconscious buyers. There must simply be a guarantee that farmers will sell their goods and charge for it. It is therefore important that future participants in the chain, from manufacturers to processors, be found in one system in a legally regulated way. It should also be said that the obligations of manufacturers to adapt consumer requirements in relation to the quality of food products are increasing, especially with the emergence of new wholesale systems, whose requirements, as a rule, exceed existing standards on the domestic market. The creation of conditions for meeting the requirements of large sales systems will reduce the risk of exclusion of domestic producers from this growing market segment. The development and improvement of the market chain and the accompanying logistics support create conditions for equal market access for all producers, regardless of the size and type of agricultural land. It facilitates the introduction and application of market standards, quality labels, creation of innovative solutions and products, as well as their branding and promotion. This law will have a direct positive impact on agricultural producers, who will therefore better organise and improve their position on the market by joining the producer organisation, because they will have a concentrated production within their producer organisation and thus a better negotiating position. I think we should commend the government's determination to strengthen small producers in this way by giving them the opportunity to team up and be ready to hold a game with large producers. The draft law also stipulates that producer status should be improved by financing the work of producer organisations over five years with the intention of turning these organisations into business associations and connecting with buyers and processors. Agriculture is an important branch of the economy. The development of agriculture means not only food production, but also the creation of a base for the development of several branches of industry such as food, textile, leather, chemical etc. Investment in agriculture is an investment in the survival of the village and the future. In the Republic of Serbia, agriculture is recognised almost in all local, regional and national strategies as one of the basic strategic development routes. It is therefore important to regulate legislation in the area of agricultural production, but also to provide financial support for conditions for young people to stay in the country in order to deal with agricultural production on their holdings and thus contribute to development and progress. As the great poet Ljubvoje Rsumovic said: "As long as Serbia is seated and the villagers will be strong." I would like to emphasise the importance of the allocation for subsidies in agriculture, the amount of funds for incentives in agriculture from year to year is increasing. With this this year, there will be two more competitions for farmers. One of them worth 60m euros is intended for the acquisition of the ownership's physical assets, such as equipment, facilities, machinery and all that can serve those who are small to become medium-sized and medium-sized to strengthen themselves, and that is for every praise. However, I believe that the ministry should further subsidise agricultural producers in devasted areas such as the Prepolje municipality from which I come and another 42 in space across Serbia. The state helps these areas, but I don't think it's enough. The law governing the agricultural products market is an important law that the SDPS parliamentary group will support in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-29-0.u8001	Thank you. The word is Nenad Filipović.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-29-0.u8002	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable ministers with the associate, given that Serbia is the country of agriculture this law we are discussing today, the Law on the regulation of the agricultural products market was beyond what was necessary so that the state could intervene when there are major price disturbances, especially in the case of interdependent agricultural products, and there has been a disturbance today. This disorder mainly means that production becomes invaluable and inert. Of course, we expect this law, which first appears in this form before the National Assembly, to continue to be upgraded when certain shortcomings are observed in its application, which we think is quite normal. When there is a disturbance in the agricultural product market, then in a series of agricultural producers, purchasers, processors and end-users are mostly affected by those at the beginning and end of this series, so agricultural producers and final customers. Let's imagine a farmer who deals with certain agricultural production, invests in it and his efforts and his work and his resources, and in the end, when he should see the fruits of his work, he sees that he is lost. Then next year or something changes in that production or eventually gives up. Since agricultural production is ruled by the so-called cycles that last for many years, that means that this agricultural producer who gives up doesn't just lose that year, but loses the whole one cycle, so for a few years. If we look at, for example, cherry so far, the first generation of cherry gives only after the third year, and the first real results of that generation are in the seventh and after seven years. So if such a single manufacturer gives up on this kind of production, he loses his entire cycle, invests in it for the time being, and that's more than five years and then doesn't just lose him, but all those in the sequence I mentioned earlier. As I come from Leskovec, I'll give you some experience from my neighborhood and surroundings. So, as the ultimate product of such a situation where agricultural market disturbances occur are various unpleasant scenes that we could see, which are how producers cut and destroy their plantations of fruits and vegetables, mostly cherries and tomatoes. We could also see full plantings of unprotected fruit, because farmers are not paid to plant them because the price of picking with the price of driving to the buyer is more expensive than the price of the product itself. In the end, we could see that the harvested fruit and vegetables were poured into the riverbeds or containers as a kind of protest due to the low price. I would like to note that it is 2020, i.e. Last year, hundreds of tons of tomatoes were destroyed in Leskovac and the surrounding area. Unsatisfactory producers publicly destroyed their product. So, one of these laws should be dealt with by its intervention on the market, such and similar problems, that we no longer look at it, or hear it happening in Serbia. Another problem that arises from the agricultural producer, and this law should also regulate it, is the relationship between the agricultural producer itself and the buyer. The practice has shown us that in many cases producers have given their goods to buyers and have since been handed over to them for mercy and mercy, as far as payment is concerned. They don't get paid for months, even until the next harvest. So they haven't seen a dinar in a year. Some buyers are being so bold that they don't pay for more than a year what they took from the manufacturer. The manufacturers have no code to protect in these cases. This law also solves such a problem, as first purchasers will have to deposit on the name of insurance in order not to keep short sleeves in business with unconscious buyers and, secondly, before the delivery of the agricultural product itself, there must be a signing and conclusion of the contract between the agricultural producer and the purchaser itself, which ensures that producers themselves will be paid. Due to these advantages given by this bill, the JS parliamentary group will support this bill in a voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-29-0.u8003	Thank you and the MP's group. The word is Gjorge Milicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-29-0.u8004	Thank you, Honorable Chairman, Mr. Orlic. Mr. Vice-President of the Government, the minister, the respected representative of the ministry, spoke briefly to counterpart Matic and we come from western Serbia, and he cited one example that confirms that Western Serbia is actually part of Serbia that depends most on and lives most on agriculture, because, as a percentage of the majority is defined towards agriculture and the village. I don't need to talk to you. He cited only one example, of course, by binding his end. I've been and visited that event. I hope to have my chance again, but not far from you is Ossetian who has the famous plum fair, and not far from you is my Valjevo, who has the famous Cvarkiyada or the Bark Fair. We've branded the Valjevna beads, and it tells you enough to figure out how much this area lives on agriculture and how important agriculture is. That's not what I'm supposed to tell you that you're very successful in running this resort, but a second term in a row, as far as memory serves me. On the other hand, Mr. Minister, I'm sorry there's no transmission, I don't know if RTS has managed to establish a transmission, unfortunately it's not, because I think this topic, Mr. Risticevic is absolutely right, who is interested in agricultural producers, this is a topic that interests farmers and this is something that they live on, you know? They live from a factory under the clear sky and they live on what we're talking about today, and we're talking about a very important legal proposal. And I can't speak professionally and qualifiedly, as my colleagues did, dear Professor. Rakonjac and as said by the authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group. Of course it's undeniable to support the SPS parliamentary group in this law, but at the very beginning, I want to do a one-depression. You, Mr. Minister, travel very often in Serbia, visiting various land, mostly in the field, as noticeable and visible. It is quite clear to you that someone would stay to live in the country to provide some necessary conditions. It's mostly a road, water and electricity, but of course a school, because our schools kind of disappear when it comes to some smaller rural areas, but it's not a topic for you. It's a theme for the Ministry of Education. On the other hand, what is also important is the lack of machinery, because the mechanism used today by farmers is very unfortunately outdated. Right now, as far as I know, one of the IPARDs is current and it applies to the sector, you correct me if I'm wrong, milk, eggs, grapes, fruits, vegetables, cereals, industrial plants, for building objects. The word is from 55m euros and the level of incentives is from 60% to 80% of the value. I don't think it would be bad, just for the public's sake, though I don't think it's a prime time for them at one or two in the morning, I think they should have seen it today, and I think the public service had to have the hearing to make it possible for our farmers to hear it today, but whenever it is, I think it's very important that you explain to our farmers how they can get to IPARD funds and in what way and whether they can sometimes in the next period, when it comes to IPARD funds, to come up with the opportunity to rebuild their mechanization. So, the proposal for a law on the regulation of the agricultural market is another, as I said, important regulation governing the important sector of the Serbian economy, which is the agriculture sector, which is at the same time one of Serbia's development priorities, which is traditionally related to food production. I told you I shouldn't talk about the importance and importance of agriculture, because you know it very well. Agriculture has fed this country, fed this people, and even in the Corona period, if we go back, from March of last year to today we could rely on only two stable and secure resources. The first one was its own, and that's exactly what we produce, and the second one was a relationship with traditionally friendly-oriented states. So, we talk about the importance of agriculture in the National Assembly often and justifiably, precisely trying to set up a more quality legal framework, which will affirm agricultural production, contribute to its development and, unfortunately, multi-sectoral development of the village, which has been empty for decades, regardless of all resources and potentials. There were simply no conditions for life, especially for the life of young people in the rural area. Such a flow and the previous Government of the Republic of Serbia, thanks to the agricultural policy responsible above all, also wants to end the results of government and ministry work from 2012 to this day, are already visible. The incentives provided today in agriculture have a motivational effect on the increase in agricultural production and multi-sector rural development measures are again beginning to be part of our village, which is of paramount importance and importance. This law is precisely the result of the need to regulate agricultural production in the part of market valorisation in our agricultural production on a permanent and healthy basis. The law regulates the agricultural product market, as you said. At the same time, it introduces European market standards, which is part of our commitments, harmonisation and harmonisation of our legislation with EU legislation. The law represents the creation of a legal basis that allows different measures to be regulated by the market, but also to protect our domestic producer and domestic production, to enable our agriculture to participate in a very selective and demanding European and world market by introducing marketing standards. Serbia has experience in that. We're traditionally exporters of corn, so we're fifth in the world, but we've been exporting for decades and our very high quality raspberry, apple, and more and more finished products, such as wine, brandy and many others. Serbia, therefore, is becoming a relevant exporter of agricultural products. As an example, I would quote exports of Serbian products to the EU which was more than tripled from 3.2 billion in 2009 to 10.9 billion in 2019. Also, individually some Member States, such as Italy, Germany, Romania are traditionally at the very top of our most important trading partners. Our traditional production is largely our advantage, but today we would be even more competitive and productive because we have potential. We must not only modernise ourselves in agricultural production, but also accept international standards that are just allowing us to be even more present on the world market, which is the goal. This law creates mechanisms to protect our market, which is very important if we have in mind how many risks this sector is dealing with. Our farmer, when he sows up some agricultural culture, can't predict as much as whether or not that culture will give birth. As much as they protect and secure households and security, the farmer always works with a huge production risk. So I would like to commend one of the legal solutions that I think is essential, which is to protect agricultural production from risks on the market. This will certainly be achieved through State intervention on the market when the prices of certain agricultural products are lower than the reference products and when it is necessary to protect our production, and the protection of domestic production is our obligation. It's between us and our essential task. In addition, this and the governments since 2012 and the good and legal frameworks and a series of stimulating and stimulating measures certainly improve agricultural production that can become an even greater economic participant in Serbia's GDP, and this means a larger participant in both the external and trade balance. The proposal for this law also allows the state to legitimately intervene in the market and systematically affect the position of each participant in that chain, on producers, on buyers, on trade and, of course, on consumers. The law will contribute to the accumulation of agricultural production, association and integration of producers into cooperatives and other economic forms, which on the one hand will reduce costs and, on the other hand, improve quality as a necessary condition for better market valorisation. I agree fully with you and unfortunately our legal system, the legal system of Serbia, what you were talking about in the opening presentation, did not recognise this tool as a good mechanism to defend our agricultural production during the previous period of time. Agricultural products in itself you are absolutely right to be observed because of their continuity and we cannot view them as everyone else and this legislative proposal provides an opportunity for a reaction when there is a disturbance on the market, a set of measures how to react, to protect agricultural production. Agricultural production, as you said, is a major part of the very budget of the Republic of Serbia, and you cited the data – six thousand registered agricultural holdings, it says quite enough in favour of this finding. The situation in agriculture – I said already, high growth, very high growth since 2019 and 2020 – 5% agricultural growth and three years for growth in agriculture. 10 to 15 years ago, that was absolutely impossible in agricultural production. There have been new market challenges so far. As you said, stock reserves, but I fully agree with you that stock reserves should be served for other purposes, and this legislative proposal should serve the goal that is intended to be achieved by adopting this legislative proposal. When there's a lower price, the law comes out. It was applied by countries in the transition process and we are not the first to apply this legislative proposal. It seems to me that you have said 450m euros that at this point we have damage to the SAA that has been signed. If we had 450m euros now, otherwise we would have, as far as I understand you, two billion euros. When the SAA was signed, the worst in agriculture was that customs protection was and you were right, 32% at that time, and in 2012, customs protection was zero, so protect the market from extreme situations and drop prices. Public intervention, as a tool at the disposal of the Ministry of Agriculture, is a legislative proposal, support for private storage, direct financial giving when there is a crisis on the market and I fully support what you also spoke about in the opening presentation, which is school milk and school fruit from Serbia students in all primary schools in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. To take care of agricultural producers, the basic objective and the essence of the Ministry will be a special sector that will deal with Serbia and solve, or a specific sector that will define whether something is private or state-owned, then a producer of an organisation for the development of certain fruit, vegetables, information systems of the agricultural market, quantity and quality of goods. It will need and it is very important that this legislative proposal will last until the moment we enter the European Union. I want Serbia to join the European Union as soon as possible and Serbia shows its determination and commitment on the path of European integration, but I am not optimistic that it will be very soon and that it will be in due course and this is another reason why Serbia needs one such legislation and legal act. Once again, the SPS parliamentary groups in the voting day will support the legislative proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-29-0.u8005	Thank you, Mr. Milicevic. The word is Gjorge Dabic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-29-0.u8006	I thank the chairman. Dear People's MPs, ladies and gentlemen, the honourable Minister Nedimovic and his associate, we have an important bill of law. As you stated, this is a roof law for Serbia's agriculture that will allow all the necessary tools to the Ministry itself in those situations when extreme changes occur on the market, where the ministry will have a much better mechanism to affect the market and protect our agricultural producers. So far, this whole matter of trade in agricultural products has been concentrated in one act, in the Law on Trade, and as you have stated, agriculture has much more importance than ordinary materials traded on the market, so it is necessary to adopt a law like this so that the state can, at any time, help people who deal with agriculture through certain interventions and it is certainly important news for all farmers today in Serbia, and only through these 50 supporting sublaws will we define all that is necessary. So the big deal is both in front of the government and the Ministry and the National Assembly. We'll also have a lot of work to settle this whole area the way it's necessary. We are not only doing this because of Serbia's accession to the European Union, because of the accession process, it is important for us because of our agricultural producers, because when we have a situation where extreme turbulence is emerging on the market and how it is necessary for the state to have the right answer, and so far we have the situation that through these two current laws, where the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development works, and the Law on Encouragement in Agriculture and Rural Development, many provisions, as we know, do not concern the markets and are not in line with European legislation, which again limited only the Ministry of Agriculture to react quickly and efficiently in situations where necessary. We know that there are major changes in the agricultural product market, primarily due to various weather disasters. We had an example, as you stated in 2017 and with the price of raspberries, we also had great problems when it was this great drought. This has affected many areas of agriculture itself. We did not have a good one at the time legally so that the state could through these tools that we will adopt with this law influences and intervenes on the market itself. And as we've heard through the stock reserves, some state intervention can be made, but these themselves are not a modern concept. It's an out-of-date concept, a socialist time, where the state can't rely on the stock reserve itself, since it concerns some other situations. We saw last year, though it was very useful that we had this institution, which allowed us to have flour here in Serbia, and oil and all the basic provisions of life, when everything went missing in March and April with shelves all over the region. We had enough resources in Serbia, we had enough supplies for our citizens, because we had this stock reserve institution. Again, on the other hand, I say here in this situation it is necessary for the state to regulate the market in a different way and that is why it is also good that it goes into the adoption of one of these laws. To simplify this for me to ordinary people, when it comes to having some extreme situations on the market, when you come to devaluation, say the price of raspberries, the state will finance the storage of raspberries, the state will finance the costs of the storage itself for our farmers who later, when the price jumps, in some winter months, will be able to sell the frozen product at a much higher price. So here we adopt a solution that will directly reflect that citizens, or our people, who deal with agriculture, benefit from what the state can do with these tools and at some point when the production price falls below what is said to be minimal in retail, where the state can give money. I'm glad you've looked back on the issue of our farmers' concerns when it comes to the price of milk. You've given answers that will mean to people, and this law will exactly be theirs and how to go on hand because the state will have other mechanisms that we'll be able to help them in situations when it really comes to that... Simply, we know that 30 dinars per litre is not an adequate price for milk, but we have some difficulties since the market dictates all these relations. We as a ministry, or you as a ministry, cannot quite influence the very rise in the price when, I say again, conditioned by all those agreements that the former authorities have signed, where we cannot and how we react in some way in which we are most often expected. We all the MPs who come from municipalities that have a large number of rural local communities know that the most common grudge in the ministry and in general the state is on the issue of the price of milk. Everyone's asking when the price of milk will rise. We say that this law and how we pay attention, and it is good that you also touched those topics so that citizens can hear what the state can do for farmers and for our cattlemen. This is how a Serb peasant is kept, therefore, with concrete measures. As we know, in the previous period it was also a matter of standardisation, this law further affects the standardization of the Serbian product, that we do not experience those situations as when our apples, the raspberries from Russia, were returned to us a few years ago, when we had some difficulties. So, we are now making this law a framework that will standardise our products, it is good that we will brand our products and that, as you stated in schools, our children have access to only Serbian products, or products made in Serbia. It's economic patriotism, and that's how it cultivates its own country. It is not patriotism drilling into the chest, and what it says is that we had a chance to see from those former ones who kept their hands in the pocket of Serbian citizens all the time, while at the same time drilling into the chest and saying they were great patriots. Such laws and accompanying acts certainly defend both the farmer and the general influence of the Serbian economy moving forward. The state has done a lot in the previous period when it comes to agriculture, and we know that since 2017, when the programme for young farmers was adopted, we have had a lot of reports. That first year, we know that there were only a few hundred young farmers reported for these subsidy aid packages, and last year we had over 2,000 young people who applied for state aid. This is a sufficient indication that even when the state has money, when it makes available to young farmers and generally farmers in general, they respond, they take these subsidies and it promotes an absolute environment throughout the country. Of course it should be mentioned that today the state is giving, we know for ourselves that the grant that you are, almost here we talked about, that today when you are getting a new mechanism with 2,000 euros in participation, you are getting a new tractor worth 20,000 euros and you are paying that 8,000 euros at the lowest interest rate, and 10,000 is a pure gift from the state. This has never been the case before, and we can say today that it is the success of this government, the Ministry of Agriculture, because you have the opportunity to buy new machinery at affordable prices. So no one can be damaged and in this way the state shows that it really takes care of the Serbian peasant and that's what's certainly the concern of our government since the SNS took over. We care about people in Serbia and we want them to stay here and we want our farmer to be stable, so he doesn't have to look for happiness under someone else's sky or go somewhere in bigger cities. We know how they formerly dealt with a Serbian peasant. We remember well, you yourself stated that in 2009, when they signed the SPP, they negotiated the worst on agriculture itself. Anything else, let's just say, could have been interpreted as having to sign for EU accession, but precisely because we have knocked down our customs rates of 30% that we have guarded our village and our peasants we have simply allowed to flood us here to produce, as you say, from Hungary, Croatia, from all the surrounding countries that have managed to position themselves here and that the introductory lobby that has negotiated, which has laid down all those laws harmful that we have brought here, has simply led to a major blow to the Serbian farmer. All others who joined the EU had certain clauses to protect their village, their farmers, and we here during the former government, during Boris Tadic, Vuk Jeremic and Dragan Gilas, we did not make any rules, we shot down customs rates by 30% and let it just flood our market of goods from all over Europe. We showed then what one negligent looks like to the economy of his country at all. Whatever they've got, not just agriculture, whatever they've got, they've destroyed. We today, by budgets, can see what the budget looked like, say, for agriculture in 2012, and what it looks like today. Today, 450m euros is the agricultural budget, and before that 2012, we only had a budget of 30m euros. So that's a fact, 15 times you had a smaller budget only nine years ago. When you look at the army, there's an even worse situation, you've had 20 times the budget. When you look at health care, you've had 18 times as much budget as it is today. These are the exact indicators that say that this former regime, which we are persistent about here and we want to repeat to the citizens of Serbia, will not be banned by anyone because we want to show where the danger comes from. The same people who were at the time asking Serbia today to return to power. We saw those scenes the other day, when that Wolf Pozderac Jeremic, along with his drunken fools, tried to attack the Serbian presidency, when in such a bestial way they endangered not only the president of the state, they did not endanger him, though, it was indeed a funny attempt, but they put the institution at risk, to send a bad picture into the world. So instead of negotiating here to get into parliament, to run for elections, to run for some policy, whatever it is, to come into the bench, to look ourselves in the eye, to talk about some arguments, they're going in such an idiotic way, they're just trying to draw attention to themselves. Five of them for one president, it was absolutely funny to watch what, indeed, was the worst of them. They got out faster than they got in. Indeed, all of their courage seems funny to people and we simply don't know how else to treat people who claim to come to power today. We say you have a situation that, on the one hand, they're trying to make some sketches, I don't know what to call it, and on the other hand, Boris Tadic and Pajtic are fighting yesterday who got Serbia back and over the media two former DS presidents are fighting over who ruined the former DS and Serbia more. Imagine, these people tend to come to power. Then you see that really on the other side of the political spectrum we don't have serious competition, we don't have people who can offer something. This is what happens in conditions when Serbia is fighting for its Kosovo and Metohija today, when we are fighting for our Republic of Serbia. It happens in a situation where you have the greatest pressure on our country. Instead of adding ourselves together, to look ourselves in the eyes of parliament, that in a normal way they are simply running their policy, we are their own, and the citizens that the grades that are better, we here have situations that they are making, trying to challenge incidents, in a violent way to come into power, and they don't hide it. Here, Vuk Jeremic said yesterday that his goal was to take power. He says it's the abduction of power and rematchism. No one's afraid of these threats, they're really insurmountable threats from a man who's a complete political amateur in an attempt. All that we see on that side today, on that spectrum it seems so grotesquely ridiculous and certain that the SNS today precisely because of their failures and mistakes and the possibility of running for a normal policy is over 60%. We will also have more and more since Serbian citizens are not forgetful, they know how they lived before 2012, and they know how to live today. We see from these results, yesterday the president presented the data, Serbia had 13.5% GDP growth in the second quarter. Well, guys, it couldn't fall out of the sky. It is precisely the product of one serious, responsible authority, one great work and the very president of Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. So 13.5% is the largest GDP growth in Europe's second quarter. If this keeps up, we'll still be able to invest and raise wages and pensions, invest in our army. This is all what we are running for Serbian citizens today, one normal policy, one policy that we are running for development, care for national interests. We saw him defend himself and how we had that exercise the other day that showed all the strength of our army that was devastated. We wouldn't be able to do such an exercise simply, not a tenth while in power Boris Tadic and Vuk Jeremic, we didn't have any tanks, we didn't have any planes. We had an absolutely devastated economy and economy and army. It was simple, it was really proud to watch the cave exercise, the lightning blow. Thirty years ago, we haven't had such a good exercise on our premises, where we showed everyone that today Serbia is absolutely not what it was before 2012. Today, Serbia and how it must be discussed differently. We will succeed in defending not only the interests of our people here, but the interests of our people wherever they live, because today Serbia has opportunities, today Serbia wants to simply be a factor of peace and stability. But you just have a situation where from various addresses you are accused of being a factor of instability today when we are strong, today when we have stable finances and a stable army, when we have enough vaccines for ourselves and for everyone else around us, when we have the opportunity to invest in both our army and our health care, to raise the standard of citizens of Serbia. That is why we are a factor of instability, as many in the region say. While we were on our knees, when we were so humiliated, until we had not one plane, until we had not one tank, while we were absolutely in the "lockdown", then we were a factor of stability, then ours clapped on the shoulder and said that Serbia should develop so. Well, we don't suffer from any patting on the shoulder, we're interested in our citizens living better, that our people live better in general and that we help not only Serbs here, but also Serbs throughout the Balkans wherever they live, because it's our constitutional obligation. Once again, Serbian citizens do not give this much record support to Alexander Vukic and the SNS for free. That is the best answer to all those who, as we can see, would try to reach power in some way. That's what Serbian citizens will never let them do. Once again, we will vote in the voting day for the proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-29-0.u8007	I also thank Mr. Dabic. The People's Messenger Radovan Aregina has the word. The remaining time of the parliamentary group is three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-29-0.u8008	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, Minister of Agriculture Nedimovic, fellow MPs, fellow MPs, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, my distinguished colleagues Professor Rakonjac and Mr. Djorđe Milicevic, the head of the parliamentary group have used most of the time in the most positive sense, and I will try to bring down what I have prepared in these two minutes, most importantly. I think I have listened carefully to Minister Nedimovic's statement from the beginning, and I agree that agriculture is a basis for national security. It's up to us to find a way to affirm our farmer, our peasant. The adoption of this law will largely protect domestic production, which is the intensity and objective, as a mechanism of state intervention is established when the price of agricultural products falls below reference prices, i.e. average prices, because of the unforeseeable market trends. That's how you protect a domestic manufacturer who's always making high-risk products, and that's our historic accident. That's why I think it's a good thing this law is going to make it right in any way by its special sublaws. In just a few details, I would say a few more situations to Minister Nedimovic, which is that the Ministry through the sublegal act is mandatory in its next work, far from being practical in the time behind us, which is seen by the results, but a special review should be in rural border areas. I think we need to give more than we can, and that's what the Ministry is referring to, to sorting out the ataric and untegorized roads. I think everyone needs it today, especially what we mentioned, and there's blueberry growing in your presentation. The blueberry growing started in a village near Kladov, and I think that's where I need to clear the way. Also, forest healing plants, germs. We don't even have a freezer down there. So you need to look at and map certain needs and see what they don't have. So, in some other parts we have, and somewhere we don't, not because we're not ready and we can't do it, but that's just how it happened, because a large part of the population of Timočko Krajina, you well know, that today is part of our success and you recognize the diaspora in Europe. Further, work on the storage spaces. You've been a guest, and you've made very positive impressions in the Lower Key, Rtkov, etc., but you need to work on the storage space. Please, look here, help. Very people are satisfied, we have good hosts down there, good producers and it should be used for sure. What's most important for the Ministry, and what's the same thing to pay attention to, far from not doing it, but branding the product, since the colleagues spoke from all of these parts that we mentioned. I think that's the most positive. The most positive is that the peace cheese, the peace honey, that the brand be widely recognised with co-operation with the Ministry. What's most important, we used to be at the beginning of "Dnevnik" in Tito's Yugoslavia, started "Dnevnik" with some small things, small people farmers who did something. I ask that in the next period, the affirmation of TV shows about agriculture, nature and Mr. Peasant encourage a farmer even more than they are today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-29-0.u8009	Thank you, Mr. Aregina. The word is Zoran Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-29-0.u8010	Thank you, Honorable Chairman, Mr. Orlic. Dear Ministers with an associate, distinguished colleagues and fellow Members of the People, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and thanks precisely to the serious policy and seriousness that has been approached in terms of agriculture, today we have the results that three years in a row have increased in agricultural production, that between 2019 and 2020 we have achieved 5% of agricultural growth, when it comes to its contribution. What is very important, as we can see, is that our gross domestic product is growing itself, although statistics say that over time, as our economy is developing, the share of agricultural production itself is of course going down, does not mean that agriculture does not actually make a significant contribution when it comes to the development of the economy and the very Republic of Serbia itself. What is very important to say is that precisely because this government and the respected minister are talking to people and because Mr. Minister is constantly on the ground, they have been detected or I should say that these are the problems when it comes to the further development of agricultural production in Serbia and is precisely one of the results of the development of agriculture and this law that we are discussing today. This law will finally regulate us when it comes to the agricultural product market and allow for a fair match when it comes to both small and large producers, that unlike the yellow tycoon authorities, where you had interventions, which were of course done only for the needs of individuals and a certain number of tycoons, so that they could make profits from agricultural production, while for the ordinary citizen and farmer from the village who fought and worked throughout the year there is nothing left. Thanks to the measures discussed by the minister, but also by my colleagues, relating to measures to support the improvement of the food habits of children and youth, support for private storage, as well as public intervention on the market, will actually allow agriculture to be truly profitable cities of the economy, that people who invest in agricultural production, as counterpart Milicevic said, agriculture is actually an open-air factory, where you have a large number of risks you face, to reduce the thinking of farmers when it comes to these risks. Of course, part of the risk refers to weather conditions, but what is a very high risk to which it affects, these are price risks and in this way actually not only think about the financial part of production, but also to concentrate on the other part that is very important for product placement, which is to raise quality, respect for the standards that are in place and thus also to be better positioned as producers, both on the domestic and international markets. What is very important is to say, as Reverend Dabic said, unlike the tycoon-yellow power period, we today have a 15-fold higher budget for agriculture that is subsidized and the purchase of machinery and all that is needed to further develop this production. What is very important is to say that the policy this government is implementing and relating to the "Serbia 20-25" programme is really a large amount of funds that should help further develop agriculture in Serbia, including 86m euros for irrigation, 70m euros for co-operation and 50m euros for the procurement of tractors. So, unlike the yellow tycoon, which is obviously a good country when they need through subsidies to get state support, as the Prince Mika Alextic of Tristenik did, who, through the subsidies, got himself a tractor "phototon", and then appeared to the citizens symbolically with the IMT tractor, so I am interested in how he managed to turn "photon" into IMT, and not talk about how much these subsidies he received from the state help his agricultural landowners make progress, but therefore he finds himself an important figure to criticise everything that is being done here, so that he can go before President Vukic and threaten and support his boss, Jeremic, famous beer, to rematch against President Vukic, which they certainly couldn't, nor can do. What's important to mention is that a lot of effort has been made when it comes to the mitigation of these other risks I'm talking about, these are the weather, because they're investing in the development of radar centres and especially when we're talking about defense against the city, they're these automated anti-building centers. I am proud to say that I am really proud that part of this equipment comes from the Trajal, a corporation in Kraševec, which celebrated 132 years of its business. Unlike the Gilas period, which managed to destroy IMT and the PKB and everything related to agriculture, which did not allow it to fill its pockets and that money could be transferred to secret accounts in Mauritius, Hong Kong, Switzerland, and we will also see what other destinations, unlike them, this authority and President Aleksandar Vukic lead the policy which views agriculture truly as a developmental opportunity and we are trying to make the most of all the potentials that we have as a state, with our geographical area, climate conditions, to take advantage of these potentials, to take advantage of agricultural products abroad and to raise as much quality as possible. That state that ensures its citizens not to think about basic needs, and one of the basic needs is definitely food, is a country that can think about further development and industrialisation, and also about a segment of digitisation, in which we are truly successful. What is very important is to point out that we have further progress in this law when it comes to digitalisation within agriculture, because we will also create specific records, as it is popularly said, of buyers, or people will have to register now so that they can buy agricultural products and continue to distribute them. This is actually an appropriate example of the law that will allow especially young people, who are more and more interested in agricultural production, and I am free to say it firsthand, because I am an assistant at the Faculty of Agriculture in Kruševec, where young people with whom I carry out exercises from economics talk to me on their own, and what we are discussing today are the solutions to these problems that they have pointed to me in class, because a large number of them are already working on their parents' landlines and have serious ambitions to further invest and develop these holdings. Indeed, this is one true example of how, as I said at the beginning, it is seriously done and how this process is implemented correctly, not from the chair, but directly from the field, through communication with people, whose interests and interests are certainly passed by these laws. I say again, I'm really glad that the growing number of young people in agriculture sees the chance, not only as some complementary activity to be dealt with, which was a period of yellow tycoons, when people were engaged in agriculture so that they could feed their families, but as a serious chance to develop their business. Such laws and other measures that the state is implementing will indeed enable agriculture to develop even more. This support that is given when it comes to branding our products can only further contribute to the development of agriculture and raising the quality of our products and, of course, the further motivation of young people to stay in the country, to stay here in Serbia and to deal with agriculture. In the voting day, as well as my colleagues from the parliamentary group "Alexandar Vukic – To our children" I will be happy to support this bill, as well as any other laws that are for the benefit and in the interest of the Serbian peasant and farmer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-29-0.u8011	Thank you, too, Mr. Tomic. The word is Ivana Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-29-0.u8012	The Honorable Chairman, distinguished ministers with an associate, dear fellow MPs, agriculture is, you will agree, a very important branch of our country's economy. In addition to this, the first point is the fact that we have as much as 11.7%, if I am not mistaken, agriculture in the gross domestic product and from the total production in our country, agriculture accounts for as much as 25%. Such a high share of agriculture in these macroeconomic aggregates of the Republic of Serbia can certainly be the first to thank this natural wealth, those natural resources that our country owns, but also the fact that we are traditionally relying on that rural environment, at least when it comes to fruits, vegetables, meat, dairy products and processing. We have a difficult period behind us, a period marked by the pandemic of the Kovid-19 virus, but agriculture also gave a strong party during that period. During the entire pandemic, we had absolutely all the necessary supplies for our country, we had enough food supplies, we had, thank God and an extremely good generation last year, so for that reason in the last year we could praise ourselves with a historically high degree of exportation in our country at 4.2 billion, which is about 50% more than we had until just a few years ago. Our country runs a responsible policy, it really cares for every citizen, and for this reason, in our political strategy, there was also an extremely important topic in political plans, which is a subject of a more quality, healthier, nutrient diet for our children in preschool and school institutions. I recently had a chance in Trsic to talk to the ambassadors of the Nordic countries about this very important topic to exchange experiences about how their countries deal with this issue, how and how they are politically directed when it comes to the healthy diet of our children. What I was very glad to hear was that, for example, in Sweden, every other raspberries consumed came from Serbia. It's a good thing, it's good news for our Malian growers and even the farmers of all the berries in our country, but this responsible policy and strategy we implement must not apply exclusively to the sale of raw materials. For this reason, we strategically took care of the previous period and looked for the best ways to give our farmers, young producers and these new agricultural holdings space, to encourage them to start processing, to start producing finished products, and thus to produce this raw material that we produce, their gender and triple and multiple times to collect. This is something that is extremely important and that our country has really worked very hard in the previous period and I can say that it has been thinking absolutely literally step by step about how and how it can help our farmers and breeders. There was even this part to help our processors, and when it comes to marketing services and when it comes to packaging, so absolutely from the beginning to the end, and not only for small producers, but also for large investors. That is why today we can boast an extremely large number and every day more and more new producers on our market and new innovative young people who represent the Serbian market in the best possible way, not only within our country's borders, but abroad. Our country is also considering preserving rural areas. We could see that in the previous period, mostly by helping young people to return, to rebuild these agricultural holdings, these abandoned hearths. We also had the opportunity to see that in all the competitions that were called by the Ministry of Agriculture, this important point in the score was directed precisely at young people applying and that young people get as much space and advantage as possible when it comes to this sphere. In the previous year, we had the opportunity to see that young farmers, as many as 3,000 young farmers, had received a grant and aid from our country of as much as 1.5 million dinars. Until just four years ago, our country was able to extract 600,000 dinars for rural development measures. Today we are able to single out a billion and a half, which is 20 times the chance for our farmers, our people to rebuild their holdings, to expand their capacities. What I'm sorry to hear, especially because of those honest and hardworking farmers, is that we have 20 times as many of those who want to malpractice, those who want to deceive the state, to get through counterfeits and various other ways to get the grant. I am just telling these hardworking and responsible farmers that the state has recognised this problem, that in the right and rational way it has approached and that through inspection supervision all those people who tried to trick the state will be caught and will absolutely be sanctioned, that their agricultural holdings, if they can at all be called passive status and that they will be prevented from applying for any subsequent subsidies. To work responsibly in the field of the agricultural market is also the law that is on our agenda today. We have so far had two roof laws in agriculture, which is the Law on Agriculture and Rural Development and the Law on the Encouragement of Agriculture and Rural Development. With this new law, we give our farmers a new option, we provide new markets, we provide one stability, when agricultural products are at stake and we put them in an equal position somewhere with all other players on the agricultural market and the EU, but also around the world. The pillars of this law are therefore quality standards, market interventions and a system of market information. What is extremely important is that through this law we will be able to put tools in the hands of the Ministry, that at exactly the times when it is most necessary, when there is some imbalance on the market or when there are some oscillations in the price, they can respond in time and in the right way through these four measures, which is public intervention, support for private storage and special and urgent interventions. What is important to me, too, through what we read somewhere between the lines, is the fact, so, one thing is that we will give our farmers stability on the market, and another that we will give them space somewhere to expand these storage capacities in the private sector, which, of course, will follow all EU standards. And what I was extremely pleased about, is that this new form of association of producer organisations will also appear where we will once again help our farmers, but the work of such organisations will also be subsidized in the first five years. So, with their work plan handed over, they will be able to have support from our country and the ministry in a five-year period. I'm so glad we have that clear register of fruit and vegetable producers. It's something that will be extremely helpful to our market. So far, we have had some kind of such a register, but now it will be highly accelerated and in line with European standards and thus our farmers will be in a better position. Also, perhaps a key item here, precisely for that small farmer, is an item which through this law refers to contracts that will be necessary for signing. So, if the grower cooperates and decides to cooperate with some buyer or fruit processor, he will have to sign a co-operation contract before the small farmer is protected from any malfeasance, delay, deadlines, unrespected agreements and as someone who co-operates with agricultural households. As someone who is in daily contact with people from rural areas, I think this is an extremely important item and I believe that this law is something that will be extremely helpful to our farmers and for this reason I will ask my colleagues from the Legislative Group Aleksandar Vukic – For our children, to support this law in the day of voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-29-0.u8013	Thank you. The word is Ivan Fishman.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-29-0.u8014	Thank you, chairman, respected ministers with an associate, respected citizens of Serbia. The law we are discussing today is innovative and beyond necessary because there are laws relating to agricultural production that do not contain provisions that precisely regulate the area of the agricultural products market, and regulation of this market is not only an important condition in the process of Eurointegration of the Republic of Serbia but also for the purpose of regulating our autonomous internal market. In this respect, the proposed law should satisfy the interests of customers, i.e. their need for quality and healthy products, as well as the interests of producers when it comes to so-called products. Market chain, i.e. product placement and further processing. What we must acknowledge, and therefore go into the elimination of the shortages of existing regulations, which, by the way, none of our predecessors have ever changed or looked to improve, is that agricultural products in Serbia are not adequately standardised by quality, resulting in products which can be found in retail sales in the territory of the Republic of Serbia which are the same prices but of different quality. On the other hand, and when it comes to the purchase of agricultural products, the existing standards in our country do not meet the standards in the EU, making it difficult for our country to place agricultural products on a significant and large market. The aim is for the seller and the customer, based on standardisation, to achieve simple and easier communication, and this applies only to the purchase but also to the placement of goods. The seller will be able to determine the price of the product based on the quality standards, and the buyer will know exactly what quality of the goods he buys for that price he pays. Standardisation is important in promoting competition among agricultural producers in Serbia, which will have its place on the market based on product quality. On the other hand, processors of both meat, fruit and vegetables in this way will be encouraged to introduce new technologies to improve the quality of their products and thus be competitive on the market. We should also say that agricultural producers and processors under this law will be able to brand their products and promote them with appropriate quality marks. Developed competition in this sense as shown by the experience of developed Western countries and developed economies is always positively reflected both in innovation and in terms of price and quality. It is essential that the introduction of standards should clearly classify products so that market competition can be based on prices, quality and innovation in production. This does not mean that this law will endanger farmers who cannot have the best quality products, however, they will also be encouraged by this law to work to improve the quality of their products and thus to concentrate on the market with an appropriate offer. This law is another one in a series of regulations that promotes market development and prevents maintenance, so to speak. A wild economy in which uncertainty is accompanied by both manufacturers and consumers. For this reason, he should not be surprised if, under the cloak of false indifference, this law is criticised by the opposition who, feeling unable to impose itself in political competition, strives to gain by force what is by no law. The policy area in a regulated democratic system is the market for ideas competing in the elections. More qualitative, better ideas that satisfy voters' political interests in the long term, in this sense merit primate. So the threat of violence, the threat of torture, the larma in front of the highest institutions of the system have absolutely no chance of success. Those who wanted to provoke violence in the presidency building a few days ago, however, know very well how minor they are on Serbia's political scene. Their goal was to provoke, and then to hide behind the institutions of the system, to present themselves as victims, however, what they presented, I do not want to mention or explain. A sad situation, for example. Their parties, their movements and their associations, are not guilty of both SNS and President Vukic, unless they can call us guilty because we have a better idea in every field, a better will to work and a better way to facilitate and make life easier for Serbian citizens. And that's why incidents such as the above-mentioned expression of debauchery that testifies to the impotence, the poor political agenda of those who have been able to prove their incompetence for many years as they have been in power. Dear citizens, Serbia is being democratisationd under this authority, and this Assembly is passing laws that are increasingly approaching us from day to day to day to day to the most legally favoured countries, just as economic development is promising to reach the standard of living of the Western states. The law on the agenda today is a significant segment of this development and it is therefore important to vote. In the end, with a small delay, I would like to congratulate the citizens of Serbia for the great and for the Serbian history, a very significant holiday of Vidovdan. On the day of the Holy Vision, Serbia faced many temptations through its history, the Battle of Kosovo took place on this holiday, this holiday saw a debate on Serbia's status at the Berlin Congress in 1848, the Sarajevo antagonist of the 14th, the Vidovdan Constitution of the 21st Resolution of Infobiro in 1948. On this day Slobodan Milosevic gave a famous speech in Gazimestan, on this day the constitutionality of the Serbian people in Croatia was abolished in 1990, and eventually, Milosevic was extradited to The Hague in 2001. All these visions of the day, sometimes we couldn't affect our destiny, and sometimes we could and wondered whether when we could influence our fate with our own actions, whether we were making the best moves, in the interests of Serbia and the Serbian people. Respected Serbian citizens, about courage, about heroism, about endurance, about the humanity of a Serb soldier and of a state, should not be wasted, because every word discussed is nothing compared to the sacrifices the Serbian people have endured in centuries of their glorious history. But we need to talk a little bit more about wisdom, the wisdom we once lacked, the wisdom of our political elite and the wisdom of our people, who should be the star of leadership for future generations and our generations. Let's not give Serbian blood without a short period of need. Let us not think of force or pride. Let us be as wise as serpents and innocent as doves, as our blessed sayings rest the patriarch Paul. Let us give full support and faith that the policy of our party, led by President Vukic, will in the best and most sensible way address any difficult issues that our country has to deal with, among which is the status of KIM. He'll know he understands and understands the balance between thinking there are states that say, you can break me, but you can't bend me and those who say, you can bend me, but you won't break me. Dear citizens of Serbia, we have been in our history of straws. Don't be ashamed of us sometimes, with our wise, far-sighted and state policy, sometimes we bend a little bit, but never let anyone break us again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-29-0.u8015	Thank you, Mr. Fisherman. The word is Sonja Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-29-0.u8016	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of fellow Members, the honourable ministers, the esteemed citizens, is ahead of us with a proposal for a law on the regulation of the agricultural market. I would say that this is only one step in a series of steps that the SNS, led by President Alexander Vukic, is conducting to improve and develop agriculture, namely the economy of the Republic of Serbia. The reminders for, I'll ask the question, what did those who led our country before the SNS do for agriculture? Absolutely nothing, nothing positive. It was brought to the lowest possible branches, the devastating fact is that the Republic of Serbia is the first time in 2013, it passed a law on incentives in agriculture and rural development, which says enough how concerned it was about the needs and problems of peasants, even less about how it could be helped. Today, this law, with the law on agriculture and rural development, forms the basis of the agricultural policy of the Republic of Serbia. I'm going to stay in that not-so-famous past, and I'm going to remind you of all those privatisations of Serbian companies all over our country when hundreds of thousands of workers were out of work, many families without any existence, and some of them got rich overnight. You remember all sales of agricultural combinations, goods, sugars, for Euro or two across the Vojvodina, from which I come, more specifically, come from Temerin municipality. Unfortunately, I must say, our community was not spared from such events either. You remember the destroyed stock of cattle, and then they almost a bit of a funny attempt to help cattleers allegedly help a real crossover lease on state agricultural land, and only the privileged had that right, so the value of cattle and cattle's throat was equal, which is an absolute precedent, ignorance. I can't believe it wasn't done with some bad intention. Today, the situation in the field of agriculture has been greatly improved. Many injustices today have been corrected. Today, all cattle farmers in the Republic of Serbia can compete based on the kind of cattle and the number of throats that grow to get state agricultural land. Today's bill of law is another step in a series showing which direction and which improvements agriculture in the Republic of Serbia is going to improve. The proposal for a law on the regulation of the agricultural product market will not only bring about the regulation of acts and equality with EU acts and not only will it bring the spread of the EU market for agricultural products from Serbia, but it will allow every citizen, consumer in the Republic of Serbia in a much more transparent way to know the quality of the foods they consume, what they buy, how healthy they eat, will enable them, given that the bill is largely based on the standardisation of the quality of agricultural products and the classification of the same products. In addition to this, the planned measure of support for improving children's eating habits and youth is to plan to introduce healthy meals based on dairy products, fruit and vegetables exclusively from domestic producers, with appropriate standards and quality certificates. This bill provides for even four types of market interventions in the event of market disturbances in agricultural products. I shall only state as an example of public intervention as a direct State support in the event of a drop in the market price below the reference price of dairy products, beef and certain cereals, where the State will take care of the storage and purchase of those products in such situations. The bill is quite encouraging and encourages farmers to join agricultural organisations, which would in any case be supported financially by the state, both for the establishment and for the first five years of their operation. With that in mind, I wouldn't be much longer. I would like to say that this law is fully innovative, comprehensive, very precise and I believe that it will bring much good in the area of the regulation of the agricultural products market, much good in the area of agriculture of the Republic of Serbia, that many of today's farmers will solve it, and ultimately that every citizen of Serbia will feel good about this bill, given that the ultimate consumption of agricultural products is. With that in mind, I want to say that in the voting day, I will support this law and I call on all my colleagues to do the same.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-29-0.u8017	Thank you, Mrs. Todorovic. The word has Velibor Stanojlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-29-0.u8018	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Minister, Mr Katanic, we have before us a very important proposal for a law on the regulation of the agricultural market, which brings first of all one great responsibility and courage, first of all you, Ministers, which we should finally regulate relations between traders and farmers, because one without another cannot. In order for all of us to be equal participants in the business and the market to be free, this law is simply necessary for Serbia's agriculture to continue to develop. One of the biggest problems is that our market mechanisms are not in line with the measures of the organisation of the EU common market. In order for our country to implement all the requirements and measures relating to the regulation of the market as they exist in the EU, it is necessary to establish a single legal basis, and therefore it is high time that we get this law that will bring order and what is most important - the safety of our producers, i.e. our farmers. The harmonisation of regulations in this area, international regulations and standards will contribute greatly to increasing exports and product standardisation. What is also important is that this law prescribes market interventions as a type of regulation measure for individual sectors that will contribute to market stability. All of this tells us that in this way we want to continue to improve agriculture, and we all know how many countries are struggling to help improve agriculture by all kinds of incentives, subsidies and investment allocations in all sectors. I come from the Great Plan, where a lot of people are engaged in both livestock and fruit and beekeeping and warfare and all those valuable and honest people I want to tell them, as well as other farmers in the Republic of Serbia, that this is just one in a number of ways to help them develop and live even faster than their work. One of the main indicators and importance of agriculture in our country was last year, which showed us how important agriculture is for our country and how much it has helped us to preserve economic development and progress. Now, when we look at the situation, citizens have the opportunity to see the struggle of this government, headed by President Alexander Vukic, for every segment of our society and for every citizen of our country, and how difficult it was to fight our economy to strengthen and put on sound and solid ground, that with pride today we can say that from Saturday to the far south, at the end of our country, Serbia is a major construction site. On the other hand, we have former yellow tycoon marginalized politicians running an aggressive and shameful campaign that would force them to return to power and implement their lock politics. That's why citizens see what a group of people are, and that's why they're giving this much support to our president and the policy he's leading. While you, Minister, tour the villages and all the parts of our country, solve the problems of the peasants, this former thieving organization attacks the president and all other people who don't think like them. We won't let them do that anymore. I think it's very clear to them and that citizens have shown them the previous few times in the elections what they actually think of them. I am sincerely convinced and convinced that everything we have done so far will also see in the future which policy the citizens of the Republic of Serbia support. I sincerely hope that my fellow MPs, like the other MPs, will support this bill. In the voting day, I will support this law and I hope that we will help our peasants develop and develop the agriculture of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-29-0.u8019	Thank you, Mr. Stannilowovich. The word has Sanja Lakic. Thank you, Mr. Orlic. Honorable ministers, dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia and colleagues, a peasant in Gunjo created this country and stood up against powerful rulers, empires and monarchy, defending his fields, his land, his own home and his fields. The villager in Gunj also raised the first times, first school, first town and village, and so when the Serb village disappears and some wise heads in politics decide to re-fail even that Serbian root, Serbia will disappear. Today, Serbia with its domestic policy, as led by the president of the Republic of Serbia, does not want to. I had the opportunity to visit Negotin Krajina in the previous days with my colleague Boskovic, and that Negotinska Krajina was completely forgotten only a decade ago by Serbian authorities. Today when we talk about eastern Serbia, when we talk about the three-way between Bulgaria, Romania and Serbia, we talk about the part of our country that has the largest agrarian budget, we talk about the part of Serbia that is rapidly developing. In fact, we can even say that there are a number of subsidies in the area of agriculture, especially directed to fruit farmers, especially to Serbian winemakers. Due to good policy, because of the home government where every man is important and where every land is important today in this part of Serbia, we have return families, and one of them is the Manojlovic family in the village of Karbulova. I am truly looking forward to the fact that the Minister of Agriculture and the entire Ministry have been pulling hot chestnuts out of the fire with this law. I look forward not only to Manojlovic, but also to many other farmers and merchants from Kosovo and Metohija, via Šumadija to Vojvodina. Today, the state is strong enough and determined to regulate relations on the agricultural market. And if you ask me what it means for a Serbian peasant, a farmer, a trader, what this law means, three points, means the union of all entities, means their equality and means the end of the free market. With this law, the mess that existed in the previous years will finally turn into order. The main objectives achieved by the adoption of this law are to facilitate free trade, introduce modern mechanisms, regulate markets and bring EU legal assets into line. In addition, the objectives set out in the Strategy for Agriculture and Rural Development of the Republic of Serbia for the period from 2014 to 2024 are met by the adoption of this law. This is a growth in production and stability of producer income, a rise in competitiveness with adaptation of domestic and foreign market requirements and technical and technological improvement of the sector, sustainable resource management, environmental protection, improvement of quality of life, the possibility of new jobs in the Republic of Serbia and ultimately effective public policy management. Another important thing is that this law also cares about the youngest, cares about our children and our youth in educational and educational institutions and raising awareness in the general public about the importance of healthy nutrition in the development of the youngest. A peasant in Gunje, as I said at the beginning, created this country and the executive and legislative authority the least I can do is show determination to regulate relations on the agricultural market. It's the least Serbia's agriculture and Serb cattleman and Serbian farmer and Serbian village and a gun and persuasion at the root of Serbian identity. Thank you. Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-29-0.u8021	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, I fully agree with most of the colleagues who spoke before me that it was necessary to pass one of these laws, especially if we have experience of what happened in the past years, what is actually happening today. So there is always information that a sector in agriculture is unhappy with the purchase price of agricultural products. A good part of it has so far been left to the only market in Serbia, and the Serbian market, I think, has not been developed enough, is not now fully fair and marketable. I say, unfortunately, because the reasons are much deeper and deeper than the situation that is today. First of all, I have to say that the price of agricultural products in ransom depends on a few things. It depends, above all, on the market for the finished product in which the raw material originating in the agricultural product is involved, and on the other hand one of the factors is the agricultural and processing industry. This is a problem because in Serbia twenty years ago, under the pretext that we should make a complete market economy, full market agriculture, have made one crazy and thieving privatisation. Mr. Minister, if you want to get to the most valuable resource in agriculture, and that most valuable resource is often an oran, an orchard, it's enough, Mr. Minister, just to destroy the agricultural and processing industry, you don't need anything anymore. When you close, say, slaughterhouses, and they're closed almost everything in Serbia during privatisation, more farmers have no one to sell their product to. We come to that situation where the farms are suppressed, that cattle are slaughtered, and when we're done with the farmers, there's a warlord who has no one left to sell his cereal and then there's a variety of speculators who use the work and the sweat of those people to make themselves rich, and it's enormous. That's the kind of Serbia we found in 2012. Mr. Minister, it is a shame for one Serbia that in 2010, you had to get up at five o'clock in the morning to buy pasteurized milk. That's how Serbia was when it was ruled by the former regime and Dragan Gilas. How did that happen? You know, it didn't matter to them in what state they wanted the state, but how much they wanted their friends and sages to earn. All the milkmen were privatized in a freakish manner. When they privatised all the dairy farmers began to control the farmers over the ransom price, because they no longer have competition that is healthy and logical, and then they were estimated to be much more profitable if they sell sterile milk than pasteurized milk. When the state decided to intervene, because they risked Gilas and the company to be taken out of power, then there was this whole disorder that was made. The purchase price of milk was low, they wanted it to be even lower, the producers, or farmers, couldn't make it possible for them, they didn't want it, and at the end of the day, the price of a proud policy, which was led by citizens, by buying more expensive sterilised milk or not buying it at all. It's just one example of how you can do it and how important it is to actually pass one of these laws. Not to mention how Serbian slaughterhouses were closed, not to mention how the agricultural products, primarily grains, were just as cheap, although the state was giving significant funds per hectare, which again, thanks to their mathematics, combinations and one barren, thieving and incompetent government, were pouring back into the pockets of various speculators who made their own private empire, and Serbia wanted to make a private farm that only they would exploit. That's why I think passing one of these laws was necessary. We may have been late, but when you find a country in the state it was found in 2012, maybe this is the right time to pass one of these laws. Still, due to the lack of this serious processing industry, the Serbian agricultural market is, I say, quite shallow. We still have serious disturbances when it comes to the purchase of live cattle, so I am glad and indicated that in the intervention ransom, it is possible to buy meat, June or calf, large cattle are most difficult to renew. I also see that there is a possibility in law and private storage of pigmeat and pigmeat products, milk, dairy, etc. Mr. Minister, I have to ask you - do we have the capacity for such a thing? I would really like you to be right because I know what they were doing with our agricultural and processing industry when they came to power, because I know they literally ripped the equipment. Earlier, Braničevski County, where I come from, the Stig located in Braničevsky Management District, was considered Serbia's second cereal plant. I know how the agricultural-processing industry in Pogorevec was destroyed. When it comes to the meat industry of Pogorjevac, they have ripped off installations to earn on this hard-earned property, hard-earned and certainly could have served for better purposes, in order to reach agricultural land through the destruction of such a factory. So I'd like you to be, in fact, right, and I'm just citing some of the examples of how it was when the government exercised the former regime, as it was in Serbia that you didn't have milk during the rule of Dragan Gilas and that during his rule our agriculture failed, our agricultural market didn't exist, and he was getting richer and richer. I am not just saying this because of my colleagues who are here and not only because of the citizens of Serbia, but also because of these young people who may now be entitled to vote, because during the government of Dragan Gilas they were very small, they do not remember what his authority was, how they led Serbia, how they destroyed it and how they also took away their childhood. This law certainly resolves temporarily, in my view, certain situations in the area of agriculture, and I hope that through the full re-industriousization of our agriculture we will pass a law that ceases to apply this law, and that our agriculture will operate in fair and market conditions, not as during the former authorities and regimes of Dragan Gilas.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-29-0.u8022	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-29-0.u8023	Thank you, dear Vice President of the National Assembly, Mr. Orlic. Dear Minister Nedimovic and his fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, of course, that the SNS supports everything that goes into favor, and as regards the legal regulatory and legal framework, which will improve the market, which will improve the competition, of course, and competition in our country. I think we have a long tradition when it comes to improving agricultural policy and what you ministers are doing today, in terms of agriculture and reforms in the agriculture sector, reminds me of what the then Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, Milan Stojadinovic, was doing in terms of commitment and improvement of agriculture efficiency during that time period when Serbia recorded, behold, GDP growth of around 13.5%. Today we are also moving towards it, and I want to tell citizens and my fellow MPs very good news, that both the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund are forecasting for this year a rate of GDP growth in Serbia that will be greater than 6%. It is something that will in any case give momentum and give a boost and a good framework for the development of agriculture for the development of competitiveness, market liberalisation. We have also confirmed, over the past few years, that we want the market to want to improve this sector, since it is natural resources and an economic branch in which Serbia may have the greatest potential, but in any case we are willing to learn, we are ready to apply new technologies, but also to accept companies from abroad and all those people who are ready, able to help our country, but ready to invest here. So, we are open to everything and I want to commend everything that the Republic of Serbia has done thanks to personal relations and personal friendship and partnership with the family of Al Nahian from the UAR, in terms of Al Dahra investment in the Republic of Serbia. We expect, of course, more companies from the Middle East, both from the Emirates, both from Israel and all other countries, where agriculture has been raised and agricultural production has been raised to a very high level. It is interesting that the country with which we have really one very good co-operation on new technologies and trade exchanges, which is Israel, which is a country that has very little agricultural resources, but therefore food exports are recorded on the head of the world's largest population. These are opportunities for us, with the development of agriculture, with smart investment and the opening of our market, to achieve those objectives that are key political goals for the future and for Serbia's strategic progress both in the nearer and further future, which is to strengthen the demographic characteristics of our country, is to keep young people in our country. We're like SNS and we're showing our example. We have had the opportunity to hear here colleagues and colleagues who, despite this political work, are engaged in serious business from the agriculture sector and in fact in such young years as our colleague Ivana Popovic, know what market rules are, know what a fight is on the market, know what a fight is for every dinar, know how hard this dinar is in agriculture. But in the end, if with one good country coordination, if people are motivated, if people are educated in one quality way, it can become an economic branch that will be interesting and young people who will remain in the country, who will remain in rural areas and, of course, contribute to better and better equal regional development. So, full support for this law, full support for everything that ministers do on the development of competition, the development of agriculture, the strengthening of agriculture, even though we record a leap in many other economic and industrial sectors that may be more adapted to the fourth industrial revolution, but agriculture, and we still consider it in the SNS, should represent the Correspondent Development of the Republic of Serbia, not only the economic, but the overall political and of course of social development. All that's been going on in the economy for the past few years, which is growth, it's a serious inflow of foreign direct investment, it's a serious motivation for domestic businesses to invest in our country, it's encouraging young people to develop entrepreneurial and private initiatives that the policy of President Aleksandr Vukic and SNS is going in a good direction and is particularly going in a good direction when it comes to agriculture and we should work together on this job and on this plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-29-0.u8024	I thank Professor Marinkovic. The word is Alexander Mirkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-29-0.u8025	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, and fellow Members of Parliament, I think it is also excessively possible to repeat how good this law is and how well it brings benefits first of all to people who have been dealing with agriculture their whole lives. I think that everything that you are in your opening statement has said is sufficient reason why we as MPs will define ourselves to vote yes and support this law. Also, I think my fellow MPs were quite clear, decided, and they looked well enough at everything about this law and I think it's clear how much benefit this whole bill is. What's interesting to me, dear ministers, is the fact that this law just proves how much agriculture is now placed on pedestal and how important it is to the government of Serbia today that agriculture is developing, how secure they are in this business of people who are engaged in agriculture and fascinating the data, even if it was for me, how I entered your site and the Agricultural Payments Authority, where I saw you have almost 40 different incentives, subsidies in agriculture. I don't think anyone has brought this information out here yet, and I think that you as a ministry must insist as much as possible. I think it's good that these incentives for young farmers may be promoted on social networks, because young people are here and most represented, but somewhere the biggest problem with our people and our citizens is that insufficient information about everything the Ministry of Agriculture has to offer. I know that as much as you have work to do, you're always dealing with those on the ground, but only the mildest suggestion, in talking to people who deal with agriculture, I see that they may not be sufficiently focused on what the ministry has to offer them. Well, here's a little suggestion, if you could maybe with some bill, some side flyer or I don't know how, because that's something that'll come to any user who might need it. I certainly believe that citizens would use it more then. Certainly, the very fact that we have over 40 or close to 40 different incentives and subsidies clearly states how much your intensity is that agriculture is developing. I don't want to talk about it myself, but I think it's the best thing that citizens have said about it at the receptions you've organized. Also, I can't help but think about how many useful things citizens see from that and how many good ideas and suggestions that you later implemented were when we visited Ripanj and the Praval part of the Leader. Unfortunately, Mr. Nedimovic, neither you nor your government colleagues have been spared these days or these weeks of some unfounded attacks. I think all of this is being poured into a left hand that is just the flow of everything that Dragan Gilas and one part of the opposition are doing in this period, without any desire to discuss in any reasoned way or to make any suggestion, idea or criticism, so that any law makes the citizens of Serbia even better and even more interested. These days, particularly the current remarks were on the PKK and everything that is happening around the PKK. How much I have sent my previous fellow speakers, rarely who has looked into it in detail, and as someone who comes from Belgrade and who is born in this town, I know how important the PKK is to Belgrade, but also to Serbia. I also know how many people who have made direct decisions in the city of Belgrade have ruined this company and what it has led to. By replacing the thesis and trying to get Serbian citizens to throw dust in their eyes so they don't see that Dragan Gilas used every position just to make a millionaire out of himself, these days they've placed a number of lies, truths concerning the PKK, and I don't know any more which I would look back on and to answer, because what they are able to say is very difficult to deny in any way. However, because of Serbian citizens, I am obliged to present some information very interesting, which I am confident my fellow MPs do not know, as far as the PKK is concerned. Please don't be shocked and let your astonishment of what you're about to hear at least relax a little, because when I first presented this information at the session of the Belgrade City Assembly, no one could believe it, but in the end it turned out very quickly that it was true. Namely, everything that has been going on around the PKK since 2010, 2011, was the organisation of the campaign by Dragan Gilas to destroy the company, so that he and his individual partners, the famous Delta, could get hold of the company. When it came out in public, Dragan Gilas tried to deny it. However, not long after that, the director until then, "Delta Agrara", it seems to me that the company, by a strange transfer, is becoming the director of the PKK. So, Dragan Gilas directly sets it up and that man continues to serve as PKK director. According to auditors, according to the auditors, the debts of the PKK in 2012 amounted to 2.4 billion dinars. The audit was carried out and ended in April 2012, with the PKK's debt in September 2013, a year and a few days later, of as much as 9.9 billion dinars. It is seen from this accompanying how successful management was, although everyone in Belgrade tried during that period, and also in Serbia to convince that what they are doing with the PKK is in the best interest and that it will get the PKK out of some problems. What is particularly interesting is the fact that you know that although the entire process in the PKK, even setting up leadership, has been followed by Dragan Gilas, the PKK for two years has not paid a single dinar based on the bill for water, electricity, gas. So, they haven't paid anything in two years. In parallel with how everything was systematically done and how it was necessary to get as much money as possible through loans, loans and other malversions, we come up with the first absurdity that clearly shows what the goal was. Namely, the PKK had until then 24 buildings completely empty, so they were not filled with any capacity, there were no cattle in them, but then leadership made a strange decision to make a new farm. So you have 24 completely empty objects, but then leadership makes a decision to make a new one. When experts explained to them that there was absolutely no need, that it was only an additional cost on the already overindebted company, Dragan Gilas and the management he organised absolutely did not want to listen to it, they went out with some cost assessment. Watch out now, the new farm is planned to cost about three and a half million euros. In the end, when it was finished and the farm cost as much as sevenm euros. So, something that you absolutely don't need at that point, you paid double, you estimated three and a half million, and then you paid seven million. What particularly sheds another light on all the affairs accompanied by Dragan Gilas is the fact that they made the farm without even one single paper. So, without any permission, that farm was built. You have a paradox that the mayor, the first man in the city of Belgrade, in this way encourages wild construction. What's further is that everything they did on that farm was badly done, from sewers, to water flow, to anything. There was a possibility of a huge ecological disaster. As it went further into this problem and it collapsed there was no more solution to do something else, but they confessed – yes, okay, now we're going to see how we're going to supplement this, we have nothing to do with it, but we're going to have to put some cattle in there now, so we're going to box for the husband of the cow to organize, we're going to do it, so we're going to sort of justify ourselves. Then experts tell them that the boxing they made did not fit the needs, were not used in the right way. Why? Because the cows couldn't get into those boxes and the horns made a problem for them. So please pay attention to this now. So the cow's horns couldn't get into those boxes. When they realize that the problem is, what they're going to do with cows now and they have untapped boxes, they come up with a brilliant idea, I'm ironic, of course, let's cut their horns. Then they cut the horns with cows to justify that investment and forced them somehow into those boxes. Now, that, respected citizens of Serbia, is a picture and an opportunity to worry about agriculture during the period when Dragan Gilas was in power and the entire click of the DS regime. However, if all this were not the end and to see how far they go in their boast, I mentioned to you how much they owed, I mentioned what they were doing and where they embezzled money, how they tried to wash themselves, and how far they went and cut their horns with cows, but that wasn't enough for them either. Now it was necessary for the management of five people who directly placed the prize for everything they did in the PKK. Dragan Gilas' decision of 2013 requires the Secretary of the Agriculture Secretariat to pay the PKK's management for 660,000 euros on behalf of bonuses and excellent business. Why? Because the PKK's leadership at the time showed up, made a false report, a final account where loans, loans were shown as income, and government debt write-offs for everything they owed back on the side and showed that it was like some kind of profit. At the end of that, Dragan Gilas decides to share 660,000 euros in bonuses with five managers, directors, whatever it is, with each other. Respected Serbian citizens and respected colleagues, MPs and fellow MPs, this is the politics of Dragan Gilas and the people who led the city of Belgrade at the time, but in that period at the outset of the Republic of Serbia. Dear Minister Nedimovic, I am convinced that your associate already knows all of this, that you know of some much worse examples, but I, as someone who has been dealing with local problems in Belgrade for almost 12 years, wanted to share with the citizens of Serbia and this information and I see that my fellow MPs are shocked by what they heard. I'm telling you all this today because you can see for yourself that anxiety in the ranks and Dragan Gilas, but Vuk Jeremic has reached some new level. The performance of Vuk Jeremic, when he came from his three counterparts, trying to provoke Alexander Vukic, was nothing more than a cheap political performance, where they somehow tried to make themselves victims, and then to be a little brave. Alexander Vukic did not invite them to fight, but invited them to take on their backs the burden of lynching, because as you know yourself, so do all of us here sitting, including those people who vote for us Vuk Jeremic is waiting with some cruel rematchism, with some cruel lustration, which will not represent anything more than that that we, hypothetically, when they come to power, we cannot go out on the street. This all comes in a period when Dragan Gilas can't justify how it's from a failed entrepreneur, a window washer and a gum salesman, with 74 thousand euros in wealth of more than 20m euros in real estate alone or to explain how it is possible that in 17 different countries, there are even 53m euros in savings in the account. I'm convinced that many professors will try to explain that methodology how it comes to that number, but that no one will be able to explain it because it cuts with common sense. I am also convinced that you, Minister Nedimovic, as well as the entire government, will present to us the next responsible policy of President Aleksandr Vukic and the SNS as MPs, and will propose many more of these quality and good laws that are in the general interest of the citizens of Serbia and that we will all, together, create and make a better place for the lives of all people, all of our children and all of those generations to come. Thank you and live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-29-0.u8026	Thank you, Mr. Mirkovic. The word is by Professor Dragoljub Ackovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-29-0.u8027	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Nedimovic with an associate, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I want to thank everyone for these beautiful words about the people of the peasants in Serbia, the people who have since the First Serbian uprising, through the Great War and the small war, died and bled and fought for the state of Serbia that we now inherit. The people of Serbian, especially peasants, part of it, fought against many others, but especially against speculators. This law puts salt on their tails. Enough of the speculators, the village's little jills, but also these big ones, which you gentlemen mention, and they've made the people's lives worse in every way, so they'd try if it was possible for a little more and perhaps even more to do so. I hope and I am confident that the Serbian people see well and look in the right direction when they support Alexander Vukic's policy. I hope that the Serbian people have no intention of playing with their lives and the lives of their families, so that they can think again about the people who led us in the past decades and who led us to our country where it was found. We had no law on the regulation of the agricultural market and I believe that, and it was heard here several times, we should have had it a long time ago. The law has made the country of Serbia much more stable, that Serbia's agricultural products are far more appreciated and far more extensive. Now that we're discussing it, and we're discussing what it's going to be and how it's going to be done, I'm sure we'll be on the right side and we'll all vote for this law. What do we get? It's going to get that the government is helping small producers, you call them farmers, I call them peasants, I'm a peasant child, and so I say, to help them get together first of all, and thus also to build up their interests, not just possessions, because interests can be accumulated and realised in other ways. What will this law do on the product market, both in Serbia and beyond, towards the market we are all seeking, which is the European market? Well, it'll make us much more stable, much more concrete and much better. I believe that the Serbian peasant who was the pillar of this country will continue to be that and will see well where it is moving and how it is moving. Dear People's MPs, I want to take advantage of this moment, I'm pretty excited about what I'm about to tell you, to introduce you to the fact that on 19 June 2021 in the Czech city of Teplica, a police officer attacked a Roma during his duty, silenced him with his leg, and this one, called Stanislav Tomas, passed away. From June 19th to this day, there are numerous discussions and discussions on the situation of Roma in different European countries, including our country. I hope it never happens in this country, never happened, thank God it didn't. I protest out loud against this kind of relationship with the Roma people, because it reminds me of what happened a few months ago when George Floyd was in the same way, I watched the picture in some documentary movie, how it happened, was killed. For his murder, a police officer was sentenced for 22.5 years. I hope this Czech police officer is also convicted, and I apologize to you for the excitement I've been talking to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-29-0.u8028	I also thank Professor Ackovic. The word has Professor Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-29-0.u8029	Dear Vice President of the National Assembly, Mr. Orlic, Mr. Minister of Agriculture with his associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament. Mr. Minister, I would like to express my gratitude to you personally for your efforts in terms of the results both in agriculture and in the fight against birds for these two years at the most difficult times, one of the most difficult moments in the history of the Serbian people and the state. Agriculture in the Republic of Serbia is mainly based on two laws. To date, it is the Law on Agriculture and Rural Development and the Second Law on Incentives in Agriculture and Rural Development. So far, we've really worked under these laws, there have been some gaps, but when we look at the agricultural product market, then we see that these two laws don't regulate the agricultural product market at all. That's why this law is a desperate need, and thank you, Mr. Minister, for your agenda. Since my colleagues and colleagues have talked a lot about this, allow another sentence to be adopted by today's debate and I hope that by adopting these days, we, our legislation on agricultural production and for the product market, are similar to the EU's legal assets. It is very important that we emphasize it and not only emphasize it, but also do it and implement it. What's important is I have to say that our political opponents didn't care about agriculture, I don't have time, I have statistics, in their time was a disaster, to say once, but to say that they didn't, not even today, deal with the team, but constantly, with demonization, both Serbian people and Serbian citizens, and the Republic of Serbia, former presidents, today the President of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Alexander Vukic. Demonstration of him and the people is an unprecedented proportion, not only within, by our political opponents of our country, but also by neighbouring countries. Let me say a few sentences and see what this is about, though I know you know it very well, but we should say this for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Taxi, Vesna Mališić, is the one who swears daily, indeed literally swears, not only the President of the Republic, but also the Republic of Serbia, and not only the Republic of Serbia, but all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. It is the right hand of Dragan Djilas and Vuk Jeremic, otherwise, the people, the beatings in the attempt, as Zoran Zivkovic was a farmer in an attempt, these two of today's honourable MPs, call them truly the kickers in the attempt. Here, Vesna Mališić said on February 1, 2019, believe it or not – Serbia is a madhouse, and most Serbian citizens are crazy. The key to the madhouse holds one man, Alexander Vukitch, finished quote. So he calls Serbia a madhouse, he calls Serbian citizens a madhouse and Alexander Vukic the president of the state. I ask the question – has any MP from the opposition ever spoken such or similar words from 2012 to this day? Of course not. Let's move on. Slobodan Parvanov, a professor of Dr., led the academic community, gave that more ugly name to the president of the state than he has hair on his head, and I will only quote one. On March 21st, 2020, he said, quote – Vukić is a mindless leader, finished quote. Did any professor who voted for the SNS ever tell the leaders of the opposition political parties that way? Of course not. I'm telling you this to see who curses and who divides the people and who's rude. Dragan Gilas, otherwise known as Điki Mafia, said on 16 April 2020 – Vukic has mental problems, has some disorders, finished a quote. I have 22 other names, but due to time, one is enough to see the spectrum of these opposition champions both political and scientific and even academics. Speaking of academics, here's one, Professor Dusan Teodorovic, you've seen him these days. He is constantly shaking his head with hatred, in a people called - the head of the people. The citizens ask me: Is it that academic, who shakes his head, which when you mention the name of Alexander Vukic, he shakes his head out of hatred. That's what the human mind doesn't understand. It's the one who was expelled from the Traffic College and when the bombing was escaped, the great patriot left our country and went to the country that bombed us, to America and went back to Traffic College, past the competition. You know who took him in? Serbia's Turajlic, who is responsible for our education because of the situation in which education and education are located today. It'll take months and years to correct their mistakes. He said on June 18, 2019 on TV N1, infamously indeed, when I saw on TV N1 you saw these days, Goebbels was a genius compared to them, these are even worse a million times. They filmed about President Vukic, hours and days of gardening. And, look at the wonders now, they've been going through Republika Srpska since Milorad Dodik, since he was born, and they've tied up with President Vukic not to talk about the MPs. Any MP who hasn't answered his cell phone in the plan, the mockery has been thrown out. And this academic, the great moral gromada says -- MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia are primitives, finished quote. Maybe we are, Mr. Academy. But, never, never will this group of MPs leave the country when there's a bombing, not before. Well, that's where we differ. We're not gonna be mobs unlike you, because you did mob work while you were a university professor. Let's move on, on the same show on July 18, 2019, the journalist Stupar, well-known to you, he said, quote – The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is a barn, finished quote. Did any of the MPs ever say or members in SNS history? Well, he can say I'm an animal, and that's what they said we were animals, but that can only be said by a lunatic that's a barn assembly. That's his congregation and mine. I can't say that Boris Tadic wasn't my president, although I was in opposition, because I wasn't governmental then, then I'm personal. So the citizens can see what it's all about. Let's move on, Gilas, to see this Gilas unhappy, is not unfortunate, I suppose justice will come to him, even if cosmic, on May 13, 2018, offended a thousand times, a thousand and first time, by Alexander Vukic calling him fascist, and the state of Serbia a fascist state. Can you honourable MPs believe that Dragan Gilas can say that, otherwise for Europe, Gilas, because there are two passports, when crossing the border, is Gilas. That's not what I'm saying. That says the police who arrested him, and she let us know. And to see another journalist spit on the state of Serbia and our MPs these days, and Alexander Vukic from minute to minute. Otherwise, the journalist openly says "Today" Nenad Kulacin, he told the president on November 3, 2010 that the monster is on TV. I quote - man without cheek and shame, finished quote. For example, I quote: depravity, an irrelevant character for history in the period in which he lives, finished quote. I've got a whole page, but I'm still not pointing it out. Did any of the SNS MPs ever say that to any MP or to anyone? Where are the independent journalists? Shut up. Where are the associations different? Shut up. Well, they're political workers. Well, they're worse than the Kumrovecs, from the times of communist, political workers. I don't want to bother you any more, let me tell you about Marinika Tepic, by the way, the pigeon flyer. She's famous for lying in bed at night, and in the morning she wakes up in the other party. Otherwise, the political electric rabbit, the rabbit of Dragan Gilas, constantly insults Alexander Vukic and his family. I don't want to deal with her because other parties have talked a lot about her, it's a woman who's invented thousands of affairs so far. Just one sentence, I quote Jovanovic, her former party colleague, says – that there is no party, Party of Freedom and Justice, Marinika would be, if you excuse that thing on the bike. Complete quote, 18 August 2012, one daily paper, page two. And that I don't bother you any further, honourable MPs, but I will now say, it's not just them, we have in neighbouring Serbian countries that do it, I'm going to talk about them tonight for the first time in this assembly, because it really came to the top of my head, as they say. Among them is a former Serb, in our neighbouring republic Milo Djukanovic called otherwise "miloporac". Now, remember, I said this at his international rally directly in Podgorica, to make him hear better. In Serbia's human moral historical vertical, Montenegro, there were more moral human freaks and nothingvellies, Milo Djukanovic called "milorac" belongs certainly to the very top of the vertical. And now that I've said it, I've got some things to prove. You know I don't want to say it by heart, but I'm going to say some things, because I've seen some things down there these days. This is the man, gentlemen of Serbs and you citizens of the Republic of Serbia, who has proposed the establishment of an Orthodox church of national Montenegrins. All right, watch out, Orthodox churches of national Montenegrins. He says, we've restored the state, so we need to rebuild the church's completion quote. And he adds, I think it's better that we have an Orthodox church that will have its believers finished quote. So it's important for him to have the Serbian one out of the Orthodox one. You know, whose thesis is that? Ante Pavelic. You who follow don't have to be historians, but that's Ante Pavelic. For Djukanovic, it is important that the Serbian epithet be expelled from the self-cephale Serbian Orthodox Church in Montenegro and remain the Orthodox Church of National Montenegrins. Now, what is important, which is that we all realize that consciously it is going towards the formation of the new nationality of Montenegro's nationality, as a man of historians is fully responsible for saying that such nationality has never existed in Montenegro since the 10th century until today, only Serbs and in the 19th century and other national minorities, and as far as the native people were only Serbs, whether or not it existed in all textbooks, I painted them all in Montenegro in the 19th century in Montenegro, and I quote – Gora live Serbs. No one normal, not only in this hall, but also from the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and especially Serbs will not question the state of Montenegro and statehood, because it has existed since the 10th century. So that's very important. Now Milo Djukanovic ends his national identity and he creates a new one, and in the history of humanity no one has worked, a new nation, national Montenegrins from Serbs, and the national identity of the people, I'm not talking about the state, was for centuries Serbian, it consisted of the SPC in Montenegro, of the Serbian language in Montenegro, of the Serbian Cyrillic letter, Serbian culture and Serbian customs. What I'm telling you, the people in Montenegro think the same thing, and now that you're asking me what I'm proposing to Djukanovic, before a few more sentences say, I suggest that after all this I'm going to say, they do suicide or the first plane to get out of Montenegro. Indeed, watching what I saw in Montenegro for two days, how does Djukanovic think he provides believers for the Orthodox Church of National Montenegrins? He formed 27 years ago in the House of Culture in Cetinje and registered at the local police station Dedejic, and now wants another one, to break the Serbian people and Serbian identity on the proposal, openly speaking, the West, Western embassies in Montenegro. Reminders for, in 2006, Milo Djukanovic singled Montenegro out of the state union with Serbia, contrary to most of Montenegro, the referendum was stolen, the testimony of Serbians from Montenegro, Jovana Markuska, on 1290 pages, that is so-called. ‘The White Paper’. There is no dilemma and it is said by Gidon, David Gibbs, who says in his book – we bought Milo Djukanovic and his election as president for money and miracles, not only him, and the money of every Montenegrin and Serb in Montenegro, and so he came to power. In May 12, 2020, only two more data not to torture you, he was arrested after the Holy Vassile Lithium, in Niksic Vladik Joanikia. I am talking to you, and I am talking to you, and also to you, since he is an anti-communist, communist during his 45-year reign, they have never arrested a single bishop. Someone tell me and get up whether or not they were and did not interfere in church relations, as Djukanovic is now doing, but they did other things and other dishonest deeds, but never. I'd like someone to document me. Young and old in Montenegro, they finally realized that SPC is the special and biggest dam of what makes us human and us and those in Montenegro, the special dam of national and religious identity. Just one more sentence to tell you that in northern Macedonia, as I was talking about the environment, a stamp has been printed in gratitude to Croatia within the borders of the former NDH. Let's go now, that's where they're attacking us. Northern Macedonia President Stevo Panderovski said afterwards, I quote that he supports the state of Kosovo, a finished quote, within the current borders. How about the MPs if Alexander Vukic says, or we MPs, not to accept Northern Macedonia within the current borders? Whoever gets involved in whose inner affairs we won't suffer anymore, but we'll expose everyone like this, both from the north and the south, because they've gone too far. In Sarajevo, a masseuse of Ustasha criminals, so-called criminals, were held with Bleibu's victims. Dear People's MPs, since I have a lot of these quotes, I'd be done, but let me say in the end, what's the point. The goal is to interfere, not only in the elections, in Serbia to bring Alexander Vukic down because of Serbia's major progress, which has made economic, political and social international progress and reputation these days. The biggest hospitals, the lesbians, the lofties are our locals, headed by Gilas. You saw that Wolf Jeremic, the day before, a Miletic journalist destroyed him. Did you hear it when she asked him? Did you speak the truth the day before yesterday or today? She's yellow, she doesn't know what she's doing, she doesn't know what she's saying. So that's the goal of ours, and they said yesterday that they didn't need the election, to walk down the street with bloodshed. He'll never come to power on the street, ever. So let David Gibbs tell them what they were doing on October 5th, how much money did they get, how much did they get in their pockets? Today they are to apologize to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and they are accusing us today that we are war thugs, you heard yesterday. I end up, Vice President, with this quote from the U.S. Secretary of State who said - I was coming to Franji Tudjman and Janka Bobetka not to wage war and not to attack Serbs, Tudjman replied to me - out of the question and to give them autonomy. No autonomy, we want war, because that's how we get Croatia's independence. The first thing was, he later ordered, Gibbs writes, to attack Serbs and the village of Boro, and the crimes against Serbs ordered Glavas and his trapps, etc. That's not only him, but Joseph Bolekovac, who was the interior minister, whom, as you know, was arrested not for 1990, but for 1941, which he killed one. (Alexander Martinovic: Joseph Reichl-Kir was also killed. That's right, and Joseph Reichl-Kira, Mr Martinovic. It's an order that defended the Serbs. That's very interesting. That's what the Bolshevik says, but the books are left. There's no time. Me and Mr. Martinovic write a paper for a magazine. It's called "The Breaking of Yugoslavia". Yugoslavia didn't break, it's broken. In one sentence, the US beginning, Germany in the front row, the Vatican, Croatia and Slovenia, and then our traitorous bastards with us, with Serbs. Here, that's the point and that's not what we're saying right now. None of ours will quote, all foreigners, all Croats, all Slovenians. In the end, Your Honor, yesterday is a very important day for Serbian history, and that is the day when... One of the greatest sleazes in the history of Serbs. Second row. The first was the extradition of Karadjordje's head, and yesterday, Slobodan Milosevic. All those who took part in that time were to speak, because the foreigners said he was a hero. It would be good for ours to tell the truth about what was going on, and I hope they will also read the literature not only of ours, but also of the foreign one. On that behalf, thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-29-0.u8030	Thank you, Professor. Atlagic. Mr. Risticevic, you have your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-29-0.u8031	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there's a lie here that the communists have not arrested any bishops. I know a communist who arrested two men. The first was Amphilochy Radovic, and the second was Joaniki, with this first being a Metropolitan. I'm still holding Milo Djukanovic as a communist. It's the last communist dictator, and I don't believe he's out of that communist party. As far as Yugoslavia is concerned, it has fallen apart on the very communist drezdenic recipe. The last who left were the montenegrins and today the official Montenegro after the territorial detachment wants to be spiritually and national to unify Serbs from Serbs and Negos and obviously do not go after them and we no longer have to deal with Milo Djukanovic, we have to deal with Milo Krivokapic, who has completely taken over Krinakopic Milo's policy, so that Milo's politics can't fight, and I rightly say that now we have a problem with two same policies and there Serbs need to re-emerge, to put all the votes in the Serbian list and to decide with which Mil's column they will go to next elections, and until then we have a problem with Milo Krivokapic. I answered, first of all, to thank you for this most sincere love, not only of love for food, but also of the farmers that all my colleagues have brought out here and I want to thank you for this respect of peasant rough hands, to thank you for respecting people who don't even know what an annual vacation is, winters, summers. I want that attention you've given them to return in the best way. This is a very difficult year because of price parity, which are very unfavourable for livestock farming and this is a difficult year because it started with... Jun started with extreme drought. We don't know what the yields of corn, sugar tails, etc. will be. But your attention to agriculture today is not only for me, but for all farmers in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-29-0.u8032	Thank you, Mr. Ristichevich. With this list, we've exhausted the word logs. Before we conclude this debate, the word has the Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Nedimovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-29-0.u8033	I would like to thank you all for the debate that took place today and to show my hope that the things we had in the past, due to the lack of such a tool, that at least as far as the future is concerned, will no longer be a problem. Of course, we still have a lot of obstacles here, but all the resources the Ministry of Agriculture has will function as the implementation of this law if you adopt it in the day of the vote. Thank you to all the parliamentary groups and it has been a pleasure talking to you today and discussing all this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-29-0.u8034	I thank the Deputy Prime Minister. Once again, I ask, is there anyone who hasn't applied his right to the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. ) In that case, I conclude a principled search of the bill. We'll continue work tomorrow at 10:00. Thank you, everyone.
