ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-29-0.u11035	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the tenth session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2021. I invite you to pay our respects to the deceased MP Milutin Mrkonjic for a moment of silence. Let him have his glory. Ladies and gentlemen, on the basis of the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the sittings are attended by 119 MPs. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in determining the agenda exists if a majority of the total number of MPs are present at the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., I ask the Members to insert their cards into the MPs' units. Thank you. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 149 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly within the meaning of Article 88(5). Rules of Procedure. I would like to inform you that she has been prevented from attending the session of the National MP Dr. Vesna Ivkovic. In accordance with Article 86(2) and Article 87(2), Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that this session has been convened within a short period of time set out in Article 86(1). Rules of Procedure and, exceptionally, on Monday, beyond those laid down in Article 87(1). The Rules of Procedure, because of the need for the National Assembly to consider proposals for decisions in the proposed agenda as soon as possible. In the context of this session that has been delivered to you, the draft agenda for the session has been contained. Before the sitting agenda is established, pursuant to Article 92(2) and Article 93. Rules of Procedure, it is necessary for the National Assembly to decide on proposals for putting on the agenda acts under emergency procedure and on a proposal for a merger of discussions. The president of the National Assembly proposed that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the Proposal for a Decision supplementing the Decision on the termination of office and appointment of the Republic Election Commission, which submitted to the National Assembly on 28 November 2021, with a correction of 29 November 2021. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please press the corresponding key. I am stopping the vote: total – 156 for – 153, not voted – three. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. National MP Dr Aleksandar Martinovic suggested that an emergency procedure be put on the agenda of the Proposal for a decision to amend the Decision on the termination of office and appointment to the Republic Election Commission, which he submitted to the National Assembly on 26 November 2021. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please press the corresponding key. I am stopping the vote: total – 158, for – 156, did not vote – two. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. National MP Ivica Dačić, pursuant to Article 92(2) and Article 192(3) and Article 157(2). The Rules of Procedure proposed that a joint single search be carried out on both proposals for decisions. I'm putting this motion to the vote. Please press the corresponding key. I am stopping the vote: total – 158, for – 157, did not vote – one. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. Since we have agreed on proposals for putting on the agenda of the session of acts under emergency procedure and on a proposal to merge the debate, pursuant to Article 93(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I put to the vote a draft agenda in general. Please press the corresponding key. I am stopping the vote: total – 158, for – 157, did not vote – one. I find that the National Assembly by majority has established the agenda of the tenth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly in 2021 in general. Dn e v n i r e d: 1. Proposal for a decision to supplement the Decision on termination of office and appointment to the Republic Election Commission, and 2. Proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the termination of office and appointment to the Republic Election Commission. We are going to work on the established agenda of the session. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 92(2) and Article 192(3) and Article 157(2), paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Rules of Procedure, I am opening a joint single search on the proposal for a decision to supplement the Decision on the termination of office and appointment to the Republic Election Commission, with a correction, which was submitted by the National Assembly President and the proposal for a decision to amend the Decision on the termination of office and appointment to the Republic Election Commission, which was submitted by MP Dr Aleksandar Martinovic. Since Mr Martinovic and I are proposing, first of all, I will only be able to point out that this proposal, which I have tabled, is practically part of the agreement in the inter-party dialogue, in order to allow outside of this regular and standard composition of the Republic Election Commission in the event of the upcoming elections, including a referendum waiting for us on constitutional changes, if we adopt a proposal for constitutional amendments, to propose six members and six deputies from the opposition parties who are not in parliament, whether they have boycotted the elections, whether they have not crossed the 3% censorship. So, accordingly, this proposal, and it is written in the law that, I formally submit this proposal, this proposal is part of theirs, in fact the result of their proposals, and this only applies to the ad hoc situation, means the upcoming elections, and that includes the time and obligations that RIK will have for the referendum. In that sense, we have scheduled this session today. Ambassador Martinovic has proposed amendments concerning this regular RIK composition. I don't know if he needs to explain? If he doesn't, we're going to the discussion now. First of all, let me tell you that we're not going to have a break because we're on our way because of the need to make business commitments, 24 hours must pass from the request to call a session, or to put up some points and call a session, so we started later so we won't have this break from 14.00 to 15.00 hours and we'll be working until 6:00, and at 6:00, there'll be a vote. Also, I want to inform you that if the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Jelena has now come out, so I don't know if it's over, she told me that if I get this proposal for constitutional amendments, I will schedule for tomorrow, as it were, approximately, at the 1300th session of the National Assembly related to the proposal for constitutional amendments. We are now going to the debate, or president, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, Samir Tandir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-29-0.u11036	Dear President of the National Assembly, honourable vice presidents, colleagues and fellow MPs, before I look back on today's agenda, I would like to extend my deepest condolences to the family of my late colleague Milutin Mrkonjic, as well as his party to the SPS, on behalf of the Justice and Reconciliation Party, as well as on my personal behalf, for his premature departure. A colleague, Milutin Mrkonjic, as an MP and as a minister and as a social worker, left a deep trail. I mean, I had the honour of knowing this man from whom we junior MPs could learn a lot, and for the first time I heard about Milutin Mrkonjic in 1999 when I was a first-class student, when he was rebuilding a broken bridge in the municipality of Prepolje. After that man, numerous monuments remained infrastructure, including that bridge, and very often we spoke on the subject. Both his family and his party should be proud to have such a man in their ranks. May his eternal glory be, and thank you. Also, respected colleagues and colleagues I want to look back on the scenes of violence we've had the opportunity to see for the weekend. What I'm saying is that most of us in this room in the course of its political action had the opportunity to be in opposition, I personally was much more in opposition than in power, I completely understand a different opinion, I fully understand political pluralism and dissension. However, in the overall disagreement, the conflict of opinion, the conflict of concepts, the conflict of opinion that the state should develop and the society in which it should go, certain regulations must be respected, which are primarily the Constitution, the law, human rights, the right of the second and the other. So that I am unhappy with a certain political situation in the country, I must in no way exercise it by jeopardizing another or different or his rights. Everyone has the right to express their dissension. Everyone has the right to express his rebellion, but in accordance with the Constitution and the law and not in violation of the rights of others and different ones. I really don't think it's the right way by us blocking certain cars, especially highways and getting to the situation that, for example, ambulances can't get through. It's something that's absolutely unacceptable that because of my political disagreement, I'm jeopardizing someone's life or the lives of other people and their regular communication. We've got markets, we've got sports halls. The rally is being organized, so from these rallys, send your political messages, but to block the road and that people whose lives depend on how fast the ambulances will get to the destination, I really think that goes beyond all limits and we can't call it one reasonable political struggle. I really need to appeal that such scenes never happen again and that such irresponsible behavior really does condemn. As regards today's agenda, the points we are talking about today, the amendments to the Decisions on the termination of functions and the appointment of RIK are technical points, protocol and procedural. They also contain a truly profound meaning. The Justice and Reconciliation Party, as the strongest Bosniak party and our parliamentary club, together with the United Peasant Party in voting day, will vote for these proposed changes because it is about increasing the capacity of the Election Commission. Evidence that we live in a democratic society, evidence that the ruling majority absolutely feels the need for another and different, different way of thinking are these changes, and that is why I absolutely support them. Ever since the world and the century, ever since we have elections at any level, it has never happened that one who loses the election comes and says – you know, every honor, you're better, I've lost or they've lost because they have worse ideas, a worse concept, a worse campaign and worse candidates. No, I don't. It is simply that whoever loses the election would point to the Electoral Commission, whether it be the elections for the council of local communities, whether it be some local elections, parliamentary, republican etc. When we return to history and analyze the elections in both the Kingdom of Serbia and if we talk about the space where we live, our country, the Kingdom of SHS, the Kingdom of Yugoslavia later, Tito's Yugoslavia, we will see that the conduct of the elections has always had a certain sign of a question and there has always been some doubt over these elections about regularity. When we had to this extent the crisis in the Kingdom of Yugoslavia that we also had this six-year dictatorship, the abolition of parliamentaryism, conflicts with the death outcome in parliament, later in 1945, and this Agreement Tito-Subasic and so on. The "lock box", then the multi-party, 1996, large demonstrations, October 5th, and later the "Bodrum" affair. So it's all something that marked parliamentaryism in our country. I want to say that I am really proud that we are working in parliament in a parliamentary majority that has no problem giving us a chance and that there are people on the election board who did not deserve it based on the election results. I'm glad those who represented the idea of a boycott realized it was the wrong idea. Simply, all the problems that occur in society should be solved within the system's institutions. None of us are thinking the same thing here, which is why we have political pluralism. We have different political options, parties, but then we make coalitions on some common denominator. It is important that our conflicts, our differences, our different concepts, be resolved in institutions, local parliaments, the Republic Parliament, and not that this is resolved on the street, don't give God to physical conflicts or some kind of outburst of hatred and extremism. It is therefore very important that we have a RIK that everyone points to, which has strong legitimacy and that, after the next elections, when the results are announced, absolutely no one will have doubts about these results. As a Justice and Reconciliation Party, we participated in both inter-party dialogues, and where foreigners were as co-facilitators, Europarliamentaries, and I want to thank them at this time. The people of the European Parliament, from the EU, are our partners and friends and I think their presence has only contributed to a more intensive discourse and dialogue. I also welcome the decision of both the President of the State and the President of Parliament to have that kind of dialogue within our country, within our institutions, under the auspices of the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, where parties who did not want us to have foreign intermediaries participated. I think that is how the wishes of all the participants in this dialogue are respected. We participated in this dialogue within our institutions only at the beginning, while there was a need for this, and I want to say that on behalf of minority communities living in the Republic of Serbia, and according to the latest list of 1/3 citizens and citizens are members of minority communities, that the reduction of that number of signatures from 10 to 5,000 civilizations is a step, that it was fought and fought for by the gleaming leader of our party, academics Muamer Zukorlic, and that it is indeed a big thing and enables members of minority communities to participate more easily in the elections, and then to elect their participation in parliament. As for the dialogue with the Europarliamentaries, we have offered our platform and I want to say as a party that is a member of the parliamentary majority, we have had certain, but as a party of the national minority, members of the Bosniak people mostly vote for our party, we have had some of our recommendations. They primarily concerned media representation. As the strongest Bosniak party, as a party that is parliamentary, which has four MPs, we are not satisfied with how much we are represented at the national media service, however, there is no ideal society and simply these are the things that we all have to work on together, that we have one even representation. I'm very pleased to meet you when it comes to campaign financing. I simply think that one democratic capacity has shown in the ruling majority, and especially in the strongest party, that all those who wish to participate in the election offer are fair conditions and that no one has the excuse to decide on a boycott tomorrow. I'd like to mention, we've spoken several times, what happened during the previous regime. Very often we talk about freedom of the media, very often we talk about making choices. And today it's a theme when we talk about RIK. I have talked about the experiences of history, however, I would like to mention once again that the first direct elections for national councils were held in 2010. So, elections were held for the Bosniak national council or the Bosniak National Council. At the time, Mufti Muamer Zukorlic, a list of the Bosniak cultural community, won the vote with confidence and 49% of the vote. The minister of human and minority rights from DS Svetozar Ciplic, who also deals with politics day and day-to-day has the courage to represent himself as some kind of democratic alternative, has annulled the election result by arguing that Bosniaks are special and need special rules. So it was not established in 2010 by the Bosniak National Council and for four years its work, contrary to the Constitution, was suspended. Now, that's clearly democracy, freedom of choice and the rule of law that individuals imagine. I honestly believe that such will never again come into a situation to perform any public functions in our country. As for media freedoms, I can say that in the period until 2012 the representatives of my party, the leader of our party, the rickety academic Muamer Zukorlic, and myself personally, were unable to participate in any media. We had a television show in Sandzak, Sandzak TV, and a certain production, I think it was called Sky Plus info, on which someone who didn't think like then the ruling majority could visit. So much for the rule of law and for media freedoms until 2012. I think it's very important that we get into a change in RIK's composition today. This is proof of fundamental democracy. This is proof of respect for the other and different and one fair offer that indeed tomorrow absolutely no one can point to the RIK and make any suspicions. In voting day, our parliamentary group will support these proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-29-0.u11037	Thank you. The word is Branimir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-29-0.u11038	Thank you, Mr. President. Fellow Members and colleagues, today when we are discussing new members who are due to change the composition of the RIK, we are actually making one precedent, but given that this is an agreement by all relevant political parties in Serbia, representatives of the government and the opposition, I believe that this precedent is justified, that it will only be applied at the next elections and that, in future, we will be working on one established system in accordance with the law and procedures and only in this context can I justify it and therefore we will support today's proposals that are on the agenda. We are due to the election boycotts held in 2020 and have come into this situation and are now giving parties who either did not cross the censorship or who boycotted the elections to have their representatives in the RIK. This is kind of good because we give legitimacy to the elections to be held in the spring, and I mean both the presidential elections and the local Belgrade elections and the announced parliamentary elections. I believe that in this way we will enter into a process of changing electoral laws that aims to strengthen citizens' confidence in the electoral process itself. The most important thing for us from the SDPS when we talk about new RIK members, i.e. about RIK's work, is that all RIK members are professional and that only the principle on which RIK's work is based is the principle of balance, i.e. that representatives of parties who are equally represented in the RIK's parliament, and in this case we will get parties who are extraparliamentary that they will be able to delegate their candidates for RIK. When we talk about expertise, it is important that the parties propose candidates who are competent to do their job, so they do the job in accordance with the laws, in accordance with the procedures. There's always a big responsibility on the Republic Election Commission. First of all, the Republic Election Commission organises elections at all levels, from presidential elections, parliamentary elections, provinces, local ones, as well as elections for the councils of national minorities. We've been going on for three decades, when we're talking about improving electoral conditions, we're working on it. If we go back, we will see that when the multi-party parliamentary system in Serbia is restored that such a system has changed in many ways than it is today. So, once we had a majority system, Serbia had been divided into several electoral units and since a proportional system of election of MPs was introduced and when Serbia was a single electoral unit has essentially changed nothing in this key context for 20 years. In any case, we are constantly working to improve the electoral process ourselves in a side-by-side manner to strengthen citizens' confidence in our political system. For SDPS, the improvement of the electoral process that promotes fundamental human rights and political freedoms is in fact one process that contributes to building trust, which contributes to building a democratic and open society where everyone will have the right to demonstrate their political confidence and to vote freely in the elections. That is why we think it is necessary to find a consensus, when we are also talking about transitional solutions that should be applied for the next elections, so on short-term solutions, but also on long-term solutions, because we ourselves are aware that this is one procedure that always takes place and where there should always be an agreement between all political actors on how to improve electoral conditions. Therefore, we also need to work in the future on comprehensive reforms of the electoral process and thus only strengthen the confidence of citizens in the institutions of the system that directly or indirectly participate in organising the elections. I would like to remind you that representatives of the government and the opposition began to discuss improving electoral conditions 2.5 years ago. It is then agreed that some solutions can be implemented in the short term, so for the first elections that were held afterwards, and so it is done in practice by amending the laws, the procedures have been changed and this agreement has been implemented. I'll also remind you of what we did back then. So then we passed a few laws. First of all, the Law on the financing of political activities, the Law on the Prevention of Corruption, the Anti-Corruption Agency Act and the Law on Public Enterprises. So these were amendments and additions of already existing laws, in accordance with the agreement. The goal was to fight more effectively against the abuse of public resources. We have insisted on this and I think that we have now come to a truly acceptable legislative regulation that needs to be respected and in past elections is respected in practice. Also, changes have been made to reduce the electoral census from 5% to 3%, the threshold for participation has been increased, candidates' mandatory participation in the election lists from 30% to 40% for members of the less-represented sex, and mechanisms have been strengthened when it comes to the protection of minority parties. Also elected and missing REM members, members of REM were elected to the mandate, so the agreement was respected in that part. I quote all of this to show that every deal that has been reached in the past has been respected by the congregation's majority. Also, I cite it for reasons to show that any agreement that could have been applied in the first next election that was successfully applied. When we talk about the Republic Election Commission and the election process itself, our legislative regulation, unlike some other states, does not know a stable, professional electoral administration, so that administration that would take care of the whole election process, or all its segments, in one place. Here I also think of the voter's record to organise and implement the electoral process, financial control, media role monitoring, analysing and initiating the improvement of the electoral system and process. So we have every part of this process entrusted to different, or different state bodies. In one part of the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government has a significant role to play, especially when we talk about identifying, or updating the electoral lists, and I'll say something about it later. Because of all of this, we from the SDPS a few years ago, we had an idea that we should think about introducing a state electoral commission. When I say the state electoral commission, I mean a professional, independent, permanent body that, in itself, would have prominent experts in the field of electoral law, the electoral system. They would be elected for a period longer than the duration of the parliamentary term in order to ensure their independence, but thus, by professionalising such a body, we would also strengthen mechanisms to control all participants in the electoral process. That's why I said earlier that the current Republic Election Commission should primarily mark expertise and balance. In the previous period, RIK has improved work in many segments. First of all, I'm thinking about the part where the public has better insight into RIK's work. Now someone can be directly transmitted via the internet to monitor RIK's work, the way members act, the way decisions are made. Also, after the end of the election, on the RIK site there are scanned records from every polling station and anyone who has little doubts about the final results can compare those results, create a collection and see if everything is okay or not, and obviously there has been no objection so far when we talk about this segment. Before that was very different, these results could only be seen in polling stations, whether they were schools, local communities or other facilities, it was mandatory to highlight records on these premises, but not on the RIK site. I think we've made significant progress in that area. Also in co-operation with the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government have successfully updated voter lists before holding elections, each citizen can check whether it is listed in the voter's list. He simply goes to the Ministry of State and Local Self-Government site, types in his home number and can see if he's listed in the polling list, to inform himself in time. If he isn't, he can correct that mistake if he has it and he can see where he's voting. The only thing we can do on this plan is work on a media promotion to make the citizens aware that this possibility is also available to them. I also think that a good solution is that every election list has an observer in every polling post and there, if the whole process is respected, when we talk about voting, there is really no need to doubt the results of the vote. There is no doubt that RIK has done its job professionally and well so far, but including the opposition representative in the RIK system is actually part of the deal and all participants in the next elections will be able to control the process, from the moment the elections are called to the moment when votes are counted and the official vote results are announced. In this way, we really do not satisfy any party, nor do we aim to damage any party, but we want the public to have insight into the election process itself, specifically in this case in the RIK's work. Two and a half years ago, it seemed impossible for representatives of the government and the opposition to make any kind of deal in such an atmosphere. I think we have all been responsible enough, that we have shown that such a thing is possible and that the results of this are now seen, in particular today in Parliament when we are discussing the amended composition of the RIK. I will remind us that we have a number of laws to pass in the next period on which certain procedures will be changed in the next elections and will be applied in the presidential, parliamentary and local elections. Our motive is primarily to improve the electoral system, because we think it is necessary for it to change from time to time, because the circumstances in which we live are changing, to create a stable system that will restore citizens' confidence in the electoral process, but to establish a political system in accordance with the will of citizens and with the real strength of political entities. We have shown that by agreement we can come to satisfactory solutions and there is no reason for it to be so in the future. Therefore, the SDPS will support proposals on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-29-0.u11039	Thank you. The People's MP of Life Starcevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-29-0.u11040	The Honorable President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, before I start on the topic we are discussing today, I want to express on behalf of the JS and the JS Parliamentary Group, but not only the SPS, but also all of us with the sincerest condolences for the death of the great imam, our fellow MP Milutin Mrkonjic, the man who has built and worked his whole life, trying to build everything possible before the deadline. Unfortunately, and he left before the deadline, and remains a large gap in the place where our colleague, dear MP and honorary SPS President Mr Milutin Mrkonjic sat. But let me move on to the subject today. We are today discussing the Proposal for a Decision on the Completion of the Decision on the termination of functions and appointment in the RIK, and the Proposal for a Decision on amendments to the Decision on the termination of functions and appointment in the RIK. As you said to the president, the bottom line is that we, in this act, want to honor the agreement we made with the part of the opposition, the agreement signed here in the Republic Parliament, and by showing how, of course, we want to keep our word and that we want to create a favourable and positive political climate in our society. This positive political climate that we want to create is a good environment for Serbia's further progress, for Serbia's further development, and we think that this is the best way for Serbia to move forward, both economically and in any other sense. Therefore, the JS parliamentary group will support this Agreement, as we have given our active participation in all the talks so far, negotiations, or whatever you want, with the opposition, which lasts, not just this year, but to remind you, which took place before the previous elections. Why do I remind you? Because part of the opposition did not sign this agreement, and part of the opposition certainly does not support the creation of this positive political climate in society, because it absolutely does not suit them, and in my further statement, I will tell you why it does not suit them. Simply, for the sake of the public, we must show how this situation has taken place that we are today making, as I would say, an exception to the rules, which is that in RIK, we are putting six members and six deputies from the ranks of those opposition parties that are not members of parliament and who do not participate in parliamentary work. In fact, remember that last year, before the previous parliamentary elections, we held and held talks at the Faculty of Political Sciences between parties that form part of the ruling majority and between opposition parties. These talks, later moved to parliament with the intermediation of Europarliamentaries and came to a series, so to say, concessions, according to opposition parties, by the parties making up the ruling majority, of which certainly the most significant concession was the reduction of the electoral censorship from 5% to 3%. However, both these and such concessions of the opposition, primarily gathered around Dragan Dilas and Vuk Jeremic, refused, ignored and persuaded all the time before the previous parliamentary elections of the Serbian citizens not to go to the elections, that the boycott was the only choice, the right and the right solution, and in fact, the essence of their advocate for the boycott, was a wish, was not bad election conditions, because the election conditions were the ones they had made, the electoral laws were the ones they voted, but the essence of their advocate for the boycott, was the desire to somehow hide poor pre-election ratings, and the desire to hide their shame in the elections to go to elections last year's parliamentary elections. At that time, I said the opposition will not do as she wishes, because, even then, all their demands were generally adopted, we met, but above all, they chose a boycott that failed, because Serbian citizens understood what they wanted with a boycott, they understood that they wanted to hide their bad ratings, lack of support in the people and wanted to hide some political embarrassment they would experience in those parliamentary elections. Of course, immediately after the parliamentary elections, they set off with how poor electoral conditions were, as they were in every respect discriminated against, and simply when the President of the Republic immediately after the previous parliamentary elections had called for the duration of this National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for a year and announced in advance that new republical elections would be held, and we already know that it would be held on April 3rd of the following year, the opposition again began with a moaning, she went with regret, with stories about so-called. poor electoral conditions, even though we are before their previous elections and how we came to meet. Of course, talks with these opposition parties started in two blocks. One led by the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Ivica Dacic, with what I would say was the great support of the president of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandr Vukic, and the second track was launched to insist exactly that part of the opposition that was the most extreme in favour of boycotts, the most extreme in accusing that poor pre-election conditions are here, etc., it is that group that surrounded Dragan Dilas and Vuk Jeremic. At their request, and again to create a positive and good political climate in our country and in our society, we also set out in this second round of talks that took place, to their insistence, with the help of the European Parliament's representatives. They were here to remind you, Tanya Fajon, Mr. Bilchik, Kukan, Flakenstein. These people have also made an effort to take their part and help come to some compromise and some agreement when it comes to electoral conditions. What's going on? Talks are coming, talks are going online, which, by direct meeting, I just have to look back at that last meeting that took place at the Federation Palace, where we had two-day talks and everything was going in the right direction, but of course that group around Dragan Gilas left those talks, they still didn't want to do what they wanted, they didn't agree to anything, even at that time, insulting the representatives of the European Parliament, saying that the representatives of the European Parliament had reached agreement with power, not with the opposition. The team even questioned the talks, and the insults hit the MEPs a lot that, let's say, even Mr. Flakenstein left those talks at one point. Of course, we have come to some 16 points in these discussions regarding improvements in electoral conditions. Although most of the parties, which form part of the ruling majority, said that we do not accept ad hoc solutions, extra-systemic solutions, we have accepted in those 16 points among other things, and some of them are most important, and one of them is on the agenda today, which is the addition of RIK to parties that are not in parliament, because they have boycotted the elections or have not crossed the electoral censorship, and we are just going to implement those 16 points and that agreement, because we have said that we are holding the word and that we will do everything to create a favourable political climate. Again, I say, the essence of everything, these protests, the complaints, the moanings, that part of the opposition, the essence of that moaning wasn't bad election conditions, but the reason for this is just a bad rating and a desire to hide their shame. They left those talks at the Federation Palace, but today, we see, they go to the polls, even though these election conditions are the ones they refused and for which they left the meeting. Well, the simple question is, why is that, how is that a change of heart? That's where one logical conclusion goes, and that's that someone lied to them that there's some part of the cake they can get their hands on. Because they do not view power as an opportunity to advance Serbia, to work on Serbia's development, both economically and in the development of all other social spheres, they see it as a cake they can get their hands on, and to corrupt it. I said, we did it to make a better political climate and we do it to make a better political climate, because this political climate is a good precondition for Serbia's further social and economic progress. But, I say, that doesn't suit everyone, and it especially doesn't respond to that part of the opposition gathered around Gilas and Jeremic. Of course, because of the poor rating and lack of support in the people, they need incidents, they need a poorly unstable climate in society, because that is the only way they hope there will be more support. Of course, in this context, we can also see yesterday's protests, i.e. yesterday's protests and roadblocks and highways. These protests are precisely the expressions of their inability to win and gain the support of the people. That's why they're causing incidents, because thinking that by raising tensions, they can get some kind of support. In doing so, they hide, of course, behind various opposition movements. Who else can believe that Chuta and Zelenovic are not part of that story about Djilas and Jeremic? After all, for information and public gain, I must say that this Zelenovic was sitting on those negotiations next to Djilas and Jeremic and was an integral part of the group. So it is clear that these so-called environmental protests and the so-called environmental movements and initiatives are both politically and economically related to this political group. Simply, when we look at those 120 people who blocked the highway, as Dragan Markovic said yesterday, 90% of them are opposition, opposition representatives, members of opposition parties. They, wanting to invent topics, invent problems in society, as they invented the problem with Rio Tint, which doesn't really exist, as they invented a problem with land expropriation, which really doesn't exist, as they invented a problem with mural, which has become a very important and main topic for them at one point, although this topic does not exist, so all of these are some imaginary situations, imaginary affairs just for the sake of raising political tensions and trying to create political instability in order to in some atmosphere, the poor political atmosphere managed to gain even a small political point. Of course, we in Unity Serbia have said that we are in favour of systemic solutions, not some athok solutions, but, for the sake of agreement and for the sake of proving what is behind this part of the opposition, we have agreed, as well as all other coalition parties and coalition partners, to accept this compromise. But they don't want a compromise. Well, didn't they say the day before yesterday - Serbia has to stop to go? Well, gentlemen, Serbia has been so eager, Serbia is moving so fast in the direction set by the people of the Republic of Serbia in the previous elections, which will also support these elections ahead, that this rapid movement, this insidious Serbia cannot stop either Djilas, or Jeremic, or that group around it, by inventing topics, by inventing affairs, by inventing situations. Serbia will continue to move quickly. Serbia will continue to progress. Serbia will continue to be a leader in change, to be a leader in the Western Balkans in attracting foreign investment, to be a leader in the Western Balkans at the rate of economic growth. As Mrs Gudrun Kugler, president of the Austrian-Serbian Friendship Parliamentary Group, said at a meeting with Dragan Markovic Palm and a group of our MPs, Serbia is for us Switzerland in the Balkans. Serbia will also remain Switzerland in the Balkans, no matter how much the opposition group did not like it. For this reason, the Single Serbia Parliamentary Group will vote in favour of these decision-making proposals and support them as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-29-0.u11041	Thank you. The word has Elvira Kovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-29-0.u11042	Thank you, Your Honor, the Presidency. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Alliance of the Dukes of Hungarians, I, too, will speak for the most part of this agenda theme about inter-party dialogue, or about the past, where it started and where it came today, explaining why we are actually extending the number of members of the RIK today. As is known, inter-party dialogue began in the previous session, i.e. three rounds of inter-party dialogue in 2019 and in these dialogues, i.e. the number of parties participated, almost all of them, but also, what is significant to highlight, civil, non-governmental organisations. The sponsor of all this is, of course, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and the co-facilitators were representatives of the European Parliament. From the very beginning, the Alliance of Duchy Hungarians has participated in all forms of inter-party dialogue. So, in 2019, too. We were happy when it finally happened, after three rounds, to the table, or was agreed on what would be done. Of course, we have, as always, welcomed the appreciation of comments, recommendations and the Venice Commission and the ODIR. We know that, before the previous elections, the most talk about funding control, i.e. avoiding abuse of public resources, the most about freedom of the media, improving the work of the so-called REM, i.e. Regulatory body for electronic media. What we heard in one of the previous discussions, concrete results, I say this agreement, the table that we, or this institution, have maximum fulfilled, were the first amendments and additions to the law. At the end of 2019, on 13 December, the National Assembly adopted the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Financing of Political Activities, the Act on the Completion of the Law on Public Enterprises, Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Anti-Corruption Agency and the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Corruption. All of this was to the greatest extent to prevent corruption or abuses so-called. functional campaigns, abuses of public resources. What is also significant and what is here today, as far as I think, because I have carefully followed the previous discussions, has not yet spoken, is that at the end of 2019, we made a decision on the establishment of the Supervisory Board and the National Assembly then elected members of the Supervisory Board for the first time in 20 years. It is significant to stress that of the five members of the Supervisory Board, two members were elected on the proposal of the ruling majority and three on the opposition's proposal. It has also been successfully implemented that it was agreed at that time on the Council of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media, or on these REMs. In fact, it may have been confusing at the time, which is why I'd like to point out what three plus two meant. First, an invitation was submitted to the associations of drama, stage and film artists from one stop, further, for us significantly, national councils, national minorities and parliamentary groups, and the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on 27 December selected three missing REM members, as we had until then criticised that the task was still pending. Meanwhile, two additional members resigned, and afterwards, there are rules and the right to propose REM members had the Association of Electronic Media Issuers, the Association of Journalists in the Republic of Serbia, as well as the committee responsible for the AP Vojvodina Assembly, which proposed two candidates and of these four candidates, the National Assembly elected two more on February 14th, and thus fully met the obligation it accepted in the third round of inter-party dialogue. After that, and this has already been said here today, this high house adopted on February 8th the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law, on the one hand, on the selection of MPs, on the other hand on amendments and additions to the Law on Local Elections. The biggest newspaper that was discussed at the time and which remains in force, I think it is important and that this is highlighted, is that until then the valid electoral censorship has fallen from 5% to 3%. The Alliance of the Duchy Hungarians then pointed out that, on the one hand, it makes it easier for the majority parties to enter parliament, because, for their entry, logically, if the censorship is smaller, there will be fewer votes, but we have calculated mathematically that everything else as it was for the national minority parties would be difficult to enter parliament, i.e. to make it so-called. The natural threshold then stood higher. On this occasion, I would like to thank you for understanding the ruling majority and the SNS itself when we have found an adequate way to introduce a coefficient for national minority breaks so that these changes do not apply to them in a negative way. Of course, this has already been discussed today, officially increased or increased quotas for less-represented sex by changes in the law, but slowly and safely to come through a brief retrospective of this history to the present calling or by the 12th convocation of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Knowing that we have a commitment, since one of the conclusions of last inter-party dialogue was that dialogue, discussion will continue and that the application will follow up after the elections that were finally held, as we know on 21 June 2020, and immediately at the beginning of this call you Mr. President spoke to the President, I like to say that – AFETA but you, at the Serbian Committee on Foreign Affairs of the European Parliament, Mr. David McAllister and of course, that it is agreed that the inter-party dialogue with the intervention of the European Parliament will be, the co-fasiliator on their part will be continued. I must admit that these preparations have lasted, but we must also point out that in the end, regardless of the official inter-party dialogue began on 1 March of this year, at last on 19 to 22 April of this year, all of us, eight parliamentary groups in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, had online talks with the co-facilitators and presented what we expect from the inter-party dialogue. I believe we were all very constructive. I must stress that most parliamentary parties have handed over their platforms and SVM is not so detailed, but a very specific platform, most of the representation of the national minority parties prepared, handed over both in Serbian and in English, means co-facilitators. Then we came to what we are also criticised for, but I think it is important to stress that certain parties that are currently outside the National Assembly are extraparliamentary, and they belong if I may say so, more right-wing and against European integration wanted to participate in inter-party dialogue, but without the intervention of the MEPs. I think it's important that they are being heard and that, with patronage, you, Mr. President, are once again initiating this inter-party dialogue without the intermediation of the mediators. Many ask us when these dialogues will be found. I would now like to explain that they have already found that the result is both of what we are talking about today and what we will most likely talk about, whether during December or during January when we are reviewing the latest amendments and additions to the Law on the selection of MPs and local elections. To highlight what is also unclear for many and journalists to ask, means, the first meeting, the plenary meeting of the inter-party dialogue without mediators, was in late April 28th this year with the presence of Mr. President Vukic as president of the state. We remember all of us who attended that there were 26 times two representatives that the party that did not want intermediation and parliamentary parties, and then it was agreed that this format was not effective and we were parties that were less, but we belong to the ruling majority we agreed on forming a working group that would continue this dialogue and this work so that it would be more efficient and more successful and that at the end of that job, that we would be presented with the agreement, that we would be informed about how far it came. Indeed, I must stress that the Working Group of Intermediate Dialogues was very valuable, and how much I was informed was held at 14 meetings that discussed the most media, with an emphasis on analysis and improvement of the work of the Public Media Service in reporting on activities during political entities, both during and before the election campaign. General rules of the electoral process, election day, polling stations, voting results and protection of election rights and the inevitable, financing of the election campaign, preventing abuse of public resources in the election campaign. It is significant that within each of these topics several topics were discussed. I must also point out the initiative that when this inter-party dialogue opened the topic of representing the parties of national minorities, then the representatives of the four parliamentary parties of national minorities who are currently in the National Assembly that they were invited and that we could and in this kind, means to the Working Party itself to present our opinions which, of course, are not always uniform, not everyone thinks the same, but it was a very constructive meeting. Most of these objections by national minorities eventually entered the agreement, but when we approach history by today's date, then I must stress that, in addition to the very long preparation of inter-party dialogue, we have come to a physical meeting, we remember that we have waited for the representatives of the European Parliament to actually travel and come to Belgrade. The first round of this second inter-party dialogue, the second phase of the inter-party dialogue, took place on July 9th and 10th of this year in the Serbian palace, and we heard about it, which was attended by opposition parties and parliamentary parties. I think that round was very high-quality and somehow there was hope in the air that indeed everyone would behave as constructively as possible and that we would come up with common tangible results and concrete solutions, because the aim of the co-fasiliators themselves from the European Parliament, and of course the National Assembly was to support the integrity of the electoral process and to address the challenges in order to improve electoral conditions, at least that's what they said. I would like to stress that the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians felt that during the past long period the conditions of the game had not changed drastically, but again, the ruling majority was wise enough to meet the opposition parties. The most discussed was freedom of the media, media pluralism, respect for professional ethics, media standards, etc. A concrete conclusion referred to when we would continue and some conclusions would be written over the summer. So, right now, I have to stress that this next announced round whose results, I say and what we're talking about today, the expansion of the number of RIK members, was September 17th and 18th of this year. The round was again attended by all parliamentary parties and opposition, but as we heard and as certain opposition representatives have, however, decided to leave the meeting at the beginning, in the middle or before the end of the meeting. I am truly sorry that there was no consensus in the end, but it was seen that certain parties, indeed, came, did not want to listen to anyone. I emphasized a while ago that we all handed over our platforms and all of us were ready to talk, and some of us wanted to talk about the paper, of course, the cofasilator, and some of us just wanted to talk about them and it was clear that they weren't constructive at all. However, concrete measures have been taken, and it is significant that the ruling majority, regardless of lack of consensus, will then work on the implementation of all these agreed measures. Now I'm going to mention the most significant. One of the most significant is the establishment of an Interim Monitoring Body for Media Monitoring, which will be attended by opposition representatives. We know that since then, however, the government of the Republic of Serbia, on 14 October, made a decision on the establishment of the Temporary Supervisory Body. They defined specific things, such as composition, number of members, ways of education, work and funding. It is agreed that this Interim Supervisory Body will have 12 members, six on REM proposal, and six on a proposal from the president or co-fisilator when the opposition's proposals come. I have to express my regret that we haven't received six proposals and that right now this Supervisory Body, the regulatory body has six plus five, i.e. 11 members, but several other things have been agreed, obliging the Regulation on the work of public media services and recommendations for private broadcasters, as well as this extension of the number of RIK members by six or three plus three, which means three representatives of those opposition parties who participated in the Interparty Dialogue with the intermediation of intermediaries and three who participated in another Interparty dialogue without the intermediation of intermediaries. I am pleased that after the letter and calls on the president of the National Assembly, all those invited to make their proposals have made proposals and these proposals are today ahead of us, and I believe that tonight, in the day of voting, the ruling majority will, without speaking, support all of them. So, to try to slowly sum up that over the past year or during this new assembly, two inter-party dialogues have been conducted, improving electoral conditions under the auspices of the European Parliament and the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The goal was to reach a broad party consensus. When I talk about the European Parliament's EU-related reforms, which is essential for the country's progress on the road to the EU. But in order for this process to truly be a successful political player, everyone had to act constructively and in good faith. Unfortunately, that didn't happen by some. It is up to us representatives of the ruling majority to fully implement the measures agreed in September 2021. After this, I expect a session soon to discuss the amendments and additions to the laws that are now already in place in the public debate of the electoral laws. I must point out, not to forget the Second Interparty Dialogue, that, meanwhile, an agreement on improving the conditions for holding elections signed by opposition parties that did not want intermediaries and representatives of the ruling majority, representatives of the Serbian Progressive Party and the National Assembly presidency, as agreed. To point out, the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians will eventually be a constructive partner in this dialogue and we will support these proposals in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-29-0.u11043	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Stefan Krkobiæ. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-29-0.u11044	Thank you. President Dacic, first of all, to you, as president of the Socialist Party of Serbia, that on behalf of the PUPS parliamentary group, "Tri P" I would like to offer my condolences. This is also a great loss for the Socialist Party, and for you of his comrades, I would also like to announce to the president of the parliamentary club, Honored President Djordž Milicevic, all MPs of the Socialist Party of Serbia. If we had something to learn from someone in this House, it's a respected and dear colleague Milutin Mrkonjic. Dear colleagues, MPs, there are two decisions ahead of us on the termination of office and appointment to the Republic Election Commission that we are discussing today, on the greatest holiday of our former common state, which, although most of us MPs have not at all, or almost not remembered, but older colleagues, among them and MPs of the PUPS Group - "Tri P" remembers that state and for good, and say that Yugoslavia respected its citizens, and that it was respected in the world itself. That it is thus shown by the recent Unclassified Summit hosted by the Republic of Serbia, organised over six decades since the establishment of the movement that was founded right in Belgrade and gathered more than half of humanity. Why do I remind you of that again? Today, the Republic of Serbia is increasingly respected in the world and today it is like a country that is on the European path, at the same time in the position that, like the former Yugoslavia, it is becoming the West East and the East West. Our country, above all, respects the interest of its citizens, but also responsibly fulfils all its international and legal obligations and seeks to be a credible partner in relations with other countries and international organisations. And these proposals for the acts we're deciding today are a small stone in that mosaic road leading to the European Union. Half of January has been followed by a referendum on constitutional changes in the area of justice, with the aim of harmonising with the norms and acts in force in the area in the EU member states as well. In early April, we will have multi-party democratic elections, and in the best way, in the most democratic way, we will realise the electoral process, but also the referendum campaign, we today appoint new members of the Republic Election Commission. The first act we are talking about is the Proposal for a decision on the termination of office and appointment to the Republic Election Commission submitted by our distinguished colleague and president of the Serbian Progressive Party MP Dr Aleksandar Martinovic, with a proposal to discuss this on the basis of Article 167. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly discusses an emergency procedure. The legal basis for this decision is set out in Article 33. The Law on the Selection of Members of Parliaments, which has been established that the Republic Election Commission, in its permanent composition and in its composition, is appointed by the National Assembly on a proposal from Parliament groups. The proposed decision aligns the RIK composition with the changes in the number and size of parliamentary groups in the National Assembly that occurred after the education of RIK in the current composition. This takes particular note of the fact that this must be pointed out in particular, and no parliamentary group has more than half of the members of the permanent composition of the Republic Election Commission. The second act we are discussing today is the Proposal for a decision to supplement the Decision on the termination of office and appointment in the RIK, which was submitted by National Assembly President Ivica Dacic. These additions from the election law experts, the electoral process, name new members of the RIK. The legal basis for the adoption of this act is set out in Article 80. The Law on Referendum and the People's Initiative, which we adopted last week, which found that the first next referendum to be conducted under the provisions of the new law, will be implemented by the RIK, whose composition will be extended by six other members and six deputy members of the election law and election process appointed by the National Assembly on a proposal from the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Dear fellow MPs, the PUPS parliamentary group - "Three P" will be pleased to vote for both of these decisions, because they are, most importantly, in the interest of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, whose body we are the most presidential body. At the same time, we are also sending messages of good faith to the opposition, but we are also showing that we are responsible for all the commitments undertaken with the two lines of dialogue between the authorities and the opposition, both the one led without the intervention of foreigners and the one that takes place with the intervention of the European Parliament delegation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-29-0.u11045	I thank the Vice President of the National Assembly. For our children, the MP Aleksandar Mirkovic has the power to represent the parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-29-0.u11046	I think that today is a historic day for democracy and parliamentaryism in our country, because today's discussion and the story of where we will expand the RIK by as many as six seats and what will be occupied by people, so six members and six RIK deputies, and that these places will be filled with people who are not representatives of the parties sitting in the republic's parliament, shows clearly how much power is ready, but how much democracy in Serbia today is at the highest possible level. You couldn't find something like this anywhere in Europe or in the world, and something like this couldn't be imagined in Serbia until 2012 or 2013. For Serbian citizens to know, so far the rule has been that there are 17 members of the RIK, that they have their 17 deputies, but that they are being filled out of the order of parliamentary parties. Here is the newspaper and something that has so far, I repeat, been unimaginable that parties that have boycotted elections or parties that have failed to cross the census at all have their representatives in the RIK. This is all the result of the dialogue between the authorities and the opposition, and I will remind the citizens that the dialogue has been led to two fronts during this period. The inter-party dialogue began at the Faculty of Political Sciences, where certain opposition parties took it very seriously and were very constructive, while some opposition parties saw it as just some stage on which they would perform their cheap political performances. When we talk about these cheap political performances, of course we mean part of the opposition that represents the former regime of the Democratic Party, which has been reunited since the other day and, of course, led by Dragan Gilas along with Vuk Jeremic, but let's go in line. In the context of these two dialogues, i.e. dialogues on two fronts, with and without the presence of Europarliamentaries, I must also point out that people who were seriously engaged in their work were very specific and requirements and proposals, ideas and that the horror of these ideas came from those parties who did not want the presence of MEPs. In addition to this, the best way to say is that there were dozens of parties written there with various proposals and ideas to improve the electoral process in our country, while those parties who insisted on including Europarliamentaries in the dialogue process were those parties who were least interested and who reduced their demands to wishes, congratulations and greetings, as the people would say. That I am telling the truth is also the fact that the demands of Gilas, Vuk Jeremic, Pavel Grbovic, Zoran Lutovac and others who have reunited themselves today in some regime of the Democratic Party, but now abdated to 2021, also says the fact that their demands have stood on barely three sides. What is very important to point out here is that they have reduced their requirements to two concrete points that were later developed, and I will go through their demands for the citizens of Serbia, and then read to the citizens of Serbia how well they have fulfilled everything they have even sought, so there is no single reason for them to be unhappy. Namely, the first of their demands is whether a co-ordination body for public information is formed, it would be shorted off by the KTI and the co-ordination body would receive the following responsibilities. First of all, that they monitor what happens in the media and that within their five demands, as far as they have, all five are closely connected to the media. What's the point here? So they don't care about improving the election process, nor about the increased level of democracy because the level of democracy in our country is at the highest possible level today. They were based on what was interesting to them, which is management, media management, state media, just as they did by 2012, when they made business empires, above all Dragan Gilas, working with their private firms, taking money from Serbian citizens, by working with state media, which is an unremembered example in the world. KTI stream members are representatives of political entities that have defined this agreement as part of a dialogue under the auspices of the European Parliament. So, here and in the participation of the KTI, only six participate, which clearly discriminates against all those opposition parties who did not want to participate in dialogue with Europarliamentaries, which excludes a huge part of the parties and organisations that did not want to comply with the orders and directives of Dragan Gilas. In addition to these parties, it is interesting that they demanded that the same number of representatives of the government participate in the body, but also one representative of UNS, NUNS, etc. What's interesting to point out here? It is interesting to point out that one of these associations directly funded Dragan Gilas by giving them six million dinars with his company. So, NUNS directly loaned Dragan Gilas six million dinars, so the question is, what is this independent association that depends on one politician, one political party and one political firm? Of course, it's about the "Multigroup". What is further interesting, in order for them to make decisions with a simple majority, would define their own rules of procedure, but that in these wishes they must be respected at each point. What is very important, they even expressed the formula of how the public media service is directly managed in the way provided for by these regulations, and it says that three times a week the representatives of the opposition that reached this agreement, therefore, only six of them, can host on their own on shows broadcast on the first RTS and RTTV programmes for 30 minutes in prime time between 18.30 and 19.00 hours. So, only Gilas, only Jeremic, only Lutovac, Veselinović and all of them together. So, they're the only ones who can tell what's on their mind and usually by bringing up lies and lies. Also, three times a week equal to the number of representatives of the government and the opposition that reached the agreement, so again, they alone, participate in 90-minute debate shows. As you can see, at this second point they're only interested in the media. What is particularly interesting is their next request, to provide independent media and organisations "Beta", "FoNet", "Istinomer", KRIK, CINS, BIRN, "Time" to broadcast their independent content on RTS and RTS programmes twice a week for a period of 30 minutes. What is very important here, because of the citizens of Serbia, none of these media that has been listed here has ever asked a single question to Dragan Gilas how and why these people have come to this enormous wealth, and that Dragan Gilas of 70,000 euros has come to a fortune of 22m euros in real estate alone, as they have not found fit for him as a man who predicates to the highest state functions, ask how and why his company has earned extra profits, trading seconds with state television. What is particularly important is that they have pointed out here that they are prohibiting government officials from participating in pre-election activities, as well as that all works that will take place during that period, the opening of factories, new roads, will be frozen up to 10 days before the elections. This is not their only proposal, and I want to share this with the citizens of Serbia, so that you can hear how much they have come into contact, even in every request they make. In addition to this working body, they want to form a particular body called the Co-ordination Body of Elections, KTSI, which will, of course, form the Gilas Party, Gilas's bloc, which has reunited itself around the Democratic Party regime, the reviving of the Democratic Party today after 13 years, and they have defined to this Rules of Procedure who can be in that part, but they have also highlighted who can't be. So, those people who lied, deceived the public of Serbia from day to day, well, here and now, they have the weight and they can decide, but they can be associated members to be representatives of the RIK, the Anti-Corruption Agency, the Citizens' Protector, the Commissioner for the Protection of Information against Public Matter, but without the right to vote. So here you can see that those who are supposed to be fighting for some democracy today, even though democracy is at the highest possible level today, here deny the right to vote and that anyone else is answering and asking except them. Also, they have made five demands, therefore, to file criminal charges against persons who abuse voter lists, thus jeopardising the integrity of the electoral process. In points 11 and 17. The agreement signed in the National Assembly, which took place within the framework of dialogue with parties who do not want the presence of MEPs, has been defined exactly what they are talking about today and what they say is not met. Point 2 asked to prevent the end of the electoral will by reporting voters at false addresses along with Serbia's MUP. This is defined in points 11 and 17. The agreement that was signed in the National Assembly, so this request is also respected. Under that third point, they asked to be provided, now watch out for this, one-third of the permanent composition of the RIK to be representatives of the opposition involved in this definition of their agreement. So, watch this, they didn't cross the census, they didn't participate in the election, and they want to get one-third of the RIK. Here, I call on the citizens of Serbia now, but first of all, to find a country in Europe or a world where such a request is either adopted or exists. By contrast, they got six seats, so they expanded from 17 to 23, and you won't find a case like this anywhere in Europe or in the world. And that request was passed on to them. They also defined a new binding RIK manual that will follow all OSCE recommendations and other non-governmental organisations to prohibit mobile phone use in polling stations. Here, this very agreement that I am holding in front of me, which was discussed by fellow MPs before me, is defined in paragraph 22. When you take into account all that they asked for, you come up with the fact and the final information that the conditions for the April elections will be best possible and that if you look only at the period of election and election process by 2010, 2011, 2012, you can't even be surprised at how advanced the election process is. Why am I telling you this? I have been in the Serbian Progressive Party since the very establishment of 2009 and my first election process was then. I remember that as representatives of the SNS, we had no right to see if they had circled that voter at the polling post. We're talking about this here today, and you'll hear later, that the president of the polling post, if it comes from the ranks of the government, the representatives of the government, the ruling parties, is obliged to interfere with the opposition's representatives to be interested in election material and the electoral list, which so far is something unremembered. Also, what I particularly want to point out, you saw for yourself how much they insisted on media representation. Respected Serbian citizens, the Serbian Progressive Party when it came to power, you could hear some of our officials, possibly at a radio station. At the time, our colleague Vladimir Djukanovic led the show. You could hear, eventually, an hour on a cable operator and there was a newspaper that was then in a small circulation, you could read the statements of our officials, then that newspaper was called "Justice". In 2011 and 2012, I was a committee member at the Belgrade City Assembly. At the time, live sessions were not transmitted, but only the report went from that session somewhere in the evening, but usually just what Dragan Gilas was talking about at the time. What we were saying you couldn't hear anywhere, nor were the journalists allowed to take statements from us at that time from the opposition committee in the City Assembly. Today you have the media, you have both printed and written, electronic media, where you can read dozens every day, even hundreds of false news, lies, which are directed against Alexander Vukic and SNS. It shows you what the level of democracy and democracy is at every possible level today and where it is seen at every step. It is particularly interesting that RIK and this extension from 17 to 23 members directly enable each of them to check at every possible moment and point each of them can also check what happens to the electoral material and what happens to the electoral list and how far it has reached with the count and what is the situation at the polling station, so now it just asks the question of their contradiction. If you say you're already winning the election, if you're confident of the support you have, how do you say, wherever you go, wherever you go, whatever you're in, what's all the anxiety and what's the tension about? And why violence on the streets of Belgrade and Serbia? If all of this has been fulfilled since your terms, why did you lie to Serbian citizens a month ago and tell them that nothing has been fulfilled and that you will not go to the elections? Here, now, a month later, you've formed a new DS and you're talking about how you're going to go to the election. I'm telling you that what the respected citizens of Serbia have told you so far has been a lie and a lie. And only in the last few minutes could you see how much you've been deceived, lied and how hard they've been trying to play your trust again. Most importantly, they wanted to hide behind their failure in April of the month, but when they saw that they had no support literally or from those people who asked to participate in the dialogue and, as they would call it, with the MEPs, they decided to go to elections anyway and thus try to survive politically. What I want to point out now is something that's happening these days, and we're all witnesses, it's that in the absence of any kind of program, but above all the results they have behind them, the only thing where they see their chance is in violence and causing chaos on the streets. They are trying to challenge some kind of reaction whether the authorities or the police and thus challenge the revolution and collect which votes more with Serbian citizens. You were able to see the scenes on Saturday when they blocked the highway. I am now asking if you can imagine that the highway has been blocked in Germany, France or any other EU member state, what would be the answer to the police? I can see that no one, which is good, is from the people who protested, hurt, but one man was injured who they targeted and who they brutally beat up. The man who beat him today was declared a hero by Dragan Dilas and Marinika Tepic. This man was heard this morning and released to defend himself from freedom. Now I'm asking - what would happen if something like that happened to someone in their ranks? Would anyone react then? We got threats yesterday, where it's said directly that we don't have as many heads as they have hammers. That was said yesterday at the protest here. So now I wonder if someone will respond to those threats and does that mean they're going to implement everything they've talked about? I will remind the citizens of Serbia, they have urged their supporters to "choose your adversaries" in a famous action, so that each of them chooses a man to chase after the next elections. Also, we've been invited to choose the bandit we're going to hang from. Their follower invited his followers and other fighters against Alexander Vukic and SNS to one day lock us all in concentration camps. Now I wonder what it is, and they complain when we call it the right term, fascism, when you organize, you threaten to organize concentration camps for those political inexorables you don't like. What is it when you deny someone constitutional rights, which is that they move freely? What is it when Goran Vesic goes under the window, harass him, threaten him, and his family? What is it and who did it, if not fascists, when you only take it because you don't like the one who wrote that book, then you burn Goran Vesic's books, and then you defend yourself unknowingly – you say that none of your activists did it, and when the truth is revealed, then you say that it's freedom of opinion and the right to speak? I'm gonna get this over with, but there's a lot left to say. This step is just another step in a series of steps that show the willingness of the ruling majority, but also the willingness of people in Serbia today who lead our country to take under any conditions and whatever they want both Dragan Djilas or any other representative of the opposition, Vuk Jeremic or Marinika Tepic, and also Boris Tadic, anyone who considers himself an opposition today, whatever they want is fine and can. But you can't go into the streets with violence. The 3rd April elections will be held on three levels. I now call on the citizens of Serbia to come to these elections and to show clearly what kind of Serbia we want and what kind of future we want, with one determined will, with one choice for a better tomorrow, especially their families. I am convinced that because of the results we have behind us, the promises we have, as well as the clear vision that President Aleksandar Vucic has, most Serbia will once again provide the opportunity for SNS and President Aleksandr Vukic to create an even better place to live than our Serbia, our Belgrade. Thank you. Long live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-29-0.u11047	I thank the authorised representative of the parliamentary group Aleksandar Vukic – for our children. Honorable Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that today we will be working after 1800 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to bring the acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. The word has been issued by the SPS parliamentary group president, MP Djordje Milicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-29-0.u11048	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, allow me first to thank all of you on behalf of the SPS, all of the political parties, all the leaders of the political parties, all the citizens of Serbia who expressed their condolences for the departure of our comrade Milutin Mrkonjic. Our eclipse has gone, and these are, as the SPS president said today, the days of mourning for the SPS. First of all, it is indescribable to lose a man like him, and he was a man of great heart in which there were many places for Serbia, for his tireless construction and for his SPS, and for each of us. The eclipse was an extraordinary and unrepeated personality with enormous creative energy. He was simply engineer Milutin Mrkonjic, a builder whose ideas were visionary and construction works throughout Serbia and the world the seal of his rich career. He's the man we can say for sure, the man that works best. The eclipse with its team has restored our bombed country and will be remembered by its promise -- it will be over before the deadline, and so it has always been. He was our father, our friend, our friend, our brother, he was our support. He had a solution for every problem. He thought about the future, always gave priority to young people. By his actions, he reminded us that as humans, we are accomplished through work, but also through humanity. The eclipse was part of our families, and we were all his family. His words and advice were healing, and his place in the parliamentary group was always waiting for him. It was known to be Mrka's place. He loved life, he breathed full of lungs, he loved his Anna, he loved all of us, all of you. And we loved him, his positive energy, the strength of the spirit he radiated. Mrkin's departure is an irreparable loss for all of us, for the SPS parliamentary group, for the SPS he believed in and for whose better days he'd been building and working for. These are days of mourning for the SPS, but also days of joy because a man like this worked and lived with us inside the SPS. He's resting in peace, and we're sure of that. As a great man, he is not and will never go into oblivion. Of course, let it be eternal glory and thank him. He deserved us to remember him and move on to his construction path that he was taking. I just want, for the sake of the public, before I move on to today's topic, I hope you won't mind, saying that the funeral will be held at the New Cemetery on 2 December, on Thursday, starting at 1:30 p.m., in Alley, and that the memorial ceremony will be held at the Assembly Hall at 11.00 p.m. I said this for the public, because a large number of citizens are interested in attending both the memorial and the funeral. So, the esteemed chairman, today's topics, the topics we are talking about today, show first and foremost one, I would say, the responsibility, the seriousness and commitment of the majority in parliament, the ruling coalition in the implementation of what was agreed during the inter-party dialogue that took place on both sides. In this way, the ruling coalition confirms that it is a reliable, reliable and stable partner when we talk about all the serious issues and others talk about them. What is it that has been achieved specifically by agreement and what is it that we wanted? So our goal was to find solutions, respecting differences, through respect for diversity to come up with a compromise solution, to listen to suggestions and suggestions, and to, of course, be in line with the Constitution. Many times so far, we have said, as much as one minor part of the opposition disagreed, but Serbia is a democratic and free state and, of course, we always express the willingness to talk about election conditions, to listen to all suggestions and suggestions if there are any suggestions and suggestions that can be defined as such. Believe me, I've participated from the Faculty of Political Sciences to, here, the last second stage of interparty dialogue, I haven't heard a single concrete proposal, except for the goal, which I'm going to say a little later, which I actually wanted to implement through an alleged interparty dialogue. The government accepted everything that was the position of European parliamentarians. The government also accepted all the topics during the second track, during talks on the second track with political parties that did not want to talk to European parliamentarians and I do not think that any government has made as many concessions as this ruling coalition has made. Once again, the SPS wants to highlight the importance and importance of the initiative launched by the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the president of the Republic of Serbia to lead the talks on both tracks, which means talking to political parties who want to talk to European parliamentarians, but also to those political parties that do not want to talk to European parliamentarians, because this is a simple process from which you cannot exclude any political party. Any political party that has been registered, if we are already talking about election conditions, should, of course, direct its suggestions and suggestions, with most of us respecting the institutions of the system, so that its platform, its proposals, also referred its suggestions to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Dacic and the European Parliamentarians, while one part of the opposition had only a direct link and direct communication with the European parliamentarians, precisely for the purpose of which I will speak. I believe that, I don't know if it was the opinion of colleagues who participated in the interview, but I do, and that's my opinion and Professor Dr. Zarko Obradovic, who was with me, that most of the opposition would accept the views and proposals proposed by the European Parliamentarians. One piece he accepted. We're convinced most people would accept it, but they shouldn't have. She shouldn't have, for one simple reason, because they'd be blackened by those Gilas media and made a media hickey to co-operate with the ruling coalition. A colleague spent a little time talking about the so-called proposal. Groups gathered around Gilas. I understand their goal. So their goal was not dialogue, their goal was not compromise, their theme was not electoral conditions. They had only one goal, which is that through these talks, by means of European parliamentarians, with some kind of pressure, they try to reach some transitional government through the talks. So get to power and privilege without choice. This was the only goal when you look at the platform that they delivered specifically on the eve of the adoption of a final platform on inter-party dialogue. A platform I don't know for whom acceptable? I don't even know if they would accept it if they had any part of the responsibility, and that's a plus-squamperfect for them. Because what they wrote in that platform was misread and misdefined. We are for equal media representation, but equal media representation does not mean editorial media policy. Equal representation in the media means exactly what it seems and what has been implemented and what is being done at this time. When it comes to the Public Service, we have clear rules of conduct, participation and position and opposition, both through the morning programme and through the informative show "word to word". So is the Duke's Radio-Television. And when it comes to private media, we can't define the rules for private media. We can make some recommendations and these recommendations are addressed, and they will also, based on a memo submitted by the president of the National Assembly of Serbia to all the media with national frequencies, send their proposal how and how they will present political parties or electoral lists to participate in the 2022 election campaign. To talk about freedom of the media and to bypass in 2011, for example, when we had a report by Verica Barac where it was very precise and clearly defined to whom it belonged and how it belonged every second in the national frequency media, is a bit absurd. I asked the European parliamentarians to interpret why, in 2020, because we started these talks in 2019, why in 2019 we talk about freedom of the media, why we didn't talk about it in 2011? Their answer was - well, we were not in charge of Serbia then. Then how come today's so much interest in Serbia? Where today did you get so much interest in the election process for Serbia? But I only asked them one thing - when you are already showing so much interest and if it was a key topic within the European Parliament at that time, when you are organising debates, when you are organising debates on election terms, please give us so much credit and invite those of us here in Serbia to participate together in an inter-party dialogue, and don't invite just one political group headed by Dragan Gilasa, because you will hear only one side. But arguments and facts are something else. They certainly won't get to you, because you'll get a different interpretation. So, it's a clear goal that you wanted to achieve. And what is it that is specifically obtained by the proposal we're talking about today? It has already been said, there were 17 members of RIK and RIK were always chosen proportionally, based on the force of the parliamentary groups, which the parliamentary group has MPs, so the choice of RIK was proportionate. However, since we had a boycott, since we wanted to make a compromise solution, we expanded the RIK composition, instead of 17, we will now have 23 RIK members, six plus six, six members and six deputies. And not only that, but it's going to have one member in the permanent election line, so you add up 8,500 election committees only when we talk and when we talk about the constant composition, times two is 17,000. So, all of them will have about 85,000 opposition representatives somewhere, will control election committees and polling stations on election day, which should really exclude doubts about their legitimacy in any way. In the end, we'll see if they can actually fill these 85,000 places. But, here, we made that concession when it's specifically about RIK and that's what you get. On the other hand, I have to say, it's a good thing we did this, because we wouldn't be in the situations we've been in in previous parliamentary elections. Here's what happened in RIK's last parliamentary election, the night of the parliamentary elections. So this is physical violence, this is not verbal violence. I'm sorry the assistant secretary isn't here, because he was a direct participant in all of this. See how the leaders behave call political parties and how they address RIK representatives, see. Now, gentlemen, you have your representatives at RIK, please, there's no need to violently treat other RIK members, but allow everyone to do their jobs and realize that this is not how they're going to go through. Therefore, it cannot by force but by force of arguments and results. You can't break into the Assembly with a national flag, but you also have to realize the minimum and necessary censorship that you didn't realize why you were introducing. It was precisely a proposal to lower the censorship from 5% to 3% was not to favour anyone, but rather to have a relevant pictured public opinion here in parliament, to allow those political parties that are far from those famous 5% so that they can have their representatives in the National Assembly and to return politics, which is essentially the most important thing, from the street to parliament. And there would be far more work to do both position and opposition. But they didn't understand it the right way. On the other hand, as we deal with implementation here and while we are acting responsibly, seriously and consecratedly, as I said at the very beginning, one part of the opposition, regardless of what we have accepted all suggestions and suggestions, shows us what their policy really means, what they say – passion, protests, lustrations. As for the acuity and the protest, everyone has the right to protest. It is a legitimate form of political struggle, thus expressing its political stance, but these protests must primarily be reported. That right cannot undermine the right of another, specifically the right to freedom of movement. So, you protest as much as you want, but you can't jeopardize the right of another. Here, through alleged protests, an incident has been attempted to bring about the ruling coalition as a bountiful one. Then they link the Law on Referendum and People's Initiative to Rio Tint and the Expropriation Act. What does that have to do with each other or the other? So, the Law on Referendum and People's Initiative is our constitutional obligation and they need to know, because they should have done it, not us. It is our constitutional obligation, since the law was passed in 1994, that one change was in 1998. So by 2008, after the adoption of the new constitution, by 2008, they had to comply with the law. Second thing, why are we doing this today? To strengthen. We have made it very clear – it is not a preamble topic and don't let them honor us with the preamble, because their political position on national and state interests is clear to us when we see what European parliamentarians are calling for and who are leading to some environmental problems. Now the ecology is supposed to be crucial. The environmentalist is behind the need to demonstrate, I repeat, the ruling coalition as a barbaric man who boasts about citizens who are allegedly fighting to protect the environment. Wait. I've already said about the referendum and the people's initiative, that's what they're supposed to do. They tried, so they stopped in 2011. Do you know why they stopped? Because the problem was in preamble and it had to be part of that year in 2011, such as all border crossings, all what was necessary and related to border crossings was all signed by 2011, and then stopped in 2011 because May 2012 was the elections. As for Rio Tinta, who are they defending? What are they defending? So in 2004, the first expropriation began. In 2008, their ministers spoke of Rio Tint as a development opportunity and development project. May those who sat in government if I was wrong, here is Mr. Obradovic, Professor Obradovic, I think he was then in the government, as a development opportunity and development project. So, at no point did the president say that Rio Tinto was going to work. We have a period of two years of questioning. Of course, no one will endanger the citizens first of all, but the expropriation in that part of the Adriatic, as far as we know, is pretty much over. So, all of this is simple and cheap politicisation, like it was politicisation and trying to say, I said, we know their position on national and held interests, but when you say that throwing paint at the Mural Ratko Mladic who's been standing in downtown Belgrade for several months and has nothing to do with the state, but throwing paint at the character and mural Ratko Mladic is cleaning the face of the criminal, and when someone tries to take down the tablet of Achif Efendi, then it's a huge incident even though it knows who Achif Efendi was. It's all done because they know the police have to come to prevent division, because the job and the police's obligation is to preserve public order and peace.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-29-0.u11049	Dear colleague Milicevic, just in time to pay attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-29-0.u11050	Here, I'm done. That's what the police did at the weekend. They're accusing a cop today, showing photos, photographs of him. It's about Officer Krstic. I just happen to know this guy, I know this family. He's a pro. He finished the Police Academy. He lives peacefully, he has two children, and he would never endanger anyone, but he does his job with honor and integrity and responsibility. They did not want him to be allowed to do his job honestly, honestly, and responsibly, even though he repeatedly warned against doing so and had to leave August, or not to be on the highway. I thank the chairman.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-29-0.u11051	I thank the esteemed president of the SPS Parliament Club. We're moving on to the speaker list. I give my word to the People's Parliament to Vlad Glisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-29-0.u11052	I would first of all like to express my condolences to the SPS and the family of Mr Milutin Mrkonjic and to say that both this Parliament and our political scene have lost a man from whom much could be learned. As regards the subject - change in RIK, it is the result of an inter-party dialogue agreement and as such is good because it is necessary to bring down tension in society, it is necessary to make arrangements. We need to know, and we all know that all political parties have agreed that everyone will go to elections and there is no need to raise tension in society because this agreement exists at all levels. I think that this game being played by the ruling coalition, primarily by the SNS and some opposition parties calling each other in very groups and inappropriate ways, is not good for our political public and is not necessary. It is okay for the political class to co-operate with both our political class and all political parties to agree and co-operate, they will go to the elections and that is what society needs. Politicians don't need to act like radical conflicts and fight people like that. However, in addition to what has been done and what the People's Network and I have always supported on negotiations between the parties, we somehow forget that in the meantime the reality has changed, that political processes are taking place beyond the parties and that the parties are not the most important factors in society, especially not now that a host of hysteria and some more rapid changes in the world have led to major divisions and major conflicts between people who sometimes belong to the same parties, and they think quite different about vaccination, non-vaccination, about how covid measures are being carried out, about whether it is ecology and how important it is to believe the EU and its demands in energy and ecology, or not to trust those institutions, as they refer to foreign corporations. So, we had the opportunity to watch the unloved scenes for the weekend at the protests of the citizens and the clashes of SNS supporters and those who protested and blocked the roads, and in all of this somehow we were told that the people who were at the SNS were involved in these protests. It's not a party book that reflects the conflict that is now taking place in society and which is so radicalized, and so there's a problem that we all have to call to our senses and realize that we can't pour oil on fire. What I've never accepted, I am your political opponent, but I'm not your enemy, is that offensive message, that offensive name for your supporters that they're sandwichers. It reminds me of what once the supporters of the SRS when it was the most serious opposition party called tooth radicals, the same ones who didn't think about those people coming into a position that they couldn't go to a dentist because someone destroyed their factories and destroyed their social and health insurance. Today what we all know, of course you will never call on it, is that many people who go to your meetings are going because they robbed in the meantime, and now they hope to get a job for themselves or for their neighbors through SNS. So, these people are part of our people, and even though they have the right to choose their own political option, even if they haven't chosen it, they're in some kind of trouble, and they don't need to be insulted, and they don't need to be seen as enemies. In that sense, you don't have a problem with the People's Network and me, but one thing that's unacceptable and we all have to condemn whether we belong to the government or to the opposition is the situation that SNS supporters think they can go to protests and people who protest. We can pretend that it was a traffic incident, that a man was driving a machine on a work assignment, we can pretend that we didn't see a hammer in the hands of some SNS supporters, and I honestly don't think they're even supporters of your party, but they're people who are tasked with doing such jobs. That's all we can do and convince ourselves here to say who's more, that the man who hit the man who was driving the bugger, he's guilty, or someone else. However, we will miss the most important thing, that such things must be prevented, and that a country that has such a large party as SNS must be aware that this party must be kept under control. It must not happen that police forces do not exist where encounters occur between SNS supporters and protesting people. The people who protest have the right to be deluded, to suspect that all this is done for Rio Tint, and that Rio Tinto is doing the same thing that their soldiers did to us in 1999 when they took from us Kosovo, and if someone who took from Kosovo, you can trust him tomorrow not to kidnap your house or garden. Can a state that has not preserved Kosovo preserve your house and garden? So, these people are protesting, they have the right to do so, and you as a big party cannot allow, when you have the privilege of all authorities, of all powers, to allow your supporters with a hammer and a bogeyman to go to those who protest. It's dangerous and it can be a problem for all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-29-0.u11053	Thank you. Replica. Dear People's MP Aleksandar Mirkovic, authorised representative of the Electoral Club Aleksandar Vukic – For our children. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-29-0.u11054	Thank you, Chairman. Unfortunately, I thought you'd use this discussion to say something for your own good, and at least this time you won't be serving certain false things, which are easily verifiable. But let's take the turn. You're saying here, that the ruling coalition has agreed with the opposition and that we are calling each other in agreement and that we're playing some kind of conflict. Dear Mr. Glissic, is this broken-down acting head or what a man's been beaten up mutilated? You're telling me this is an act, that Neo made a deal with SNS, who, with Gilas, is being mutilated like this by some man. Dear citizens of Serbia, I believe that fellow MPs will show you another shocking picture during their presentation, which is that the first on the list of this refreshed DS, Marinika Tepic, in the cafe several hours ago, hugs, kisses and celebrates, with a man whose nickname is Black, who has mutilated a man like this. So that's the policy of Dragan Gilas and the people you mentioned here and brought into the same context with us. Please don't. We have nothing to do with them, and we don't want to have, because violence and this kind of broken heads aren't SNS policy, they're just their policy. You're saying that the people who participated in the conflict that took place during Saturday were at our rally. How can you say something like that? Where you saw those people. Who are these people? What are you talking about? You have to understand that as a MP, you have a responsibility for everything you bring out here. You're telling the truth. I'm not gonna use a hard time, but you're telling the truth. Don't do that. If you've already accepted, you've said yourself, you've agreed not to raise tension in society, why do you do it by making false and such lies. Why are you doing this? You say there's been a conflict on the streets. Well, who's to blame? Who's to blame? SNS supporters, people who support SNS, are calmly just heading for the SNS rally, even crossing the street on foot crossing, no, nowhere outside the pedestrian crossing. Waiting for the green light. They were attacked by an extreme minority. Why don't you say so? None of us caused a conflict, nor did he want to participate in that conflict. Why are you degraded and trying to get in the mud, humiliate and humiliate people who vote for SNS, or just support it? They support Serbia's development. You say they were robbed, so they go to support the SNS, because they're hoping for a job. Mr. Glissic, aren't you ashamed to say something like that? These people have been robbed, but by DS regimes and support SNS and Alexander Vukic, because they have restored faith in our country, because Serbia is finally heading in the right direction. They do not support those SNS of personal interest, as perhaps you or followers of Dragan Gilas, mercenaries who are employed by him in the "Multicom Group" work. Don't do that, don't call anyone and now you're making a fake picture, like you're sorry they call us sandwichers, bots or whatever, tooth radicals. Don't, because it's your exposure that you humiliate us all and don't do it. I'm here for every kind of discussion, controversy, but what you're doing doesn't differ in much from what Gilas, Jeremic, his team does. For the very end, I apologize if I overstepped, you said – it must not happen that the police are retreating or that it is not where the conflict is coming from. Dear Mr. Glissic, if the police hadn't retired, ask you – how many others would have been injured and how many more attacks and broken heads and legs would have been suffered by police officers, just because they wanted to preserve order and peace. Don't let me bring you back to July last year when hundreds of cops were injured here and a cop was injured with a rock weighing more than five kilos, which is attempted murder. Enough of those double arches. You're talking and accusing a cop who was there on Gazela and reacting in accordance with his authority, and then you're hypocritically wondering where the police are to show up again and separate these people. You just want the same as Gilas, to use excessive force, to cause chaos, to spill blood on the streets, to accuse the SNS of doing so and to pick up on the political point. You will not succeed, because SNS policy is the results, promises are fulfilled, but also a vision that Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic has. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-29-0.u11055	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Vladan Glisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-29-0.u11056	The only thing you need to insult is that you can't cover up the truth, that everyone saw a man who came with a bogeyman going after the people who were protesting. If the police had been there, the police would have reacted and stopped a man who'd gone with a bug to endanger everyone else's safety. So, if the police were present, she'd have a perfectly legitimate right to react and physically remove the man who was driving the buffer. That man was no one but a functioner. Member of the SNS. People who had a hammer in their hands went to hit protesters were also no one else, but SNS members. I don't have a problem with you being such a party. When you look at every party, there's decent people, but there's a fool. When you're a big party, you have a lot of fools, but then those fools need to be kept in control. Then I speak to those normal and decent people in the SNS to give up this rhetoric of civil war. (President: Please, Mr. Glissic, just to pay attention to the dictionary. )......................................................................................................... And that because of that, by giving up the rhetoric of the civil war that you are constantly instigating, you realize that we are all together on a powder keg that no one should plan. You, as the most responsible, have the greatest responsibility to do so peacefully. Because that moment when they blocked, of course against the law, against all the rules of protest and all that could and it had to be sanctioned, but it had to be known that across the street there was a huge party who used all the privileges of power, at all levels of government that people had long felt expelled from this people, because you took all the positions and that you had to when you were so strong to be calm and ready to endure some things that the opposition didn't have to endure. You act like you're an opposition, and you hold all the power in this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-29-0.u11057	The word has been made by MP Alexander Mirkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-29-0.u11058	Your Honor, in your own statement, you have now said that I have offended you and if you have not continued your presentation, I would even need to apologize. Really. Although I feel like I literally did nothing to offend you. But you see, Mr. Glissic, you've done very well from your angle to teach all of us lessons, first of all SNS, but I wonder sometimes do you look in the mirror and hear everything you say? Are you aware that you just said that we have the most fools in our party? I ask you, are you ashamed of what you said? Is it possible, as far as we're politically different, maybe we don't understand, it's not even normal to agree on everything, have you heard any of the SNS MPs, any of the officials that you or your supporters are your movements or I don't know where you are anymore, called fools or said you were fools? I'll tell you again, dear Mr. Glissic, this speaks of you, this is your shame. I'm glad we have a transmission and that Serbian citizens can hear what you're offering and how you're acting. I will never allow you, from this place or from anywhere, the most common activist, sympathiser or member of the SNS, to insult people who support the development of our country, to belittle them just because they support the policies of President Alexander Vukic and the SNS. You have no right to do that. You have no right to humiliate anyone in this way. And as much as you don't have education, consciousness or whatever, you don't have the right to do that. You literally share Serbia in this way, you divide Serbia into those who, in your opinion, are smart and we are fools. Here, I accept, we're fools, but we're fools who are honest, who never robbed anyone or robbed anyone, who didn't get rich in function, but also those fools, what do you think we are, why? Because we don't respond with violence to your provocations and violence. You're ashamed and I hope this exposure of yours will remain remembered, as another example of haughtiness, passion, but also the hatred you have for the SNS and anyone who doesn't feel the same way you do. You are no different from Dragan Gilas and Vuk Jeremic, as well as not a few of those people who tried to threaten other people just because they don't think the same way they do. Remember these words, remember everything you've said, so one day you might even wake up and realize how offended you are to every man who doesn't think, like you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-29-0.u11059	I thank the honourable MP Mirkovic. I thank you for your appropriate speech and for wanting to preserve the dignity of the National Assembly. This concludes the circle of replicas, continues with the list of speakers. The next on the list is Honorable MP Aleksandar Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-29-0.u11060	Thank you, Chairman. Before I start on what's on the agenda, I'd like to join, to say, in terms of condolences for the death of our colleague, Milutin Mrkonjic, our colleague, and my friend, and neighbors. From the pite on this day, when we heard of this sad news, I will not continue and there was will and advertising, and there was a basis for advertising the violation of the Rules of Procedure for directly endangering the dignity of the National Assembly, but for jeopardizing the dignity of the vast majority of citizens, who were brutally offended by a small-time speaker who, in a very vulgar and brutal way, insulted the vast majority of Serbian citizens who voted in favour of Alexander Vukic's politics, calling them, as he said, fools, right? That's what makes a clear difference between us and them. This is what is a clear difference between their view of what Serbia should look like and our view, that is to say, of Alexander Vukic, who, with each of his gestures, makes everything for Serbia to be primarily decent, orderly and to say a successful state. So much for that. Today, when we talk about RIK, when we talk about humane solutions, it is a good opportunity to point out that this composition, namely the proposed composition of the RIK, is a product of an agreement on improved electoral conditions between parties that participated in an inter-party dialogue without the intervention of foreigners, as well as the conclusions signed after the dialogue with the intervention of foreigners. I think it is very important because we further improve the electoral conditions in Serbia and further improve the democratic atmosphere for the upcoming April elections. Now we are free to say that election conditions for the upcoming April elections will be the best conditions ever. I would dare say ever, and at least since the establishment or restoration of multilaterals in Serbia. When I say so, the chairman, in no way do I think the election conditions so far have been bad, on the contrary, they haven't been bad. They were completely democratic and in line with all European standards. The other thing is that some political options in Serbia, mainly those political options that were directly controlled by Dragan Gilas, led and still run an unmistakable campaign in all their media, that electoral conditions are bad, that electoral laws are bad, that there are no conditions for fair and fair elections, media darkness, fear, dictatorship, censorship and all other nonsense repeated day and night in their media. Especially, the chairman, it is pointless, when we know that the electoral laws that were passed right at the time they were the same, that same part of Gilas's opposition, when he exercised power in Serbia. So while they were in power in Serbia, they were the best laws possible then, they were democratic laws, they were European laws, they were the best laws possible. Now, when they fell from the government overnight, magically, these same laws become the worst laws, become non-democratic laws, no more conditions for fair and fair elections all of a sudden, etc. That's the kind of hypocrisy we're constantly dealing with here. One more thing I'd like to say is that the process of improving electoral conditions is not something that came overnight. That's the thing where the permanent work was done, and I would remind the citizens that the electoral laws were changed partially before the last elections, before the June 2020 elections and that they were then improved precisely in favour of the opposition when we reduced the censorship to 3%. So we directly damaged ourselves, directly damaged the biggest party, directly damaged the SNS in the redistribution of the mandate, but we reduced the censorship to 3%, allowed all political options to be represented, the other thing is that some have not crossed the censorship, in fact most have not crossed the censorship. We have also provided greater representation of the less-represented sex, better position for minority parties, precise regulation of the issue of funding, media representation and many other issues, and all in order to enable better, more transparent and more democratic electoral conditions. Some, however, were not enough, so in a desire to create an alibi for a full election debacle, they better declared a boycott of the election and thus disfellowshipped themselves from the political match, disqualified themselves. Of course, in the meantime, they realized what a mistake they had made, of course, that they had realised that they had demoted themselves, made it impossible for them to participate in Serbia's parliamentary life, and that led us to the present moment, to the realization of these decisions that came from the agreements that I was talking about. So, once again, in order to meet every political group, in order to have such electoral conditions that no one has any objection, in order for the election day in Serbia to be a holiday of democracy, we make decisions that we allow and that the extra-parliamentary parties are part of the permanent composition of the RIK. So, it is foreseen specifically, and we have heard it from many speakers, that six members plus six deputy members of the permanent RIK will be from the opposition's ranks. I stress, out-of-parliamental opposition, so three members and three deputy members from both the opposition groups and those who participated in the dialogue under the party and these others. That's not all. When it comes to election committees, the extraparliamentary opposition will be given at each polling post in Serbia by one member and one member of the permanent staff. It's 17,000 people for you, it's 17,000 seats for you, and they're definitely followed by another member and a deputy member at the polling station in the so-called. an extended composition of the moment their election list is declared. Then, it was agreed to strengthen the so-called. The middle level of the electoral authority, so that the work of the RIC working bodies so far will be transferred to the municipal, or city election commissions. And they will be represented by the extraparliamentary opposition in constant composition, and of course in the expanded composition when they are declared an election list. I stress that all of this opposition has no right, because they boycotted the elections, because they are not represented in parliament. However, we are doing a gesture of goodwill and we are allowing them to show that we really want this election game to be the best possible, that election conditions are the best, most transparent, most democratic ever. With all this, I note, the chairman, that as many as three supervisory bodies will be introduced. That wasn't the case until now. The body to monitor the work of the media in the pre-election campaign, to control the regularity of the single polling list, to monitor the overall election process, and many other things related to the financing of political parties and media representation, so-called "the election" a functional campaign around which there were so many words, transparency of control of the electoral process, etc. etc. So we are free to say that these electoral conditions will be the best possible electoral conditions since the establishment of the multiparty, and no one is seriously trying to disprove it anymore. I was already talking about us as the Serbian Progressive Party while we were in opposition, we didn't have any such conditions, we didn't have such benefits, we didn't have such benefits, but it, the chairman, in no case prevented us from fighting in the political arena. It didn't stop us from fighting for every vote, it didn't stop us from going around every municipality, every settlement, every local community, every house, to reach every man, to present our political agenda. We didn't whine, we didn't complain, we didn't bark about our country in the white world, we didn't ask for sponsors, we didn't ask for mentors and protection from all sorts of people, Tanja Fajon, Viola von Kramon and others, but we prepared for elections, worked hard, visited all of Serbia and in the first elections to win and beat DOS regime to the feet. That's the key difference between us and them. Unfortunately, the chairman, and today's session of the National Assembly, passes into the atmosphere of violence and terror, I would say aggressive and hysterical minorities over the absolute majority in Serbia. For days, we have the opportunity to watch the unloved scenes as false environmentalists, false civil movements, false civil activists, and all of them are political and party activists, harassing and beating citizens. A moment ago, my esteemed colleague, Mr. Mirkovic, showed the picture. It is, unfortunately, a sad picture of today's Serbia, for which only Dragan Gilas and the group he promotes, which is in which he is the boss and the employer. So that's what Gilas' picture of Serbia looks like, a picture of a beaten-up man who doesn't deserve to get beat up by a mob like that, that's how he freaks out. It's a picture that Serbia expects if you don't give God, I hope he'll never be in a position to decide and lead Serbia. Look at the hypocrisy. So, those who beat this man up like that, they suddenly become heroes. They're not thugs, they're not beatings, they're heroes, they're fake elites, and they're wanted by the media under the control of Dragan Gilas. No, it's not violence, when they beat someone up they're not thugs. They're gentlemen, they're members of this fake elite, and they're allowed to, they can. They can beat and nobody can. It is now finally proven that these are not any, as I said, environmentalists, any organisations dealing with the protection of the environment or human rights, but that they are all in order on the payroll of various centres, financial and other political centres of power from the white world. This is a show for you, now I'm going to show you who all the Rockefeller Foundation pays for in Serbia. This is what that display looks like. We have different NGOs here, and now I'm going to tell you who it is. So we have a CRTA organization. You know who they are? These are the ones who are on duty that trees and stones around Serbia's parliament throw each day. Then, we have an organization called The Sandstone. I'm sure you know what organization it's about. We also have an organization called "Go Change". It's you protesting these days. It's you doing these blockades. The Start-up Foundation received a $25,000 grant for 12 months from the Rockefeller Foundation, while the organisation "Pestnik" received $90,000 for 36 months. You can see everything here clearly. Now you know everything. Now, it's you who are protesting, blocking roads, highways, totally against the law. They are completely counter-constitutionally even blocking highways and harassing Serbian citizens. He still wakes up because the police are doing their job. So they attack the police for holding on to their jobs, to do what the law tells them to do. Well, you can't block the highway. You just can't block the highway. You can't limit the movement of anyone in Serbia. You can't stop life in Serbia. In what country in the world can you block the highway? Here, let the previous speaker or anyone else tell me. In which country in the world can you just, as far as you can think, block the highway? They're not reporting the rally yet! They don't think to report a meeting. Be careful to what extent that insolence goes. Although they are under the law to report each meeting. You can't protest if you're not in accordance with the law. This is another difference between them and us, this attitude towards the state, according to obligations, according to the laws of the country and to the state primarily and to the citizens. Every meeting we have ever organised as a Serbian Progressive Party has been reported neatly under the law. I can tell you on a personal occasion. The chairman, at one point in his political performance, was also the chairman of the Serbian Progressive Party's municipal board, we had no idea to organise any gathering until we reported it neatly at the police station. So, a simple stand, a simple promotional stand when we organize, we go to a competent police station, report that maybe that day it will be a larger group of citizens, talk to the citizens, and fulfill our legal obligation. Now, here they see their relationship to the laws of this country, to the institutions, and also to the state and to the citizens. There's another key difference between us and them. As much as we try, I soon end up hiding behind some environmental human rights organisations, it turns out that it is purely and exclusively political projects aimed exclusively at destabilizing Serbia. It is clear that their goal is to bring down the government in Serbia, the primary destruction of Aleksandar Vukic. Because none of them responds to strong Serbia, none of them corresponds to strong Serbia, independent and independent in deciding what Serbia is today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-29-0.u11061	Thank you. The next on the list is the popular MP Samira Ćosovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-29-0.u11062	Dear colleagues, first of all, I would like to express my condolences on the death of our colleague Milutin Mrkonjic to his family and the Socialist Party of Serbia, on behalf of the Social Democratic Party of Serbia and on my own behalf. The Social Democratic Party of Serbia has always been consistent and persistent in its advocate and promotion of democratic values and the construction and preservation of institutions that form the basis of democratic society in Serbia. We also demonstrated our commitment during the process of dialogue on electoral conditions and their improvement and purposefully the Social Democratic Party of Serbia took part in an inter-party dialogue conducted with and through the intervention of European parliamentarians, as well as in a dialogue that took place directly within Parliament and in which the President of the Republic of Serbia participated. Even before the announcement and the very beginning of the dialogue, we tried to show constructiveness and openness in each of our statements and procedures, especially to improve electoral conditions with concrete proposals for the benefit of all Serbian citizens, in order to preserve and increase citizens' confidence in the electoral process and the electoral system. Besides, as we did in the first interparty dialogue two years ago. We have entered all talks on improving the electoral system constructively, and concrete proposals by the Social Democratic Party of Serbia to amend the existing law and electoral system testify. In its SDPS proposals, it has always been guided by the idea of preserving and increasing confidence in the electoral process, through which citizens are more involved and through solutions that aim to motivate citizens, especially young people, to take part in the basic democratic process and to take a decision on their fate into their own hands. To that end, the SDPS proposed during the dialogue to start from the root of the problem, from an amendment to the electoral law that allows voters to become voters in the right sense. I hope that the election of six new members of RIK will contribute to the move in the right direction and that this is a step, except that it will strengthen the representativeness of RIK, and also strengthen the trust of citizens and institutions in charge of holding elections and referendums. Trust in the work of the electoral authorities of the Republic of Serbia has never been as important as it is now that, in a relatively short period of time, we are expected to make several circular decisions for the future and progress of Serbia, which will bring citizens their votes in the upcoming referendum on stopping changes, but also in the upcoming elections at all levels. There is no doubt that Serbian citizens, as so far, are committed to supporting those ideas that have shown in the past, are the basis for reforms that are necessary to speed up Serbia's transformation on its path to Europe, towards a community of developed countries, but citizens who are responsible for accessing their civic duties and give their voice must be sure and that their voices will not only be counted but also that their will will will be heard and that those who gain citizens' confidence will carry out their will. On our part, we are obliged to ensure that citizens, as they have until now, maintain confidence in the electoral system, that their votes will be secure and that they will be accurately counted and preserved. It is our duty to the citizens, but also to all politicians who claim to participate in the electoral process, that democratic processes and democratic institutions are the only valid, but also the best way to fight politically and preserve citizens' rights and the democratic system itself. In front of the newly elected members of RIK, it is therefore a great responsibility to preserve the integrity of the national will, is the task of the greatest importance in every democratic country to preserve the integrity of the electoral process rests on the preservation of the integrity and legitimacy of all institutions of a modern democratic state such as Serbia and how it tends to be and I hope that the new members of the RIK will show more than that they are worthy of the positions they will be elected to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-29-0.u11063	Thank you, dear representative of the SDPS. Next on the list, honourable MP Slavenko Unkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-29-0.u11064	Thank you, Chairman. Dear fellow MPs, on behalf of the JS and on my personal behalf, I would like to express my condolences to the SPS and our late colleague Mrkonjic. We all know that the ruling coalition has expressed its readiness to sit down and talk to the opposition in order to improve and improve certain things in our election process. The conversation began several months ago in order for the opposition's real demand to be seen and discussed and a document to help improve these electoral procedures. We know how many oppositions have spent time trying to agree on what to talk to the authorities about. For months, they could not agree on a platform of negotiations, deal with their internal divisions, vanitys and uncleared accounts, and this resulted in talks in government and opposition in two columns. Dialogue, communication, co-operation between political actors and parties are key to the democratic development of our society, and this was managed by the president of the state, Mr. Vukic and the President of the Assembly, Mr. Dacic, regardless of all the indifferences and non-disciplinedness that the opposition has been exhibiting all this time. Part of the opposition that wanted to mediate MEPs despite all the concessions made despite the government's desire to come to a correct solution were not satisfied with the proposal that the MEPs had proposed to now accuse them of not proposing the document they were expecting. According to the European MPs, the proposed measures put into the document are quite realistic, feasible and would help ensure that all those who want Serbia's policy to change for the benefit of the citizens. The negative attitude of that part of the opposition towards the Europarliamentarian working document does not mean a boycott of the election, we see that they are joining together these days, preparing for the elections, even announcing victory, so now the election conditions are not important to them at all. Members of the Working Party for Interparty Dialogue without Intermediation, after several weeks of negotiations, reached agreement with the authorities on a final document to improve electoral conditions and this resulted in the signing of the agreement a month ago. There are more things in the agreement that will likely help some processes and procedures improve during the election campaign. For elections to be fair, conditions for participants in the election campaign to come from approximately the same positions. To achieve this, it is necessary to ensure the equality of participants in the candidacy process, to prevent abuse of funding in the election campaign, and to prevent abuses in the use of public resources in the election campaign. A key role in ensuring the integrity of the electoral process, has an electoral administration, i.e. RIK. The main objective of RIK is to ensure that the vote is held in secret, that the vote is counted, that the reporting is done fairly, and that the announcement of the election results is made publicly. Under our Law on the Selection of People's MPs, RIK consists of presidents, 16 members, secretaries and representatives of the Republic Statistics Office. The president, members and secretaries have their deputies who have the same rights and obligations as members and who must be graduate lawyers. One of the most significant provisions of this agreement by the government and the opposition is the expansion of RIK with six members and six opposition deputies and this is one of the most important points of the agreement. Of these six members and deputies, three members proposed opposition parties which requested the intervention of foreigners in the talks, and three proposed an opposition that reached agreement with the authorities. The provisions of this agreement concerning RIK will only apply until the election procedures are completed for the elections scheduled for April of next year. It seems to me that RIK will have the biggest job around the polling list, which has been well updated over the past few years, but we certainly deserve one exact and precise voter list. The agreement also overlooked the formation of a working group for external control of the voter list. RIK will also enable automatic scan and comparison of the list from the polling post with the Unique Election List. There will also be a comparison with the Mother's Book of the Dead, as well as with the base of valid ID cards. It is very important to ban the keeping of parallel lists at the polling station as well as the use of a mobile phone and that there may be only members of the electoral committee, not other unknown persons. If some persons are found to have been registered, they have voted without being physically present at the RIC polling post, it is under obligation to file criminal charges against the responsible persons. Each member of the electoral commission has the right to see into the overall election material, and certainly this is one of the most significant items of this agreement. The agreement remains in force to amend the law, which provides for the signing of voters who support the electoral lists can, in addition to public notebooks, also be certified by municipal verifyers. It is also significant that the number of signatures required to submit the list is reduced when it comes to parliamentary, republican elections, and for local elections, the number of signatures depends not on the number of committees in local self-government units but on the number of voters on the day of the vote. In any case, this kind of agreement has been happening for the first time in our political life in 30 years, and all in the desire to elect and elective procedures in the democratic atmosphere. These proposals today are acceptable to the JS and the JS parliamentary group will support all the proposals mentioned in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-29-0.u11065	Thank you, Mr. Unkovic. Next up, Professor Dr. Zarko Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-29-0.u11066	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, allow me to thank all of you on behalf of the SPS who express your condolences to our party and to our colleagues, Milutin Mrkonjic, for his death. You know, I've known the Dark for nearly three decades, and it's a really long time when you spend with a man you have a chance to get to know him completely. He was one of the few good people, above all those qualities he possessed as an engineer, as a socialist, as a good friend and a friend, and no doubt he would leave an indelible trail among us, his friends, but also with all those other people who were in contact with him, who knew him, who knew what he was doing. He selfishly gave himself, always the state and others were before him, and that's something that remains part of his identity. Thank you for understanding that. Thank you for sharing the grief of his early departure with all of us, the SPS members. Now let me tell you a few words about the point that is the subject of the work and decision of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia today. Namely, the SPS will vote on the decision, on the additions to the Decision on termination of office and appointment to the Republic Election Commission. The Republic Election Commission will receive six new members and six new deputies. The citizens of the Republic of Serbia should know that the expansion of the RIK composition is the result of an agreement in an inter-party dialogue and that it aims objectively to advance the whole, not only the electoral procedure, but to improve the electoral process and to help citizens of the Republic of Serbia and party members who will participate, but also those who are not involved, but were part of the inter-party dialogue, to increase trust in the electoral process. In fact, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, we have had a strange situation since 2019 when inter-party dialogue was launched constantly by the opposition trying to impose public impression that Serbia is something special in relation to other countries of Europe and the world and that our electoral process, the electoral procedure, our electoral legislation is not in line with the standards of EU member states. It is not at all unknown, these three and a few decades since the introduction of a multi-party system into the Republic of Serbia, of course, always making changes to the electoral legislation, because there is always a need for changes to be made in electoral legislation and it is not only the specificity of the Republic of Serbia, it is done everywhere in the world. Last week, we changed the conditions regarding the adoption of the Constitution, as the largest legal act of one state, because the 2006 Constitution envisioned this solution. Our problem is that we waited for 2021 not to change the law that regulated the 2006 constitutional solution. But right away in public, you could hear a series of negative comments, even I from some of my friends heard the question – why you passed the law and why the majority of them needed it. When I explained that in 2006 it was completely different people react. Why am I saying this? Our society, our Republic of Serbia needs more talks, more dialogue is needed, but we need to hear more from each other. Often in public, people whose views are not founded tend to sharpen the situation in the Republic of Serbia, who have no argument, without the argument of force, because it is obviously not a problem that we do not think the same, but rather that we do not allow the other side to say what they think and that citizens bring their own judgment. This when I say citizens bring their own court, there is criticism, of course, by minor political parties and by some called intellectuals by the composition of this assembly. Dear colleagues and fellow citizens, who have established the composition of this congregation? Well, citizens of the Republic of Serbia. They voted in the past election. Although we have reduced the electoral censorship from 5% to 3%, instead of the question whether the Assembly should ask the question why other parties did not get those 3% votes. Be careful, not 5%, but 3% of the vote, and before that, there were those who suggested that the censorship increase to 7%. Wait, we would have literally a two-party assembly, or ruling coalition with the SNS and our smaller SPS-JS coalition. The question of whether, besides us and the minority, anyone else would enter this congregation. We want the Assembly to be more representative, but we do not decide, the citizens of the Republic of Serbia decide. These talks, which have been held since 2019, have been part of the process and improvements of the electoral process and trust in the electoral process, and trust in the democratic institutions of the Republic of Serbia and mutual trust. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, unfortunately, since 2019, when these burns began at the Faculty of Political Sciences, and in the Assembly, and during the chairmanship of Ms. Maja Gojkovic, that the ruling coalition has shown and offered more concrete solutions to change things for the better. I don't want to mention everything the Ministry of State and Local Self-Government did to make every citizen of the Republic of Serbia feel like part of the electoral process, to know that he can vote and know that he can check whether, God forbid, someone voted instead. I don't want to mention the whole procedure, but the fact that the parties can get a voter's register after the vote is over, that so many members of the electoral committees, representatives of opposition parties, or not opposition, but all of those parties participating in the elections, that's twenty, thirty people in one polling post when you have eight thousand and several hundred polling stations. It's an army of people who control the election process. Then what's the problem? The problem is that someone, in this case of the opposition party, is now out-of-parliamentary because they haven't even been 3% past, I can't, obviously to reconcile with the fact that they don't trust the citizens. I don't want to give them advice, that's their problem, but everything I've seen since 2019, so even now, they point to only one conclusion – they don't have a program. When the party has no program and no politics then resorts to other solutions, then resorts to force, then resorts to incidents, then these incidents begin to make politics. You know, in 2019, in August of the month, after the first three talks when someone declares a boycott as a political party's definition of elections that are yet to be held in seven, eight, nine months, it means that he chose a boycott as a means of political struggle, not even counting what election conditions are. Then they talk - about election conditions is only used as a good fog for the right political goal. It's been known since the beginning, it's no secret. There are colleagues from the SNS who talk about it all the time. It is our intention that President Vukic, in any way, and formally and essentially, step away from the electoral process, because no political personality in the Republic of Serbia has its weight in order to beat him directly in the elections. Of course, his party and the coalition they run also have the highest confidence of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Everything we saw in those smart people's conversations was immediately clear. The solutions proposed by even, unfortunately, some NGOs, I say very consciously, some NGOs, so that no one would say tomorrow to all government organisations, not some government organisations have absolutely put themselves in the position of the opposition parties, proposing their solutions as final solutions, calling for experiences that do not exist from others, wanting not only to change the content of the electoral process, but also directly by affecting future election results. You know, it's not a problem for a functional campaign anywhere in the world, the point is that the media will keep it up to date. If there are standards, then everyone will respect it. The problem here is that a lot of people don't even like the work of the media. You know, I'm saying this as a member of the ruling coalition and a party that in different situations was animated in the second, third, fifth, eighth plan, but she never took it as an excuse for not participating in the election. A party holding itself and having a programme has people always have something to say to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and it has to be taken care of. That's why I'm saying, some NGOs, because there's obviously one front of the fight against what Serbia is doing today. You know, the history of the Balkans shows that Western countries do not like independent states in the Balkans, or countries that are autonomously deciding on their fate, or making decisions on their development. Serbia has a smart foreign policy, has a strong state top, has competent people and has achieved many things. You know, they weren't just interested in us by accident. Following the withdrawal of recognition by 18 countries, US and EU envoys for KIM issues were elected. Until then, they had not mentioned the question as relevant. Why relevant? Because of course they thought that we would make peace with fate and then one moment, as the West has a habit of just saying – you know, the development of events is like that. We have to admit reality. Well, now, another reality must be recognised, that Serbia is a strong country in the Balkans, economically stable. So, watch out, state, I have to say this, which two years in a row has over three billion direct foreign investments. Well, where will you more proof of the world's trust in that state, in its democratic capacities, in its laws, in its perseverance, than that evidence? Those numbers themselves speak best. We all care about the ruling coalition that everyone who wants it and who meets the legal requirements comes to elections, and that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia should give their own court. Let them vote for every one they think they should. I guess that's the essence of democracy and the democratic process, and for the state and national objectives together to fight because in the past decades we've been anatemised and found guilty of many things we don't even have direct participation for, but it's part of a policy that's led against the Republic of Serbia and it's part of our reality. In any case, I think this decision is good, because I say it will improve confidence in the electoral process and trust in the democratic capacity of the Republic of Serbia. You know, six new members, six new deputies of extraparliamentary parties, with an existing composition of the Republic Election Commission, is a very good basis for, if you will, considering and adopting everything we have. We already have the law. We'll have a referendum in January. We have now introduced, or not introduced, a referendum, if I may say, strengthened the people's initiative even more promoted. Who knows, a solution from these two laws will see that the democratic capacity of citizens of the Republic of Serbia has been increased, that these two institutions can be used more frequently, that citizens can set different rights at different levels, from republican to local self-government, and that you will do better for a democratic state than anything the law prescribes. How much will be used, well, that depends on the citizens, as well as the many things that are here with us. What I can say as a representative of the Socialist Party of Serbia in the inter-party dialogue since 2019 and so far is yes, believe it or not, but I can say that, colleagues who are also participants in the inter-party dialogue can check these words of mine that maybe it was a good thing that all this was going so, because the representatives of the European Parliament finally convinced themselves of the modest, not to say, almost no capacity of the opposition and of any quality of the proposal they offered. There was a proposal, believe it or not, from taking over RTS management as a public service to being on the media at all costs. Why? That's because they represent opposition parties. For what? Because they think they have political weight and they need someone to see them and hear them. This is part of the inter-party dialogue, but whoever participated there saw representatives of the European Parliament treat each other as well as the proposals. Who had anything to say, he said. Whoever had anything to suggest, he suggested. What's right, it's accepted. I also remind you, in a previous meeting with representatives of the European Parliament, we have had the situation that the change in the composition of REM has been accepted, that various solutions have been adopted regarding the Anti-Corruption Agency, which promotes the work of the Agency in connection with the electoral process. On those recommendations by ODIR, the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government have accepted all these measures, applied and truly, if we call to mind, and above all I mean the supporters of the opposition, in the coming months everyone will have the opportunity to present their programme to the citizens if there is one and we come to the essential thing that I mentioned at the beginning. Representatives of the ruling coalition, whether it is the present MPs or representatives of the executive government, simply wanted to ban this work in order to allegedly achieve some, I don't know, alleged equality in the election process. Look, the democratic process is such in all countries of the world that when someone gets citizens' trust, four years or shorter, that's already being decided, he has the right to work on that credibility, to work for four years and to account for what he's done to the citizens. This ruling coalition has done a lot in the past four years and has a lot to go out with and I think it's a good thing that we've implemented some of the recommendations through this decision. Part of the recommendation will be implemented when amending and supplementing existing laws. In any case, the ruling coalition will do everything in its power that there can be no event or cause to cast a shadow into the future elections. I would like to say that it is good that President Vukic participated in one dialogue and that we had another dialogue with intervention, because this first was President Vukic and President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia Ivica Dacic with one number of extraparliamentary parties and MEPs with the other. I think it has spurred mutual respect, that even the MEPs have realised that the parties they are talking to are not the only political parties in the Republic of Serbia, nor have the weight they have, but that all political parties must be respected, and the parties have autonomously decided who they want to talk to. Anyway, they had suggestions. I think it is a good thing that we adopt this today and that the adoption of this decision will allow not only the implementation of the referendum, or the Constitution, and the amendments that we will discuss, but hopefully also speed up Serbia's European path. When I say I hope, I cannot help but mention that last week the Council of Ministers discussed the opening of the Republic of Serbia cluster and did not make the decision we expected, with certain claims that we have not done enough about these changes that we are discussing today and the adoption of the Constitution. You know, it's kind of hypocritical. If amendments are known to be on the agenda of the National Assembly, if it is known that RIK is expanding to representatives of the extraparliamentary opposition, if the referendum is known to be on 16 January, then say that Serbia did not do what was needed in the area of rule of law is really hypocritical, but it is the EU. We have two policies in the EU, one run by Brussels and the other by the Member States. This first one is of general character and full of foggy promises, and this second one is a matter of the very concrete interests of the member states. This other one is trying to force Serbia to admit so-called. Kosovo's independence and to accept everything dictated to it as an alleged EU policy. She is the first to remain silent and wait to see what the results will be, but, fortunately, Serbia is not waiting. Fortunately for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, Serbia is not waiting. We are doing and building our country in the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, developing friendship with all those who want it, and I think what President Vukic did last week, if I can use that word, he's done business with President Putin, it's the best thing that could happen to us. You know, when EU countries need gas, it's a matter of gas, and when Serbia needs gas, it's a bad influence of the Russian Federation. It was forgotten, dear colleagues and colleagues, and I will remind those who do not know that they could use it as an argument in 2014, the South Stream pipeline was stopped because Brussels asked Bulgaria not because it could not be done, not because there were no technical conditions, but because Brussels... So, in order to, as I would say, resolve some of his relations with the Russian Federation, the EU decided to stop the pipeline, and the fact that the Western Balkan countries were left without the gas and the damage they suffered, that was our problem. That's how it was around the birds and about the rest. When we say so, they say – so what are you complaining about, what are you talking about, but they forget that Serbia is a country of proud people and autonomous in making its decisions and that it has the right to vote. We have also chosen the EU as a strategic goal, and this does not mean that we forgot our friends today or that we will forget both the Russian Federation and the People's Republic of China. In the meantime, we'll see how everyone behaves. We will act in accordance with the interests of our citizens and the state and national interests of the Republic of Serbia. I think the adoption of this seemingly modest decision is one of those small steps that we take to build democratic and strong Serbia and our parliamentary group will vote for this decision in the day to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-29-0.u11067	I thank Mr. Obradovic. The next is National MP Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-29-0.u11068	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President Hardisic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to join all my distinguished colleagues here at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, but no doubt thousands of people and friends and respecters of our colleague Milutin Mrkonjic and to offer my condolences on my personal behalf and, of course, on behalf of his family, since he was also a family friend. I think the National Assembly, and of course, the Republic of Serbia lost one great man, an ax and someone who spent his whole life building this country. Of course, it is not easy to talk after Professor Obradovic, who has covered a lot, a lot of topics that concern not only the topics of today's agenda, but also what is happening in our society and what we have to keep mentioning and talking about. So what happened during the weekend in our country, especially in Belgrade and in several towns and municipalities in Serbia, is a kind of lacmus paper, something that determines and clearly defines the current political situation, the current situation in our society. On the one hand, you have a great, great gathering that took place in Arena, the fifth assembly and the celebration of SNS birthdays, a set of decent people, a set of hosts, people who love this country, a set of patriots who sent a very strong message to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, a message calling for unity, a call for a national consensus, in terms of everything that awaits us in the coming period on many geopolitical challenges, therefore, challenges to which our country will be exposed, in terms of the protection of our economic, social, of course and geopolitical interests. And on the other hand, you have one violent, savage behavior of one, I feel free to say, aggressive minorities in our society, compared to this one, I want to call it the right name, the silent majority. What I'm saying is that we all here support this fact that there's nothing they want to challenge in our society, so there's no division. Talk about that so-called. By dividing our society, it's a complete nonsens, given that when you talk about division, when you talk about divided society, you have to have someone who has 50 percent support on one side. That division has to be measured in some way and calculated and then talked about it. So, falsely imposing a false topic of division in this society is just talking about the desire of both the tycoon-political transfer, the media transfers in our country that does not hide that it wants to come to power through what happened in Ukraine, through Ukrainian script, naked force, wanting to get to itself and that click that it is employed in certain companies, companies, pretending falsely that it has a political platform and that it wants to deal with politics, if they want to come, of course, on the power of a violent path, to get to the budget, to get to the disposal of state and people's property, and that it would probably be the same players, the same people who did it from 2000 to 2012, continued to rob the budget, continue to rob and take what was severely created during these seven years of power, which the SNS, at the head of Alexander V. Of course, the SNS party, which is state-owned, which is certainly the most numerous party not only, not in the country, not in the Western Balkans territory, but probably in Southeast Europe with some 700,000 members. As such a party, we want and we clearly defined it in our political platform presented by the president on Saturday, I think it is very important to point out, those ten points as ten points that speak of what Serbia should look like, not after 3 April or 17 April next year, but as Serbia should look in 5, 10, 15 or 20 or even 50 years. This is what distinguishes President Aleksandar Vucic and our party from others, from those who would make Serbia, who would only see Serbia as something they should take from, fill their own pockets and, of course, make up the capital they rob here and abroad, as they did during those 12 years, destroying our country's reputation, destroying our geopolitical position, destroying every aspect of the functioning of this society, unfortunately, and the dignity of citizens, because citizens who do not have bread, citizens who can't get jobs, young people who have no place to work, they've been disproved and their dignity has been taken away, and they unfortunately have been doing it for 12 years. We as a state-run party advocate, and that is one of the 10 key points of our programme for the future presented on Saturday at our party's assembly, is political dialogue and the strengthening of the culture of political dialogue. But I also have to say something about how this dialogue on election conditions has been going over the past two, two, and a half years, when that so-called. The boycott opposition even invited foreigners, so abroad people, it doesn't matter if they are members of the Russian Duma, the European Parliament, the American Congress or any other parliament, it's the same for me, in serious political parties, in state-run political parties and people who want to rule a country, it simply doesn't work. So, I have to say that I absolutely have no respect for those who have invited foreigners and who have been to say that the foreigners, as they would say, fasilitate these talks, negotiations, dialogue, call it whatever you want. I have to make one clear distinction between those political parties representing the opposition, who wanted to sit at the table with the representatives of the largest political party, with the head of the largest political party, with other parties that are with us in the coalition and make up the majority here, with the president of the National Assembly and to discuss not only the election conditions, but also to discuss the current political moment in which Serbia and the region are located and to discuss Serbia's future. I want to point out this as one key difference, although we are all looking for and respecting and finally, after two, two, two and a half years and these Europarliamentaries, although we can say anything, only that they are not in favour of Vucicic and SNS, because it is certain that they are not representatives of the people who are members of the German SPD or Tanja Fajon who belong to the European Parliament of that group of Social Democratic so-called. Liberal parties, they all are, they're just not supporters of our values and everything we want to do here in Serbia, what Aleksandar Vucic has managed to do in seven years, which is sovereign Serbia, that's the idea of Balkan Balkan nations, that's empowering our country's economic, political and social. Of course, another key point of our ten-point programme – sovereignly, independently and independently making decisions concerning the future of our people and the Republic of Serbia. Even after two and a half years, they said -- people, this has nothing to do with demands, has nothing to do with construction, has nothing to do with obviously electoral conditions. I have to say one anecdote from two years ago, I took part in that first tour of those conversations. My colleague Vladimir Djukanovic said at one point, I don't know if he was joking or serious, he said – I would now agree immediately to accept everything, whatever this so-called. The extraparliamentary boycott opposition wants, here, to give them everything they want right now, and if they got everything, of course, their percentage and their support for the citizens wouldn't change. That is the essential reason, it is the essential thing why they do not respond to either parliamentary, municipal, city elections, or elections for the President of the Republic, and why they are the main target of Alexander Vukic as a personification of Serbia's power, the personification of Serbia's statehood, the personification of the leadership of Serbia and the creation of a country and of an ambience here who is victorious and who has returned dignity to our citizens and our people, who are no longer ashamed and who does not bow his head when he goes anywhere, whether in Europe or anywhere in the white world, when he takes out a passport and says that he is a Serb, is now quite, quite a different story. He has opened this country for new investments, for new partners, and we are finally a country that wins the economy, which wins in science, which wins in education. We know here in our party that this is one of the biggest concerns of President Alexander Vukic, the strengthening of our country's demographic capacities, and we don't just talk about it, we don't just talk about it, we don't make round tables but it's announced, we're going to implement one proactive concrete policy when it comes to giving birth, when it comes to empowering our president's own population policy and ideas about how to make us more, because only in that way, if it's more, it's going to be our main competitive advantage over others, to be better, to be more modern, to endure all those challenges that come before us. In an interview yesterday, he talked about what was waiting for us all in the next period, what was the situation 60 and 70 years ago in terms of demographic characteristics, the structure of the population, say KIM, where 60 years ago we had 27-28 percent of our people, the Serb people, who lived there, and in fact there is a lack of leadership, a lack of sovereignty, that we brought only about 30 years of ourselves into a situation to be less than 10%. We must not allow it, and Vukic is openly saying that we must not allow it to happen in BiH, Republika Srpska, Montenegro. What is the greatest result of his policy which is no longer an embarrassment to us, no one is ashamed to talk about it. We are talking about our own vital national interests completely open, both in Washington and Beijing and Moscow and in Brussels and Berlin, because we have the right to protect our interests, we have the right to protect our people wherever they live. We are no longer looking for anything but to have equal rights, equal treatment and the same archaics as all the peoples who live here in the territory of the Western Balkans and to give us the right to protect our national interests, to develop ourselves normally, without any pressure or any realisation of anyone's foreign interests, geopolitical interests in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. They took enough of our territory, we gave up our own lives on the altar of the world's greatest civilization values, and we should be there and we must be proud as a people, because we've always been an anti-fascist people, we've always been a people who fight anti-Semitism, we've always been a people who fight for freedom, for liberal society, for liberal values, but a people who, of course, can appreciate their national values. We as SNS will continue to fight for these greatest values that define the greatest civilization achievements not only of the 20th but also of the 21st century and we will fight for our territory, we will fight for our people, we will fight to make and ensure security for all our citizens and all the people wherever they live in the region and in the world. I have to say something about this violent so-called. the protests, the so-called protest. The green ecological platform they run and which is funded by the ones I just mentioned earlier, is this transferzala Đilas, Solak, Marinika Tepic, all those who in some way are trying to cover up the agenda they have, the destruction agenda of Serbia, the elimination agenda of Aleksandr Vukic and SNS from the scene as a state-run party, and to put it in the corner of some green ecological movement, the ecological agenda that we see. If they're green, if they're green values, beating up people in that backhoe, beating up people on the street, getting into the face and fighting with the police, blocking key traffic, key roads in the Republic of Serbia, I'm sure 99.9% of Serbian citizens are absolutely not up for the agenda. We as a party are for pure Serbia and that is the 10th point. Just because it's the last one doesn't mean it's the least important. We are for pure Serbia, but we are for, firstly, a strong economic, political, geopolitical Serbia and what separates us from them, is that we are honest and open to making Serbia a country where all possible environmental standards will be respected. But we don't lie to our citizens. We don't lie to our people. We want to make an economic background, because without money, without the economic background we've managed to make over the past seven years, there's no social policy, there's no help for pregnant women, there's no green agenda. It's a lie, it's a scam. They think that this people are stupid, that they have very little memory and that they don't know that these employees, that this corporate-media-mafia structure led by Gilas, Šolakom, Marinika Tepic, just wants to get their hands on the authorities, want to get their hands on the chair, to be a dominant again, to be overruled again for them to fill their own pockets, because, if we understand ourselves and tell our citizens openly, they don't have any political platform, they don't have politics. Those in Kosovo and Metohija have never been. Those in Republika Srpska... I don't know if they can go there, because they'd be expelled. There people know that they are not fighting for the interests of our people and our country. The Serbian Progressive Party has clearly shown what interests are, what are its priorities and what are the key things in 10 points of our political programme and our political platforms and our results regarding everything citizens can see and feel in their pockets, when they go to the store, when they go to the store, when they go somewhere to rest. Salaries are up. Pensions are up. We take care of every citizen of ours, and that's the key to our policy, that we're focused on an ordinary man, not on tycoons. We support business people who want to, Vucic is responsible for no longer entering speculant capital here, we have thrown them out, but they are entering the best companies that offer the best wages, which offer the best technologies. It's Serbia. We're looking at yesterday -- it's no good for a $270 gas price. You know, Belarus has a better price. I just don't know how these great experts and great fighters, great patriots, how much would our price be if, God forbid, they were in power. We are, of course, grateful to President Vukic and we are following this strong policy of balanced foreign policy approach that results. We definitely have the lowest price of gas in Europe. As soon as you see that Marinika Tepic, Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic, and also "24 hours", today, in the Republic of Croatia, jurisdiction does not allow me to say, "The morning list", as our president was called, what are the titles. This speaks of a huge frustration of political elites in Croatia who, of course, have been transferred directly to Pristina, and through Pristina connected to these people who want to betray our country, who are going to spit on the Serb list, to spit on our people in Kosovo and Metohija, because they probably eat fat cookies every day, so they are very good at Kosovo and Metohija, given the pressures they are exposed to. I think that whenever the elections are held, whenever they are held, in April of next year, we will show them that we will defeat them with the greatest possible result and with the biggest difference possible, both in the presidential and parliamentary elections and in all local elections because this people recognize who Alexander Vukic, who is SNS and who leads them into a strong, secure, better future and who needs to trust the future of their children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-29-0.u11069	I thank Mr. Marinkovic. Next is counterpart Sanja Jefic Brankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-29-0.u11070	Thank you. Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, last week after more than 25 years, we finally passed a new Law on Referendum and People's Initiative, which is as such in line with the Constitution as the highest legal act of any country. We have, among other things, identified a number of misunderstandings, as well as discrepancies in order for the referendum to be a special means of participation of citizens in decision-making to be applicable, but also meaningful. I will not speak of the importance of the referendum for a particularly long time, given that it is a form of direct democracy and that as such it represents a way in which citizens can influence the creation of public policy, but also the making of political decisions. The referendum, as such after World War I, was particularly important and in this sense was implemented and the Weimar Constitution of 1919 was implemented. Anyway, back to today's topic we're talking about. The decision we are discussing today in the tide is made in accordance with Article 80. The law on referendums and the people's initiative. He predicts that the first next Republic referendum to be conducted after the adoption of this law will be implemented by the RIK whose composition will be extended by six other members and alternate members appointed by the National Assembly in the order of experts on election law and electoral process. The electoral process as a complex substance, as a complex democratic process, takes place under certain rules. We are witnessing that it is not a rare case to make objections to the work of the RIK with the guidance of actions that do not comply with the electoral law and the electoral process. I therefore believe that by extending the RIK composition in this way that we are doing so now will further strengthen transparency in RIK's work, but will also facilitate the work of the Commission itself. Although it seems to be a technical issue, its essential importance is much greater, however, this extension of the RIK system has allowed parties that have not entered parliament to participate in the Commission's work. So this should be seen as an exception, that outside the parliamentary party participate in the work of this body and as such should be, means, and observe and place it in place. It can be said that it represents some kind of clearly expressed gesture that the election process itself is absolutely transparent and accessible to all political actors regardless of whether they are represented in parliament or not. You will agree with me that trust is achieved by a comprehensive change in the electoral process that we have introduced over the past period, to a large extent and implemented changes and additions to many laws, but also by adopting a new one. It is doubtless that the RIK work has been improved, so access to all information about their work and meetings and records and sessions is publicly available through the fairs. The Ministry of State Administration and Local Self-Government played a major role in all of this by updating the electoral lists, so that anyone can now at any time check whether it is or whether it is included in the electoral list and thus exercise their electoral right. As I said earlier, viewing this decision as a compromise aimed at improving the electoral process, the SDPS will support the proposed decisions in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-29-0.u11071	Thank you. Next is counterpart Snezana Paunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-29-0.u11072	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished citizens and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I will take advantage of the opportunity to thank you, first of all to you sitting in this room in words of sincere condolences that you have sent, and then to all the citizens who have sent their condolences to us from the SPS, with the awareness that we have really lost the best among us. Somehow, I have a big debt to this man and never a big enough word to say anything about him. I didn't think people like Milutin Mrkonjic could leave because he always came when we needed him the most. The last time I heard from him, he said, "I'm fine, I'll see you at the next session," and it seems to me that it's the only promise he won't keep. I guess he went somewhere nicer, maybe there are some sky bridges projects missing, and if they are missing, Milutin Mrkonjic will make them. Travel my good dad where your friends are waiting for you. Serbia has lost much and not only Serbia with you, but I can say the Yugoslavia that you loved and believed in until the last day of your life because you were a pacifist. On today's agenda, the expansion of the RIK with six members and six deputies from the order of the extra-parliamentary opposition. They spoke about it by my distinguished colleagues and Djordje Milicevic and Professor Dr. Zarko Obradovic, I would say firsthand because they both participated in this interparty dialogue and shared the experiences they had experienced. We often listened to them in the MP's group when they returned without a trace of shock with everything they could hear as a request or have experienced as a possible pressure to help these unrealistic demands that were made. These proposals are a fruit, above all, of an inter-party dialogue that has been intensively and successfully led under the auspices of the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Ivica Dacic. We know that the dialogue has been conducted on two lines, with participation and without the participation of Europarliamentaries, we have shown as the ruling majority, despite all criticism, a complete willingness to talk and confirm that for any of us, the dialogue has no alternative. It's always better to talk, because from conversations, no matter how different our differences are, we'll find a solution. I am sure this will advance our system as I am sure that one part of the Serbian opposition, which is aware of how important it may be to the opposition to a political party, to a political party, but not to the state in which you live, when you become an opposition to your own state, then that means that personal interest prevailed. When personal interest prevails, there is no national. When there is no national interest, then our most vulnerable is what is most sacred to us, and that is the southern Serbian province. I'm completely aware of this because I'm afraid that some rejection, some strange dialogue, some strange demands would be very quick to agree with those who have a request for us that we'll never be able to meet as people, first raised people, and then patriots and patriots, because we're so raised. They said a lot, and even if the elections weren't democratic, and even if this assembly wasn't legitimate, and why would it be, it would be easier if you didn't participate in the elections if you didn't think you had a chance or if they were small, and then from that position of indifference and potential assumptions or personal projections to make it look like you were trying to devalue any of us who got the citizens' trust. I couldn't agree more. Everyone has the right to trust us. They don't believe that he likes us or doesn't like us. But often all together, especially individually, we have suffered the most brutal insults just because we may be sitting in this room. This is one of the steps, one of the concessions that we have made as the ruling majority, with the desire to really make it easier for all who consider themselves a political factor in Serbia, to gain citizens' trust, to sit in this hall and fight for those people who have put their trust in them. There is no dilemma that as we participated in the dialogue first and foremost as a state-of-the-art and responsible party, in the day of voting, we will support the proposals that are ahead of us and do everything that is up to us as MEPs, and that everyone who comes tomorrow will be more peaceful, more stable, without being able to be abused for personal purposes, anyone, because what we have least loved and loved and done is to be personal to the interests of Serbia that we have in difficult years and formed the SPS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-29-0.u11073	Thank you, colleague Paunovic. Next is MP Marijan Risticevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-29-0.u11074	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am sensitive to these concessions to the opposition. Last year, May 8, so this isn't the only concessions we've made to them, they've been getting, I don't know, five REM members, etc. and others to help them collect signatures, to change the way they collect signatures, i.e., that municipal administrations and courts have the right, other than notaries, to verify the signatures of support to the electoral lists. During 15 hooligans from one opposition or more opposition parties, I was warmly welcomed in the stairwell, caused minor injuries, and Marinika further invented that I had committed an attack on them. So before her chickens were pictured in Morovic, she was pictured of a knife in my hand, so they allegedly defended the Parliament against my terrorism. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, these days we also have violence on the streets, and as far as I can see, it says that the bully who brought people together today in Shapac to protest, that she was a labourer with members of the Zemun clan, and the Zemun clan, as far as you know, came to Serbian Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the law is for every law. I'm against them to make concessions, because I think after the invasion of RTS, the attempt to invade the presidency, the attack on the MPs in the Assembly, outside the assembly, the rebuilding of the street, etc. prohibiting the execution of works in the Republic Square, mistreatment of construction workers, etc. that the time has come for us to have to force them in a certain way or to force them to comply with the laws, because the law is for every law. If a member of the Constitution says that freedom of movement is according to Article 39. - everyone has the right to move freely in the Republic of Serbia. If it says so in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the Constitution on the one hand stops power, just so you know, it is the law of all laws, and on the other hand the Constitution stops unlimited freedoms, which in this case are obvious in supporters of Gilas and a certain part of the opposition. Yeah, I'm not wrong my soul, so those who attacked me on the stairs are at these moments, and in these times they're very peaceful, which I appreciate, regardless of the attack. I also appreciate Radulovic, whom I absolutely cannot stand politically, but I appreciate that he is not resorting to some violent action that these others are resorting to. It says Criminal Code, Article 133. The criminal code of the Republic of Serbia -- which unlawfully deny or restricts freedom of movement for citizens of the Republic of Serbia in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, will be fined by fines or prisons for up to one year. So, no doubt the freedom of movement has been prevented by roadblocks and bridges, but not only roadblocks, according to the Traffic Safety Act on the roads of Article 98 says – the pedestrian must not enter or move along the highway or highway. The penalty for this could be 40,000 or 30 days in prison. I insist that these legal provisions be respected, provided that everyone, absolutely anyone who prevents freedom of movement, who blocks highways and bridges has been punished, because I don't know what will happen next if we let them keep this scale of violence growing and they're just repacking from Savala to today, it's just a different package. They're packing up the same people, they're just activists and protesters, and they're writing in their biographies. I don't know what's gonna happen next. Do you know that there are people who are emotionally short fuses? Who can guarantee us that in these blockades tomorrow someone won't get hurt by the passengers who were led astray so they can block the highway? They're supposed to be doing it because of lithium. As far as I know, they're doing it because of the redistribution of opposition activists. But I don't know how hypocritical it is that every single one of them who fights lithium is holding, watching everyone, holding a piece of lithium in their hand. It's hypocritical. When you hold a piece of lithium in your hand and advocate against the production of lithium in the Republic of Serbia, what does that mean? That means better introduce than produce. In doing so they do not complain, do not go to Viola von Kramon and say – the forbidden production of lithium from thermal waters in Germany, it is forbidden, we want to be banned, let them visit Viola von Kramon, rather let them go there than that it comes here. She supports them, and I think it's a war for the future automotive industry. Who guarantees them that the ruling majority, namely the country's top management, is not planning to build an electric car factory in Serbia and since we have lithium, lithium batteries are normal that we can try to build an electric car factory. Then what is the German auto industry going to put up with? I think this is a war for the future of the automotive industry, where it will take place and that it should rule out the Republic of Serbia that it cannot produce electric cars from its lithium because when you have lithium, you produce lithium batteries, find a public-private partnership or find an investor who will use it, and here are some benefits. There is no business activity that does not partially harm the environment. There is no such thing, and studies on the impact of the environment are written about it. Imagine, they're for clean air. What can lead us to clean air? What hypocrisy is that? The citizens of the Republic of Serbia should know that. Except for these laws, let's show them that clean air can lead us to lithium because diesel cars will be replaced by electric cars. Even if they are produced in the Republic of Serbia, here are multiple benefits. Who else can lead us to clean air? So if we eliminate the thermal power plants by having hydroelectric power plants. Then the man financed by River Watch from Austria, who has 4,500 hydrocentrals suddenly appeared here as a fighter against hydropower plants that should lead to clean air, and then he demonstrates and looks for clean air, then demonstrates against lithium, and lithium needs to lead us to cleaner air because they would use electric cars. Our people need to know how hypocritical they are and how much they want to redistribute these opposition activists because the elections they allegedly boycotted are going. What Vukic, president of the strongest party, gave them, I would never give them. Nor would you repeat the election they boycotted because they, who remembers 2011 when we had two times 100 thousand people here, were two protests, when they mocked the battle of the president of the strongest opposition party, which at that time had over 30%, far more than they, when there were reasons for early elections, when they ruled with 127 MPs who were no longer covered by the electoral will of citizens, they did not allow Alexander Vukic, Tomislav Nikolic and all the other small opposition parties that gathered around them. Today we have generously, whenever they ask for elections and when they don't ask for elections, they offer elections, or to confirm the election will of their parties, if there is at all someone who will vote for them and simply offer them elections whenever they want, at whatever time and minors under whatever conditions they want. But, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, at that moment, when we were fighting for the state of Serbia, to get out of what we pulled out of these nine years, they weren't willing to let us do it, and the media were two hours of leased term, on Copernicus, and the people who worked there did not treat them as journalists, but were regularly kicked out of a press conference for DS and Boris Tadic. They just say you're not journalists, out. We were on a radio "Fokus" on a represented show by Djukanovic, which was listened to by state security, i.e. BIA at the time. So they listened to even journalists who worked in our favor and nothing was a shame, they were penetrating cheeks, etc. At that time, when we perform, against them, we don't have any opposition media, we don't have any opposition daily newspapers, we don't have any opposition weekly, but we went to the polls and we beat them. Democracy can't be forced on the outside, their basic mistake or intention is that they're trying to order and order the outside. So democracy is a process that nothing inside, democracy can't be forced with Viola von Kramon, with Mrs Fajon, I don't know which are all these more Europaralmentaries, etc., with some who don't wonder in their own country. They would simply treat us as a protectorate and when this von Kramon travels from Capac to Loznica, he should remember the unprecedented crimes that Germany committed in several wars against Serbia and remember that poor uranium, which the opposition does not mention, which NATO is the pact and the green party of Yosaka Fischer, today Vijole Von Kramon, throws on behalf of the environment, probably on behalf of the Republic of Serbia, claiming it is not harmful. I, on a regular basis, ask Viola von Kramon - if you claim that the poored uranium was a cure, then that you did not throw it at yourself, did you throw it at the citizens of the Republic of Serbia? These six members of the RIK, they need 90 MPs in the Assembly. Just so you know, the president of the strongest opposition party policies has given them in terms of RIK 90 MPs in the Assembly, i.e. a million and 200,000 votes. That's how long it takes to win that you have 90 MPs, that is, to get six members of the RIK. He gave you the last time, I don't know how many REM members and we keep telling you for three four years, we don't have a problem with the opposition, we have a problem with a part of the opposition called "Multico", we have a problem with the School and Gilas business. We don't have any other problems. Today you have unregistered political organisations, because in time, this group that is not present here has determined that the political party must have 10,000 members to be registered. The ruling majority is avoiding the law today and are being re-gested as a citizens' movement. It's actually an NGO, coming out, and I already think that many of them are an anti-government organization, an anti-government organization. They're going to the election. How does an NGO go to the polls? What if he wins? Will it be an NGO or a government organization? They get money on the outside. Political parties participating in the elections are prohibited from receiving money from the outside. "We don't strangle Belgrade" alone, and they were in the process of choosing to get money from the outside, "Rockefeller" and what all these foundations are called. They're getting money from the outside, so they're financing from the outside. You have unregistered parties, you have unregistered public gatherings where you forcefully prevent the freedom of movement of citizens, public transport prevents the flow of vehicles, capital, etc. It's not business. We're not all going in the tourism roads, someone's going to do some work, someone's transporting some stuff. Some goods are corrupt, etc. Mostly, activities are being conducted against the economy of the Republic of Serbia and against freedom of movement. Not registered political parties, in unreported meetings, are illegally preventing the flow of people, services and capital, and in doing so, not registered television channels participate in all of this, not only to transfer, but to participate in protests, participate in propagating the illegal gathering, and often also in the force to be applied. They're avoiding showing citizens seeing it. So you have unregistered television, not registered political parties, you have unregistered public gatherings, you have a massive violation of the law by those who didn't want to give us an election a year earlier, no matter how much information we have. We wanted to die of a desire to register a television station and have the right to appear on the air. They fight not to register fictitious Luxembourg television. So what, their reporters are teleporting? So they are teleported to the Republic of Serbia, reported directly in a direct transmission. I don't know how that goes with their hands to do it in Luskiburg. Then Rade Veljanovski says – there is no problem, according to the Convention on Cross-border Television, that they are broadcasting a programme from Belgrade. I say -- is it, Mr. Veljanovski, and then why are they called cross-border television, when they're from Belgrade? Then he shut up. It's the same man who took part in the secret passage of the most rigid Information Act that fell in 2009. He is gathered around Tadic, etc. They're the ones who didn't give the opposition anything, and today, as an opposition, they get everything. And they've never had enough. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, I don't think I'm defending power. I'm telling them, I don't know which way, that while everyone's attacking us, and we're witnessing pressure from the outside, we've got people attacking us from the inside. While they're all against us, they're also against us. We cannot be against ourselves if we live in the Republic of Serbia. I am not defending the government, defending the state and its right to exist, to develop economically and to reach at least half of the developed countries in Europe by quality of life, and God help me and many to overcome it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-29-0.u11075	Thank you. The word has been made by the People's Messenger Dejan Kesar.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-29-0.u11076	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the respected citizens of Serbia, today we have two decisions concerning RIK, whose adoption will certainly help RIK carry out the law on its affairs. What is important, and here I fully agree with my colleague Aleksandra Mirkovic, who was authorised by MP Aleksandar Vucic – for our children, who said today is indeed a historic day concerning democracy and parliamentaryism in our country, because today's proposal for a decision creates an opportunity for RIK to expand by as many as six places and that those seats will be occupied by people, or six members and six deputy members of RIK members, and that these places will be filled with people who were not representatives of parties sitting in the Republic's parliament. Here I fully agree with my colleague Mirkovice because you couldn't see this situation until 2012, i.e. until 2013, when the head of the state was DS and when no DS official wanted to talk to us, the SNS, and that we were the strongest opposition party at the time. This is certainly a positive fruit of inter-party dialogue in which certain political parties have discussed which certainly gave legitimacy to the elections held in June 2020 and these are the opposition political parties who wanted to speak with legitimately elected representatives of their people here at the National Assembly's home. You had a second track. You had representatives of political parties, which is Dragan Dilas' party, it's Vuk Jeremic's party, it's the Democratic Party, it's the Movement of Free Citizens who didn't want to talk to their people's representatives. First of all, I am referring to the legitimately elected President of the Republic of Aleksandr Vukic, who, through these talks held here at the House of the National Assembly, has already decided to assist the European Parliamentarians, representatives of the European Union in order to help them in some way, without the will of the people, to come to power without the will of the citizens, obviously thinking that someone in the European Union will decree that His Majesty, Dragan Gilas, and remain in power. But that won't be the case. As I said, this decision today is certainly a positive result of talks between the authorities and the opposition. These talks were still started a few years ago and the first talks were held on FPN and what is important is that we as SNS were always open to talks. When we participated in any conversation, we showed a high degree of constructiveity because we wanted to find positive solutions, and these positive solutions were aimed precisely at allowing citizens to go to free democratic elections and demonstrate will, and they were certainly free and democratic unlike some previous elections before 2012. What was going on at the FPN? You've already seen a certain degree of dissonant tone coming from opposition party representatives. They then came to the Faculty of Political Sciences just to leave him. They decided on boycotting the elections long before they came to the Faculty of Political Sciences. And they did not come to talk in a democratic, civilized way to representatives of the government. They have brought their wish list, which is a wish list just so they can come to power without the will of the citizens. That's 42 demands, I have to remind you. And of these 42 requirements, 17 requirements were adopted, 15 were fully implemented, and two requirements were partially implemented. What I need to remind you is that the SNS, the ruling majority here at the National Assembly, after those talks at the FPN, also made changes to certain legal acts. We wanted to meet, that they said, to prevent a functioning campaign, we wanted to amend the Law on Public Enterprises, we wanted to amend the Law on the Anti-Corruption Agency. We went to meet representatives of opposition parties, but the biggest concession we've ever made is to bring the censorship threshold down from 5% to 3%. We didn't need this, because we have the support of cultural, decent Serbia and this support was mirrored in June 2020 when the list of Aleksandar Vukic – For our children, it received over 60% of the votes. We wanted, we had good will, we had good intentions to help these small political parties directly into the home of the National Assembly, so that they could represent politics here. But here I am now asking a question – what policy would they represent? Is it the policy that is being conducted last weekend on the streets of Belgrade and in certain cities across Serbia? You have the previous two days of a flagrant violation and the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, you have a violation of freedom of movement. Some people, under the pretext that they are not satisfied with certain legal proposals, block the highway, the international road, block certain roads by placing trucks, putting bulldozers on the streets, and those who represent cultural and decent Serbia, are preventing Serbia from moving. They did so very little on Saturday when the SNS held an election assembly, and during the afternoons held the SNS convention. It is very important to say that the convention sends very important messages that can be applied right after the convention itself, which is that in 13 years as long as there is, in nine years, how much it has been participating in power, it has managed to change the consciousness of the people. We managed to make Serbia a place so we no longer have to boast that we won a medal in some sports. Today we can boast that we are the first in Europe to have cumulative economic growth, today we can boast that we are one of the fastest growing economies. But unlike in 2008 and 2010, when we were another country in Europe, but behind when we talk about the lowest rate of GDP. What is important is the message of President Alexander Vukic that SNS's policy unites the people, unites citizens of the Republic of Serbia, because we are small, we do not have the luxury of allowing ourselves to have internal conflicts. Someone wants to keep their press statements saying we're polarized society. No, we're not. Some people are trying to polarize that society. Remember the political mantras they used before June 2020 when they said we were a divided society. No, we're not shared company. They want to share us. They want us to be divided by 18 people on the highway blocking several thousand people. Why do these several thousand people need to be held hostage by those 18 people? While their bosses Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic, spokesperson for the "Multicom Group" Marinika Tepic and other green movements, their officials are sitting at home, are not on the street. Manojlovic, Dobrica Veselinovic and others obviously want to take the primate on a political scene from people who have spoken to the European Parliamentarians. Don't do that. Don't oppress decent and cultural Serbia. As my colleague Bakarec said in one of his speeches, do not exercise terror over the majority. Don't do it over the back of the people. Each of us has the right to support politics and that's perfectly normal, but we support a policy that wants to unite the people. We want to achieve economic prosperity, we want to progress, we want to be modern and strong Serbia. What Serbian citizens need to know is that none of these protests have been reported, that everything has been done under the law. Then these people say we're committing violence against them. How? We pulled the police out so there wouldn't be a conflict, we pulled the police, or we let that small number of people express their political views, but political attitudes don't come out on the street. You have institutions and we want to conduct dialogue through the institutions. Remember the period from 2008 to 2012. As my colleague Mirkovic said, we had no opportunity to go to any media. Boris Tadic did not want to invite us to negotiate electoral conditions, let alone have as an extra-parliamentary party representatives in the RIK. People, election conditions, we all have to admit, they're never better today. They're never better. One of the Europarliamentarian negotiators, Bilchik said that he is a politician here, he would go to the polls. But it's obvious that there is no political programme, that there are no political ideas with which opposition representatives will go to elections and face that truth, which is that they are here today around censors and that only this kind of escalation of violence can I say freely, that they hope that they can help them cross that censorship and that they will enter the National Assembly here. What were their demands? Their demands were nothing like that, or they were not such as to improve electoral legislation. You have proposals from certain opposition parties that Aleksandar Vukic will not be the bearer of the electoral list, that the candidate for the President of the Republic cannot be the bearer of parliamentary, local or rural elections. This is the essential goal of preventing Aleksandar Vukic from doing politics, of getting Alexander Vukic out of politics. If that were to be fulfilled, you would see how much they care about everything about electoral conditions. One of the political parties, and from that dialogue conducted by the Europarliamentarians, asked, and the citizens of Serbia should know, asked to give them rooms in public enterprises to hold some talks, to hold stands there and give them free of charge. So you see in their demands that they only care about getting back to public enterprises. They're looking for people we're going to put in public enterprises, who're going to pay for it so they can control God's feelings if someone's collecting capillaries. When it comes to capillaries, I don't know what's wrong with them. Captain's voices. This was done by DOS representatives in 2000. They've been going through settlements, going to local communities and collecting support. Guys, that's legitimate. That's what they do in Canada, that's what they do in the United States. But to get votes, you have to have a political program. You cannot insult the family of Alexander Vukic, you cannot leave in front of the house of Goran Vesic, Dr Kona, Tiodorović, etc. And that you think it's a political program. The policy program is that today we build 10 highways, fast cars, build railroads, build more homes of health and hospitals than the last 50 years. Those are the results. The results are when the European Commission tells us that we have made progress and that we are likely to open two new clusters. Those representing both EU policy and seeking to join the EU have not opened any negotiating chapters. We modernised the military, modernized police officers to fight organized crime and corruption. Their greatest shame was judicial reform and 24 controversial privatisations. That's what the European Commission said, and nothing's ever been done about it. Today, the people we are fighting in organized crime and corruption, they are calling on them and stretching them in their tycoon media. They're not political programs and they're not political ideas with which you opposition gentlemen can win. I really hope that cultural and decent Serbia will remain fully restrained when we talk about the things that have been happening in the past few days on the street and that law enforcement will do its job. But what is more important is that we all go to the upcoming elections together, that Alexander Vukic, by deciding all members of the Serbian Progressive Party and voters of the Republic of Serbia, remains at the head of the country and the party, because that is the only way we can continue on the path, which is better, healthier, more modern, and I would say happier Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-29-0.u11077	I thank Mr. Kesar. The next is MP Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-29-0.u11078	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have listened carefully to the discussion and Mr. Kesar. In almost everything I agree with him, I would just ask him to call things an even more correct name in some of his future discussions. It's not about the opposition. Being an opposition in every country is a privilege. This is about the former regime, the thieves, the people who have led Serbia for 12 years, the people who have ruined Serbia for 12 years, the people who have become richer and richer in those 12 years. Regardless of what they are now in about five or six columns, so there is Lutovac there, he is in the Democratic Party, Vuk Jeremic has his own party, Boris Tadic has his own party, Dragan Djilas has his own party, all descended from the Democratic Party. Well, wait, how could they have been in one political party before, and now they're negotiating and talking about whether they're going to perform together in the election? What did they have in common when they were in the Democratic Party, and what's in common that binds them to discuss a joint appearance in the elections, and each other's eyes can't look, and they couldn't then? It's a common love for money, and love for money can only come true if they come to power, soap or force. Even so, they gave up coming to the elections. Because, you know what, when citizens go to the polls, they decide first whether to support the current regime, and they make a decision based on the results of the current regime as they exercise power. If they do not want to support it, it will be declared according to a political programme offered by someone who does not exercise power at that time. Only they, to say the least, do not have an adjective for those who are scarred decide who they will vote for according to a feeling called hate. The problem with the former regime is that there is no political programme that is acceptable to citizens because of the experience of these same citizens as they were while they were in power. That is why the former regime has given up its long-term election will for citizens to come to power in the Republic of Serbia. I suppose in that desire to be brought to power by someone else or through some rebellion to come to power, as on October 5th 2000, they first began the story of certain dictatorships on the territory of the Republic of Serbia by the current regime. Well, one of the forms of that dictatorship was that they felt they had not lost in the elections, that SNS and Aleksandar Vukic had not won the elections, but that this was the result of what RIK called SNS. It's very easy for people who don't deal with election processes to trick that story, like a coward's egg, because they're nothing but cowards. Our citizens don't know that every newspaper applicant, as soon as his list is declared, gets a member of the RIK. As a rule, there are more lists that have been declared opposition than those belonging to the current regime, and thus there is always opposition in the RIK. The second thing is that the real opposition will not co-operate with the former regime that is the opposition. Now, that's another story. Then they say they were stolen on the boxes. Well, remember here they were trying to count ballots again. The same principle is for election committees. Our citizens don't know what it is, most people don't know what the election board is. It's those box guards. These are the ones when you come to the polling station, so one asks for your ID card, the other asks for you in the ballot, the third offers you a ballot, the fourth check the UV lamp, the fifth sprays your finger with spray, etc. These are the boxholders, the electoral board, which once again arises by having each election list declared has the right to one member and deputies on that election board, as well as the Republic Election Commission and again on the same principle – several designated lists belong to the opposition and therefore have a larger number of boxholders in the polling post. Now, they've decided that, election thefts, they say they're organs to conduct elections or bodies, whatever, and that should change. Here, we agreed. We have agreed to propose members of the electoral committees, members of the Republic Election Commission, to see what will be next and what will be their next request. As a MP, I spent more time in opposition than in power. Every time there was talk of early elections or any election, I was looking forward to it, because I saw it as an opportunity to defeat the current regime. No, it's me. It's the political option I've been representing. And I didn't have a problem with going to elections with my party colleagues even when the former regime, let's say, divide the election material, and not bring solutions to the election committees in the expanded composition, they're those boxholders. And when the list that has been declared does not have its representatives participating in the handover of election material, so election committee presidents can do whatever they want with the election material. I wanted an election. I wanted to beat them. I wanted to remove one pest power from Serbia. Boycott didn't come to mind, because I thought the political option I represent was better than the former regime and that he could beat the former regime with his own program. I didn't even call for a boycott when I was being attacked as a National MP in the Republic Square in Pogorevec while holding a press conference. You know what they got? Violation report, nothing else. And then they say -- you, from the former regime, there's a dictatorship in Serbia. We had yesterday, the day before yesterday, actually to see one situation that really doesn't feel like anything. Here, today, the president of the Republic of Serbia, the president of the SNS, answered the questions of journalists and journalists with N1 are asking, describing the roadblock as a civil protest and civil disobedience. My people, it has nothing to do with that. Does anyone know what civil disobedience is? Let's say they refuse to pay taxes or as Zivkovic in Nis burned the accounts of "Electroprivreda Srbija", urged citizens not to pay electricity, burned bills together with them. But as soon as he came to power, he asked them to pay the same bills with interest, and he cut them down with electricity. But it's not civil disobedience if you don't let me exercise some of my rights under the Constitution at least I've never been involved in politics. Who has the right to forbid me to walk down the street, who has the right to forbid me from using state roads, to take away my work first by the Constitution guaranteed. Now I see that unfortunate man from Capco, showing up as a hero. What hero? What did he do heroically? He attacked a man, his fellow citizen. What's heroic about it, my people? Come on, explain that to me. There's no heroism here. It's the most common haughtiness and cowardice, because it attacked from a mass, from a mass where it felt safe. Marinika Tepic and the team and that unfortunate Lutovac, who doesn't even know where he is, say it was tried by that bulldozer to break through the blockade. Well, people, can anyone in Serbia think that if you have a banger, a construction machine, and if you decide to break through a blockade, much better built than they did, is there really any chance that someone can stop you? Well, here's that bogeyman Joe used to break through police blockades when he brought these crooks to power. A man went to work, walked down the street, was attacked. What a civil disobedience it is. Well, it's not even civil unrest, it's a violent behavior that you block the highway, so what do you expect those people who are on the highway to get out of the car and start winding you up on that same highway? Then you show how the SNS beat them up, is that what they wanted to provoke here? That was the goal. They were targeted by the same one when they attacked a colleague of Martinovic here in the previous session that an ugly picture is going through the world again about Serbia, about Serbian highways, about Serbian squares, where citizens are fighting each other. That was the goal. And, only their presence after these events and the support of one bully and hooligan prove and show that the whole team is behind it first. Now, that's a problem that can't solve RIK, which can't solve a single political programme, because Serbian citizens in that society recognized not only hooligans, not just thugs, but thieves and not like that. And we can change electoral laws and reduce censorship and leave them with absolute editorial policy on any media, they can no longer beat anyone. The only way they'll come to power and you'll see them try it right after the election is by force, or they'll be brought by someone on the side, the same one who gives them money for some of their activities, or a violent path as it was on October 5, 2000. They can't come to power otherwise. Why can't I? Well, I can hardly fool Serbian citizens ever again. It's hard, it's hard for anyone else to cheat when 600,000 people are out of work during their rule. I can hardly fool anyone more when they're closed, the maltenes of the entire Serbian industry. It's hard for them to fool anyone more because they haven't built any hospitals, and I don't want to talk about clinical centres, no hospitals, no schools, no preschools. Who can they beat anymore? How can they win? If they think they're gonna pay back the 600m euros that Gilas stole, let him go back, and that won't be enough for him either. To win, you need something else first, you need to love the country, you need to love it, you need to build it, you need to protect it. Everything they didn't do. That's why I'm not worried about Serbia in the April 3rd elections, and I'm not worried about SNS, I'm just worried about whether another hothead is going to hurt someone else, so someone out of that revolt gets back. There's what we need to preserve, that peace, that dignity, and that Saturday, and beat them and never withdraw from any fear or anything. They are violent, but for God's sake, believe me, they are violent only from mass, from group, they must not face anyone directly, and that shows their courage when they have to go to elections. The elections will be won by the SNS, the Republic of Serbia will win. Serbia is the one we love so much that we keep so much from the thieves who have ruled it for 12 years.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-29-0.u11079	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. The next is National MP Dr Ugljesa Mrdić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-29-0.u11080	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues, MPs and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I would first like to begin my address today to express my deep condolences to fellow Socialist Party of Serbia counterparts. Milutin Mrkonjic Mrka was my friend and neighbor from Vrakar. We used to drink coffee a lot, near the buildings where we lived, and it was a really great pleasure and being in his company and learning something from him. My sincere grief. What I would like to point out today is that the opposition has never had better conditions in its history before some elections, as is the case now. In the upcoming presidential, emergency, parliamentary and Belgrade elections, the opposition will have a better start than the position. Why is that? Because both these concessions and procedures, the Serbian Progressive Party, Aleksandar Vukic and the ruling coalition have shown why Serbia is a democratic state, not only a democratic state, but we give the opposition more than it deserves, especially when it comes to the extraparliamentary opposition. How's that coming back? He returns by harassing some of the opposition parties around the yellow tycoon thugs led by Dragan Gilas and their comrades, harassing citizens of Serbia, harassing citizens of Belgrade, the citizens of Sapac and citizens of many other cities and municipalities. On Saturday, there was the largest political event in the history of the Belgrade arena. Thirty thousand supporters of Alexander Vukic's politics were in the arena and about 25,000 more in front of the arena, and we had a situation where a group of 100 to 150 people harassed the arrival of the party's birthday party 55,000 people. So in Serbia 100 to 150 people are harassing 55,000. That's how it is when it's rallying, that's what it's all about. A group of tycoons around Dragan Djilas, Marinika Tepic, their mentors, parliamentarians, mercenaries who can't, and the question is whether they will cross the census wants to harass absolutely majority Serbia. How long? Dusan Prokic suffered serious physical injuries. Why? Because he was moving in a direction that didn't fit them. A certain Dragan Milenkovic, a black man, inflicted a serious physical injury on Dusan Prokic. When I saw the photo, it was an attempted murder. A man could have lost his head alive. And then what would happen? Nothing. Because they have their own people in both the D.A.'s office and the judiciary. I trust and believe in state institutions that they will punish the beating of Prokic, but I fear that punishment will not be adequate. Why? Because those who destroyed the judiciary in 2009 continued to manage certain parts of the judiciary. Not to mention what happened in the past. Our president of the parliamentary group, Dr Aleksandar Martinovic, was attacked here in the O.R. and at a meeting of the Serbian Parliament's Administrative Board. The murder of Marijan Risticevic was attempted in front of the Serbian Parliament. Well, in order for the prosecution to react professionally, Aleksandar Martinovic and Sandra Christmas had to strike hunger for competent institutions to do what they were paid for. How much more did this terror rage minorities over most of Serbia? Let the state institutions wake up, let them take whatever is up to them. How did we do it when we were the opposition? Here, it seems to me that Marijan Risticevic mentioned our 2011 rally, the first one was held on February 5th, the second one was held on April 16th, at both rallys here in front of this Serbian Parliament there were more than 100,000 supporters of SNS policy and our coalition at the time, not a single embezzlement was broken, no swearing was sent to a member of the Ministry of the Interior. Two rallys, over 100,000 people and between the myths in all major Serbian cities, no incident. What were we looking for? We asked for early elections. Did we get them? We didn't. What did we do? Wait. How much? A year. What happened in a year? We have won and formed power. We were patient. Why? Because we respect the will of the citizens of Serbia, because we respect public order and peace. How do they get back? A hundred to fifty of their supporters want to crash, they want to burn. This is where they raided this assembly, they were breaking in and their supporters, and on October 5th, they were breaking in two years and last year, and they were breaking in on RTS. They are aware that the people will not, and that they cannot come to power in elections, so they will destroy them. What do they want? That's what we've been talking about today. He wants blood on the streets of Serbia. Well, they won't get it, we won't react to any kind of provocation. The majority people are with us, along with us who are in power, along with the Serbian Progressive Party and coalition partners led by Aleksandr Vukic. Enough of the people and their yellow, tycoon thieving and their politics. They had a chance, had more chances until 2012 and in Belgrade by the end of 2013. Did they take advantage of you? No, they're not. What do they want? This is what my colleague Aleksandar Mirkovic said today – choose your adversaries, choose a bander for the elderly. No shit, they're threatening. You know how we're gonna react to those threats? Dignified, the way we are, by winning the election. Why? Because we're for peace. Because we're for democracy. Because we love all of Serbia and all of Serbia's citizens. Because we don't share people, we connect people. We don't divide, we unite. We're not for unrest, we're for peace and stability. We're not for rampaging on the streets, we're for democracy. We're for the results. We don't crash, we build. What my dear colleague Sandra Christmas says – the Serbian Progressive Party led by Aleksandra Vukic is a party that builds, builds for the future of our Serbia, we do not crash, and they are savage and destroying. But they're building, but they're building a contortion on their foreign exchange accounts. So they can build and lie millions. It was doctored by Dragan Gilas with his 619m euros. What am I saying at the end? I recommend that they look up to the Serbian citizens' will, to look up to us. Marijan Risticevic mentioned today that it was about the media, and my colleague Vladimir Djukanovic. We had from these electronic media with television and radio national frequencies until 2012 only "Focus Radio", under the supposed control. Under what control? By coming to the "Fox Radio" everyone was coming, the advances were coming, the radicals, the Democrats, the Socialists, the DSS, they were all coming. It was then the only free electronic media with a national frequency where opinions and opposition and positions could be heard. What do they have today? What has Dragan Djilas, Marinika Tepic, Solak, Aleksic, Zelenovic today, who makes chaos in Sapac and wants blood on the streets of Serbia? They have most of the media under their control, most of the media, whose financials are, they have more media and websites than they have their activists to take to the street. That's why they're nervous. We must not react to provocations and always represent what we are for, which is best presented by our President Aleksandar Vukic, both at the Assembly, and at the celebration of the Serbian Progressive Party's birthday. We offer citizens programs, we offer citizens ideas, we offer realisation, we offer what Sandra said, construction, we build, build and create. There are no areas in Serbia where we have not translated Alexander Vukic with serious results. It's our best answer to their yellow tycoon, bully and hooligan demolition behavior. We from the Serbian Progressive Party are for Serbia, we are not against Serbia because we are taking care of the future of our Serbia, which is best presented at the assembly of our party and said our president and leader Aleksandar Vucic. Thank you. Long live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-29-0.u11081	Thank you, Mr. Grouchy. The word has Professor Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-29-0.u11082	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly Dr Orlic, honourable MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, my fellow Members and fellow MPs have mostly said the essence of matters related to electoral conditions, particularly the introduction, Mr Mirkovic. Let me just say two sentences. Election conditions, really in my life, and I have a pretty long life, haven't been better than they are now. What is very important is that the Republic Election Commission will also be represented by the extraparliamentary parties and the censorship is reduced. Why do I repeat this, even though my colleagues and colleagues said so? Because, ladies and gentlemen, I've been claiming for three years that Dragan Gilas and Vuk Jeremic are not interested in the election at all. I'm not saying it by heart, as Gilas is saying, and I'm going to tell you now, ladies and gentlemen, that Gilas has said it, he's three years old. Let me just remind you, although I have already mentioned this, that in the Chacan cafe "Moravski alasis" met in 4.7.2018, Dragan Djilas, in a people called Điki Mafia, Vuk Jeremic, a representative of the international gang of thieves and frauds, Janko Veselinović, called a tenant. It is, dear citizens, to remind you, the one who stole the apartment of Milici Bajji, refugees from Obrovec, that is not what I say but also "Free Dalmatia" from 2011. Bosko Obradovic, a people called Bosko Violent, Dusan Petrovic, in a people called Dule Kravoubica, is the former agriculture minister, who in a year gave to slaughter 250,000 cows, and the total fund was 500,000. So, what did they meet there? To make a plan to bring down Alexander Vukic's protests and, behold, miracles on the subject of Kosovo, and they gave up Kosovo, that's what I was talking about earlier, especially here, instead of agreeing to return Kosovo to where they drove him from. So that was that date, as I said, in 2018. Immediately later, in 2.12.2018, what does Gilas say about the election and the parliamentary system in our country? I quote: "If we throw out the dialogue from parliament, then as a society, we have a problem. That's where they talk. If we stop it and stop all the media, they'll explode somewhere. Who needs a parliament, give them some sense? “ It’s just a matter of time before I go home. ” Dear citizens, as you can see, already at that time, the parliamentary system, not even the elections, were not interested, but thought, that is why they were doing so, that they would bring down Alexander Vukic on the Kosovo issue, because they all gave up Kosovo, as I quoted in this high house yesterday. The boycott of the election is not politics, gentlemen of the opposition. Mr. Veljanovski, professor, a.k.a. egg-jaara Rade. We know that in the academic community. Well, he's a professor of political science. Well, the boycott of the election is not politics, he knows it very well last night without morals and without shame says he advocates independent Kosovo. It's this group and they're right about my colleagues and colleagues today and these days speaking, they're not a big group, but they're very rude and wary. They're destroying everything that's being built in this country. I'm going to do some taxing now. That would be about the boycott of the election and the election conditions. As I said, once again, they were never better. Dear Belgraders, I will address you and the respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, especially now to say what is the difference between this smaller group and this majority Serbia that is for work, order, discipline and tireless work, led by our President Aleksandar Vukic? You in Belgrade on the one hand had Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic, Boris Tadic, who did not build Belgrade, but protected the sheds on Sava's small, full of garbage, snakebed and frog. They represented this, and on the other hand we have another policy, a policy led by Aleksandar Vukic and SNS, and in this place today is "Belgrade on Water", the pride of the city of Belgrade and Serbia. Isn't that right, esteemed citizens? Of course it is. Let's move on. On the one hand, we had thieves, frauds, lesbians, freelenders, decorated in Vuk Jeremic and Dragan Djilas, Boris Tadic, Zoran Lutovac, the people call him a stray, you heard it on the street, because they say he strayed into politics, as you saw, because he is governed by Dragan Gilas, or by the financials of Dragan Gilas. On the other hand, you have majority Serbia, normal citizens who live and work from their work and who are led by Aleksandar Vukic. Isn't that right, respected citizens and gentlemen of the opposition? On the one hand, you had people who only took care of their personal interests, who were filling their private accounts, starting with Mauritius to Hong Kong, Switzerland, who symbolized and led by Dragan Djilas and Vuk Jeremic, and on the other hand you benefit from the benefit and improvement for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, who are without private accounts, led by Aleksandar Vukic. Let's move on. On the one hand, you had and we had devastated roads and roads, Polish roads, symbolized by Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic and Boris Tadic, and on the other hand we have built modern highways, modern roads, bridges across Serbia, led by Aleksandar Vukic, or the modernisation of Serbia, Serbia in which it is built and worked. Let's move on. On the one hand, we had unbuilt hospitals, unbuilt homes of health, unbuilt clinical centres, the totally abandoned health care that was our last in Europe, symbolized by Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic and Boris Tadic. On the other hand, we have built hospitals, health homes and renovated clinical centres, a homage of hospitals, symbolising and leading Alexander Vukic and most of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Let's move on. On the one hand, we had abandoned buildings of primary and secondary schools and colleges, without the introduction of innovative technologies, led by Vuk Jeremic, Dragan Đilas and Boris Tadic, and on the other hand we have built buildings of primary schools, renovated, basic and secondary, colleges, physical halls and reconstruction of existing buildings led by Aleksandar Vukic and SNS. Let's move on. On the one hand, we had a destroyed Army of the Republic of Serbia, led by Boris Tadic and Vuk Jeremic. Boris Tadic even said – what do we need an army for? They fired the best generals from the Serbian Army, 28 generals and every Serb soldier who was a patriot, sent to The Hague and symbolised by Vuk Jeremic, Boris Tadic and Dragan Djilas. On the other hand, today we have a modern equipped, modern Serbian army capable of resisting all the challenges led by Aleksandar Vukic. On the one hand, we had destroyed factories, robbed by robbery privatisation. They fired 735,500 workers. On the other hand, symbolised by the dismissal of workers and a destroyed factory, Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic and Boris Tadic. And on the other hand, today we have built factories across the country, industrialisation across the Republic of Serbia, led by Aleksandar Vukic and SNS. On the one hand, we had, as I said, a huge number of unemployed, as many as 25.6%, and on the other hand we have a labour shortage. On the one hand, we had eight billion unpaid and exempt taxes and contributions, so that companies through privatisation would be robbed, symbolized by Vuk Jeremic, Boris Tadic and Dragan Dilas, and on the other hand today we have regular taxes and contributions, regular pensions and regular salaries. Dear pensioners, just so you know, for the first time in the last 20 years, in July of this year, we funded pensions from work insurance contributions. So, alone, without the grant of the budget, and this is the result of the creation of new jobs and the modernisation of the Republic of Serbia, which is symbolized by our president. On the one hand, ladies and gentlemen, we have often discussed the destruction of the "Smederevo Zelezare", led by Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic and Boris Tadic. It's a symbol of their authority. On the other hand, we have a policy of revitalisation of the Smederevo Ironworks, with extremely good business. On the one hand, we had the destruction of RTB "Bor" led by Vuk Jeremic, Boris Tadic and Dragan Djilas, their authority, and on the other hand we have the revitalising of RTB "Bor", led by Aleksandar Vukic. Ladies and gentlemen, the day before and yesterday, they go out into the streets, they don't care about ecology at all. Ecology doesn't interest them, it's protests they want violently, as well as October 5th to come to power. After all, I told you at first what they wanted. That our President Vucic and this authority are taking care of the ecology is best confirmed by the head of the European Parliament, Mr Weber, who addressed the public with the same words, ladies and gentlemen, whom Alexander Vukic addressed back two months to the citizens. I'm going to quote Mr. Webber who said, "We're worried about ecology, but we need to prevent the crawling deindustrialisation that is depicted by various different green movements," finished the quote. Now, that's what the head of the peoples in the European Parliament says. That's what the president quoted these words to us for two months. So you see what this is all about. If even one authority on environmental science took care of it, it's this one, it's leading and it's going to lead in the future. Dear citizens, in the end about their threats. It's not gonna happen, it's a smaller group, but it's very dangerous people for the lives of some. I will now quote you, to see, and end with it, Wolf Jeremic, who threatened no one but his associates. What would be waiting for us? You know what he said? He told his former colleague Nebojsa Krstic this way, quoting: "You, Krle, will serve for example, traitorous garbage, when the time of evil comes, I will personally make an effort," finished the quote. This was said by Vuk Jeremic Nebojsi Krstic on March 30th 2021, and passed on by a prominent newspaper. So you see who's up for a fight. Finally, while Vuk Jeremic, Boris Tadic, Dragan Djilas, daily muddys the state of Serbia, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the President of the Republic and his family, so far our president and SNS are implementing a policy of peace, security policy, economic progress of all our citizens, the health policy of all our citizens in the country and the region, the policy of seeking a lasting and compromise solution for our southern Serbian province. In that name, all for our children! Long live Serbia!
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-29-0.u11083	Thank you. The word is Ilija Matejic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-29-0.u11084	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and what I always say is most important to me -- respected peoples of the Republic of Serbia, above all, I would like to join my colleagues and offer my condolences to the family of the late Milutin Mrkonjic and be his eternal glory. Today, we have before us a proposal for a decision to supplement the Decision on termination of office and appointment in RIK, and what an avant-garde this is, I will try to explain to our people. So far, RIK has had 17 members and all of these 17 members were representatives of parliamentary parties, so parties in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Now, for the first time in our country's history, the RIK will join six representatives of the opposition, which says what kind of country we live in and what they say about what dictatorship we live in. As for these six members, I really hope that they have experience in local elections, in the province, in the republic, as well as in the presidential elections, which is very important, because in front of them not only, but in front of the entire RIK is one difficult task. What am I talking about? They will face a difficult task because of the atmosphere created in our country. We saw two days ago that there were roadblocks and roadblocks in our country for what they say is three reasons -- the Expropriation Act, the Law on Referendum and the People's Initiative, and now the famous Rio Tinto. So, as far as the Expropriation Act itself is concerned, the Republic of Serbia had the Expropriation Act before. We haven't passed the Expropriation Act, we've adopted amendments and additions to that law. The law has existed since 1995, so there was also 2004, there was also 2011 and 2012, when we came to power, and we have now only brought amendments and additions to that law. Lies have been released by our people, and, you know, we Serbs have this beautiful quality, we're tied to our house, we're tied to our country. We say - it's our grandfather's. And whenever someone released such lies that the state would take your land, take your apartment or house, of course, there was a bunch of people who believed it. Since we already had the Expropriation Act, if someone really wanted to take away your property and pay you a fee, you'd have done it already and it would have happened, so we can see that that wasn't the reason for the protest at all. As for the Law on Referendum and People's Initiative, imagine what we did as the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, we brought the law into line with the Constitution that was adopted in 2006. And what were we supposed to do? Was it possible that we should have passed a law that was contrary to the Constitution? Then they'd probably say -- here, these don't respect the Constitution, see what they're doing, etc. So, we only respected the Constitution, and they were supposed to do that change in the law in 2008. Now, look, those same ones who didn't comply with the law are calling for roadblocks because we met what they were supposed to do 13 years ago. Of course, for the end, what was their last reason for the protest is already the famous Rio Tinto. The first license "Rio Tinto" was granted in 2004. Since I can say that I understand politics a little bit now, I know who was in power in 2004 and who gave those permits and I can tell you that it wasn't SNS, not only that, not only that they gave the permits, but they signed no less, no more than nine agreements with Rio Tint, nine agreements. Now the same ones who gave the licenses, who signed nine agreements with Rio Tint, are calling for streets and blockades because the company is coming to Serbia, and that there is still no risk assessment yet done, which, of course, we are going to do as a country and, if their impact is truly harmful, we will see how we behave at that moment. Look at that, those who have done all this are now calling for protests about it. I was looking at the pictures from the protest. I see that there has even appeared my favorite NGO "The Women in Black" which is the most joyous when they are fighting for an independent Kosovo and fighting for Serbia and Serbs to declare genocide to the people. We can see that it's very easy to spread interest even in environmental science. The movement that organised all these blockades is called "Go – Change". I didn't hate to explore a little who was funding them and why they were doing it. I found on the site of the Rockefeller Brothers' Foundation that the fund received $25,000 to organise all these riots in Serbia. I urge citizens not to take my word for what I'm saying, but to go to the www. rbf. And to check this information for themselves. That's the state we live in right now. I have evidence in my hand that they're getting money from abroad, and if, God forbid, I'd call them foreign mercenaries, these opposition tycoon media would blow down trees and rocks all over me. That's your dictatorship. So the protest was not the reason for the referendum law, it was not "Rio Tinto". The reason was to make a mess before the election. It's no accident that these protests take place a few months, just months before the election. That's the chaos they want to make, and that's why I'm talking about this, and we're choosing members of the RIK. They want to make another story about how some election theft is going to happen. So, there was no choice in Serbia, I think, that the defeated came to the winner, said – you had a better plan than I did, you took the citizens out to the elections, people voted, you won, you won. No, there's always this story in Serbia about some false theft of choices, and since I was lucky to participate in elections, like many other people, anyone who participated at least on the lowest level knows it's impossible, and here's why. The RIK site says that the Republic of Serbia has over 8,000 polling stations. Every polling station has its own election board. To make it clear to the people, the election board is those people on the boxes, as we say in the jargon, who spray your finger, check your ID card, sign you up, see if you voted or didn't and give you a ballot. Each election list, each party participating in the elections shall have the right to a member and a deputy member of the constituency committee. So, two men each. Since the opposition will participate in the elections and we have over 8,000 polling stations, this means that the opposition in these next elections will have no less than 16,000 people to be there. How is it possible that 16,000 people, plus CRTA and foreign observers, don't see this alleged election theft happening with us? That would be a complete miracle. So that would mean that if there were an electoral theft, it's just the ones who are accusing us, you'll see, for the electoral theft, which is absolutely impossible. I would like to see this year, not only by these RIK members we choose today, but also by others to go beyond the limits of their work in front of the media and explain to the people what I'm saying, to explain that it is true, that it is the law and that I have not invented anything, that there is no choice in Serbia, nor was there. We all know how to win the election. Elections are made by investments. The election is won by plan and programme. People vote for those who did something for them in the previous period, not for those who try to block the road and do things, I don't even know what to do to get a voice. So I want to tell RIK members – do your best and make sure that everything goes according to the law in the next election. It's not just your job, it's good for our country, it's good for our people and it's good for our country's future. Long live Serbia!
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-29-0.u11085	Thank you, Mr. Matthew. The word has the People's Messenger George Dabic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-29-0.u11086	Thank you, Chairman. First of all, I want to express my condolences to the Milutin Mrkonjic family. The assembly lost a great man and the state of Serbia will certainly remember his successes as minister. As far as today's agenda is concerned, I really don't know if in European practice you have this example of direct democracy that we are demonstrating here today, we're choosing new members of the RIK, and that's even six seats plus six deputies we're going to give to people who don't have any support in the elections, hence the extraparliamentary opposition. We are doing this to improve electoral conditions in agreement with, of course, European parliamentarians. It's part of a broader deal that was made when it comes to these electoral conditions. We brought the censorship down to 3% and in all ways, I say, improved the electoral conditions compared to the period when we came to power under those electoral conditions since 2012. Professor Atlagic really said one thing exactly, and I totally agree with that. The fact is, they're not interested in the election at all. The group gathered around Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic, Marinika Tepic the elections are really not interested, because, in all studies, they have no chance and they are aware of it. As malicious as they are, I say, as much as they have certain aspirations to the state register, they are fully aware that they cannot come to power in the elections. That's why their sponsors, and they're starting to kick out each other's group, which is why counterpart Matejic noticed nicely. So, it won't be that important anymore, as you say, whether you're an opposition or not, there's now a government sector being forced into opposition to our country. Now you can imagine that the non-governmental sector financed directly from abroad today represents an alternative to the state policy of the Republic of Serbia. A colleague mentioned a group that stopped the highway, which made these scandals in Serbia, indeed is "Go – Change". We see here $25,000 received on April 29th 2021 to do what they did a few days ago. That's quite clear. We are now asking people who, I believe, have certain motives to go out on the street to protest, think that some things may need to be changed, whether you, people, are aware that foreign mercenaries are taking you out into the street and telling you how you should fight your country. That may be a difficult term. They attacked our colleague Biljana Pantic Piliu here when she said that expression. They say, it's not necessary for our vocabulary, but I don't know how else to label people who directly finance themselves from abroad, work against their own country, we've seen, cause riots, beat people up in the street, and then say, "Well, you're foreign mercenaries, and they're telling you -- don't do that." Don't take donations from abroad, so we won't call you that. Don't dissuade the public here in this country. There are, of course, these famous scratchers from "We Don't Drown Belgrade" and they're on the list. They received 200,000 euros in last year's people from "We don't strangle Belgrade" and these people come out and they tell you about election conditions, they tell you about environmentals and they tell you that they want to do something better than we would. So they're not looking for people's support, they're looking for dollars from abroad. I really stand for it, and I think it would be necessary for us, by reputation of some other countries, to adopt a law here that will call such an action what it is. So, that these are foreign agents, agents of foreign interest, and then when a representative of the SNS comes out on a TV duel with, say, some of these mercenaries write under the names of our representative of the SNS, that the citizens know who this man represents, and then write to him a foreign agent and then that the citizens know, and not that he stands there, I don't know, for our park, for our little town, and that they represent a foreign agent in our country. It's over necessary to do. What we had a chance to see on Saturday is an abnormal situation in our country. It's some new reality they're trying to show us -- it's totally legitimate to beat people up on the street. We see that today the one who beat ours, I don't know if the man is a fan of our party or a supporter, but the fact is they connected him, says, he's from the SNS, beat him up by this "black one" and, he says, he's a hero of the nation, running right away to paint with Marinika Tepic, with Lutovac. Their media is representing him as some kind of fighter, he says, the new leader of the opposition. So they're saying that the man who beat her, who beat the man in the video, is the new leader of the opposition. It's their policy. It can't be clearer than that. On Saturday, we see what the situation is. For them, it's the most normal thing to beat people up on the street. Did President Aleksandar Vukic go to take a picture with that villain who beat up Borko Stefanovic? Imagine the president of our country taking a picture with that man and giving him the honor. It's an absolutely abnormal behavior of what you're doing. We, the man who beat up Borko Stefanovic, arrested, convicted, and the media who support the politics of the Government of the Republic of Serbia made it clear that this is not an acceptable model of behaviour, and what are you doing? You represent a man, a beating man, as some leader of the opposition, as a model of how to work. I agree completely with Mr. Atlagic, they are not the target of the election. In the election, we're going to beat them convincingly, Professor, and that's clear as day, 65% to 70% we're going to have in these elections. It is clear that citizens support it and it was seen in the Arena, 50,000 supporters came and stateed President Vukic's policy. You've seen hundreds of people out there blocking highways and they represent it as polarizing society. They say - society was polarizing. Well, it wasn't social polarizing, but you're trying because you're paid from abroad to do things, to destroy your country, to deceive citizens, to tell them how we want to bring, I don't know, Rio Tinto. You talk to them, who brought Rio Tinto in 2004? How are you guys not ashamed? Indeed, we're no longer in a situation where we don't know if it's normal for all this to happen, that the people who brought Rio Tinto are now in charge of the process against Rio Tinto? We told the citizens, anything that could possibly be part of the deal will go to the referendum. They'll go to the referendum, the citizens will say whether they're for it or not. We're not going to do anything that conflicts with the interests of the people. Then they say - expropriation, expropriation law, they'll take our grandfather's. My people, are you normal? The highways have been built and built for the past 100 years. There's an expropriation law everywhere. No one's ever adopted that here again. We're not adopting a new law, we're adopting amendments and additions to the law. So no one's going to kidnap anyone's grandfather and there will still be those procedures that existed right now. The president made it clear that this law is also aimed at building a national stadium. So it has nothing to do with Rio Tint, it should be said in every place. They keep clapping you with hundreds of lies on a daily level to distract the citizens, to convince them, I say some, I can't call them that, but naive citizens who believe that these people who are financed from abroad really work in their interest. These delusions they're telling them are absolute lies and nonsense in every place, that's what to say. What's more important is that I say and it will be quite clear in the next campaign that they will go to the full paralysis of our society. Wanting to be accounted for will come under our windows, there will be simple incidents that will serve them in the election campaign. I must say that we must be aware that the stake we have is too large and especially us from the SNS to know that we are not fighting for the party, we are fighting for the state of Serbia, because we have raised Serbia from the ashes from 2012 to today. We want to present to the citizens what our results are, and the results are visible at every turn. Here, I come from the Goldibor County. If I could just count the results in our county, it would take me another hour, not to take people's time here waiting. So, just the shortest. There's a highway to Pakoracha. We didn't have a foot of highway to Belgrade, people. There's a highway to Pakoraca next year to Požega. We're making a bypass around Uzic, making a bypass around Gornji Milanovac, around Požega. Right now, there's a tunnel under the Cadillac. We're running a fast traffic station in Mitrovica-Mokra Gora. Working today, currently eightm euros are being invested in the center of Zlatibor, building sports-recreative terrain. We've restored the complete path from Chuck to Zlatibor. We're making a fast car down from Koka's boat to the Precinct. We're also working our way from Tripkova to Uzic. So every place you invest money from a republican level. Serbia is being built and built. We've invested 20 times the amount for health care. We've built a hospital as far as we haven't been in the last 50 years. We've invested in the military, 20 times our budget today is higher than it was during Sutanovec, Tadic and others and Ponos. In each place, every aspect of social life, when you look at it, is being invested, it is also important for us so that Serbia continues at this pace. That is why it is important that President Vukic's policy continues to win and be dominant. It's clear to us that they can't do anything against this policy and that the only means for them will be in elections, so to speak, savage behavior, which they demonstrated on Saturday. But they need to know, and I'm not going to owe this one, they need to know that every member of the SNS is going to defend Serbia in every place, we're not going to stop and we're not going to bow down to those who destroyed this country, who brought this country down to nothing. We won't allow it in the elections either, if it has to be in other places, we will defend our country, we will defend President Alexander Vukic's policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-29-0.u11087	Thank you, Mr. Dabic. The word has Adam Shukalo.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-29-0.u11088	Thank you, Chairman. Here, it is a pleasure to speak after young people like Djorge Dabic and all those who spoke today, who received great support and leadership at the SNS Assembly on Saturday, as well as the SNS delegates themselves. It is in these discussions that we have not only today, but all these days, in the media performances that justify not only the presence in this National Assembly, but justifying the functions they were elected to on Saturday. I am congratulating them on this occasion and I would like to begin my discussion, the Honorable Chairman, that I am unusually pleased and happy with the agenda that we have today, with these agenda points, above all with the content of these points in the context of precedents established in the parliament of the Republic of Serbia, not only here, bigger and in the region. I don't know if such an example exists in the world that one political set, which is ruling here in the Republic of Serbia, by its will, or our will, allows one whole, to say, to a group of extraparliamentary, opposition political parties to have their own members in the Election Commission. I don't think there's a case like that anywhere. If there's an example anywhere, here's someone to deny me in this room and anywhere else. Because of this precedent, I am also extremely pleased and happy because he refutes as the strongest argument in this kind of story that he tries, on the other hand, to make Serbia a state in which democracy does not rule, in which no one has the right to vote and in which the opposition does not exist. To spread the public and the European and regional, which follows these meetings of the Assembly, especially these days when they are trying to make some false affairs and a bad picture of Serbia again, to remind us why the SNS and our parliamentary group are so dominant in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. It is primary, number one, because of the huge and greatest support of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Each citizen went to the polls last year and supported our list "For the Future of Our Children – Alexander Vukic" and that is why we have so many MPs. Members of the SPAS political party have recognised our policy, united, so our parliamentary group now, as far as I know, has 199 MPs. Who isn't here in the Assembly? Well, there's no such extraparliamentary opposition. In one part, there is not one extraparliamentary current opposition that has not received support, nor these minimum 3% in the previous elections. So, they weren't wanted by the people, they didn't get support, they didn't have legitimacy, they were left with an extra-parliamentary opposition. We allow them, by our will, to have members of the Election Commission. We'll raise our hand, press the key so they can get in here. We will celebrate with our position, with his definition of the one that he was going to trade, first of all, Alexander Vukic, immediately after the constitution of this National Assembly, when he announced the formation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, also made it possible to do a key thing in terms of precedent and said that he had announced, and that it would soon be, only a year and a half, which indirectly meant that the extraparliamental opposition and this second one, which, by his own will, by false boycott, did not go to elections because he knew that they had no support and that they would probably not even get a three percent chance, so she got a second chance, again, with the will of Alexander Vukic, but here are the SNS MPs and all the others who today who would give support, that they would get a second chance, or a chance for correction. Also, what's important here to expose today? I don't know how, whether they'll boycott again or go to the election. President Vukic said long ago that they will all go to elections, as you can see, only now that they do not have the support of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, they have joined even more, more broad coalitions, and there are three or four parties that appear constantly in the media that favor them and a few or five more "trabant" parties that join these parties that are extraparliamentary, which you don't even know their names, but about that in those groups, as we can see, a dozen parties. They all have a difficult task of crossing three percent of the election. We wish them much happiness and with great optimism and desire, our SNS parliamentary group is waiting for them here in this hall, so that we can lead a real debate, where there should be a debate, which is in the parliament of the Republic of Serbia, not on the streets, not on highways, not on public areas where citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the citizens of Belgrade or any other city should exercise their rights. I can't because they occupy a certain space and try to stop others from exercising their rights. So, I think in all of this, what's most important is to point out, and that's that all of their scenarios that we've been able to see so far, and this weekend that we're over one of their sections, environmental sections, groups, Gilas, Solak, Jeremic, etc. who are now disguised through these different economic organisations, as they intend and what kind of policy they are going through in Serbia. We could see for the weekend that their policy is to block highways of international road, roadblocks of regional, city traffic, bridge blocks, call on chaos, hit people who are trying to get through and get to their jobs, one general of violence and the need to cause widespread dissatisfaction that would culminate in some broader protests they've been dreaming of since 5 October 2000. Neither are they actors of this kind of story, nor is Serbia in 2000, nor should it ever be, nor should it ever happen to Serbia after 5 October 2000. Serbia is today leading an independent policy, Serbia is today leading a policy that primarily gets from all sides of the region, from all over the world because we are recording results, those that have never been recorded in the modern history of the Republic of Serbia. We are fully convinced for this reason that by recognising our results, contrary to blockades, violence, chaos, we have our own policy, our policy is to build highways, bridges, roads, hospitals, schools, kindergartens, high-speed railways, and that is our picture, our not more visions we have, but we have just achieved a dream in terms of material results that all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, without restrictions and those who are our political opponents use every day and will also use these new projects that we are about to complete. In that sense, I want to look back at our political opponents once again, to say that what they've decided to do now is to go to the polls, which is great news for us, is we've been waiting a long time for them to come here to the National Assembly, so that we can face the argument. We are not the people who appear here at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and talk to themselves. We wait for one to face arguments with them, one waiting to distort their lies, performances and all that they represent today in Serbia. We can't wait because we can't get space so we can debate arguments with everyone in a certain way. The arguments are on our side. The results are on our side. We all want political, electoral and any other happiness to achieve as good an election result as possible, but we will not allow anyone, nor us, to prevent your political will in terms of the arrival of our supporters to the election assembly, our delegates to the election assembly, to the 13-year convention of the party, to prevent you from and to prevent all the scenarios and performances you've been making use of exactly that way by making a situation that you're trying to send a fake picture into the world. And this stage ends, ends the stage of your false affairs, ends. Now you're finished on Saturday and a stage that lasted only seven days. It's a mini stage. It's a story that you're unhappy with the adoption of amendments to the Expropriation Act, the referendum law. None of the people who protested and who are now at the weekend and today have settled on these media, Gilas – Šolak did not mention that this is more controversial. They've already forgotten that story. In seven days, no one will mention this story in the media, nor is there one position, one member of that referendum law and an amendment to the Expropriation Act that they have disputed. What exists is their lie, the deception that someone will take away from the citizens of the Republic of Serbia their property without saying that they were saying that they were going to kidnap people's apartments. These are so many lies that they aim only to scare people, to lead them to fear, and in the final effect of taking them to the streets to protest because they don't know what's going to happen and they're making a constant atmosphere of fear, dissatisfaction, uncertainty, etc. And as we can see on the streets of Belgrade, on the streets of Serbia where they came out, no one follows them in that kind of story. Since no one is following them in that kind of story, to tell their assessment completely, their frustration is growing, the frustration that is creating aggression, and that aggression we could see from their impotence because the citizens of the Republic of Serbia do not want their return politics, their aggressive policy being followed. They want to follow the policy of progress, the development of Serbia, the development of Serbia in which their children will have a future and that is exactly the policy led by Aleksandar Vukic and our parliamentary group here at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and our Government of the Republic of Serbia, which we have chosen. We'll settle the bills and I'm fully convinced that we'll get even wider and even better support in the next election. In that sense, I would like to say once again that we are ready to welcome the next elections, that we are eager to wait for a few MPs or certain lists to be found here in the Serbian Parliament. We can't support them to give them our votes. They're gonna have to try for that. We gave them a chance that no one had given it to anyone and now it is up to them only to visit their sympathisers, and to let us continue to develop Serbia, to progress, to talk with our activists, to talk to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, to present our results and to win again on 3 April for both Serbia and our children.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-29-0.u11089	Thank you. The word is Milos Bandur.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-29-0.u11090	The esteemed chairman of the National Assembly, Vice-President of the National Assembly, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, I fully support everything my colleagues have said before about the expansion of the RIK. It's really a precedent. It is a concession that no one has ever made to the extraparliamentary opposition, but it is our goodwill and our contribution to improving electoral conditions, although when the SNS came to power in 2012, there were no worse electoral conditions than at the time. I was talking about the Expropriation Act last time, and now I'm going to say something about the Referendum Act. about the necessity of exactly the formula that stands. Namely, the previous law was passed in 1994 and was approved by the 2006 Constitution, and we all know that the vote lasted two days, 28 and 29 October 2006, that all the media were in the function of calling on citizens to come out and support the Constitution, that all known public figures were hired to address citizens and invite them and that after that two days the total turnout was 55%, and only 53% of the voters enrolled supported the Constitution. So, by 3%, we've managed to transfer the censorship and nowhere else in the world is that the 50% census-listed voter requirement and respects it because it's usually the turnout of voters in certain cases very small and the rule is that most of them who go out to a particular referendum or elections decide what to do next. In addition, the Venice Commission said that in 2007, and it is interesting that those who brought the Constitution from 2006 did not implement it through the amendments to the law until 2012 but left it to us, and now they criticise it, challenge, spit it out, and so on. The Venice Commission has on several occasions, including the 2020 recommendations, supported this text of amendments and the addition of the Law on Referendum, stressing that the right of abstinents cannot be greater than the right of those who come out to make a statement. Therefore, gentlemen, if you're not interested in participating in something, if you're going to stay home, if you have a lot of work to do, let those people who go out to plead, make a decision. Otherwise, we can't make a decision on any of the issues because if most of the other parts come out who's interested, and yet I say that's the majority of the voters that are enrolled, he can't decide anything and we're in one matt position. What is more important, not only is the referendum decided, the referendum confirms the Constitution, i.e. the amendments to the Constitution, or some law, before that the National Assembly through the MPs who also have legitimacy, because citizens and them have delegated certain legitimacy, bring changes to the Constitution, bring changes to the laws that are confirmed in the referendum itself. I really need to look back at Saturday's events and some of my thinking is the following, when someone has the support of a large number of citizens, he organizes a protest in front of certain institutions, on a particular square, on a certain public surface, because they have enough for the government to see and hear that message. When they're slightly smaller, they go for a walk, they make a column that stretches out to look bigger than it is, but when they're very few, they want to distract by doing something that will distract everyone. And this roadblock is exactly that, a small number of people have decided to block the traffic to distract traffickers and the media and the general public themselves. The most insidious and filthy, they did so on the day the SNS marked 13 years of existence and has its election assembly. I am deeply convinced that the objective of these protests, i.e. the roadblocks on Saturday, was to cause riots, as people travelling by buses to Belgrade were expected to face those on barricades. Recall, Marinika Tepic recently announced a civil war in Cavtat in Serbia. Recently she talked about it and they talk about it very often, they try to provoke conflicts, because in civil conflicts they see their chance. It's a good thing the police acted correctly and tried to calm tensions in such a situation. I absolutely can't understand a protest that happened these days, and it's said of cleaner air in Belgrade, and it's the environmental theme of these so-called. protest, but protests for cleaner air absolutely don't make any sense. Since 2010, the environmental agency has measured the state of air in certain cities in Serbia, of course, the network of measurement stations is growing, the network is becoming denser in certain cities and the results are increasingly relevant. But what happened before 2010? Well, the air was more polluted than today. Well, 2011, 2012, he was also more polluted than today. You know, before 2010, we didn't measure anything, we don't have results, and then it's like okay, now that we're measuring, it's wrong and someone's guilty. Well, responsibility is decades, not a responsibility since yesterday, not since the day before yesterday, not since ten years ago. You know, it's like a crown test, where all the suspects are being tested, there's a lot of new cases. In countries where there are no tests, you had zero or some normal small numbers because it's not controlled, and so is measuring air pollution. In addition, there is another problem, the network of these cells is not optimal enough, they are mostly placed next to the largest pollution emitters and these data are not valid for the whole city. Data from Knez Milos Street cannot be applied to all of Belgrade, etc., because the polluting map depends on microlocation and mainly these data are being misused by the media both in the campaign and against the current authorities. I can say that air pollution is happening in Serbia and in cities mostly in winter, and because of that individual lodge, that is. The warming of citizens, they warm their houses and apartments to coal, wood, vine oil, except those connected to the city heat system, and we have translated all the big heat in Serbia in Belgrade, Novi Sad and Nis into gas in the last ten years. A hundred percent of the capacity in Novi Sad, 97% in Belgrade, 97% in Nis, function on natural gas. So it is not the responsibility of the state and the public sector for air pollution in the area of population warming, it is the responsibility of individuals who have individual deposits on fossil fuels. Of course, with the heating plan that must exist for every city and gasification plan, it will be resolved in the future, and where these two plans do not touch, they do not touch some of the subsidies of the type of transition to the pellets or the use of renewable energy sources of local self-government and the ministries will via the Energy Efficiency Authority to stimulate citizens to do so. In addition to the budget we adopted, a plan was adopted to take a 50m-euro loan for the energy efficiency of citizens, i.e. for incentives in the area. Serbia must adopt a national plan to reduce emissions of harmful substances, from 2020 to 2027, and at the end of 2027, according to this plan, the emissions of harmful gases should be reduced to the EU's limit values. We do this a lot, in 2019 there was a tender and already there is a plant for dissipating smoke gases in Tent A. Then, in September, in 2020, there was a cornerstone laid for the same plant in Tent B. The "Nikola Tesla" thermal power plant installed electric filters that reduce PM particles, PM 10, PM 2.5, as well as filters that remove nitrogen oxide. We have seen in the budget that the state will guarantee the EPS for the plant to suspect the emission of TE Kostolac A. When all of this is looked at, the state will do everything possible to reduce emissions of harmful gases and matter, but some of it is also on citizens. I'll take traffic for example. According to data that I saw in Nis as someone who was in the city council, traffic pollution is on the rise, i.e. by the car, because the cars in Serbia are growing. When it was proposed to raise the standard for importing cars, as it is in other countries, most of the public became mixed and opposed. So, on the one hand, we will, these same citizens, cheap cars, 20 years old and 20 years old, which we can import from the EU according to Euro 3. We don't want the euro 4 and the euro 5 from 2005, the way it is in neighbouring countries, and these cars are polluting twice as much as they do by Euro 4. So Euro 3 pollutes twice as much as Euro 4. In all of Serbia, there is an increase in car pollution because the number of cars is growing, around 130,000 cars are imported annually. By the way, I have to say, there's a lot of investment in gas. We predicted guarantees, 180 million Serbs for the transport pipeline network next year, that is, in the coming years. We've already adopted some loans for the gasification of Borski, Kolubarski and Pcinj County. In 2020, since I use official data, the distribution network has expanded 600km from 20,000 to 20,600km. We got 10,000 newly joined households in 2020. Eight heat went to natural gas, and there are plans to keep other heat in Kragujevac, Kruševec, Bora, Valjevo, etc. They move on to natural gas. The total gas consumption in Serbia in 2020 was 7% higher than in the previous year, 19% in households, 2% in industry and 6% in heat. All of these are data that are in favour of that sentence said by President Vukic when he was putting South Stream into operation in the ladies of the New Year or declaring the end of works on the Balkan Stream, saying that our goal is to shut down all cities, all places, and thus the air in Serbia will be cleaner. So this story of ecology, and especially of air pollution, is an empty story. The air used to be more polluted, but it just didn't measure at the time. Long live Serbia, live all Serbs wherever they live.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-29-0.u11091	Thank you, Mr. Bandur. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint single search, I ask if the Presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want someone who has not used his right? Mr. Miletic, two minutes from the parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-29-0.u11092	I thank you, Doctor Orlic. Dear colleagues, honourable MPs, I as a colleague, as a friend, would express my condolences for the death of my colleague Mrkonjic, the man who was with us here, who respected all of us, was with us together and was really a man for everyone. A great loss, first of all for the family, for the profession, and also a great loss for the SPS, for the party he lived for. I would now and as a man here and as an MP in the Assembly only say a few things about this bill for the selection of these people who will now be in RIK where this is another fair move for all of us to provide places for those who did not deserve it, for those who were not in the elections, but in this way they have the opportunity to participate in the coming period and to normally, if they have the support of the people to enter here in the Assembly to work together with us for the benefit of every man in Serbia. I, as president of the United Peasants' Party, will support all these proposals because it is good. This way it shows who's honest, who's good, because this is the only way to show the size of what we're doing. Thanks again. I'll vote for the candidates' proposals.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-29-0.u11093	Thank you, everyone. I'm concluding a joint single search. According to Article 87(5), I hereby appoint the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on Monday, November 29th, 2021, starting at 18 hours and five minutes, as the day for voting on the items of the 10th session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2021 and calling on all MPs to enter the large hall.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-29-0.u11094	Thank you, everyone. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before we make a decision on the agenda points, we need to determine the quorum. According to Article 88(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the voting day, exist if most of the total number of MPs are present at the National Assembly session. I ask the Members of Parliament to insert the cards into the MPs' units. Thank you. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 172 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and therefore there are conditions for deciding. We're moving on to a decision. Since the National Assembly has carried out a joint single search on decision-making proposals (points 1 and 2 of the agenda), and before moving to a decision-making session, I remind you that, according to Article 105 paragraph 2 point 15, the Constitution of Serbia, the National Assembly of the majority of the votes of all MPs, is exercising electoral authority. We're moving on to a decision. First item of the agenda. I am putting to the vote the motion for a decision to supplement the decision on termination of office and appointment to the Republic Election Commission, with correction, in general. Please press the corresponding key. Stopping vote: total – 172 for – 172. I find that the National Assembly unanimously adopted the motion for a decision. Second item of the agenda. I put to the vote the Proposal for a decision on amendments to the Decision on the termination of office and appointment to the Republic Election Commission, in general. Please press the corresponding key. Stopping vote: total – 172 for – 172. I find that the National Assembly unanimously adopted the motion for a decision. Before I close the session, I'd like to remind you that I scheduled a session tomorrow at 13.00 hours dedicated to constitutional amendments. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and decision on them, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the tenth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly in 2021.
