ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-14-0.u8357	Thank you, Your Honors Chairman, Mr. Orlic. Dear People's MPs, distinguished citizens of Serbia, you are now facing proposals for a law confirming an agreement signed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The first on the agenda is the Loan Treaty - The Kragujevac Remote Heating Project, between the Republic of Serbia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. The project includes modernising the remote heating system in the town of Kragujevac and replacing the existing coal plant, which will allow for complete carbon exclusion from district heating. This will significantly reduce or eliminate the release of sulphur oxides and solid particles, reduce CO2 emissions and significantly improve the energy efficiency of the system. Environmental and social benefits are linked to the overall improvement of the quality and reliability of heating services, the reduction of fuel consumption and air pollution, land, groundwater, as well as the loss of heat and water. The project will also address the main environmental problem related to the disposal of ash and slags. The project will be divided into two parts. The first part includes the decommissioning of old boilers and a belonging facility from the Kragujevac remote heating system, the installation of new hot water boilers on natural gas, the total capacity of 110 megawatts, the control of works by an independent engineer. Work is expected to begin shortly after the loan agreement is signed. The second part refers to the remediation of the site for the disposal of ash, which is located in the project location and the involvement of consultants with appropriate qualifications to provide assistance in procurement and implementation of the project, as well as to monitor construction works. The project will allow the removal of coal from the city's remote heating system and will significantly improve the quality of air in the city due to the central location of coal boilers, which are changing. The project will result in the following improvements in energy efficiency and above all benefits for the environment. The overall improvement in energy efficiency of the CO2 heating system is 66%, elimination of sulphur dioxide emissions of 556 tonnes per year, elimination of solid particles PM in full, reduction of nitrogen oxide emissions of 89% and water savings annually by 55%. What's important is that the safe disposal of existing inventory and flying ash and preventing future generations of ash and slag and contamination in relation to the above. Next on the agenda is the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of a Decision of the Mixed Committee between the EFTA States and the Republic of Serbia No. 1 of 2021 amending and supplementing Protocol B, together with the Agreement on Free Trade between the EFTA States and the Republic of Serbia, on the definition of the concept of "produced products" and methods of administrative co-operation, which is before you today, will make a significant contribution to our economic contribution to the competitiveness and equalisation of operating conditions on the international market. The objective of this legislative solution is to start the application of alternative transitional rules on the origin of goods based on the provisions of the revised PEM Convention. Those rules are not mandatory and are intended for provisional application. Until the conclusion and entry into force of the amendment of the Regional Convention on pan-Euro-Mediterranean preferential rules on the origin of the PEM Convention may be applied by economic operators wishing to exercise the privileges based on these rules instead of those based on the rules of the Convention. I would just like to point out that the EU, all of the CEFTA sides, the EFTA countries and the Republic of Turkey, have also shown the intention to apply these allernatic rules on the origin of goods on a bilateral and transitional basis. The amendments to bilateral agreements between the two parties are under way and should be completed within the agreed deadline, which would allow the simultaneous launch of the application of alternative rules on the origin of goods from 1 September of this year. The specific changes are foreseen as follows: the abolition of the principle of ban on vomiting and the exemption from customs duty, the increase of the tolerance threshold for agricultural products to 15% of the net weight of the product, and for industrial products to 15% of the value of the finished product. In addition to the diagonal accumulation, the possibility of applying full cumulation of origin of goods, a more flexible principle of territoriality and direct transport, new provisions on evidence of origin and the possibility of electronic issue and acceptance of proof of origin, alternative specific rules for agricultural and industrial products, contained in the list of processing and processing are more flexible and adapted to modern conditions of production and trade. This is particularly true of the possibility of using non-original materials, which will make it easier to obtain the origin of goods. Next on the agenda is the proposal for a bill to confirm the Amending of the Agreement on Agricultural Products between the Republic of Serbia and Iceland. This law confirms the amendment of the Agreement on Agricultural Products between Serbia and Iceland, with the aim of bringing the Agreement in conjunction with Decision No 1 of 2021 of the Mixed Committee between the EFTA States and Serbia, adopted on 28 May, to ensure that this Agreement calls for an updated Protocol B, with the Agreement on Free Trade between the Republic of Serbia and the EFTA States. Namely, the Free Trade Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the EFTA States was concluded in Geneva on 17 December 2009, and entered into force on 1 October 2010. The component of the Agreement is Protocol B on the definition of the concept of "original products" and methods of administrative co-operation, which has been amended in the meantime. With each EFTA country, the Republic of Serbia has concluded a bilateral agricultural product agreement, which forms part of the instruments for establishing a free trade zone between the Republic of Serbia and the EFTA States. Having regard to the bilateral agreement with Iceland, in order to implement the rules on the origin of goods, Article 3 calls for the provisions of Protocol B, which form an integral part of the Agreement, it was necessary to amend the provisions of this Article, in order to comply with the provisions of the amended Protocol B. It is also envisaged that the Amending Agreement enters into force on the same day as the decision of the Mixed Committee between the EFTA States and Serbia, in order to ensure that this Agreement is called for an updated Protocol B, with the Agreement on Free Trade between the Republic of Serbia and the EFTA States. Next on the agenda is the proposal for a bill to confirm the Amending of the Agreement on Agricultural Products between the Republic of Serbia and the Swiss Confederation. This draft law confirms the amendment of the Agreement on Agricultural Products between the Republic of Serbia and the Swiss Confederation, with the aim of passing the law in connection with Decision No 1 of 2021 of the Mixed Committee between the EFTA States and Serbia, adopted on 28 May 2021, in order to ensure that the Agreement calls for an updated Protocol B, with the Agreement on Free Trade between the Republic of Serbia and the EFTA States. As with Iceland, the most important solution proposed by this law is laid down in Article 3 which calls for the provisions of Protocol B, with the Agreement on Free Trade between the Republic of Serbia and the EFTA States, in order to comply with the provisions of the amended Protocol B. It is foreseen that the Amending of the Agreement with Switzerland should take effect on the same day as the mentioned decision of the Mixed Committee between the EFTA States and the Republic of Serbia, in order to ensure that this Agreement calls for an updated Protocol B, with the Agreement on Free Trade between the Republic of Serbia and the EFTA States. Next on the agenda is the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of Amendments and Supplements 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34 and 35 of the Customs Convention on International Transport of Goods on the basis of the Immigrants for International Road Transport of the MDP. Those amendments and additions to the Customs Convention on International Transport of Goods on the basis of the MDP documents are mainly technical. In order to monitor the rapid progress of technology, it was necessary to update, or adapt, the Convention to modern requirements and the private and public sectors. Accordingly, the changes were arranged in case the customs features were damaged. The attachment means are prescribed which can be used. A new Annex 10 relating to the data to be supplied by the Contracting Party to authorised associations and international organisations has also been added. Conditions and requirements to be met by the international organisation for the Administrative Committee to authorise the printing and distribution of TIR carnets are prescribed. Technical conditions are prescribed for roof moving cyrades on vehicles, or containers. Carnet TIR is an international customs transit document that simplifies customs formalities in international goods transport. At the same time, TIR Carnet is also an international guarantee document. Carnet TIR is applied from the Republic of China to the EU countries, as well as in the countries of the Middle East and North Africa. The TIR transit procedure provides benefits to the private sector by allowing easier, faster and cheaper transport of goods, minimum border retention and shorter customs formalities because a customs document which is also an international customs document and an international guarantee document is used. The public sector also has a benefit by carrying out the flow of goods and means of transport in an accelerated procedure, reducing the use of human resources at the border and the possible collection of customs duties and other import duties between the national guarantee. Dear MPs, I am sure we will have a constructive debate and will support these draft laws in the voting day.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-14-0.u8358	I thank the minister. Do the representatives of the committees in charge want a word? The President of the Finance Committee, Aleksandra Tomic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-14-0.u8359	Dear President-in-Office, respected minister, fellow MPs, we discussed proposals for an agreement on today's agenda in plenary on 6 July, which in general concerns the relief in terms of the impact of Serbia's competitiveness and when it comes to CEFTE, EFTE, Turkey, means co-operation, both the market and the EU and Serbia, which obviously has good relations as a Western Balkan country, has good relations with all these international relations. The free trade zone that EU and EFTE members obviously need to benefit from. The Mixed Committee has obviously seen certain changes where Serbia needs to bring its acts into line. It's actually one of these proposals, as you've seen, especially this part that refers to the origin of the goods. These are agreements that have no direct financial support, i.e. the impact in terms of Serbia being in debt or that Serbia is in a certain way withdrawing some funds from international institutions, but under these rules it provides itself with greater income, greater trade with all countries in the region, with large exchange centres, which in fact increases our revenues and enable us to actually achieve the competitiveness of our products, which is of great importance. On agricultural products and on co-operation with Iceland, Switzerland and Norway, Norway will just sign this agreement, surely my colleague, the Chairman of the Committee on Agriculture, but this part when we talk about the Customs Convention, when we talk about TIR, shows essentially that our products will come much easier to these countries with which we have an agreement. What we had at yesterday's session, as one of the important projects for the remote heating of the town of Kragujevac - the Treaty between Serbia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, is of great importance for Serbia. Big congratulations to Ms. Minister on the fact that Kragujevac will be one of the four major cities that will first introduce this remote heating system and will actually do a lot to protect the environment. What we had the opportunity to hear on the Committee, when it comes to pollution reduction parameters, means what is directly related to the environment is fragrant, which shows essentially that this government is working very hard on, when it comes to preserving the environment, but what we were interested in most is economic and financial parameters. It is the withdrawal of a 14m-euro loan, plus two to four, when it comes to the rehabilitation of the ashes, which we think is the first time these funds are withdrawn in Serbia, because we essentially don't know how much investment is in the recovery of the ashes when it comes to Serbia and when it comes to the big black spots in this respect. I think it's of great importance that this loan, or agreement that we're confirming, that the government and your Ministry signed. I can really congratulate you that one of the biggest projects when we talk about protecting the environment is this one. We invite you to tell us when we talk about both informal parliamentary groups and when the objectives are sustainable development and when it is for the Energy Policy Forum you are welcome to tell us which of these green projects were initiated by your ministry, because we think it is of great importance that the citizens of Serbia know how much you are doing in spite of the attacks and some groundless findings that this government is doing nothing. What you've done so far can simply be seen directly on the ground, not to look at what anyone's saying, but to do what they do. I think it's very important that the results that remain behind us are actually the only success in our work. That's why in the voting day, I think, and as a committee and as MPs, we will support these proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-14-0.u8360	Thank you. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word has the vice president of the Muamer Zukorlic Assembly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-14-0.u8361	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister of Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, the Honorable Citizens, we are usually talking about the topic of heating in the heating season. In the middle of the summer, we don't have any practice, no motive to talk about heating, and I actually think it's very important to talk about heating during the summer, because when you talk about heating, or the problems we have with heating, you're going to have enough time to influence solving these problems. This agreement, which today is ahead of us, with regard to the provision of funds through remote heating loans, is timely in front of us and represents a good example of timely thinking and steps that are gradually being resolved, i.e. certain problems, and it is not about some marginal but very important problems concerning the necessity of modernising central heating in our cities and cities, all of which are related to energy, that is, rationality in consumption and energy consumption, but an even more important issue of air quality, i.e. pollution problems which are the most significant measure caused by heating, inadequate or outdated heating. So this is a moment to take a closer, more concrete and deeper look at this subject and to know that as much as we're going to do outside the season and prepare to improve heating during the season, we're going to have so many results. That is why this agreement is important and it is important to provide funds. True, it is now a Kragujevac, one of the major cities and centres of this country, but what we expect is that this programme continues and that we do not leave out any city, any place in this country, or any municipality that will not be covered by this programme in order to address the issue of air pollution, or air from inadequate heating. So it's time for me to remind this time that Novi Pazar is one of the most endangered cities with inadequate and some kind of lagging heating, and that is why it's important to include Novi Pazar in this program as soon as possible and to be on the resolution agenda. I know that some of the steps are already being taken, which is to greet and from the position of the government, but also from the position of the city of Novi Pazar, but the simple state in the pollution of the atmosphere in Novi Pazar is so dramatic, that, unfortunately, we had this black record at one point that Novi Pazar broke out in the world in the first place by pollution during the winter, the same held second and third positions, respectively. That's why definitely the quality, the efficiency of the state, its entire administrations will always be measured by how many citizens have in the central theme, have men. So there are many issues dealing with the state, which is concerned with the state administration, administration and government, so, at all levels, but what needs to take first place in all these issues, that is, the interests of the state and the government is actually human. What has this most direct relationship with man and the implications of man should always be in the first place, so anything that is implicit or does not have a direct effect on man can have a second, third, or a later position. So, I'm saying, this is an opportunity to put attention to this again and point to those, let me say, illegal or semi-legal polluting manufacturers. In Novi Pazar, we are witnesses, so I can say what I see in my eyes, so from a variety of peletarians, various structures of various factories, semi-legal or legal, formally, and in fact that have been able to skip various permits and elaborate. So it must be the subject of our interest. Therefore, improving the way of heating, including district heating and all that that programme implies is a very significant basis and a step in solving this problem, but not enough. So, we need to include all other government mechanisms, especially control mechanisms, surveillance mechanisms, inspection mechanisms, and check first how certain structures, certain alleged businessmen, therefore, which are mostly criminal or criminal, and use their own financial criminal power to bypass legal regulations, to get certain permits illegally and thus be protected from standards that are required to respect so that we don't actually be polluters of our air, which we all inhale. So it is something to focus on, among other things, to improve the quality of life of citizens from day to day, or to the least, to eliminate certain risks to our health, because you see the last two years, or a year and a half in the fight against mosquitoes, how important it is that the lives of citizens are, I will not just say, important and expensive, but as much as they are threatened, how many unpredictable situations and circumstances that threaten our health. We've seen with a child that not all people or all citizens are equally exposed to the dangers of pigs. It's actually a matter of the quality of elemental health or the strength of the organism or immunity. It is now quite clear that those organisms, i.e. citizens who have sensitive health, who have been bitten by immunity, bitten health, such as polluted air and other health risk factors, are, in fact, the most directly threatened by the coves. So we just had this year unfortunately exposed to this danger a kind of forced medical course where we had to educate ourselves out of need, out of fear for our own health and for the health of our family, but also to realize that it is not only a problem of the direct danger that we are seeing, but it is a matter of the health of the entire nation, the health of the entire, permanent and continuous health of all citizens, because in fact the health of the nation is in a state, that is, the strength of the immunity of every citizen, that is, all citizens. That's why this is an important topic that in the context of fighting the birds and the dangers of the birds is gaining importance, because in fact our consciousness here is becoming stronger in perception and understanding of that danger. So the issue of air pollution isn't just a question of our bad feeling because when we look from our terrace or window we see that darkness, darkness in the air, and then we feel uncomfortable, or while we're breathing, well, there's no such quality air for us. It's the last one, so to speak, the impression or the least valuable assessment of the importance of clean air. What should be present with us MPs is the sanctity that we have a mild, permanent, and preventive not only awareness of it but also action, or react in that direction. This law, i.e. this agreement, shows that there is general awareness and commitment of the government in this direction, but what I want to encourage from this position is that we are intensifying all of this and that it is not only focused on the capital or some major cities, but that this programme, as soon as possible and in a stronger capacity, includes all other cities, or municipalities. We have other than this and a set of agreements, international agreements on several issues. We have an agreement with the EFTA countries that regulates the issue of the origin of goods. At first glance, not such an interesting agreement, but certainly very important, as we hear, not with some quick and explicit financial effects, but not only important from the aspect of high international standards. It is very important because it provides long-term security, to say, quality affirmation, affirmation of originality, affirmation of what should be the healthiest part of the economy, because today, if we consider various forms of threat to the economy, endangering healthy, real, honest manufacturers, it is precisely aggression of counterfeits compared to the original because the original cannot choose from counterfeits unless there is no systematic protection of the state, of course, and other international institutions. That's what distinguishes developed from undeveloped. In developed and standardised economies, the original is the one that is affirmed. Of course, this principle is not just about production and trade. It also concerns all other sectors of society. We have the originality and forgeries in education, the original and forgeries in culture, the original and forgeries in sport. What's original is what's correct and without doping, and with doping is forging sports. We can talk about all segments of society from the position of originals and forgeries. In fact, even this relationship of determination, respect and quality evaluation may be one of the most important standards not only in the institutional relationship of the state to these standards, but also in our own personal ethical relationship. So, today, you people, if you want to evaluate, evaluate, you will inevitably divide them into two species. So, people who love the truth. These people, people who love truth, they respect originality. People who don't like the truth, they respect counterfeiting, that is, they deal with counterfeiting in all segments, business, education, cultural, ethical and all others. In fact, it is the only historical-civilization division between people and non-humans that concerns relations to truthfulness and originality and relations to lies and counterfeiting. So people who are ethically, spiritually authentic, then they're on the side of originality, on the side of truthfulness. People who are themselves spiritually and ethically forgeries, they are on the side of counterfeits. So that division is ancient, original, historical, and it will never change. It's just us people, and it's not because of the originality and falsification, but because of ourselves, we're going to identify which camp we belong to, which side we're on. But not because of the camp and the sides, but because of yourself. That's what's really important here. So if we want to move from the category of smuggling society, companies that understand the economy and the production of mechanics, which would be shown to be Colloquial, to manage, etc., this phenomenon is characteristic of societies in crises, societies in ruins, societies that do not stand firmly on their feet. That's when smuggling is allowed and counterfeiting, everything is allowed with an excuse or an excuse to survive. However, it is not a problem if this happens under some emergency circumstances, it is not a problem if in the end and we face that it is a product of some moment, some exception, special, difficult crisis circumstances, but the problem is if the exception becomes a rule. If what was the product of some war, crisis circumstances of various forms, let's say, gray and black production, trade, counterfeiting, export, re-export, non-export and all that's happened, the problem is if we accept it as a rule and if, therefore, we interpret it in our consciousness and our culture that it's normal. On that abnormality everything we build will be abnormal. Of course, once these deviations are mastered even when they get, let's say, an opportunity to live some twenty or thirty years, it will take a long time to heal them, but just like these laws and agreements and this kind of affirmation of those standards we begin to send a message to citizens, mostly systemically, but also by other basics and relations that what is preferred is both what is right and what needs to be supported and what is worth and what is original and what has a future is authenticity and originality. It is only then that we will know that we value that farmer who produces his bow, his apple, his fruit, his vegetables, especially if it is still organic that it is the most valuable, most original thing to get support in production through State donations, i.e. the Ministry of Agriculture and Trade, i.e. to sell through protection from thieves, smugglers, mechanics who will cheat these honest producers through the reliefs that will be obtained and by agreement with the EFTA States regarding the achievement of certain, reliefs, savings and opportunities of profit through this agreement. So that's something that for me is not just a procedural thing that gives some minimal relief, but it's something that's valuable, which is a valuable confirmation on our part that we're aware that the original and the counterfeit is not the same. Now, how does a fake live? Your fake is like dark. It is basically a philosophical and essential non-existent category. We all claim that darkness exists, but darkness does not exist, darkness is a lack of light. So whoever thinks the dark exists, that he's a category of subject, then tries to kick him out of the room, say, with a stick, to open his windows and say, "Out, he'll never make it look stupid and stupid." The dark is eliminated by bringing light, and light is not introduced to the door, but through installation, through energy security, through expertise, through the system, through civilized technical expertise. Also, forgeries exist while there are no originals, so today forgeries attack originals, because light comes, the dark doesn't stop. The forgeries suffer with the presence of the original and in a banal sense, if you want to determine if one of the bills is counterfeited, if it's well forged, if you only own that bill, you'll find it difficult to determine that it's forged. But if you have the original bill of the same denomination and that counterfeit bill, so compare it and be careful in comparing the method of comparison or comparatively, you will discover the counterfeit. That's why in any segment of society in education, culture, knowledge, politics, technology, science, trade, production, when the original forgeries appear. He's screaming, he's in danger. Now, the problem with democracy is that ten forgeries can revote one original. It's one of the problems and the anomalies of democracy, I don't know how we're gonna find protection from that. But definitely what is important through this agreement, as well as agreements with Switzerland, Iceland and all these agreements, they actually confirm our commitment to originality, according to originality, according to quality in all respects, and therefore I welcome the government's activities in the preparation of these agreements, and they certainly deserve support and citizens deserve to know the value of this orientation despite the legal dimension, weight and importance, it is very important that the educational, media, cultural, bring it closer to the citizens and animate them that they, in their own behaviours and their own productions, actually tend to this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-14-0.u8362	Thank you, Vice President Zukorlic. The word has the mandated representative of the JS parliamentary group, Vojislav Vujic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-14-0.u8363	Thank you, Your Honor. Minister of Associates, this law, which is the first one on the agenda today, which is the proposal for a law on the approval of a loan agreement for a remote heating project in Kragujevac, is a law that could be united yesterday with the points of the agenda, because this law primarily refers to the environment and to the healthier life of all people living in Kragujevac. Of course, like counterpart Aleksandar Tomic, I will congratulate you on all the results that you and your ministry have achieved so far and continue at that pace to work and Serbia will surely be closer to the EU in an ecological sense. This law, of course, is one household law because we JS always share laws on those who are domestic and not. Why is this law domestic? He's domestic because we're in charge of one capital thing. We're in charge of a good thing that, over time and during its exploitation, will surely pay off itself. Secondly, when it comes to the laws and agreements that continue this agenda, I would like to be honest with you and the Minister of Agriculture Mr. Nedimovic, but certainly what I am about to tell you today will be some messages for which I wish you would pass them on to the Government and share them as one idea in the meetings of the Government. Of course, the EFTA agreement is a much broader agreement and not only treats agriculture as I have listed here, treats a lot of broader things, but what I will focus on agriculture is exactly those agreements that are primarily intended for agricultural products. We used to belong to a big country, a country that had over 22 million inhabitants, and that was also a big market. Perhaps we could be independent of ourselves in view of the population that was part of Yugoslavia. We then produced everything that developed countries, produced planes, produced large construction machines, produced tractors, produced TVs that were, I can say freely, then science fiction. Also in the golden 1980s, Yugoslavia had predispositions and, of course, calls to become a member of the EFTA. Why, then, did we not enter into such an alliance or similar alliances that were then also offered to us? I don't know, it's been a different time. I can only from documents from some closer history that I'm thinking then and now to say whether we were right or wrong, but certainly the fact is that we didn't sign similar agreements at the time. At that time, we cannot go back, first of all, that such a developed country as Yugoslavia was and so powerful in every sense, first of all as one great producer, this country is no longer. But we don't make the same planes today, we don't make these big construction machines, we don't make tractors today. To be honest, rare are the things big forces we could compare with, even though we're the most developing country in the region. What is our future and what I see as some power of Serbia today, that's what I just said, that's agriculture above all. I'm sure there's little anyone who can steam us in the production of healthy food. That's where I return to you as Minister of Ecology. And another major resource that will certainly gain weight in the future and at the price of water. So we can offer healthy food, and that's for the future and the time to go to meet the most important thing in my opinion. When Dragan Markovic Palma, president of Unity of Serbia, president of the parliamentary group I belong to, says the peasant gentleman is a man, Mr. agricultural producer of the most important link in production, I certainly support him and I am sure you will all agree there and that we certainly see all agriculture as the greatest chance for Serbia. I'm coming back again. I'm thinking first of all healthy food. Today the agreements we sign are in favour of this fact, which are agreements that open up to us, these are agreements that are being revised, because we have already had these agreements signed, certainly, but the chance for our agricultural producer to come to some new markets, some markets that are far from us and certainly be competitive with all other EFTA countries and apply the same to those markets. We certainly in the production we deal with are conditioned by some standards. One of the standards we have to meet when we talk about agricultural production is Global GAP. This is a standard that is a condition for you to be able to export your products to the European Union market. I also want to commend the Government and to commend the Ministry of Agriculture, because the government has defined that the introduction of one of these standards in agricultural holdings or even in agricultural societies dealing with food production is co-financed, i.e. to give a 50% subsidy to the value of the implementation of the Global GAP system. These agreements contribute to our agriculture and these systems because they tell us that we need to produce, above all, healthy food, because each of these standards has certain control systems that are available to people who implement these standards, so that our manufacturer who has one of these standards automatically sends a message that it is his agricultural land, that the agriculture he deals with is primarily addressed to healthy food and that he respects all the standards that members of the EFTA or any other European country and other organisations recognise. I must commend the Government and the Ministry of Agriculture for allowing young people and all those who want to deal with agriculture to get different types of subsidies. So today, for all those who will, and above all, I see young people because most young people have defined that agriculture is some extra income, extra income with jobs that they do, and I see again the solutions that represent the three ministries that are involved in reviving villages and agriculture at all, not just the Ministry of Agriculture, there are the Ministry of Demography, there are ultimately your Ministry of Ecology, which have somewhere to target and desire that some rural areas come back to life and that young people return to the country. It is through these subsidies that the state has given the mechanism that they can apply for different IPARD funds, that they can apply for World Bank funds, and there are even programmes that are intended exclusively for young agricultural producers. There are also programs that are designed for those small, for those who may need the most subsidies to be able to stand side by side and compete on the market with everyone else. Of course, there are cooperatives. Cooperatives can help all those people who want to deal with healthy food production, get to the plasma and reduce the cost of their production. Of course, this government cannot bring out the project itself and the idea of a large number of cooperatives. It is, first of all, an idea where we have to agree all of us who are in local self-government, in municipalities, in cities, and to help those people who are not written enough to join together and apply together to form certain cooperatives. What I said at the beginning and what I'm going to ask you to pass on to the government sessions and the prime ministers and all the other ministers, of course, I'm going to do it here every time I'm on occasion, is that you have to promote everyone together and directions when it comes to agriculture, colleges that concern agriculture or even the production of healthy food. I have a feeling that somehow children are focused on other professions and other professions, but these are the interests of the future. Of course, our agriculture, without people who are going to be educated and trained to be able to outsource this production process, will be faced with some problems that are likely to be difficult to solve in the future, as competition on the world market is growing and increasing. So I ask you to find a way, first of all through information, to instruct young people to deal with agriculture and the production of healthy food. We also have to make sure that, besides a large system such as eGovernment, we form a large system when it comes to informing agricultural producers. Agricultural producers, as we say more or less here, are able to produce different things, but if they don't know what it is we need to focus on, what it is that we need to produce, then they are certainly making up for themselves a loss that is sometimes very difficult to compensate for. So I think that if we make one system similar to e-Government to these agricultural holdings and agricultural producers, we can give direction in which to move and what it is they need to produce. Why should it first and foremost address small farmers? Because it's the easiest thing for them to change culture. They are the easiest to deal with some diversification compared to the large systems that are defined to deal with the exact cultures. What is very important, we agricultural producers, again I say, why is it in my focus, because these agreements on the agenda today apply to agricultural products, we must not only remember the agricultural producer at the time of the election and during the political campaigns, the gentleman of the agricultural producer, we must remember every day of the year. So 365 days a year we have to think about the agricultural producer. The president of the party to which I belong Dragan Markovic Palma has some concrete things, and this is again this proposal for all the other politicians who run municipalities and cities it can be an idea, so feel free to copy, several times organized that agricultural producers go to Vienna, that agricultural producers go to Paris, that farmers visit Gčka, etc. These weren't just college trips. One of those concrete things that was realized in 2011, and many laughed at her at the time, was buying over 200 heifers, i.e. high-milk cows which are divided into agricultural producers from the territory of the city of Jagodina. People laughed then because they didn't realize what a project like this was really about. From that day on, genetic material when it comes to cows and milk production, when it comes to high - milk cows, has changed in that area. Now I'm going to remember, and here I'm going to mention to my colleague Zukorlic, who once said that you in your region tried to form a serious dairy factory and that, in the end, it turned out that because of the poor travel infrastructure, that milk could not be transported and that this factory could not live in full capacity, as you thought. Now I'm making another example, where I'm showing that local self-government has come up with farmers because it's done a good infrastructure first and foremost that transporting these goods can be easy, and then with those high-milk cows raised milk production and they are now, if you take statistics that are updated every year, one of the more serious dairy producers. I'm talking about small agricultural holdings. We won't rest now. Dragan Markovic Palma has now come up with a new idea, and I also propose to all other political parties that you can copy from us. In August, we will lead over 1,000 agricultural producers to Greece to the sea. It's time they rest too. And it's also time for them to take a little soulful day, because they carry us all the years, help us, feed us, and come out to meet us. And this won't be a criterion that they'll only go big, those small farmers will go, not just those who have 50 cows, those who have two cows will go. If someone asks how we finance it, well like this, we, like all other political parties, have the right to receive by law certain funding from the budget, and we have made a decision, on the proposal of Dragan Markovic Palma, that as a party complete this amount and complete these funds we send exactly one such project to take 1,000 agricultural producers from Serbia to the sea in August. This is a proposal that isn't patented, so you can all copy and I'm sure we'll make much better communication with agricultural producers. When I say so, I would also like to commend Mr. Nedimovic's agriculture minister, probably for the third time in my discussion today. Why? Today, the price of raspberries is over 400 dinars and for those people who have a connection to the village and for some people who know what that price of 400 dinars means, it's, I think, in history since people in Serbia have been dealing with malaria the biggest price of the raspberries we've ever achieved. Minister Nedimovic can be seen these days at the raspberries plantations, shoulder to shoulder with Serbian peasants, and that's fine. But why do I want to commend him? Because he was with them with his shoulder and when the price of that raspberries was 70 dinars. If you remember, about ten years ago, when the raspberries rebelled and asked the state for help, some other political force sent a gendarme to the same rabblers instead of a minister. So, then the minister didn't have, as it is said in the jargon of younger people, he didn't have the guts to go to the same rabbles, but to send the gendarmes, as if our agricultural producers were terrorists. Today, when the price is 400 dinars, the minister goes among the raspberries and also goes when the price was 70 dinars. Why are these agreements that we're voting on today important? They're important because they're opening up markets where we can certainly be competitive, especially in agricultural production, and that's why I focused my entire exposure on agriculture today. So, Minister, I'm going to ask you to pass on the proposals I made today to the government and it would be good if some of these proposals could be adopted and that I would no longer step in politics with my discussion, I would stick to the agenda. What is most important today for you, I repeat again, the Single Serbia parliamentary group will support everything on the agenda today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-14-0.u8364	Thank you, Mr. Vujic. The president of the SDPS parliamentary group Branimir Jovanovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-14-0.u8365	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister, honourable Members of Parliament, we have before us a proposal for a law confirming the decision of the Mixed Committee between the EFTA States and the Republic of Serbia to amend and supplement Protocol B to the Free Trade Agreement. In this way, the definition of originating products is defined more precisely. There are also two agreements concerning agricultural products, i.e. trade in agricultural products, the Agreement of the Republic of Serbia with Iceland and the Agreement of the Republic of Serbia with Switzerland. In this context will be my exposure today. The EFTA market is, of course, very significant. It is not negligible, especially in the segment of high-quality products. Although the EFTA is made up of only four countries, it is Iceland, Liechtenstein, Norway and Switzerland, and does not make it a large number of inhabitants, we must consider that gross domestic product per capita in these countries is an average of around 80,000 dollars. As such markets, they pose a very significant challenge for our agricultural producers, for specialized producers, above all, and that is proof when we talk about product origin based on which they can build their reputation and on which they can prove quality in these markets. The changes we are discussing today can make it easier to prove the origin of goods to our producers and this is of particular importance to producers of specialized high-quality and highly rated agricultural products. When we talk, otherwise, about international trade, or agricultural products themselves in this segment, it should be borne in mind that agriculture in Serbia is the sector of the economy that creates a significant external trade surplus. This foreign trade surplus ranges from $1.6 billion to 1.8 billion and the coverage of agricultural imports by export is around 180%, which means that our agricultural producers are almost twice as much exports as we import agricultural products. Even in 2020, marked by the pandemic due to the crown of the virus, a surplus has been recorded, agriculture has registered an export growth of as much as 14.4% and that export has then reached $4.14 billion. Experts estimate that despite such encouraging figures, there is still room for progress in this area. It is necessary, of course, to carefully manage this kind of economy, this economic branch, to bring a strategic policy that, with the support of farmers, will also open new markets for them. It is estimated that in the next ten years, exports of agricultural products from Serbia can reach eight to ten billion dollars and that, of course, is the chance we need to take advantage of. An example of the careful handling of agriculture and the response to the needs of small producers as well as the large ones is seen in what is recent, and we discussed it here in the Assembly, passed the Law on the Trade of Agricultural Products, and that is one central law regarding trade in this area. Earlier farmers were relying on the Law on Trade, we now have the Law on trade in agricultural products, and in this way we can influence price formation on the agricultural market, help farmers in the launch of producer organisations. And what is significant, which I can single out, is that the state has defined to a significant extent that it subsidises warehouses and thus balances the price of agricultural products on the market in the best possible way. Simply, in some situations where the price of certain agricultural products is based on the laws of supply and demand below all expectations, the state will subsidise warehouses, and when the price reaches a certain level, these agricultural products will be sold at a significantly higher price. As for helping small landowners, we must not forget that the Ministry is implementing a $38 million World Bank program with the World Bank, and it is intended for the purchase of tractors, for the purchase of machinery for the construction of all those facilities that farmers need, which they themselves cannot finance. Half the funding was provided by the state, 40% is from credit, and 10% is from farmers who are part of these programmes. It is only one in a series of projects aimed at increasing the competitiveness of our agricultural producers, not only on domestic but also on foreign markets. When we talk about the potential for exporting agricultural products, we can also look back, with the right, and see positively the recently signed Free Trade Agreement with the Eurasian Union. In this way we will be able to make a new market available for our agricultural producers of nearly 180 million inhabitants. Maybe the agreement with the Russian Federation that we already have is the best indicator, and we can make one parallel there, how much this agreement with the Eurasian Union will mean to our farmers. Let's say, when we compare the data from before signing the Agreement with the Russian Federation and after signing one such agreement, the exports of agrarian products, i.e. the exchange in this field, are five times larger. It was $100 million, now it came to $500 million in 2021. Last week, July 10th, new seven Serbian companies received access to Russia's market due to an extended product list. These are fruit-based companies, cattle-food companies and certain dairy companies. I must also point out that a number of Serbian fruit companies are currently working in co-operation with the Ministry of Agriculture to solve certain problems, to sign several years of long-term contracts that will solve these problems, and to transport goods across third countries when we talk about this Asian market and when I talk about the Russian market, to integrate into a Russian information system that monitors the trade in fruit and vegetables in that country, and I purposely mentioned this to point to one of the great potential of that eastern market for our farmers. Of course, Serbia's largest foreign trade partner is the EU, we must not ignore that, the highest percentage of agricultural exports is directed at EU countries and nearly half of the total agricultural exports are directed to the EU market. In December 2020, a decision was made to extend trade privileges for Serbian farmers for the next five years, and what this will mean in practice will mean to our agricultural producers savings of several tens of millions of euros. It will simply have a privileged position when we talk about customs in this way it will be more competitive on the EU market and will be able to position them better on a demanding market. Noting that Serbia is exporting agricultural products worth more than 1.6 billion euros to the EU, it is also achieving a 400m-euro surplus. The European Union is the market for our cereals and for some of our most famous brands, and above all I mean raspberries, frozen raspberries, and if we compare these data, we will see that exports from 2019 to frozen raspberries, worth $225 million, amounted to as much as $190 million in the EU. Experts also argue that it is possible for the export of fresh and frozen fruit, primarily the EU market, to be a significant asset of our agrarian and that Serbia could achieve an export of about $800m only of these products in the foreseeable future. Also, farmers have had access to IPARD programmes for 20 years, based so far on motives to develop the competitiveness of our agriculture could count on over 200m euros. What we must never forget when we talk about the potential and importance of the expansion of the market is that we have at our disposal and certain markets in the Middle and Far East and during the visit of our delegation, namely the Ministry of Agriculture of Bahrain and the United Arab Emirates, the hosts have shown great interest in a number of our agricultural products. Opening new markets through such agreements can especially be important for our livestock industry which and how there is room for progress. Of course, one of the agreements we sign is the Agreement with Switzerland and it is particularly worth talking about, as it is a specific market with specific requirements. The accent they put on high quality and organic production, and it is precisely organic production that is another chance for our farmers. The state is ready to invest and subsidize the transition for conventional production to organic production and we have seen growth in this area as regards exports 10 times over the past years from 3.4 to 37 million dollars, and this is especially something we can point out as one developmental chance for small holdings. These changes to existing agreements may not seem too significant at first sight, but they are still a significant part of a complex network of international trade when we talk about agricultural products and it is important to ensure that our farmers enter the market. The success of our agricultural producers depends on how the state refers to them and there should always be a proactive agricultural policy that should enable institutional security for each of our farmers, security during planning from the entire production path, from harvest to sowing, to harvesting, to storage and at the end of exports, and therefore it is of course important that we support and work on such agreements as we are discussing today. Of course, the SDPS will support all agreements on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-14-0.u8366	Thank you. The word has the deputy president of SPS MP Snezana Paunovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-14-0.u8367	Thank you, Vice President Orlic. A respected minister with associates, dear colleagues, respected citizens, today on the agenda of several international agreements, and this has been spoken by my colleagues, Serbia has signed them and it is necessary for the National Assembly to confirm them as such. The multi-area agreements and we heard it in the explanation of Minister Vujovic and this only confirms the fact that Serbia strengthens bilateral in multilateral co-operation with many countries and international organisations on various plans. Several dozen ratified agreements in this assembly assembly confirm the intensity and importance of our international co-operation, and with regard to the fact that today's integration and interdependence on the international plan is a major and somehow inevitable component of every country's life. I would also briefly draw attention to the importance and history of this international association in a wide variety of phases and forms. No country is, nor can there be, a lonely island, this is recognised today in particular in the field of trade, traffic, tourism, as well as international financial support and lending, which contribute primarily to the improvement of standards and the reduction of development differences between individual countries and regions. The need to connect countries, to strengthen political and economic co-operation, then to unify and standardise certain products and services at international level, and to expand international support just as early as the first half of the 20th century resulted in the creation of the first international organisations with political and then all of the economic objectives expressed. To remind us that the first international organization was actually the society of the people or the League of Nations created after the First World War 1919, whose successor was born in 1945. One of the first economic integrations is the European Coal and Steel Community, which grew in 1957 into the European Economic Community, and since 1990 it has been the EU. Multi-lateral organisations have brought a new era of diplomatic and economic relations to the world, as it is breaking up with so-called an old diplomacy that involved exclusively bilateral relations between the two sovereign states. These associations are supranational and aim to link and formulate a single policy based on the interests of all members shown. It is the beginning of creating world and European governments and making decisions for all members. Therefore, entry into multilateral organisations involves acceptance and obligations, but also rights. Serbia is one of the founding members of the UN and many other international organisations in which it seeks, based on common and unique policies, to realise its national state and economic interests. Also, all our path to Eurointegration is just one of the foreign political goals. Serbia is a signator of many bilateral contracts that have accepted the standards of these associations. It is true that we have repeatedly been betrayed and have experienced world justice as a double archeologist, but it remains the right to continue to believe in international law and justice and not to give up on integration processes both in the region and in Europe, but also on the world level. One of the associations in the field of free trade, the European Free Trade Association, whose Serbia is a member. Serbia has become part of this association by signing an agreement with its members Switzerland and Linhestein. Today, we are on the agenda of the draft law confirming the decision of the Mixed Committee between the EFTA States and the Republic of Serbia, issue 1 of 2021 amending and supplementing Protocol b. In addition to the Agreement on Free Trade between the EFTA States and the Republic of Serbia concerning the definition of concept products originating in and methods of administrative co-operation. The reasons for confirming this decision are contained, in particular, in the case of the implementation of a new set of rules on the origin of goods covered by the trade exchange within the EFTA contained in the annex to this Decision. It is about alternative rules on the origin of goods based on the revised regional convention on pan-Euro-Mediterranean pre-fectial rules on the origin of goods or more commonly known, as a PEM convention that I will use in further discussion in the context of the short term. Serbia has been a signator since 2013. The purpose of this convention is to get on... The Agreement on Free Trade provides identical rules on the origin of the product, in order to ensure the same standard of goods in trade relations between the countries of the signatories. This revised PEM Convention replaces the rules of origin currently applicable to the parties to the pan-Euro-Mediterranean system. The rules introduced by the revised Convention have been referred to as alternative rules and are comparable to the applicable rules on the origin of the products applying the EFTA. The concept – originating goods – is defined by the Convention and implies products fully manufactured in one country by Contracting Parties or products which may include certain materials which are not obtained in that country by signatories, provided that the materials have undergone sufficient processing or processing in that country that we are talking about. To simplify this on the case of originating products, for example. The domestic chocolate brand produced from imported cocoa. Therefore, according to the PEM rule, tolerance, non-original materials should not be used in the manufacture of a product originating in order for the processed product to obtain originating product status, except that this is possible, but that the total value of the product without origin does not exceed 10% of the product price. Or the PEM rule of direct transport, which is very restrictive and implies that in the country of transit goods must not be changed in any way, except for stocks for the preservation of goods in good condition. According to the new, or alternative rule, if the goods are stored in a transit country, it is possible to perform simpler actions on goods such as: the marking of goods, labeling, sealing and sharing of shipments. Not to list all the new rules, i.e. the alternative rules that treat this, this was solely for the sake of an illustration which confirms a more flexible approach to the product origin issue, in the revised PEM Convention, which should first contribute to the affirmation of the Free Trade Agreement in the EFTA system. According to the PEM rule, the alternative rule prohibits REM from applying this prohibition as one of the most important newspapers, in fact, the whole system is that the ban on return to customs or exemption from payment of customs duties only applies to non-original materials used in textile production until other industrial and agricultural products are not subject to the ban on return of customs duties. This practically means stimulating trade in industrial agricultural products, which are the most significant, above all, for the international market and this alternative rule will bring significant savings to economic operators applying these rules and increase their competitiveness. For the application of these alternative rules on the origin of goods based on the provisions of the revised PEM Convention, on a bilateral and transitional basis, the EU is also interested in the Republic of Serbia, all of the SEFTA sides, the EFTA States and the Republic of Turkey. This acceptance of the revised PEM Convention for Serbia means an amendment to the protocol of origin in agreement with the EFTA States, which was also made by decision No. 1 of 2021. Amendments to the Stabilisation and Association Agreement to the SEFTA Agreement and to the Agreement with the Republic of Turkey. All amendments to the bilateral agreements mentioned between stakeholders are under way and should be completed within a common agreed deadline that would allow for the application of alternative rules on the origin of goods from 1 September 2021. That's why this law is on the agenda today. On this subject, we have on the agenda and confirmation of amendments to the two agreements on agricultural products to be confirmed. These are amendments to the Agreement on Agricultural Products between the Republic of Serbia and Iceland, and identical amendments to the Agreement with the Swiss Federation. Serbia has highly developed bilateral relations with Switzerland, which lasts more than 140 years, with more than 50 signed bilateral agreements, friendship with Switzerland is friendship and Archibald Rice, who is heavily in charge of the Serbian people and perhaps most objectively wrote us in a sentence: "Serbia, take care of yourself. “ Switzerland has provided huge assistance to Serb soldiers in the First World War, and it should not be forgotten that during the break-up of Yugoslavia from Switzerland, continued assistance has arrived especially to refugees and displaced persons. The second country with which we are changing the existing co-operation agreement is Iceland with which our co-operation is in turn and we are working precisely under the EFTA Free Trade Association, but we believe that there is room for co-operation with this northern European country right on the agenda of the placements of our agricultural and food products. By concluding basic agreements and supplementary agreements on agricultural products which are simultaneously concluded between the Republic of Serbia and each individual EFTA State, the Republic of Serbia and the EFTA States establish an area of free trade. These agreements have been concluded with Iceland, Norway and Switzerland and they form part of an instrument for establishing a free trade zone between the Republic of Serbia and the EFTA States. As an integral part of these agreements, Protocol B on the definition of the concept of originating products and the method of administrative co-operation was also required to bring these bilateral agreements into line with the Revised Regional Convention on pan-Euro-Mediterranean rules of origin whose foreign Contracting Parties are the Republic of Serbia and all EFTA States. The agreements on agricultural products with these countries are very important for our export orientation in the area of agriculture, which, according to the EFTA rules, implies a known origin of the product without being able to place goods that are being resold. Members of the EFTA, as well as EU members, but other countries also require a known origin of agricultural products, i.e. guaranteeing that it is from the country of origin that they trade in these products. Unfortunately, we had a few pechs when some of our merchants instead of our agricultural products in some foreign markets tried to sell someone else's products, which can't be the rule of free trade, or according to the norms we're talking about. I would also like to refer to the proposal for a law confirming the loan agreement for a remote heating project in Kragujevac between the Republic of Serbia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. This Loan Treaty is being considered by an emergency procedure because of the need for its realisation to be approached as soon as possible, as it should be taken into account that the remote heating system in the town of Kragujevac, whose modernisation is both urgent and necessary, is one of the largest pollutants in this city. Let's remind ourselves, it's a coal-heating system that is in itself a major contaminant due to high emissions of carbon dioxide, sulfur dioxide and other solid particles that are dangerous to the health of the population and the environment. The added problem for the citizens of the town of Kragujevac is a dump, i.e. an ash dump where ash that further pollutes the environment for decades, and is particularly harmful to the population that is gravitating around this ash dump. We've had these days and a reaction from citizens whose health has been compromised by the ashes. What's good is that the state recognized the danger of such a heating system and the disposal of ash in Kragujevčana, and here, this problem lies before us today. We will resolve it by borrowing from the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and this project involves modernising district heating with the application of the ecological principle, decarbonisation, i.e. total carbon exclusion and the introduction of natural gas as energy. This will significantly reduce or eliminate, even completely, the release of sulphur oxides and solid particles, reduce CO2 emissions and significantly improve the energy efficiency of the system. The environmental social and economic benefits are linked to the overall improvement of the quality and reliability of heating services, the reduction of fuel consumption and the pollution of the country's air, and thus groundwater as well as the loss of heat and water. The project will also deal with how much I have managed to understand the main environmental problem of Kragujevac, which is just the delay of ash and slags. The project's value has been estimated at around 18m euros, will be realised in two parts. The first part includes the decommissioning of old boilers and belonging facility and the Kragujevac remote heating system, the installation of new hot water boilers on the natural gas of the total capacity of 110 megawatts. The second part covers the remediation, i.e. the rehabilitation of the existing dump of ash and slags, and is planned to complete the work by the end of 2024. Dear Minister, you didn't have much work to do when you took over the portfolio you received, but somewhere in your political career, the fact is that you met all the challenges you faced, so it turns out that in this short term you are also very responsible for accessing what is, above all, a human factor. We are the problem of pollution in Serbia, I will not say recognized late, but I can say that only this ruling majority has realized somewhere that we must, first of all, make a ministry that will deal with it and that it must be separated from agriculture as much as it was important for someone at some point in time and naturally to be together, both sectors are very important. It's good in the 21st century to commit to this problem, first of all, because the coronary virus has also warned us how much nature can strike back very mercilessly compared to what we are able to do. Due to all this and in the hope that we will have more quality agreements concerning our economic improvement, improving the quality of life of citizens, MPs of the SPS in the voting day will support all the proposed laws of this agenda, again I say, in the hope that, even more effectively than we are doing now and cannot, until the end of our mandate, we will do everything in our power, and more than that we can proudly say that we have really contributed to the quality of life of our citizens when it comes to overall life, regardless of what sector we are talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-14-0.u8368	National MP Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-14-0.u8369	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have a number of motions ahead of us. First, I want to congratulate the Kragujevci who will solve the remote heating on the basis of loans that I believe we will make a decision that the state guarantees for this type of loan and that in the day we vote and confirm it. I would like to say that in a similar way, and the President of the Republic, former Prime Minister, the current Prime Minister, has marked the following periods as a period for raising the municipal standard of living through drinking water supply, this time for heating, through the construction of a sewer network, etc. This is confirmation that the Republic wants to help local self-government in Serbia's territory solve some of its problems. The Kragujevac will probably solve the remote heating this way. I would like to solve, say, water supply in India and throughout Srem and all of Vojvodina, given that we have a problem with the likely use of fertilizer in agriculture. We have a drinking water problem, ammonia, etc. And I'd like to find the drinking water reserves, which exist near Ruma in Krtkovci, and thus supply all the meeting municipalities with drinking water. There are some general projects done by the Institute of Water "The Cherni" and in the next period I will advocate to find a source of funding and that the state provides some kind of guarantee that we do so, because our residents who have endured much in the 1990s, during the economic and military pressures on our country, during the aggression, after that, during the period when they were recklessly robbed, when their social property, our residents, our citizens deserve to raise their standard of life and allow them to live in better conditions. As for CEFTA, she now has four members. She had more before, but many CEFTA countries went to the European Economic Community, and at this point four countries are in CEFTA and we are certainly due to free trade, it is the European Free Trade Association, because of free trade we should co-operate with them and we should support agreements, because small countries such as Serbia, such as ours, conditioned small, will be worth a large country, in order to preserve the standard of the population and that it could serve the debts that occurred before these authorities and it is not a problem that the gentlemen before us were in charge, is not so much a problem that they spent donor support in what, it is not even important that forgiveness of the debts of the London and Paris Club also spent. What was the biggest problem was that of all these debts spent money did not create a source of debt returns, nor did they create infrastructure, nor did they support investments, i.e. to renew the industry in the Republic of Serbia, and thus to produce goods, to invest as much in production and infrastructure and thus leave us in many difficulties. We simply found the house of naked walls and, compared to the quality of life, the population of local self-government, in terms of communal needs, resolved the issue of infrastructure, it was necessary to address the issue of production in such a way that we get higher salaries and pensions, and hence, budget revenues are greater because of the higher pensions and higher salaries of ordinary residents, in whose advantage we need to do as much as possible, bring fuller budgets. None of the ordinary citizens, except that someone goes to sea, but by some cheaper tariff, they're not going to take that money out of higher wages and pensions to the white world islands, but they're going to spend it in trade chains, etc. Through VAT and excise, that money will come back to the Republic. The Republic will invest part of it in investments and thus, through investments and works, will come even greater budget revenues, and this is one process that is tied to one another. In order for us to do all this, we need to have the goods, we need to raise our salaries and pensions from the earned ones, not the man in charge, which was the case before us. The money has to be invested in production. I admit that Gilas was a big investor. A big money investor in his pockets. Also, I admit that Gilas was one big exporter of our money to his accounts in the white world and thus impoverished the citizens additionally. So, except he left them without a job, no pay, on the revenue side of the budget moved them to the expense and made it worse. If he had invested the money he robbed in investments in Serbia, if he had spent it in the Republic of Serbia, then the state would have some benefits. That some benefit and poverty would be much less than we found for the simple reason that money would circulate through the state of Serbia. By bringing the money out, by depositing into the expense of large amounts of money and material things, it only increased the poverty that Boris Tadic, he and the group made by firing a large number of workers. They don't make poverty poor, but rich, especially rich in such suspicious ways as Gilas and the yellow team, who, in order to get rich, were selling companies because companies became some kind of prey, where these were not interested, buyers, labour force. Well, let's say in the combinations in Vojvodina, where for 50m euros, tycoons who have been smuggling oil, etc. In the 1990s, for 50 million bought 200,000 acres of land and combined. They weren't interested in the workforce. They slaughtered all the cattle and fired the workers. The most employees are in livestock, buying two modern tractors, "John Dira", and processing thousands and thousands of hectares, and the state does not benefit from it. If you destroy livestock, you have only plant production and instead of producing 4,000 euros per hectare in meat, milk and eggs and processing, you in warfare only achieve 1,500 euros and then of course the state loses on GDP, and those who have lost their jobs have lost their salaries, etc. And on the revenue side, somewhere where they contributed, they went into social cases, to the expense side. In doing so, the team took large amounts of money out there, which no longer circulated through the Republic of Serbia and needed to be in debt, to service their debts, and when they told us that the debts had grown, they forgot to say that the interest on their debts was very high, that they were 5%, 6%, 7%, and that, let's say, it took this government a year to provide a billion to 300 million just to serve interest on old debts, and these debts did not create a source for repaying debts, or for creating some new value. That's why we're doing everything that's the opposite of that. We want this country to trade with CEFTA as well. It's about the origin of the goods, etc. We will easily prove this and want to bury it with our production, our goods from the surrounding market, EU markets, CEFTA market, world markets, the market in Russia and Belarus, Kazakhstan, etc. The more goods we sell and the bigger the market, the greater the potential for development. That's why my party, regardless of its size, and surely at this point is stronger than all these parties, movements, say movement, and what is movement, people, where is the movement register? It is an unregistered political party that is not subject to funding control, etc. I argue that my party is stronger, but it is far smaller than some of the ruling parties, and therefore we are in favour, in my programme there was an additional 90-year push to join the European community, now it is the EU. In order to strengthen the economy, there must be as wide a market as possible, and this is particularly important in agriculture as European subsidies, the European agriculture budget, the common European agricultural policy, participates 45% in the EU budget. So 45% of the EU budget is for agriculture. Therefore, my commitment, a party that worships the village, which loves agriculture, is understandable that we are committed to joining the EU. Not at the cost of the loss of territory, I say it immediately, not at the cost of the loss of territory which some of these poor people I have described wanted, the entry into the EU allows our farmers to make subsidies, incentives and incentives in agriculture three times bigger, and in such a way not only better for farmers, but for the processing industry to have cheaper raw materials and to be able to make a food product and be a competitive processing industry on our market, regional markets, on the CEFTA market, on the EU market and on other markets, to be more competitive, because raw material is then at a lower price. Our population is certainly in this situation that it will always be well supplied, because whoever has excess food in the region is certainly more powerful than those who do not have enough food to feed their population. This is why agricultural production and the food industry need to be seen as much markets as possible, for which it is more stimulating. For example, Bulgaria, which has the same area of land, slightly less arable land than Serbia, gets from the EU at the moment only for two items plus ecology -- rural development and direct payments, somewhere around a billion and 300m euros a year, plus what the EU is now in agricultural production stimulating and ecology related to agriculture, means over 1.3 billion get only for rural and direct payments. Serbia is now, though increasing incentives twice compared to the previous regime, outlining 400 million. And that's why farmers, if we join the EU, and I said -- not at the cost of losing territory, will be the biggest winners. I believe that very quickly, if they have the same conditions of production, they will outrun agricultural producers in the EU in a few years, because the difficulties suffered by Serbian farmers have reported our people to be more resourceful in agricultural production than those who have made agricultural production from more comfortable conditions, so to speak. So I believe that Serbian farmers, Serbian peasants, thanks to a better climate, let's say, the Netherlands will export the most tomatoes, and there are far worse conditions than Serbia in the production of that vegetable, and it, for example, has to light its greenhouses and plastics additional mirrors because there is no climate and that kind of solar energy that Serbia currently has. We have a fertile land, we have valuable people, we have a good climate, we have a winter, which is very important for agricultural land, because without healthy agricultural land and healthy plants, healthy animals, without healthy agricultural and food products, there is no healthy man. We have all this, we just have to, under the same conditions as the European, have a long-term predictable agricultural policy that will be valid for seven years and that everything we produce from wartime production through livestock production is restored to livestock production, and by processing meat, milk and eggs we raise the food industry and everything that serves the metal industry, which serves agriculture, the food industry, etc. The chemical industry, all of this can live and agriculture can be a comparative advantage for the production of all these goods to be found, within the framework of this cooperation in legal projects, to be found in various markets. Look and try, say, a crayon, that's imported and try this one of ours that's arrived now. Look at the difference in the smell of fruit, look at their kind of bread, look at ours smell good. So, the most beautiful fruits, the most beautiful fruit, the most beautiful agricultural products from our own garden, and we who love our country and who are patriots, I was saying yesterday, we have to defend this country, not to pollute it, because it doesn't belong only to the present generation. One nation doesn't just make up the present generation. Many of us are convinced that there was nothing before and after. I think some of our wise ancestors who made this country stand up, if they saw some of us, say Jeremic, Gilas, Tadic, etc., I think they'd be looking for, Mr. Martinovic, a DNA analysis. They could not believe that such a nation became what I described, various Gilas, various Armenians, etc. They probably couldn't believe it was theirs, and they'd probably ask for DNA. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we must try to make our country my country, to each and every one of us say, my country, to experience what Stefan Nemanja was saying - there are no peoples without land. And he said that each of the citizens of that time had to put a lump of land into his own hand and experience the earth, that the breast was a birthplace of the earth, even when it was mud. Every one of us needs to take it, to feel his own country, because a people without a country is a tramp, it's not a people. So as long as we have our own country, we are a people, and that's why he said there are no people without land. We all need to do the same thing and see it as our country, not ours. Each of us has to say - my country and only then will it be our country, indeed ours, and not that one - social, everyone's and nobody's. When everyone thinks that Serbia is, to say -- my country of Serbia, at that moment Serbia will flourish. We must see her as Israelis, as Americans. They all see it as their own country. And then we'll move forward. This country gives everyone a chance. This power is neither dictatorial nor autocratic, nor so forth. This power, here, across the street, gentlemen can testify, give everyone a chance. Whoever wants to work in favor of progress, this power gives everyone a chance. Many criticise, and I'm one of the critics, the appearance that many are so-called. The yellows found places in the ranks of the winners. Maybe I was wrong, probably I was, probably I should have, and a lot of people proved they deserved that chance. There are also those who have proved not to be. But I claim that the President of the Republic and the President of the most powerful party gave opportunity to all, including the two peasant parties, the United Peasant Party of Mr Miletic and the People's Peasant Party, which I belong to. So, each of us brought in some cube that's in the mosaic, which is called the state of Serbia, and made some colour wealth that makes Serbia look better and better. This country is ours and we don't have another one. This country gives enough and will give enough for everyone's needs, but it will not give any more the greed it had for Gilas, Tadic, Jeremic and those yellow teams. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-14-0.u8370	Since we no longer have registered presidents or authorised representatives of parliamentary groups, we are moving on to the list of registered members. The People's Messenger Samir Tandir has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-14-0.u8371	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, Academy member Zukorlic, co-worker and fellow MPs, respected minister, respected ministry representatives, today we are talking about technical agreements. Certainly, the Justice and Reconciliation Party, as the strongest as the Bosniak party in the Republic of Serbia, will support these agreements. However, these technical agreements are steps that make a fundamental difference between a developed, regulated state and one that is not. It is no accident that our country, the Republic of Serbia, is the champion when it comes to the arrival of foreign investors and that in the region we are really convincing first when it comes to these investments coming from the side. Why? It's because of these agreements. How interesting or uninteresting for citizens and citizens, how technical they really are, but these are the steps we have to take, little, tiny steps we have to go to the finish line. What really is the desire and intensity of all of us is a fundamental democratic society and a successful economy that is the leader in this part of Europe and in this region of the southwest Balkans. What I'm trying to say specifically is that I'm happy to talk about remote heating when it comes to Kragujevac. I think the challenge your Ministry will face, except for the insanitary dumps and unpolluted rivers, is certainly city heat. I think it's very important that we solve it and that it's on the agenda. Our party's leader, academician Muamer Zukorlic, spoke about the situation in Novi Pazar. That's the situation, unfortunately, in most of our country. That's the situation in the city I come from, Prepolje. So, the city heat uses coal, they use a mule, and it's big contaminants. This is something that we must essentially and systematically solve in the next period, and this will measure the result of both this Government and your Ministry. As regards the EFTA Agreement, as regards the Agreement on Agricultural Products with Iceland and Switzerland, I would like to say that these are important agreements. Whether they sound bombistic or not, that's another question, but agriculture is our country's developmental chance. I mean, we have huge potential and every agreement with every country is a chance for our primary agricultural producer. I want to say that our companies work very hard on education, on implementing standards, that we are leaders in this part of Europe when we talk about food production and when it comes to BRS, IFS and Halal standard of quality and kosher standard of quality. All the largest food companies and food producers in the Republic of Serbia have implemented those standards, and that is proof that we can go to both European and other markets. What I want to point out, as one of the challenges that we are facing in practice, is that we have a good legislative process, and when it comes to CEFTA agreements both with the Russian Federation and with the Republic of Turkey. However, some speakers mentioned this, in practice we have a problem with re-export. So, instead of really exploiting our companies, most of them are using, I congratulate them on that, the sanctions the EU imposed on the Russian Federation, we had the challenges of re-exporting where some producers are trying to import certain raw materials and products from the EU, repack and export to Russia. We had, unfortunately, a suspension during some period of that export. It's something we can't allow, which violates our international reputation. I call on the Ministry of Agriculture to be really restrictive when it comes to such cases. In voting day, we will support all these agreements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-14-0.u8372	The word has a folk MP, Vladan Glisic. He's not there. The word is made by the People's MP Janko Langura. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-14-0.u8373	Dear Chairman, the Honorable Minister of Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would first of all like to remind the public of an event that took place six years ago when then Serbian Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic showed great human responsibility and great courage and when he went to honor all victims in Srebrenica, and was welcomed so that the hosts organised a shameful attempted murder. It's been six years since, and no one's been arrested or convicted. None of the Bosniak politicians apologized or showed regret. They kept their mouths shut just as they calmly watched that crazy mob trying to kill the president of Serbia. As he showed great courage in his coming, in that shameful act of attempted murder, Alexander Vukic showed that he was not afraid of them and that he would not escape a metre. I would now tell all Bosniak politicians that if they are not able to find at least one employer or at least one participant in this shameful assassination attempt, it is obvious that it is either their incompetence or their evil intention. What is particularly interesting, I can understand in one way the hatred of Bosniak politicians towards Alexander Vukic, they have already shown that hatred years ago. What is really unclear to me is that on that very day, on the anniversary of that attempt of a shameful assassination in Belgrade, this cover page is published by Milovan Brkic. Since the citizens can't see, I'll read it. In addition to a picture by our President Aleksandr Vukic, the big headline is: "One shot can wake occupied Serbia. The time has come to fight." I know, although the authorities would do their part of the job and if Milovan Brkic came to court for such a shameful title, that he would again, who knows which way to complain, about his incompetence. I think it's really high time for the authorities to do their part of the job, because this is the kind of thing someone has to answer for. Also, I would really like to congratulate from this place the greatest tennis player of all time, Novak Djokovic, on the results achieved and what represents Serbia and my people in the right light. I should also like to say that what Novak Djokovic is doing in the field of world tennis, I feel free to say that you, the minister, are working in Serbia in the field of environmental protection. Why is that? Namely, when it comes to the Nature Protection Act, I cannot help but commend your results and the results of your ministry, because it is truly amazing what you have done in the field of environmental protection in the past period. This is the first time in our country's history that we have someone at the head of the ministry who really cares about protecting the environment. We all remember that until just a year ago, we only had that ministry on paper. No one in the people knew who the minister was, but when it came out, everyone wondered if this man was alive, never showed up in the media once, nor talked to the citizens while we have an absolutely opposite today. You're in the field every day, you're visiting citizens every day, you're listening to their problems, and you're facing these problems, and you're solving all these problems. As one of the most certainly best results, I can specify the recovery of the “Stvanina” dump. Here our citizens can see what it looked like once and what it looks like today. This is one decades-old problem for all inhabitants of the Prepolje and all municipalities located downriver on the Lim River. This is the problem, I've already said, that for decades has caused incredible problems to all the citizens of Prepolje, and no one should have faced this problem until now. You faced him very successfully. I'd also have to point out the cleaning up of the Potpec Lake, an ecological bomb. You can look at what it looked like. Today, Lake Potpetzko looks like this, what it's supposed to look like, what it has to look like. Believe it or not, more than 20,000 cc's of garbage have been taken out of Potpečko Lake or if you're relieved by several hundred trucks of waste. What makes me particularly happy is that you won't stop at this. In addition to this, the fact that we already have an open competition to obtain three chains that will retain the arrival of waste from neighbouring Montenegro and which, I believe, will permanently solve this problem. Two days ago, we could only see one in a series of competitions and that 43 cities and municipalities were approved for the purpose of land protection projects. These funds are intended to resuscitate land with dumps, erotic land, rinks, mudslides and the like. What is clear and well known is that all this I have stated would not have been possible, in the previous period, if we had not had the responsibility of leading the state by Alexander Vukic, who, despite the world's greatest crisis caused by the pandemic of the coronary virus, managed to maintain stable finances, to provide vaccines for all our citizens, and to find a way out of the crisis, which envied us by much larger and more developed countries. As usual, after all these extraordinary results, one general hash and attacks by Gilas and Solak's media on your account and on behalf of President Alexander Vukic. The former regime's gentlemen, as they usually do, soon forgot that those who did not respect absolutely any environmental law, would now be in their thieving manner, attacking you to hide all their thievings and all their marifets that they did. So every day we can hear Dragan Djilas, who organizes all the most disgusting attacks from Mauritius, and Marinika Tepic, who follows all those orders from his "Porse" which cost nothing less than 155,000 euros. That amount of money she spent on her luxury car is enough to clean up a non-sanitary dump in any part of our Serbia. As they have already shown, when they were in power, they don't care about the citizens, let alone the protection of the environment. If they had cared about it, there would have been hundreds of millions of euros in their White World accounts, which they shamelessly kidnapped our citizens. Once again, Minister, I would really like to commend you for your extraordinary results and give you absolute support in further work, and I am sure that by the end of your term we will all be proud of you and your results which are already and how to admire you. Thank you. Long live decent Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-14-0.u8374	Comrade Langura, you're a young man, you're just practicing politics, and it's good to get a chance, but try in the future when you're speaking on the identified topics to find any connection between the hate of Bosniak politicians and other topics, but at least that's what it looks like. Thank you. Now, Parliamentwoman Jasmine Karanac.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-14-0.u8375	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister, respected cabinet members, colleagues and fellow MPs, I would like to point out at the very beginning that all these agreements, which we are discussing today, are beneficial and good for our country, for trade, for agriculture, and they will affect the improvement of the environment and therefore the Social Democratic Party of Serbia will support all these proposals. In my presentation, I will first refer to the proposal for a law confirming the decision of the Mixed Committee of the EFTE and the Republic of Serbia on free trade, and regarding the definition of products of origin. The Free Trade Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the European Free Trade Association member states, which was signed in 2009, has been a major opportunity for our country to better position itself in the free trade regime. However, as I said, the agreement between Serbia and the EFTA was signed 12 years ago, and since trade is a living process and the rules on the market are constantly changing, we must adapt and respect the regulations imposed by members of the association. In this case, it is Iceland, Linhenstein, Norway and Switzerland as members of the EFTA. Why is this agreement important? Because it allows exports of our products without customs duty to a market that has more than 13 million inhabitants, and not only that, but also attracts foreign investors from these countries. In addition to investment to our farmers of great importance, there will be experience which will be gained by participating in these markets. Through the participation in highly developed and highly demanding markets of EFTA countries, our farmers and processors are also opening up the possibility to acquire new extremely valuable knowledge, both through cooperation with producers from these countries and through the competition process on the market. With each of these members, Serbia has signed special bilateral agreements on trade in agricultural products and they form an integral part of the EFTA agreement. Today, we are also considering two bilateral agreements with two EFTA members, Switzerland and Iceland, which will be introduced into the agreements on agriculture between our country and the two countries. The decision of the EFTA Mixed Committee, which we are discussing today, and which this Parliament is to confirm primarily concerns a new set of rules on the origin of goods, which provides for the possibility of applying full cumulation of origin, i.e. addition of origin with countries and territories with which it is possible. The latest EFTA decision also concerns the abolition of the ban on vomiting and the exemption from customs duty and provides the possibility of electronic issue and acceptance of proof of origin. All these are new and expedient circumstances for both our producers and our exporters. Products with a geographical indication are resources for local economic development and they make a difference because they are a concept of authenticity and quality and as such they are more competitive on the market. This is particularly important when it comes to exports to the EFTA countries. These are markets that characterize a very high degree of development and some of the richest markets on which our farmers export their products. For example, the Swiss market, the country with which we are today confirming one of the agreements on agricultural products, and while Switzerland manages to cover its needs in the area of animal products remains a significant importer of plant products and there is our chance. Even in pandemic 2020, Switzerland imported agricultural products worth over 10 billion euros, but what is significant to us is the structure of this product. In addition to imports of cereals for our farmers and producers, the biggest opportunity is the growth of imports of fruit and frozen fruit products, which is a great opportunity for many of our products that are famous and recognised in the world for their quality, such as the world-renowned Serb raspberries. The second segment of growth is part of a market where our farmers already have experience on this market, which is organic products, spices and medicinal plants. What is a characteristic of these products is that they represent a premium of products in the area of agriculture and that customers are looking for them in the most demanding segments of the market. These are products that can be proven in any way by their quality, purity of ingredients and their process, the process of their production is controlled and certified. Evidence of origin, as well as an efficient and easy way to reach it, is vital for producers participating in this market. In the structure of Serbia's landlocks, the government and the agriculture ministry recognized that organic production is a great opportunity for the survival and development of smaller land. Thus, the growth of products that have evidence of geographical origin, i.e. organic products, can significantly contribute to the survival of local communities and rural households, and are also an important part of the tourist and gastronomic offer of a region. It is therefore necessary to encourage young people, especially farmers, to develop their own brand and protect their geographical origin. We have to change habits, make a finished product, not export raw materials, while others of our same raw materials give us back the finished product at much higher prices. Protection of the origin of the product will certainly increase both demand and competitiveness of the product and ultimately, what is most important, its price. Some examples suggest that the prices of the product following the protection of its origin have increased by 30% since consumers are increasingly interested in quality, demand specific products, but with some different unusual characteristics and are therefore willing to pay a higher price. This advantage should be used because Serbia is a agricultural country and we need to base ourselves as much as possible and encourage food production because it is a significant national resource, and by protecting origin we are creating an additional value. I think our country's potential for producing food with a protected name and origin is high, and they're still not used enough. Serbia has 45 food products with protected geographical origin, 11 of which are certified. Since such products are sometimes up to three times more expensive and are sought in the demanding foreign market, we need to pay more attention to this issue, and we need to adapt our legislation and regulations in the areas of production, processing, safety, preservation, food transport to EU standards. Therefore, the SDPS Group will support the proposed agreements concerning both geographical origin and agricultural products and international transport between Serbia and the EFTA States. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-14-0.u8376	The word has a National MP, Slavenko Unkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-14-0.u8377	The Honorable Chairman, a respected minister with associates, respected fellow MPs. The diplomatic and economic co-operation of our country with the world has contributed to the expansion of a free trade agreement that allows Serbia's producers to have a favourable market status of more than 1.3 billion people. In addition to CEFTA and co-operation with Turkey, Serbian businessmen have privileged status for exports of goods to Russia, Belarus and Kazakhstan, as well as for the right to use a system of preferences with the US, as well as for exports to developed EU and EFTA countries. For ten years, the Serbian government has been implementing a free trade agreement with the member states of the European Free Trade Association of the EFTA, consisting of Switzerland, Norway, Liechtenstein and Iceland. The signing and continuation of this agreement with the EFTA is another step towards better positioning our country in the free trade regime. The agreement allows the export of Serbian products without customs duty to the market of about 13 million inhabitants and this is a great opportunity with Serbian producers, exporters, and also a good opportunity to attract new foreign investments. Serbia often exports aluminum, fruit, vegetables, car parts, copper, lime and parts of new furniture in the country, and customs duties are not charged for all industrial products. As regards agriculture, all EFTA countries have been uniquely treated processed agricultural products, fish products, while basic agricultural products have been negotiated bilaterally, i.e. with each country in particular. Today's proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Confirming the decision of the Mixed Committee between the EFTA States and the Republic of Serbia on Free Trade, defines the concept - originating products and improves the methods of alternative administrative co-operation. All our partners are in the free trade zone and our countries have agreed to include in our bilateral agreements new rules of origin to be applied alternatively with the already existing rules of the regional PEN Convention that Serbia won in 2013. These amendments to the laws amend Protocol B of this Agreement by introducing a new set of rules on the origin of goods, etc. the alternative rules that are transitional and will apply until the revised rules of the PEN Convention enter into force. The new rules have been modernised and will bring many benefits to our businesses, such as the easier acquisition of Serbian origin of goods intended for preferential exports and, in that essence, the most important change of this law, as well as the easier possibility of issuing electronic evidence and accepting evidence of the origin of goods. The other two bilateral agreements with Iceland and the Swiss Confederation on trade in agricultural products are seen in the context of this first agreement that we are now changing. It is specific levels of liberalisation, both agreements are referred to Protocol B of the rules of origin of the basic agreement. Since we're changing protocol B, we're also adapting our bilateral agreements to these two states. The agreement with Norway that was to be together with this country will be signed significantly because they have not implemented internal procedures for signing a decision to amend the agreement. When it comes to amending and supplementing the Law on the Confirmation of the Customs Convention on International Transport of Goods, known as the TIM Convention, they are mostly technical. This TIM Karnet system offers advantages for all links in the chain of international goods transport, both for carriers and the customs system and for transport and trade. This TIM Carnet is designed to make it easier to move goods as much as possible and to guarantee transit countries the coverage of customs duties in the event of abuse and this system provides the safest way to secure goods in transport. Amendments to the law mainly concern compliance with advanced technologies and with the needs of businesses and bodies acting, in the case of transit documents and documents as well as customs procedures. The Convention has allowed international transit procedures for the first time in both the countries of North Africa and the Middle East, as well as countries throughout Europe, unlike the Convention on Common Transit, which applies only to EU members. In addition to all these conventions of law and agreement, we still have a huge problem at our border crossings when it comes to kilometre truck columns and all procedures related to it. Serbian companies face numerous difficulties in road transporting goods sent to the EU. The reasons are mainly found at the border crossings towards Croatia, Hungary and this is indeed a major problem for our companies. The idea of green corridors that would directly bind the EU and the Western Balkans would greatly help solve problems, as well as projects relating to the exchange of data on goods and the transmission of these data to the customs terminal before the truck's arrival. In order to further develop transport on the route of the Western Balkans, the EU needs to simplify procedures and establish a legal framework for digital transport documents. It would probably help a lot to solve these problems and expand the capacity of customs terminals, as well as to open the crossings for 24 hours. This is inevitable to happen because of the growing presence of foreign investment in our country and the needs of those companies that operate here to effectively challenge their products, but it is necessary to take some important steps as soon as possible. According to some estimates, 800 million eves per year would save Western Balkan countries if they introduced joint customs controls at border crossings such as the one that functioned between Presevo and Tabanovac last September, which is our only integrated border crossing. And that would probably make a model for the whole Balkans and solve the problem successfully. Regardless of all, today's agenda agreements are in the interest of our country and the JS parliamentary group will support the proposals mentioned in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-14-0.u8378	Thank you. Now the word has a folk MP, Ugljesa Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-14-0.u8379	Thank you, Vice President. A respected minister with associates, respected colleagues, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, under the influence of social political and economic movements in the world, with new achievements of modern science and technology, changing the conditions and way of trade. Our country's foreign trade policy successfully monitors and adapts to global rules and trends. Accordingly, the business policy of companies operating on our market must be in line with both national and relevant foreign regulations in these areas. Each country has its own system of economic relations with abroad, the basis of which is the external trading system, and foreign trade includes exchange and good services with abroad, as well as the pursuit of numerous economic activities. We must take into account the specificity of external trade and all economic activities that involve the existence of specific expertise. Special attention is given to the element of abroad, because unlike internal trade, our partner is abroad. The risk of business is greater, even the most distant markets in the world, their external trade, foreign exchange, customs, currency, and political and economic systems are necessary. All this theoretical knowledge and skills are necessary and necessary to keep the trade going uninterrupted. When we talk about a free trade agreement concluded by the Republic of Serbia, preferential rates of customs duty on goods are applied, originating in those countries which are lower than those prescribed by the Customs Tariff Act. The condition that these goods are accompanied by the relevant evidence of origin. Serbia has free trade agreements with several states and international organisations, such as the Russian Federation, Belarus, Turkey, Kazakhstan. It is also important to point out the CEFTA Agreement, the Stabilisation and Association Agreement with the EU, as well as the EFTA Agreement which is one of the points of our agenda today. The European Free Trade Association, known as the EFTA, was founded in 1960. Today, it numbers only four Member States, namely Iceland, the Principality of Linhenstein, the Kingdom of Norway and the Swiss Confederation. The other original members left the organisation after EU accession. The EFTA Agreement is subject to the type-approval of free trade agreements with several countries and international organisations. Our country's and EFTE's agreement came into force in 2010. The implementation of this agreement in practice contributes greatly to Serbia's better positioning on the world market and free trade regime. The agreement allows the export of Serbian products without customs duty to the market with 13 million inhabitants. When I talk about foreign trade in Serbia in 2019, compared to our other foreign trade partners, that percentage when we talk about the EFTI was 1%, which is not negligible even though there is room for further promotion. This is a great opportunity for Serbian producers and exporters, but also a chance to attract foreign investment to our market. Norway is one of the EFTE members and is one of the largest bilateral recruiters in Serbia, which has been achieved through various aid programmes, numerous investments and their investment. It is important to say that in 2016 a Serbian-Norway Business Forum was established. In addition to the FTA Free Trade Agreement, Serbia has concluded agreements on agriculture with all its Member States. Serbia is a traditional agricultural country, ready for the 21st century thanks to strategic and systematic investments in the development of the agricultural sector. We are working to make our agriculture more efficient, sustainable, productive and resistant to all climate conditions. According to the results of the last 2012 agricultural census in Serbia, nearly 600,000 agricultural holdings were registered. When we talk about agreements on agricultural products with Iceland and Switzerland, it is important to say that these amendments to these agreements refer to the definition of concepts - products of origin, which is also the basis for amendments and additions to Protocol B to the Agreement on Free Trade between the EFTA States and Serbia. By establishing a new set of rules on the origin of goods, it is envisaged that, for the purpose of implementing the Agreement and the specific provisions relating to the application of the rules of origin of goods, the Regional Convention on pan-Euro-Mediterranean preferential rules of origin shall be called upon. Also, I'd like to get on the line and say that the Ministry of Environment, what it's doing right now, I think the minister is really doing her job as responsible as possible, as well as her entire team. Also, Serbia's state is increasingly devoting funds and giving more attention to the preservation of the environment in Serbia. I see this as a continuation of continuity and enormous work by both the previous minister and the previous government, because I really can't break that thread between this and the last government. This is my first term as a national MP, and I also voted with my vote for this government, but I think the citizens in the elections held on 21 June confirmed that the previous government that we have done together has done a really good job, and I don't think that the quality of someone's work can be measured by the number of public appearances. I think he's being measured in a different way and I really want to congratulate you and your team on continuing this continuity, and what you're really doing with special attention to the growing problem that is affecting our citizens when we talk about protecting the environment. In the end, a few sentences and our bilateral agreement, relations with Switzerland. Switzerland is one of the most economically significant countries in the world, militaryly neutral. I'd like to express my great gratitude to this occasion for everything they've done for us. I would also remind myself that during World War I, the prominent Dr. Archibald Rice proved to be a great friend of our people, a man who really felt one of them, and participated as a volunteer in a war between this First World War between 1914 and 1918. He also personally engaged in the care of Serbian children in Switzerland, assisted the Serb population in the occupied country and also left us with his authorial works many of his observations that perhaps we ourselves do not apply and see for ourselves and certain things that he saw and in some way left a certain mark, a written trail of that time as a reminder to our people. Gratitude also to Switzerland for humanitarian aid during the 1990s, also told by my colleague Snezana Paunovic. I don't think we should forget that, and our extremely good relations also indicate a large number of our agreements between Serbia and Switzerland are about 51. Switzerland is our very important partner in terms of trade in goods and one of the largest investors in the Serbian economy. We also have a large number of Swiss companies in our country, 550 Swiss companies employing 11,000 workers. From all this I have stated, it is clear that the SPS Parliament Club today will support all these agreements, as well as other points of the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-14-0.u8380	Thank you. Now MP Milija Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-14-0.u8381	I thank you, Vice President of the Assembly, Mr Zukorlic. Dear colleagues, Serbian citizens, I am Milija Miletic, coming from Svrlig. It is the most beautiful municipality in Serbia located near the town of Nis. It's the most beautiful city in Serbia. By the way, here in the Assembly I was selected from the list Aleksandar Vukic – For our children and I represent the United Peasants' Party. As so far, I, as a Orthodox, as a believer first to all our Orthodox believers to congratulate today, is the glory of the Holy Witch. These are the protectors of our doctors, the glory of our doctors who are resting a little bit now, but we're all getting ready for that wave that will come if we don't all vaccinate. That's why dear doctors, dear medics, all the people who do health care, I wish you a lot of success in your work, and here in this place I invite all the people who haven't been vaccinated, all those young people to do it as soon as possible to protect our country of Serbia and to always be advanced. By the way, now we're talking about those things that matter to me as president of the United Peasants' Party, it's agriculture. All the things they just said, exporting our agricultural products, cooperating with some countries, that's something that's very important. But with those of us dealing with agriculture coming from areas like Svrlig, Bela Palanka, Gajin Han, Merošina, Bolovac and a large number of such municipalities in southeastern Serbia, we need to put a much greater emphasis on these areas through financial support. Direct financial support must come to these producers because nature there is very high quality, the possibility of farming is great. That is why we need to make sure that these agricultural producers of ours are easier to reach, that these subsidies come easier, that this is realistic for them. Otherwise, for me as a man who deals with agriculture, the big thing is cattle. The great need for our country is for Serbia to develop livestock, to increase the stock fund, and we are witnessing that the stock fund is falling. The stock fund is dropping, but we have to work on it to increase that stock fund. Helping our raspberries, good for you, taking off my hat. That's very important, but there's cattlemen. They need to find the opportunity to provide them with the placement of our products from these border areas, such as Svrljig, that we now have, in our case, very recognizable livestock, sheep, milk, cheese production, white male production. The same goes for this part of our Serbia in Raska, the shadowy sheep, the shadowy cheese. This applies to a large number of our municipalities in the territory of all Serbia that have quality products derived from our healthy production, agricultural health. Once again, the Honorable Minister, nature has given us everything. We must preserve that nature, and on the very bottom of that nature we have our agricultural products that we can place everywhere. Once again, distinguished colleagues, respected Mufti, Mr Zukorlic, I will vote as MP and president of the United Peasant Party in front of the Justice and Reconciliation Club and the United Peasant Party for the drafts of these laws because it is necessary. Once again, I call upon all the people who run the government, who lead the state to put more financial emphasis on helping our border areas, our villages and all those people who live in the country and from the village. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-14-0.u8382	Thank you, dear colleague. I must say, you're successfully successful in being one of the most recognizable representatives of the peasants in this country. Just keep going. Now the word has a folk MP Jelena Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-14-0.u8383	Thank you, Chairman. Dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, it is my great pleasure today to come from the region of Šumadija, that today's Parliament's agenda contains the draft law confirming the loan agreement for the remote heating project in the town of Kragujevac, signed between the Republic of Serbia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. The very importance of this project is too much to talk about. At the very beginning, I would like to express myself on behalf of the entire forest, as well as the citizens of the city of Kragujevac, to thank exactly the Ministry of Environmental Protection, which recognised the decades-old problem of the town of Kragujevac and the environmental problem which will be addressed by the realisation of this project itself and which has put this project among the priorities for its realisation. The reasons for the adoption of this law are certainly contained in the fact that on July 2nd 2021, the government of the Republic of Serbia, or the state of Serbia, signed a loan agreement with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which is worth 18m euros. This project is of paramount importance for the town of Kragujevac, since the town of Kragujevac is the fourth largest city in the Republic of Serbia, and it is also the largest industrial centre in this part of Serbia. Central Serbia. In addition, the university centre, a young people's site, as well as a medical centre for all central Serbia, as well as an entire part of western Serbia. Realisation of this project will not only contribute to improving the environmental standards of this city, but will have a significant impact on the rise of environmental awareness in the town of Kragujevac itself, and this speaks in favour of the fact not only that coal will be completely thrown out as energy in this remote heating, but natural gas from renewable energy sources will just be used. Otherwise, this contract will be realised in two phases, i.e. two tranches. The value of this contract is 18m euros and the first tranche is 14m euros, which refers to the disposal of old coal boilers and the rehabilitation of the entire system, as well as the installation of completely new gas boilers that are 110mg of capacity. Then, the second stage, what is very significant and what was the biggest major problem of the town of Kragujevac, is solving the problem of ash waste from this way of heating from the previous period and the recovery of future slags, as well as all that we have stored in the previous period for years. In this way, it is also possible to remediate the location itself where the ash will be deposited, but what is very important is that air ash which in the previous period was an exceptional problem for citizens living close to these locations. What I would like to point out is that this contract and the bank provided technical assistance of 276,000 euros for Energetics d.o.o. Kragujevac, who has committed to be the holder of the entire project and will also study feasibility in relation to the use of renewable and urban waste heat. The Ministry of Environmental Protection has also committed itself to developing a study of technical and ecological screening in order to determine the possibility of reuse of recycling and the safe disposal of flying ash and slag. What de facto will be the biggest result of the implementation of this project is improving air quality. Realising this project will reduce carbon dioxide emissions by 66% in the town of Kragujevac. In 556 tons a year, we'll have fewer sulphur emissions of four oxides, or sulfur dioxide. The emission of solid particles in the air will be eliminated. Then, we'll have reduced the emissions of nitrogen oxides by as much as 86%, even the water savings that existed in the heating system that have been up to now even 55%, and that's a 49,000-meter-cubic reduction. Then, what de facto will be a positive result is the safe disposal of the existing inventory of flying ash and the prevention of the future generation of ash and slag, as well as the contamination of water. With all these results, de facto will contribute to the town of Kragujevac, a city numbering 150,000 people, and in the city center there are about 20,000 people in rural areas and with the realization of such large and important projects a brand-new face. I must point out, since I come from the region of Šumadija, that in Kragujevac and build a regional centre with a burner, which will also solve many of the problems of surrounding municipalities, smaller municipalities located in the region of Šumadija. Of course, building a 100m-euro traffic station around Kragujevac will significantly contribute to reducing the concentration of exhaust gas in the city's core itself. These are major and significant projects that today build responsible Serbia headed by President Aleksandar Vukic. The state of Serbia has also shown today that the adoption of many laws is primarily ready to address the biggest challenges when we talk about environmentalism in Serbia today. Here in the Serbian Parliament, we recently passed the Climate Change Act, making a commitment to reduce carbon emissions of four oxides by 33% by 2030, i.e. carbon dioxide. Of course, the realization of such a project is one of the first steps to achieve such significant results. The state of Serbia certainly has its strategic goal, which is to implement the green agenda for the Western Balkans. In addition, by realising a number of projects and programmes in the Serbian state, in terms of environmentalology, the Serbian state has shown that it is also entering the green transition. Not only are the purchases of electric vehicles subsidized, numerous projects helping local self-government raise their ecological standards, the most important thing is that the state of Serbia is today, after 50 years, cutting Serbia's sewerage network, for the first time building waste water treatment systems across cities and municipalities in Serbia. Only in the region of Šumadija is the municipality of Knic, the town of Kragujevac, Lapovo, Batocina, Arandelovac. These are very important and expensive projects that lead Serbia forward with large and large steps, especially when it comes to the ecological environment. It is the policy of President Aleksandar Vukic, who leads Serbia forward, unlike the promoters of the former regime, who not only use ecology as a front for their political actions, but do the worst things, which is to deceive citizens of Serbia and deceive the people of the Republic of Serbia with their lies about their false awareness of ecology. We're witnessing that Dragan Gilas, with money from Mauritius, is printing his environmental paper, so-called The "political bulletin" which has one single goal, which is to degrade everything that the state of Serbia is doing today, to degrade whether these are investments, infrastructure, whether they are very important and expensive environmental projects that the state of Serbia is implementing today. The citizens of Serbia and how well they know that they are assessing who cut the canvass at the time of their reign in the boulevard of King Alexander, and that's the only thing they've ever done with environmentalism, who hasn't built a metre of sewers, who hasn't built a metre of roads, who hasn't even cared about the environment at all, but also well knows who's building Serbia today and who's taking care of every citizen of the Republic of Serbia and who's responsible for taking care first of all of our country's environmental consciousness. Otherwise, environmentalism is a global problem for the world, not only for the Serbian states, but the state of Serbia has once again shown that it can and can make a significant contribution to all this. Serbia once again shows that it is on the European path, that it can and can apply the green agenda and face all the problems of today, especially when it comes to ecology, and that it can certainly also be a leader in the Western Balkans. So today I am extremely pleased that such an important project will be implemented in the future in Šumadia, i.e. in the town of Kragujevac, the largest city in our region. I hope that in the future we will continue to implement such important projects that will significantly improve the quality of citizens, not only the town of Kragujevac, but throughout Serbia. Thanks again. Long live the Shumadi! Long live Serbia!
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-14-0.u8384	I thank the MP Jelena Obradovic. The People's Messenger Radovan Aregina has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-14-0.u8385	The esteemed chairman, a respected minister with a team, respected fellow Members of Parliament, respected fellow Members of the People, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I will talk about agreements, I will make a particular commitment, one topic that is interesting for all of eastern Serbia and I will say to Southeast Serbia, which is two agreements on Switzerland and Iceland. But one topic to speed up all the agreements that we are going to adopt and which are prosperous is to help with some of the problems that are happening to us on certain parts of the territory, which are the problem of ordinary administration. Usually a policy, which is what it is, and we know that in Serbia we are always under certain pressure and we always have a lot of issues, big topics, so that some things promote, the administration can't respond in time, but we will warn from here from parliament, with the presence of relevant people who are watching and watching relevant people from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, that we are solving certain problems and signalling them. I'm glad that my colleague is earlier, and it's especially good for me, which is also Milija who mentions that Srlig is the most beautiful in our work, and I say that Kladov's is the most beautiful, but I think the whole of Serbia, along with eastern Serbia and the Shumadi, which our colleague mentioned here, is that we are one very beautiful country and that we have a serious chance of being a leading country in Southeast Europe, and we are well on the way to be it. In particular, in the modern world, an increasingly intense process of globalisation and the interdependence of countries in most countries, an external trade exchange covering imports and exports of a particular country has a significant share in GDP, and we know when GDP is at an envious level, then it means in translation as much exports, or greater GDP, and greater GDP withdraws larger salaries, larger pensions, greater social giving, giving to culture and sports that we need, because yet people need to live in all segments. A free trade agreement, international bilateral and multilateral agreements that create conditions for a more favourable trade regime between contractors' apartments, and goods subject to external trade may become more competitive and accessible to users on the domestic market. In this way, there is a greater volume of exchange of goods, liberalisation of trade, but also an increase in foreign investment that we need, and this struggle behind which the state leadership is conducting, headed by the president, is certainly contributing to better development and greater GDP. The Republic of Serbia has a number of closed free trade agreements, including a Free Trade Agreement between the EFTA States and the Republic of Serbia. We also have concluded individual agreements on agricultural products with the EFTA Member States. By applying all these free trade agreements, conditions are created for the expansion of the free trade zone through a system of diagonal cumulation of the origin of goods. The cumulation of origin is an opportunity to use materials and products originating in the countries of the territory with which cumulation of origin is possible in the process of obtaining products originating. Today, we have a proposal to amend and supplement Protocol B to the EFTA Free Trade Agreement, as well as amendments to the Agreement on Agricultural Products with Iceland and Switzerland. When we mention Iceland and Switzerland to all the citizens who are following this, especially Switzerland, these are seriously developed countries, and every agreement is very important to us, but it also obliges us to help our farmers be competitive, because farmers, specifically from Switzerland, Iceland and other developed Western European countries, must have had better conditions and had no problems that our country had, and thus our farmer in this time after us. These changes relate to the definition of ‘original products’, and when we say ‘original products’, I cannot say no to the wine area, wineries, Negotin region. Protocol B to the EFTA Agreement has been amended in such a way that, for the purposes of applying the rules of origin of goods, it calls for provisions of the pan-Euro-Mediterranean preferential rules of origin. This Convention constitutes an international agreement that prescribes uniform rules on the origin of goods. In order to make production, trade, imports and exports more efficient, it is necessary for all participants in the process to know legal regulations and respect regulations, adapt their business, cooperate with each other and inform each other in due time. I would take advantage of the opportunity to point in the context of the debate on these agreements one problem from my environment, when I say - my environment, my environment is southeastern Serbia, which is much wider than the local one. It is an order to determine border crossings through which consignments of plant, plant products, plant protection and plant nutrition and other consignments subject to veterinary control may be imported, transported or exported. Very significant. Now, please, watch out, these orders set one border crossing to Romania, and the length of the border towards Romania is 290.64 kilometers, with six border crossings, only one has a phytosanitary service, and the Republic of Bulgaria is 345, 51km long, with five border crossings, only one Gradina, which puts economic operators in an uninvited position in eastern Serbia, as well as Southeast ones. In order to import or export products from Romania that are subject to phytosanitary control, businesses in eastern and southern Serbia should carry out formalities at the Vatin border crossing, where a phytosanitary inspection is organised. Also, to import or export goods from Bulgaria that are subject to veterinary-sanitary control, businesses in eastern Serbia would have to carry out formalities at the border crossing of Gradin. Now, it means that within a distance of 450 kilometers, when we say the border crossing of Gradina, we say the border crossing of Đerdap I, and you have the border crossing of the Mokranje-Vrška Čuka, etc., meaning Gradina, Đerdap, Vatin, 450 kilometers, you do not have a phytosanitary service in that space. I want to say from here that we need it and that we need it, that all these contracts that we're signing, that we're proposing, that we stand behind and that we vote for, that we allow them not to be put into trouble by means of these little things versus these contracts. Phytosanitary, veterinary-sanitary inspections, such as from the Romanian side of Đerdapa I, were almost there, both inspection services on the Romanian side, and on the Bulgarian side of Vrska and Vrska Čuka there remain both inspection services. It is necessary to develop the economy of eastern Serbia, as well as the south of Serbia, to provide for at least one more border crossing to be opened with permanent organised inspection services, so that economic operators reduce their shipping or shipping costs, thus reducing the prices of their products and being more competitive on the market. I won't speak, but I think the President of the Republic particularly emphasizes, he was visiting our neighborhood yesterday, and he was specifically at the Gerdap when he opened the translator, revitalizing the translator, these are serious infrastructure projects. Now, at that border crossing, there should be a phytosanitary inspection, because it was once at a very significant border crossing, and I believe that what I'm saying on behalf of all the businessmen will soon be understood. Take specifically the "Elixir" from the Exporting Powders, take the Wetlands, why don't you be phytosanitary, it's short, it's 30 kilometers, why don't people check in with the Ministry, why waste time? Let's start with two more border crossings to secure that service. I will not cite and read a list of other Southeast Serbian business entities who are in need of it. Dear Minister Irena, while you're here, and we have time, here, to use a little bit, I just wanted to signal two points from that Timočka landscape, specifically one from the Kladovo municipality and one relating to our region, namely the Zaječar region of Yugoslavia. I want to remind all those present and all who are watching today's programme that the former Zajcar region in Tito's Yugoslavia was the most developed economic region in the SFRY. E, specifically in Zaječar is envisaged and has far gone into the realisation of the regional dump "Halovo" and please make your contribution as Ministry, I think today we have the ideal conditions to speed it up and finally resolve the waste issue. Because we've signed multiple co-operation between the municipalities, these are two counties, Borski and Zajecarski, and we have eight municipalities that are gravitating there. It is that we, like Kladova 100 kilometers to Halova, are about, let's not bid now, in five kilometers, but it's very important, since it's gone a long way, in some things, the Ministry's input is very important, to create a better synergy and to complete this project. We have in one part of Kladov municipality a water issue. I want to give you the same signal here, the Grabin' Field and the Great Stone have a water problem. We have other parts of the municipality, but 15 years ago, a million euros were invested and a complete pipeline was solved underground. It's only a matter of finding in Grabovic's field, because that's what Cherni does, it's the obligations of Gerdap, and there's a divergence. They're going to investigate, and it turns out the water isn't good, and we're losing a year, two, three, to the next research. In other words, there are other options, other sources, and we have already invested millions of euros standing underground. This would solve the question of water for a serious part of the Kladovo municipality, which, from Grabovici polje, I mentioned for a moment the Great Kamenica and the Podvrtok, the Manastirica, etc. Even to Sipe, to the Gerdap Hydropower Plant itself. You already have a close-up, so not to start anything, but it's here, and if you can, I think your service wrote it down, and that you will certainly, I believe in you, engage to help us with these two projects. Thank you very much. That you're alive and well. Long live Serbia and lived Timoko Krajina.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-14-0.u8386	I thank the People's Messenger Radovan Aregina. The word is by MP Viktor Jevtovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-14-0.u8387	Thank you, Chairman. A respected minister with associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, will talk about confirming an amendment to the Agreement on Agricultural Products between the Republic of Serbia and Switzerland. As we know, agriculture has always been the backdrop of Serbian society and economy, especially in the turbulent times of Serbian history, rich in fertile land and worthy of Serbian hosts. It's always been the point of relying on the people as well as the state. With that, with a special pie, I'm talking about this law. Now that, thanks to President Aleksandr Vukic, we are respectable in all segments of the economy to the lion's struggle at the time of the pandemic, we are recognised as a crucial factor, not only in the EU, which represents the strategic definition of the Republic of Serbia, but throughout the world. This law confirms the amendment of the Agreement on Agricultural Products between the Republic of Serbia and the Swiss Confederation. The law aims to bring the Agreement on Agricultural Products between the Republic of Serbia and the Swiss Confederation in conjunction with Decision No 1 of 2021, the Mixed Committee between the EFTA States and the Republic of Serbia, adopted on 28 May 2021, to ensure that this Agreement calls for an updated Protocol B with the Free Trade Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the EFTA States. The reasons for adoption of the EFTA MK Decision are reflected, above all, in the implementation of a new set of rules on the origin of goods, which will make it possible for our products to be available on the EFTA market, where the threshold of tolerance will be increased to 15% of the net product mass, and for industrial products to 15% of the value of the finished product, allowing Serbian products to be available to us to a very important European Union market, which is also the goal of Alexander Vukic and the Government of Serbia, and thus to domestic producers, which will have multiple benefits from the products they place there. The policy goal of Aleksandar Vukic is Serbia's stability and economic prosperity, partnership and co-operation not only in the region, but also in the whole world, where at no time has all of Serbia's well-intentioned friends, such as China and Russia, with whom we also have exceptional bilateral relations on the placement of goods, services, construction of new factories, and all of this has been achieved by the virtuoso policy of Aleksandr Vukic. Unlike him, politicians of the former regime have determined their interests in destinations that we are talking about today from Switzerland, Luxembourg to Mauritius. But instead of a contract that would contribute to a better life for citizens, they contributed to a greater coefficient on their accounts, because the list of international banks was their only interest group, and the basic principle of how to rob and devastate all for personal interest. The best example for this is Dragan Gilas, an uncut recordr in personal investments, investing in himself and accounts in exotic destinations. Of course, it does not lag behind its breakthroughs that have shown up in expensive limos and in their time, while Serbian citizens have cried for a piece of bread, and those for another apartment or a jeep in better equipment. And now, so poor and small hold sermons to Alexander Vukic, who raised Serbia from the ashes, the Serbia they destroyed and in their own hopelessness the only answer they have and the only way they can see that without a choice they come to power is the threat of bullets, which they also through their poor listeners refer to President Aleksandr Vukic and his family. They simply live in the hope that they will be able to steal, destroy and instead of success and the fruits of work brought by Aleksandar Vukic and the Serbian Progressive Party would bury Serbia again in the ambience of hopelessness. But that ambition and that bullet will not allow them the people of Serbia. The people of Serbia see it all and see it completely, and therefore these harvesters of state couples will never ride the coat of arms of the people, such as they will remain on Twitter forever, where they belong. Long live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-14-0.u8388	Thank you. The word is by MP Vesna Nedovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-14-0.u8389	Thank you. The President-in-Office, honourable minister with associates, respected citizens of Serbia, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the conclusion of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and Iceland speaks of agricultural products supplements in order to establish a free trade zone between the Republic of Serbia and other countries that are members of the EFTA Agreement on a bilateral basis, as well as Iceland, as well as with Norway and Switzerland, including Liechtenstein. Part of the Agreement is Protocol B which defines the concept of a product of origin and methods of administrative co-operation in order to facilitate trade. It is important to say that Serbia is the world's safest countries in 34th place and the safest country in the region. The next on the list is Romania, which ranks 51st, and at the bottom of the list are Montenegro and Bosnia and Herzegovina. The safety index is affected by natural disasters, crime and terrorism. This speaks of politics, a determined policy of the government of the Republic of Serbia and President Aleksandar Vukic, who are determined to make Serbia a safe and stable country, a country of peace, a country of real rule. What he says about confirming it is German investment in Serbia. In Serbia, 400 German companies currently operate, which employ 65,000 people. Germany has been one of Serbia's largest investment partners for years, and this long business tradition makes Serbia a stable partner. German investors assess Serbia's economic development positive, especially seeing Serbia emerge from the root of the crisis. The most important business in which the Germans invested the automotive industry, which is car parts. And the most investment areas for investment are interesting electrical engineering and textile industry. The investment potential also provides agriculture. Another important agreement signed in Moscow on 25 October 2019 with EA, EU, Russia, Kazakhstan, Belarus, Armenia and Kyrgyzstan. An agreement that takes effect, Serbia opens a market of 180 million people where our producers will be able to export under very favourable conditions, which means that 90% of the products will be subject to a duty-free regime. The greatest benefits of this Agreement will be agricultural products. Serbia must strengthen the economics. Therefore, it must be fruitful and stable for all world investment. Our path is the EU's path, but we want to be partners with the whole world and that is why we need to safeguard peace and stability. While public debt is growing everywhere, such as in Italy at 167%, France 120%, Greece 240%, Croatia 88%, Montenegro at 106%, Serbia's public debt, despite the crown, hangs on 58% and gives confidence to investors. I quote Serbian President Alexander Vukic's words: "Serbia will win with more factories, higher salaries and pensions that it wants to be better than others, and the only thing it will say is that we won't do anything else, but we won't let by the standards of others be good if we give something that they don't think belongs to us and belongs to us for more than nine and a half centuries." Long live Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-14-0.u8390	Thank you. The word is Luke Kebar.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-14-0.u8391	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman-in-Office of Dr Orlic, the Honorable Head of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and his State Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, dear citizens and citizens of Serbia, are talking today's session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia about very important trade agreements, i.e. international trade in agricultural products. Namely, we need to confirm the government's conclusions made under the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and Iceland, as well as between the Republic of Serbia and the Swiss Confederation, based on that agreement with the EFTA States, or the European Free Trade Association of 2009, which later came into force with us in 2010. These are very important agreements. Of course, at the meeting of this Mixed Committee between the EFTA and Serbia, which is responsible for implementing this Agreement, there have been some changes concerning the update of this Protocol B, on the definitions of origin of products, i.e. goods, specifically here agricultural products, but also those methods of administrative co-operation, i.e. new administrative procedures, regulations and elements. There are several amendments under this Agreement. I'll list the most important ones anyway. They include the possibility of applying full cumulation of the origin of goods, the removal of the principle of ban on vomiting and the exemption from customs duty, the increase of the tolerance threshold for agricultural products to 15% of the net weight of the product, and for industrial products of 15% of the finished value of the product, the more flexible principle of territoriality and direct transport, as well as new provisions on evidence and origin, and the possibility of electronic issue and acceptance of proof of origin, as well as alternative specific rules for agricultural and industrial products in order to facilitate the acquisition of these goods. These amendments shall be implemented within the framework of the application of the alternative transitional rules of the PEM Convention, i.e. the Pan European-Mediterranean Convention on preferential origin of goods, and we have joined this Convention in 2013. This all involves certain rules, certain changes and additions to these agreements, and they all embrace the interests of our country together. These are, above all, the interests of our country in the first place, of course, as well as the interests of our foreign and trade partners, especially in this area of the EFTA, and these are certainly Switzerland, Iceland, Norway and Liechtenstein. This will enable us to exchange better external trade, faster flow of goods and services, and all of this will contribute to strengthening our GDP and our overall economy. Of course, for these amendments and additions to this Protocol B and the method of administrative co-operation are certainly interested and EU member states, as well as CEFTA countries, EFTA countries, as well as Turkey, which is an additional indicator that the amendments to these agreements are very good and will contribute to the creation of an even better atmosphere in international trade. When we talk about international relations, more specifically Serbia's foreign policy, since we have two bilateral agreements here with the Swiss Confederation and Iceland, we have to mention one very important thing. We have good co-operation with Iceland, good bilateral relations. In fact, these relationships should continue to develop. Our total foreign trade exchange is about three million euros short, and we have two international agreements with them. This is, of course, the free trade agreement with the EFTA States, as well as the agreement that stems from that agreement individually with Iceland concerning agricultural products. Of course, these relations will continue to develop, but I say that there is a lot of work to be done when it comes to relations with Iceland, especially those economic relations, because I believe that three million euros is still very little sum, and I think that in the future we will be able to export more of our agricultural products there. As far as relations with the Swiss Confederation are concerned, there are relations at a very high level. They're very rich, very diverse. I will only mention that more than 200,000 Serbs live and work in Switzerland. Another very interesting piece of information, I found out somewhere that it was 1916, but still in 1879 we established diplomatic relations. So the Swiss Confederation is actually one of the countries with which we first established these diplomatic relations. Today we have an embassy in Bern, as well as a general consulate in Zurich. Of course, after that controversial OSCE presidency from 2014 to 2015, we are developing additional political co-operation. We have had several bilateral meetings, the arrival of their leadership in the Republic of Serbia, but also President Aleksandar Vukic and Prime Minister Ana Brnabic and our leadership have also visited the Swiss Confederation in the past few years. They're very good relationships. Of course, I'll only mention the legendary Archibald Rice. It's simple, we all know about his book, his opus regarding our culture, our history. He has helped us a lot in World War I, primarily as a criminologist, as a chemist, as a great, great friend of Serbia. Of course, in the last few years, I have mentioned this, more mutual visits have been made to the highest rank, but I must say that the Swiss Confederation of the 1990s has helped our evasive and displaced faces greatly. Economic relations, of course, are multi-developed and diverse. In 2020, it is noted that a total trade exchange of 410m euros, which is still a very good sum of money. Of course, I'll mention Barry Caleb's investment in Novi Sad. It's one chocolate factory, of course, but also donated over 400 million francs in the last 30 years. Swiss companies in Serbia employ about 11,000 workers, and it is certainly interesting that as many as 51 bilateral contracts were signed between Serbia and the Swiss Confederation, and the first one was in the late 19th century, following the establishment of diplomatic relations from 1879. We have this good co-operation with the Swiss Confederation and with some other countries, above all, thanks to the work and efforts of our President Aleksandr Vukic and our Government of the Republic of Serbia. The efforts they make simply resulted in Serbia's international reputation in the world being greatly improved and, simply, we are developing relations with all regions of the world today, both with Africa and Asia and with Europe and with the United States, with China and with all other countries. I am convinced that these relations, in particular relations with Iceland and with perhaps other African countries, would be at an even higher level, but unfortunately, by 2012, we had one authority that exclusively cared for its own pocket, one power that was not at all interested in international relations. They consisted of a mere diplomatic protocol, mere co-operation, the necessary co-operation that had to take place between Serbia and some other countries, based on some signed bilateral agreements. It was not detailed on the plan at all, Serbia's foreign policy plan. We led Mr. Vuk Jeremic. This Mr. Vuk Jeremic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is a man who is primarily highly educated, studied at Harvard, was the minister of foreign affairs of the Republic of Serbia, and was then president of the UN General Assembly. This is a man who was perhaps the most important in the world at UN level, and today this same Mr. Vuk Jeremic, this great intellectual, a member of the elite, a great politician, a great acquaintance of international relations, is today this Wolf Jeremic, ladies and gentlemen, a man who is a primitive man with his political opponents. This Mr. Vuk Jeremic, as we know, recently broke into the presidency with his group of failed politicians and autoskillers, entered the presidency and then tried to provoke an institution like the President of the Republic. The institution of the President of the Republic must be respected, whatever person it is. In every country, the President of the Republic is someone with the highest respect. And now you've got this one Wolf Jeremic, a politician, maybe even a world-class man, who went down to that level to want to physically deal with his political opponents. What kind of behavior is that? I'd say it's very childish behavior, very funny, very miserable, particularly tragic, such an intellectual to do so. And why does he do that? He's doing it because he's frustrated. He's doing it because he's aware that citizens no longer want to see him in power. They don't want that policy anymore. He belongs to the past. He belongs to that yellow tycoon past and he'll stay here forever. No one wants him. He simply doesn't know from anger what he wants to do and then he's trying in some of the most primitive, half-witted way to achieve some political point, simply to fulfill some of his own particular political interest. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, violence, aggression, will simply contribute to further collapse. According to some polls, Vuk Jeremic and his party have barely 1%. Imagine, 0.8%, 0.9% right now they have. That's why he acts so, so primitively, so aggressively, so arrogantly. He's frustrated. He knows he'll never come to power again. Mr. Jeremic is very wrong. Otherwise, it is a man who paves the way for Kosovo's independence. Let's just remember that clumsy question he asked the International Court of Justice. This man has completely devastated our foreign policy. He humiliated the state of Serbia, and that is why no one else will do so. Serbian citizens recognized his policy, and on the other hand they recognized Alexander Vukic's policy, Ana Brnabic, the entire foreign ministry, the entire government of the Republic of Serbia, recognized the work, recognized the results, recognized that diligence, that effort. And that's why this Wolf Jeremic and his inphasic yellow tycoon camel will never come to power again. Long live Serbia!
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-14-0.u8392	Thank you. Honorable Members of the People, acting unanimously. I would like to inform you that today we will be working after 1800 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to adopt acts that are on the agenda. The word is Ljiljana Malusic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-14-0.u8393	Thank you, Vice President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Orlic. Dear Minister with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I would only like a few sentences about Mr. Jeremic. I heard he's a top intellectual. It has nothing to do with the brain, he's not a top intellectual. A top intellectual is a man who's graduated from college, speaks two languages, has a wide education. I would say that the top intellectuals, for example, Mr. Aleksandar Vukic, Mr. Martinović, Mr. Orlic, and there are many more, Mr. Sinisa Mali, but Mr. Jeremic did not even pass the top intellectual. Under the circumstances, he had a chance to be where he was. He didn't show patriotism, I expected him to do it, but I wouldn't waste any more time on him and advertise him, he doesn't deserve it. I am going to talk today about the draft law confirming the Loan Treaty - Project of remote heating in Kragujevac, between the Republic of Serbia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, but first of all, I would make a small comparison between the Republic of Serbia from 2000 to 2012, so now, from 2012 to 2021, what has been done, as it used to be, as it is now. Many thanks to Mrs. Irene Vujovic, our minister, who has done more in a year than anyone in 10 years. You cleaned up what was amazing to me, that next to one of the most beautiful monasteries in the Republic of Serbia, where there is a fresco called the White Angel, which is protected by UNESCO, there is a bunch of garbage and, thank God, it's gone. This is something that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia are grateful for. I know you're doing a lot of work and keep doing that, because Serbia is pretty devastated about the dump and everything. No one paid attention to how to live and how many dumps there are in Serbia. For the first time, here we are, the SNS with its coalition partners. Let's see what it was from 2000 to 2012. Today, the Republic of Serbia is a very respectable country thanks to the wise policy of Mr. Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but it has not always been so. From 2000 to 2012 the country was completely devastated. After all, everyone knows this well, because 400,000 people were fired in 2008, of which 1,000 judges, and we later paid to return these distinguished colleagues, and judges, 40m euros. Not only that, there are 400,000 people left without a job, if each has two, three family members, calculate. They always honor us as Serbia is abandoned by citizens of the Republic of Serbia. They leave, of course, but since the 1960s, and no more than 2000, and then, unfortunately, wars, then from 2000 to 2012. Why? Because they devastated everything they touched. It was destroyed, closed over 590 companies, destroyed, and something they didn't like returned, so naked, to the Republic of Serbia. Unemployment was 26% at the time, and today, well-leaded government policy and our president, because there are excellent connections, wise foreign policy, we have over 230 factories open, only Mr. Vukic has a total of 350 open factories, employed by over 350,000 people. Unemployment today, even though we had a covid, is less than 9%. If it wasn't for the bastards, it'd be 7.5%. That's how it works. We're building today. They were disintegrating. We're building roads today. We built Corridor 10. We're building eight more highways, we're building Corridor 11, the Frushkogorski corridor, the Moravski corridor, eight highways. We're building fast tracks today. A quick track will be ready from Belgrade to Novi Sad by the end of this year, by the end of 2026, the entire railway will be ready, so that we can reach Budapest in two and a half hours. Revitalize railroads, build apartments for security services, military and police, build apartments for young couples, stimulate birth. We have absolutely one improvement. However we turn around we see construction sites all over the Republic of Serbia, so look only in Belgrade there are over 10,000 sites, in Serbia probably over 50,000. Serbia is building and working today. As for “Beograda on Water”, it is one of the most beautiful promenades in this part of the world. Who was walking could see how nice that was. First, since the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Vukic, president of Serbia, has thought to mark the mentions of the victims we enjoy today, that we are alive and healthy, we work and create. I will first look back at the Kragujevac because in 1941 something that should never have happened, 3,000 people were killed, 300 students were shot. By another source, I have information that as many as 7,000 people have been killed. One large site, and only because 10 Germans were wounded in the war in 1941. It was revenge to kill 3,000 people and 300 children. Kragujevac is a beautiful city. I wasn't born in Kragujevac, but every time I talk about any city in the Republic of Serbia, I will talk about it, because sometimes every city has a completely different face, and so does the Kragujevac, the centre of Šumadija, a wonderful city that was quite devastated. Let's just remember what it looked like in 2000, and look today. Projects are done all the time. There's going to be a square that's gorgeous and not just that. There will be reconstruction of the Emergency Centre of the Clinical Center. A project has also been developed for a new clinical center. Also, wastewater treatment will be done in Kragujevac. 54m euros were allocated for that. Also, a 75m-euro northern bypass will be created, a train line called Subotica – Cvetojevac, which costs 19m euros. Also, the Court of Justice ends, the total investment will cost 2.4 billion dinars. The construction of apartments for security forces is almost over. It's going to split up 972 apartments. Also, an investment worth 1.7m euros will be in Kragujevac. The construction of a new shopping centre is under way, etc. Kragujevac is being built, and I'm also in charge of the numbers because we take loans of 1% and 2%, and former DOS or DS, all of them together, took loans of 7%, 8%, 9%. The debt of the Republic, the public debt of the Republic of Serbia today stands at 58% of GDP. Why am I saying that? Because our children won't have to repay their loans. With all the pandemics we've had, it's 58%. We heard my dear colleague talking about how many other countries were in charge. That's the way it's supposed to be, and I'm going to talk about this project for a little while now, since it's been said a lot. The loan for this project, which is the modernisation of the city's remote heating system and the replacement of the existing coal plant, amounts to 18m euros. The first figure was 20 million, and then they analyzed that 18m euros was enough. The first phase will be spent 14m euros, for the second phase of fourm euros. The first stage is extremely important, because there will be a remont of these existing boilers that have heated to coal and polluted the environment. The other one, too. New boilers will be installed that will exclusively work with hot water, means gas, natural gas, so there will be no pollution, there will be no particles. Also, there's gonna be a lot of surveillance and it's gonna be independent engineers. The first phase will be completed by 2023, the second phase will be in 2024, meaning that Kragujevac, sometimes now, cannot be recognized. I quote these numbers to know how the SNS works, to know what's being built. Kragujevac is one of the cities where many are built. All towns in Serbia are slowly revitalised, there is no city where something is not being built. What I left for the end is that yesterday I saw on TV that half the world is on strike because there is no vaccine. We have four kinds of vaccines. They say there are no friends in politics, there's only interest. He's got an interest, but he's got a friend. I ask all young people to be vaccinated because they are much greater consequences than not vaccination than when you are vaccinated. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-14-0.u8394	Thank you. The word has the People's MP, Ugljesa Mrdić.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-14-0.u8395	Thank you. Dear Serbian citizens, I fully support what the Ministry of Environment is doing and what the Serbian Government is doing in terms of environmental consciousness and waste cleaning, and that Serbia is growing up in that segment, when it comes to ecosystems, in a modern European state, which it is. It is too high to say how important the topic of ecology itself is and as far as European integration is concerned, in the end, the safety of our citizens' health, but I would like to remind myself of one period until 2012, when we had the situation that the former regime, or the then rule of the DS and their satellites, led a number of actions, which my colleagues spoke of during today and yesterday, which resulted in the "Let's Clean Serbia" action. Of course, it was not an action to clean Serbia from waste. It was an action to clear Serbia's budget. They cleaned the budgets according to local self-government, according to ministries, they put millions in their pockets, and that's why today we have one situation where Dragan Gilas visits banks in the country and abroad to raise money from his accounts. On the other hand, we have Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic who visits factories every day, visits construction sites, visits Serbia and visits workers. In talks with construction workers, according to factories, they discuss their problems in various parts of Serbia and see how they enable better working conditions with their associates, raise salaries and create a climate in Serbia to bring new investments that will affect the increase and profits and pensions. The opposition led by Dragan Gilas and the aforementioned Vuk Jeremic is not at peace, she is threatening, she is threatening, she is threatening to die, so I want to share with the citizens of Serbia the information I received from the competent Republic Public Prosecutor's Office, and on the issues I raised at the session of the Serbian Parliament held on 29 June, which concerns the opposition's activities in terms of violent behaviour and the threat of death to Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic, his brother Andrej Vukic and the family Vukic. Therefore, dear citizens of Serbia, I was informed that a more public prosecutor's office in Belgrade is handling the case following a criminal report by the MUP, the Office for Combating Organized Crime, filed against Zoran Cicko of Belgrade for the criminal offence of security under Article 138(1). A criminal code against the damage of Andrej Vukic. So, it is also clear to this occasion that I would like to commend the prosecution which, in collaboration with the MUP, has established all the facts concerning the shameful death threats addressed to Andrej Vukic and I hope that both Cicak and all those who threaten will be prosecuted and adequately convicted. Also, the Third Basic Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade concluded an agreement with the defendant, Milosevic Zimonjic, on the recognition of the crime - a threat to security in connection with attitude 1. A criminal law at the expense of the president of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic, and the defendant's sentence of probation has been found in prison for one year with a four-year period of verification. That's Gilas' opposition. So here's what things they're used to, looking to threaten, to scare. However, they will never scare either President Vukic, his family, or you from the Serbian government, or you, Mrs Vujovic, and all of us MPs and all of the president's closest associates. Also, I received information from the same Republic Public Prosecutor's Office that two criminal proceedings have been initiated in Belgrade's Higher Public Prosecutor's Office since 7 July of last year, and we know what happened here in front of the Assembly and the Serbian Parliament on July 7th. The case against the accused Srdjan Nog for a criminal offence - violent behaviour at a sports event or a public gathering in Article 344, paragraph 3 in relation to Tava 1. A criminal code in which the investigation was conducted by order of 11 July last year, and ended with an order on 24 May and the case was delivered to Belgrade's First Basic Public Prosecutor's Office on 28 May. Also, against the defendant Damjan Knezevic for a crime - violent behaviour at a sports event or a public rally on 9 July 2020, an order was given to conduct an investigation, and on 28 May this year the case was delivered to the Belgrade First General Public Prosecutor's Office for Criminal Crime - Violent behaviour. Let me remind you, therefore, both Srdjan Nogo and Damian Knezevic and their comrades, those who, as leaders of the opposition, attacked, beat people here, threw stones at police officers. Their comrades from the Dvora also physically attacked our colleague, Marjan Risticevic. They tried every possible violent method to enter the Serbian Parliament and eventually the state institutions reacted, just to remind us, and we should not forget that, after the hunger strike of our dear colleagues Dr. Aleksandr Martinovic and dear colleague Sandra Bozic. Then the prosecution reacted. I hope the D.A.'s office doesn't just stay on this information that I've been given and that the above-mentioned D.A.'s office will continue to lead the investigation so this sort of thing doesn't happen again. So Serbia is a modern democratic country where everyone has the right to their own opinion from both opposition and position. We are witnessing through the social networks of one hysteria and most of the media in Serbia against President Vukic, against the Serbian government and against all those who are telling the truth. My colleague, Janko Langura, looked well at an event that unfortunately was not found in this way, nor processed, which concerns the assassination of President Aleksandar Vukic in Srebrenica six years ago, then at the post of Serbian Prime Minister. So for every assassination, every violent behavior, outburst and threat should be answered both in Serbia and in countries in the region. On the occasion of Srebrenica, on behalf of friends and families of victims from Republika Srpska and western Serbia, I will share information with you dear colleagues, with you distinguished guests and with the citizens of Serbia. I would like to say earlier that when we talk about crimes committed against Serb, Bosniak and other peoples, and when we talk about some dates, we do it not to repeat it, but to not forget it, never to repeat it again, and that there is simply a certain situation that corresponds to all the crimes committed and committed by the sprawl, Bosniak, Croatian and all the other peoples in the unwanted war conflicts during the 1990s. Let me remind you, today is July 14th, and the day before yesterday was July 12th. On July 12, 1992, the power of the so-called The BiH armies and other Muslim forces under the command of Naser Oric raided the Serbian villages of Zaladja, Biljaca, Sasa and Zagona and killed and massacred 69 Serb civilians, more than 70 wounded, while 19 people are still missing today. The villages were robbed, burned and still not restored. From May to December 1992, dozens of Serb villages were destroyed and killed in the most brutal manner by hundreds of Serb civilians in the municipalities of Srebrenica, Bratunac and Skelani. In the Srebrenica area alone, 21 Serb villages were attacked during that period, where more than 400 civilians were killed. At least 560 people were killed in the attack on the 22 Serb villages of Bratunac municipality during the same period. On Christmas 1993, the combined forces of Srebrenica, under the command of Naser Oric, attacked in early morning villages in the Kravica municipality of Bratunac and killed 48 locals. From March 7th to 16th, the same year 1993, 688 households and a defiled Orthodox cemetery in Kravica were destroyed. In the Srebrenica, Milici, Bratunac, Vlasenica and Osmaki municipality during the war, at least 1,300 people of Serbian nationality died, while a total of 3,267 Serbs died in the wider area of Central Podrinja and Birc. Without one or both parents, there were about 800 children, and about 5,400 families were left without mobile and immovable property. For these crimes committed in the Serb population in the area of Srebrenica, Bratunc and the surrounding places so far, no one has responded to the courts in BiH, and the UN tribunal for the crimes mentioned has indicted Naser Oric and in 2006 sentenced him to two years for failing to prevent crimes against Serbs, so that the first-degree verdict was remanded in the appeal procedure, and Naser Oric was released of any guilt. Dear citizens, these crimes must be punished. They have to be punished so they don't repeat themselves. So all crimes must be punished and we should never forget Serbian victims. We should never forget neither the Serb victims in the Balkans, nor any other victims because the SNS is headed by Aleksandr Vukic for both peace and stability in both Serbia and the region. We, translated by our President Alexander Vukic, want Serbia to be stronger and stronger year by year, which it is today. The Serbian government and our president are running one responsible policy, taking care of all the agreements and laws we are discussing here. Take care of both environmental and agriculture, energy, health, security because I want to leave one modern, stronger Serbia to our children, and we are doing all this for the future of our children, leave one Serbia who will be the leader and guarantee peace and stability both in the Balkans and in Southeast Europe. To do so, we must always give full support to both the government of the Republic of Serbia and our President Vukic. Long live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-14-0.u8396	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Anna Beolitic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-14-0.u8397	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected representatives of the government, respected citizens of Serbia, we have repeatedly had the opportunity to talk about a number of laws, conventions, agreements concerning agriculture, agricultural production, and this is an indicator of how much the government of the Republic of Serbia and the ministry of resolution takes care of this area of economy. Agriculture is a branch that is traditionally common in our country, and here, for example, in my municipality, the municipality of Raška from which I come, it seems to me that there is no household that is at least recreationally, at least a hobby does not deal with agricultural production. That's why the share of agriculture in the very structure of GDP is at a very high level. So it's moving about 10%, which is two to three times higher than Central and Eastern European countries. It may seem that from the perspective of one country's development it may not be commendable, but even if we look at the aspect of the crisis, from the aspect of the pandemic that has hit the whole world, we could see how important it is that one country has stability, that is, food security, on the market for agricultural products, and that is why the Republic of Serbia had the slightest drop in GDP in Europe and why we are one of the countries that fought the most successfully with the pandemic of the coronary virus. The agreements on agricultural products between the Republic of Serbia and Iceland, i.e. the Republic of Serbia and Switzerland, which we are discussing today, which are on the agenda, have been defined for changes compared to those previously ratified. The aim of these laws is to bring an agreement on agricultural products between the Republic of Serbia and Iceland, or between the Republic of Serbia and Switzerland, in conjunction with Decision 1 of 2021 of the Mixed Committee between the EFTA States and the Republic of Serbia adopted on 28 May to ensure, of course, that these agreements cover the amended concept, or Protocol B, with respect to the free trade agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the EFTA States. To understand this, it is necessary to stress that the Republic of Serbia has concluded bilateral agreements with all EFTA States and is one of the main instruments to ensure, above all, the free flow of goods and services between the Republic of Serbia and the EFTA Member States. The signing of a contract with the EFTA countries is another step to better position the Republic of Serbia when we talk about this free trade regime and this agreement is of great importance for our country because, above all, it increases the possibility for our exporters, for our farmers, for our producers to export certain agricultural products to a very fruitful and large market, a market that counts about 13 million inhabitants and, of course, it is a chance to make better use of the potential that the Republic of Serbia has when we talk about agricultural production. In this way, the inflow of foreign, direct investment is primarily accelerated, and according to the data that I have reached at this point is from the territory of the EFTA States in the territory of the Republic of Serbia and there are investments worth two billion euros, with, of course, the future time period expected to increase the inflow of foreign direct investment and increase. This is exactly how much we take care of every worker, every citizen in the Republic of Serbia and how much we take care of every farmer about his sweating, his work, his effort and every job in our economy. It is an extraordinary honor to have the opportunity to get up almost every time I speak in this High House to remind the citizens of Serbia that we have opened in the last few days at least one new factory or new production plant. Today, I am proud to point out that just a few days ago, Mrs. Ana Brnabic set a cornerstone for the new production plant of the company "Grunt Foss" in India, where 300 people will be employed, so this is 300 new families that will be fed thanks to only one production plant. And unlike those who have been destroying Serbia's economy for years and competed in who will plant more chains and katans on factories all over our country, today I am proud to point out that we are almost daily opening new factories, new jobs and laying stone foundations for some new buildings that we leave behind in an amannet for all future generations. I today, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, want to speak on behalf of all those young people who have felt a period of painful transition on their own skin. On behalf of all those young people whose parents stayed on the street, left on the street, all those young people whose parents were one of 500 thousand people, so 500 thousand parents who at that time had no easy opportunity to feed their children. They didn't have the opportunity to provide the basic existence of life. I today want to speak for all those young people who condemn everything that happened in Serbia during that period, who condemn the destruction of Serb symbols of agriculture, the destruction of the Serbian industry, the destruction of the military, the destruction of health, the destruction of everything that was Serbian. Because, our children, future generations don't deserve to be kept silent. We do not have the right to remain silent about the fact that in the Republic of Serbia there were politicians who were destroying a Serbian peasant, destroying an average Serbian worker putting money in their pocket, so that they could buy 200,000-euro jeeps today, so that they could buy property in the most elite parts of Belgrade. Finally, today I want to speak for all those young people who will no longer allow such ossions politicians to return to power, because our future, the future of our children, is more important than the individual profit of every politician in the Republic of Serbia. On behalf of all these young people, I want to ask a simple question -- where someone's millions in just a few years of government, and that's exactly what they've earned at the moment that Serbia was the most convulsed in debt, when Serbia fell the most. Is it possible that someone was so visceral, so smart that they came up with some sort of formula for success and that at the expense of the average citizen of the Republic of Serbia, they made millions at the very moment when the average Serbian child couldn't even get herself a crust of bread? To this question, respected gentlemen of the former regime, you owe an answer to your youth from the Republic of Serbia, a youth who was the victim of your regime, a youth you drove out of our country, who went with their belly after bread in the hope that somewhere beyond the limits of their own hearth they would find a better future. On one occasion, Gete said that goodwill is more valuable than any success, and we had the will to leave to our children, to our grandchildren for generations to come, something to be remembered for. The only restriction a man has in life is the restriction he puts himself in his head. As long as we dream of great works, as long as we fantasize about great projects, we will have the strength and the opportunity to do the same things and achieve them, because they are all part of a better and brighter future, as our children deserve. Long live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-14-0.u8398	Thank you. The word is Bratimir Vasiljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-14-0.u8399	Dear Vice-President Orlic, ladies and gentlemen, honourable citizens of the Republic of Serbia, respected minister with associates, today we have a loan for a remote heating project in Kragujevac signed between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. The contract was signed on 2 July 2021 at 18m euros and divided into two tranches. The first 14m-euro tranche will be used to disassemble existing old boilers and install new hot water boilers with 110 megawatt power to be installed in the new boiler. The second part of the fourm-euro loan should serve to remove existing coal ash from the city of Kragujevac for so far's heating. The first phase of the project is due to be completed by 2023, and the second part for the disposal of the ash should be completed by 2024. The project will allow the use of coal in the heating system to be completely excluded, and that will give us a lot of benefits. First of all, we'll get total clean air in the town of Kragujevac, because we know that the use of coal and how bad it works in the middle, so we'll get the next improvement in energy efficiency from this project. It also has an advantage for the environment. Reduce carbon dioxide emissions by 66% or 60,364 tonnes per year. elimination of sulphur dioxide emissions of 556 tonnes per year. Elimination of solid particles PM 2 and a half 10 tonnes per year or total PM emissions 99.3 tonnes per year. Reduced nitrogen oxide emissions from 98 tonnes per year or 89%. Water savings of 39,200 tonnes per year, the safe disposal of existing inventory and flying ash by preventing future generations of ash and slag. These are the benefits the town of Kragujevac receives and thus is built and so done in Serbia and thus takes care of the environment and everything that is better and that leads Serbia to a better future. After this point, I would pay a little attention to the people who once led the town of Nis, in the city of Nis and today pour crocodile tears over the town of Nis, that the people of the SNS who ran the town of Nis, are incompetent and do not know how to do their job, so I would just remind the citizens of Nis how many people during their reign and the leadership of Nis for 16 years, more precisely from 1996 to 2012, to find happiness in the city of Nis, so that he was given the epithet and the name – the valley of famine. Simply everything in Nis needed to be used for income and income creation for citizens has been cancelled and destroyed and shut down and we know perfectly, they know citizens, you simply can't fool the citizens as much as you do with any bribery, fiction or untruth, the citizens know perfectly how they lived during the rule of the yellow, and I don't count them for how many more in that orchestra from 1996 to 2012. What citizens need most to know in the town of Nis when it comes to the task of the city of Nis, it will simply take this long to get people from the SNS and SNS to pull Nis out of the mud and mud in which the previous authorities put him, because I will remind only that I am a member of the Committee on Budgets and Finance, that we have discussed it and that the State Auditing Institution has found that only from the occupation of the private property, the city of Nis is in charge of more than five billion and 100 million euros that contributes to the city of Nis. Given that the debt left to the SNS and the people who ran it, the mayors who ran it from 2012 to 2021, over five billion debt remained on different grounds that the city of Nis had already served and brought the budget of the city of Nis to one bearable state. When you add all that, it's close to 11 billion euros, and the Nisa city budget is never more than nine billion euros. Well, so much so that the citizens of Nis know, and I'm sure and convinced that they know who was behaving and who was running the town of Nis and most of what they manipulate with it is allegedly a gift from the airport to the Republic of Serbia. Who else should operate airports, and where else in the world is there to operate airports other than the state, and who has so much resources to raise the infrastructure, the one needed to operate the airport in Nis, and that's the new tower, that's the new building? Why? Because more and more flights from Nis you have more and more tourists. Unfortunately, these results have reduced the epidemic that has affected the whole world, not just us, but simply the citizens of Nis need to know that this is pure manipulation and pure planting of the people who lead the city of Nis, and they're taking it in the right direction, and it takes a long time to consolidate to cover everything and what the predecessors have done and will not, and God forbid they return to power quickly, and the citizens of Nis will certainly not allow it, because they know how they went under their authority. I would briefly refer to seeing what it looks like both from the aspect of the Serbian state and from the aspect of the Serbian government and our country president, as Serbia stands today. When it comes to GDP, let me remind you that in 2020, we had the smallest decline in Europe of minus one, and much more was expected. What encourages and what is good is the first six months, the first quarter, GDP growth for the first three months is 1.7%, and what is most important and what encourages is that in the second quarter, GDP growth is over 15% which encourages us to be on the right track and that Serbia is going the right way, and that means that the first six months over eight points will be something of GDP growth in Serbia and I am convinced that it will be one of the biggest GDP growth in Europe. This is the path Serbia is going, and every day it grows stronger in economic, political and military terms. In a business perspective, eight highways are built next to the built three this year. Now, my question, where, in what part of the world and in which country is it built in one year eight highways? That's the result of this government. In addition, I would like to remind myself of what is, besides highways, clinical centres in Belgrade, Novi Sad, Kragujevac and Novi Pazar. It's all in the building plan, and it's already been built up a lot. How many hospitals, health homes and hospitals have been done over the past few months. How many schools are being built and renovated. The Novi Sad – Subotica, Novi Sad – Belgrade and Novi Sad – Subotica, which will be connected to Budapest at a speed of over 200km. It's something Serbia has not had so far, and that's what needs to be talked about and what citizens should be reminded of. Also, the plan is to build a railway Belgrade – Nis, Nis – Presevo at a speed of over 160 km. Serbia never had that. Here is the opportunity to allow investors to come freely and as much as possible, and we see for ourselves that more and more than 60% of all investments coming to the Balkans are mainly defined for investment in Serbia. This year, the building of the subway starts. Every day it is seen that Serbia is growing stronger and changing every day. When it comes to the Serbian Army, I would remind citizens only to know, and a large number of us know, especially the people from here, where the Serbian Army was brought during the rule of the previous ones, by 2012, practically the Serbian Army was led to a beggar stick. What happens to the Serbian army today? We all know how much stronger the army is today, how much more equipped the army is today, and what's brave is when our president says that within no less than nine months, the Serbian Army will be twice as strong. Then the message is quite clear which way it goes. That's why many people are not right and they don't like that Serbia is growing stronger and stronger every day, especially military, because we know what it means and how much it's worth to a country. As far as political stability is concerned, Serbia's role in the world is growing, more and more friends in the world. All this is possible only because we have the principle of a man's state that leads Serbia safely to a stable and safe path to a better future. That is why Serbian citizens give full support to President Aleksandr Vukic. In the voting day, I will support, along with my Parliamentary Group Aleksandar Vukić – For our children, all proposals and laws and agreements that were on the agenda. Long live Serbia!
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-14-0.u8400	Thank you, Mr Vasilevich. Now I'm setting a regular 60-minute break. We'll continue at 3:10 p.m. The first one will then be addressed by Mrs. Aleksandra Tomic. [[after breaks]] We're going back to work. The word is Alexandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-14-0.u8402	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, fellow MPs, today we have the opportunity to really talk about projects that write Serbia's history that talk about Serbia changing, and this changes according to a system which is a feature for highly developed countries based on their so-called economy. a green agenda, i.e. on sustainable development, which means that one balance must be established between economic, environmental and social giving, to become a more developed society in this respect, whether we are EU members or not, because it is good for us, because it is good for our economy and because it is in the interest of the future of our children. The Kragujevac remote heating project is the first project that practically introduces in Serbia the replacement of the transition of the coal-to-gas heating system, i.e. from the so-called gas-to-gas system. non-renewable to natural resources, which actually enable all citizens living in a large city to attach to remote heating and actually use energy that gives the least radiation emissions, which give the least harmful consequences for environmental protection. What is this proposal for an agreement, namely the withdrawal of credit and the agreement between Serbia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which was concluded and signed on 2 July of this year, shows that, apart from the replacement of the boiler that is going to happen, we are coming up with one of the largest projects to clean up the ashes, because we have had opportunities on the Committee to hear that some budget is that 40,000 tons of ash actually needs to be solved by this project, which actually shows how much damage we as humans are doing to the environment when we use energies that are non-renewable, but which are simply the thing of our everyday life, and not only in Serbia, but also in countries in the environment, and even those developed countries. These stories we have the opportunity to hear, that all thermal power plants should be closed, is some long-term goal that sets not only Europe and develops energy transition, but all countries that want to become EU members actually show that the EU's most developed economies, such as Germany, are building thermal power plants. Therefore, one energy balance on energy consumption each state needs to bring forward its own opportunities. This is what a more developed economy, such as Germany, has long begun, this path, and therefore it and its economy, which is based on high growth rates and is based on the need to use as many renewable energy sources as possible and sets itself high goals of whether it is 30%, 50%, 70% by 2050. Serbia has put 27% of its targets somewhere, but what matters is that this emissions of harmful particles into our environment, because it's not just going into the air, because simply when it falls, then land falls, it shows in fact that Serbia is taking the path it's taking, in large steps when it comes to implementing high environmental standards in its economy, it actually wants to achieve a truly sustainable production, in line with the rules that all developed countries of the world do. Of course, someone like the state that ratified the Convention concerning the Sustainable Development Goals, which was promoted by the UN and in accordance with the Paris Agreement in 2015 in Paris, showed in fact that the interest of every citizen in our country must be respected. Let's say, now the Kragujevac will have the opportunity to live in a city where these standards will raise this scale rapidly, because the plan is, in fact, that with this agreement, the performers who are to implement this project should be introduced by the end of August of the month, that a really big deal should be done with this agreement, that the plan is to welcome the next warm season with a new boiler, using natural gas and to clean up the ashes in the period from 2022, primarily by making a study to be completed in May of the month, until the second half of 2022. Cleaning up the ashes isn't a simple job at all. Of course, there are certain technologies that need to help that ash to be recovered in a way that may create some new useful value, to be installed in some, say, road construction, as a certain type of building material, thereby getting a reduction in costs when it comes to withdrawing credit for road infrastructure at all. It means that indeed what we want to tell the citizens of Serbia, that Serbia has achieved, above all, the financial opportunity to withdraw such developed projects, which are based not only on real investment, but on knowledge and innovation, and that is what I think is of great importance to all of us, and above all for those young people who are simply going into the realisation of such modern projects today, with completed colleges of certain professions, who really have something to hope for in the future and to praise that these strategic projects that Serbia now has participate and simply enter their biographys as someone who has changed Serbia in its positive direction. When we talk about the agreements and proposals of the law on the validation of decisions of the EFTA State and the Republic of Serbia concerning the Free Trade Agreement, on the definition of the concept of "original products" and methods of administrative co-operation, we are talking about that we should simply potentiate our products and define exactly what our origins are, but in fact get a competitive advantage for our products that will go to those markets, and that is what really represents an opportunity for us to make larger exports and that we have greater revenues in the budget of the Republic of Serbia. As such a model of change of protocol itself, we actually need to create these financial benefits that are of great importance to us. As for the proposal for a law confirming an agreement relating to Serbia and Iceland and Serbia-Switzerland's agricultural products, we had plenty to hear about the advantages of Mr Marijan Risticevic and Mr Miletic. Mr Risticevic, as an authorised representative of our parliamentary group, gave that concise, realistic analysis which is the benefits of the farmers themselves from what we do here in the Serbian Parliament and when we bring and adopt these protocols. In this regard, what we have as a confirmation of the changes and addition of certain TRS customs conventions is what it says about transport itself, about transporting not only agricultural products, but also about products in general, according to the principles which have been in force since 1975, but our goal is that trucks with our goods should, in fact, take as short a time as possible to reach the final destinations, especially when EU countries are concerned with what we had when it comes to agricultural products, we simply on that scale when it comes to the competitiveness of our products, if we take someone for example. The 50th place, when we jump to 30 or 20, we actually show how much more capable we are than other countries in the region, and those that are members of the EU and those who are not, that we simply conquer markets and that we have better macroeconomic indicators. When we talk about indicators, it is the announcement by both the prime minister and the president of the state that we will have pensions by five percent and a certain salary increase, in the next year of the salary that will reach 600 euros in 2022, the average salary in Serbia says that this is almost twice as much as in 2012 when they led this country by those who attacked Alexander Vukic at the time when he carried out heavy economic reforms and fiscal consolidation. But they attack him with the same ferocity today when these economic results are much better and when they acknowledge what we did then and this now, when it comes to the inflow of foreign direct investment at the time of the crown and after the crown, they are actually talking about those who attack this state policy not having their own policy and therefore in their inability to show that Serbia can move forward, that it is better than these results simply have no political vision that Serbia should move forward. That is why it is much easier to attack, insult and insult Alexander Vukic himself, his family and his associates, and thinking that this will achieve some percentages and trust of citizens, in fact from election to election we see that citizens also have a responsibility to themselves, their families, their children, their futures and do not support such policies and such individuals. What I want to say is that the amount of foreign direct investment for the first five months is 1.7 billion euros, which shows that this year we will end up with over 3.5 billion euros of foreign direct investment, that the growth projected by the budget, and I will remind you that in December there is no way to achieve a 6% growth now almost talking about a 6% of GDP, or even slightly higher, that for the first five months public debt amounted to 28.07 billion dinars, which is 55.6% of GDP, where they agreed that we might cross 60%, and that we will bring down that level which is characteristic of developed EU countries, that what the deficit of the Republic budget was for the first five months of 99.8 billion dinars, shows that we will truly respect this 3% deficit if there is no particular major disturbances in the market that we have with the announcements of diverse, so called opposition policies that we don't tell us about economic policy and economic policy. They don't realize that our results are being followed by all international financial institutions, and just every day following our results are talking about how we were last year and this year's economic giants when it comes to results, that today it's not clear to them how we've really achieved these good results because we respect what we write and then and when they don't believe that we won't really do anything when it comes to the consolidation of public finances and when it comes to support and the private and public sector, when we solve problems, we do. In the end, we get really what the figures are, which is in fact the result of Alexander Vukic and the Serbian Progressive Party and together with the coalition partners who have seen us, a truly reliable partner for future policy when we speak and go to the citizens that we are inclined to assess whether we have done our job well or not when it comes to the very economy of the Republic of Serbia. There will be opportunities for citizens in their regular time, when elections are called, and when we talk about the Presidential and when we talk about the City of Belgrade, to make known whether they simply support the policy of responsibility, whether they support economic growth and development policy, innovation, battles for better Serbia, battles for Serbia's sustainable development, for the fight that concerns the preservation of all standards in terms of environmental protection, the fight for national interests when it comes to the Green Agenda. They will have the opportunity to plead whether they support this policy or to support some irresponsible politicians who have only spoken, did nothing, and quite the opposite when it comes to the budget of the Republic of Serbia, by pouring money from the Serbian citizens' budget into their personal pockets, into their own personal accounts, and eventually making decisions and some international institutions that will give evidence of everything we have spoken so far and what we are saying in the future. Therefore, in the voting day, we will support proposals from these laws and agreements that support such new trends in environmental protection, remote heating projects, not only the city of Kragujevac, but also other cities, and will support co-operation that will support agriculture and all in order to support the sustainable economy of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-14-0.u8403	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Alexander Mirkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-14-0.u8404	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, a respected minister with an associate, respected fellow Members of the People's Parliament and fellow MPs, certainly that this set of laws today is primarily of great benefit to the citizens of our country and, of course, in the day to vote, we will support these draft laws. I believe that everything we were able to hear during yesterday's debate, but also today, it clearly states how much the Serbian government's policy is defined by solving every problem our citizens face, but it also shows that some problems that have not been solved, unfortunately decades ago are finally being solved now. We have long been able to hear that by solving one problem on the list of priorities some demands in citizens move some other problems and they come first. Today we are able to see this in practice that you have no protests today, no demonstrations and no performances of anyone, and that is motivated by the fact that people today do not have a job, have no job or have no adequate salaries. Today, people in Serbia who represent the former regime are trying to win some votes or challenge dissatisfaction with citizens by playing on the topic of ecology. This is a clear indication of how far our country has progressed in economic terms and how much the senseless policy of former regime representatives and DS representatives, the old DS decorated in Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic, Boris Tadic, has now turned into some sort of a modernity. They must have seen that the topic of environmentalism is something that is current everywhere in Europe, even in the world, and now they're trying cheap spins and most often invented affairs to try to get themselves more or to draw attention from that angle with false care of ecology. In this way they want to mask all their misdeeds that they did while they were in power, but also that from the field of economics that they definitely don't benefit from water policy in a field they think is good for them and is on their side. However, when you consider that in the field of environmental or environmental protection by 2014, absolutely nothing has done to every man in our country, it is clear that it is only a desert demagogy. We have been able to attend various performances in the previous period, to watch and observe, but also to read various statements that come down to them today that they would do better than actual power and that literally for every situation or for every problem in our country is solely Alexander Vukic. This policy and this demagogy and this rhetoric is read by citizens and does not come across the response they wanted and therefore the anxiety in the ranks of one part of the opposition's representatives is increasing from day to day. I've also sent these days writing in certain media under their direct control, as well as on television, and I see that the problem is also this set of laws that lies ahead of us today. The strongest are critics. I see from their angle there's nothing good, that nothing is wrong, but what's symptomatic -- and today we haven't heard a single argument why it's not good or what they would do better today or something new than when they were in power. It is also symptomatic that in the absence of any results or support from citizens, some research has been emerging in recent days, which is being conducted by Dragan Gilas. According to these surveys, if the elections were Sunday, it turns out that Dragan Gilas would have won those elections convincingly. What is being asked as a question that citizens are asking, the most realistic question, is who has learned and conducted the research, but also what is it that prevents him and Vuk Jeremic and Boris Tadic from going before their voters and Serbian citizens today, who will support them as they say, and give us all a word that they will go to these elections? So, again, the situation where they count on having some kind of support or a chance, they will go to elections, and where they think they will suffer a convincing defeat will not come out, so you come into a paradoxical situation to meet the conditions when it comes to elections for the city of Belgrade, but that they will not go to elections concerning parliament or parliamentary elections, which are also expected next year. With common sense, no one can explain it for the simple reason why it changes when the vote is the same, only that citizens in Belgrade will have a ballot more and you see all the senselessness of that policy. But what is a bigger problem is the fact that every minister in the government since 2014 has faced huge problems when it took over the ministry. There is no sphere of our life that has not been ruined and devastated and there is no segment of our life that has not been in a huge problem. Let's not talk about how we've had debts, debts, and we've been on the verge of failure. You can also talk about the ministry that you, Mrs Vujovic, are leading, but you have a much bigger problem, because by 2014, especially in the last few years, no one has done anything in the field of ecology. It is now the main task of the opposition's work to degrade everything, to try to pick up any more votes from whatever you do or make a defamation and to play with the emotions, the sensitive emotions of Serbian citizens. In this struggle, Dragan Gilas also uses some "arms" that are not suitable and are not good and contribute to social dialogue or contribute to it personally or any better interest of Serbian citizens. When we talk about it, I've often talked about this particular situation of threats and insults to anyone who doesn't think like him or doesn't work the way he thinks he should. Yesterday we were able to see the performance performed in front of the court which is a direct pressure on the judiciary and which is in direct connection with the hysteria that caught not only him, but Marinika Tepic, but also all those people who are the first echelon and first team of people who are employed by Dragan Gilas, are chasing anyone who represents SNS or responsible policy of President Aleksandr Vukic. Yesterday we were able to hear that they were not satisfied with the work of the prosecution, the court, but I must also point out that I am much more dissatisfied for the simple reason that for months and years back, along with my colleagues from the SNS, I point out that the malversions that Dragan Gilas served and that with the help of those malversions from the failed entrepreneurs, window washers and the man who saved 74 000 euros came into place to be one of the richest people in this part of Europe who only has over 20 million euros in real estate. I am sorry that we still do not get concrete answers, but I am even saddened that the citizens of Serbia do not get adequate answers to how and how Dragan Gilas has been riched at their harm and how he will deal with the consequences. In addition, I will only present an affair to the citizens of Serbia, seeing that Dragan Gilas has freed himself from some disciplines. I guess this vacation that had a good effect on him. They are talking about whether the Mauricias affair, where it has been discovered that in 17 different countries they have more than 68m euros in their accounts, as it occurred. At one of our party stands, talking to the citizens, they only asked me to reveal at least one piece to them and I'm going to take this opportunity very briefly to explain to them what this is all about. On 6 April 2014, Dragan Gilas sold his "Darekt Media" to an offshore company named CEE, registered in the Netherlands. The company's owner is a certain Gergov who paid for this service 17.7m euros. It wouldn't be strange if that businessman hadn't borrowed the same number from people close to Solak, the same man that Dragan Gilas defended and mentioned. So, of the two companies, from the Sierra firm and one law firm. Of one 9.5 million, and of that office 8.2m euros. In total, it is a 17.7m-euro figure for you, a figure that Dragan Gilas reported selling his "Darrekt Media". What is very interesting, in August 2015, Gergov, without any compensation, gives the company the Dutch offshore company Askanius BV, whose ultimate owner is Gilas. What's interesting about this? This company was founded on 17.3.2015 and is 100% daughter of Askanius Ara, which was founded on 16.3.2015. So, just two days apart, two companies were founded, and it's clear to everyone why and for what purpose. Also, these companies are registered in Luxembourg, which has repeatedly mentioned here a fellow MP, Risticevic. So, all these companies are in one way. You see the circle where Solak and Gilas are decided most often for this Luxembourg, and then everything is much clearer to you. (Marian Risticevic: I Switzerland. ) And Switzerland, of course. But what's particularly interesting? After all this, a break is being made, so that it would not be so transparent, the offshore company United Media, from Luxembourg also, Dragan Šolak, in 5.6.8, pay attention, for 52.2m euros buys Askanius Ara, which is also the owner of this "Darrekt Media". So now you can figure out the whole circle of money as it goes. The very end of the money pump and the transfer to accounts across Europe and the world shows you the last information. Askanius Ara showed a 52.2m-euro income in 2018, so that in 2020, just two years later, their income would be 67,000 euros. The final bill leaves only this figure, only 67,000 euros, which means that in two years, they have succeeded in various ways and various accounts to pump 52m euros. Respected citizens of Serbia, it is your model, your modality and everything that they have done and where the accounts appear both in Mauritius and Switzerland and Hong Kong. I see that anxiety has reached its peak for the simple reason that different countries in Europe are interested in these things, which they have launched some investigations, and I am also convinced that we will see, as soon as possible, the results of all that they are investigating. To the very end, I thought a month ago from this place I was discussing how normal it was for President Aleksandar Vukic to open up a factory, some new workplace, and to appear at the establishment of a cornerstone for some future jobs. Today he was in Panchev, the ZF Serbia company. He attended the opening of the most modern engineering center. The company employs 900 factory workers and 100 experts at the development engineering centre. It's another German company that clearly shows that it wants to invest in our country and see security here and thus our economy further strengthens. In 2014, 17 thousand people worked in German companies. Today, that figure is over 70 grand. And anyone who deals more seriously with politics or the economy knows how serious that is, how well our country stands and how respected and respected it is. But this opportunity has been tried by some people, above all by media representatives who were directly controlled by Dragan Gilas, to reduce this and by one question, to show all the senselessness and infirmity in which Dragan Gilas and his politics are today. During yesterday's tour of our country's eastern Serbia, President Aleksandar Vukic, in a conversation with citizens and officials from that part of our country, realized that there was a problem and that our citizens want to get rid of a 50km-long part of the journey from Donji Milanovac to Golubac as soon as possible, so he called Minister Sinisha Mali or someone from finance and asked if we could provide nine million euros to build this road? Imagine, for this reason, he is now exposed to attacks and certain media and political parties, representatives of the former regime, just because he has expressed his desire and will as president of Serbia to build another 50km of road that is vital to that part of Serbia. When you see such things and you are aware that they are now the biggest problem and that Alexander Vukic is at every place and at all times fighting for the citizens of Serbia, then you see how much impotence and hysteria has prevailed in their ranks. Aleksandar Vukic, unlike Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic and Boris Tadic, always fights and cares about the interests of Serbian citizens everywhere and in every place. And unlike them, these ninem euros will be invested in the needs and better lives of Serbian citizens, not in the pockets of tycoons and politicians who see their position only for wealth, personal and closest associates, as was the case at the time of Dragan Gilas. I wish you, dear minister, a great deal of success and progress in the coming period, but also, I want you all together as a government to follow the responsible policy of Serbian President Alexander Vukic and to present to us as MPs such good and law and agreement and that we all work together as one big team in the general interest of our citizens and our country. Thank you and live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-14-0.u8405	Thank you. The word has Adam Shukalo.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-14-0.u8406	Thank you, Chairman Orlic. Dear Minister, honourable MPs, I'd like to say a few things perhaps not so much about the form of the agreements themselves, but about the essence. I would primarily send a message to the citizens of Serbia why the agreements we practically have in each session are important, at every session we have in this assembly. Caused by the results achieved by Serbia, this is also very important. We first adopt certain agreements today, so we spread our market, then free exchange of goods in all of this, and in the end we create one picture of Serbia in terms of the environment for investing everything else, and then we have results that we can boast about. Then it's no wonder that in the first six months, as the president told us, we have 1.72 billion euros in foreign investment, more than a whole region, more than a double than a whole region. These are the results, and these agreements contribute to that. And that's what's crucial in terms of why, if someone asks themselves a question, we spend time discussing some agreements and why we don't get over it quickly, which is just to highlight the meaning of all of this. And that's what's key. In this context, it is certain that in terms of these results, the news is that we have 30% increased income in the first six months and that we will say by this dynamic that in the first quarter we have a growth of 8% of GDP. So it's all about all of this and there's nothing isolated in some sense that some topic is flat. Once again, I focus, and how important these agreements are in this sense. Earlier, my colleague Mirkovic spoke about a visit to Germany and this German firm called ZF or Fridrichshafen AG, an engineering centre and rejoices at the news when you read the structure of the news that over 200 engineers, 200 highly educated staff and German and Serbian, all of which in the end creates a real picture, and here I will tell it in one, not to tell an anecdote but the experience I had seven days ago, when I was in Republika Srpska and talked. Many of our people came from the diaspora now, last year they couldn't come, there was a crown and we all know what the situation was, but the crown left the consequences of industry, economy and the Federal Republic of Germany, which we are talking about so much today. And now, what is the message they brought when they came to their homeland? They fear for their jobs there. The Germans are closing more and more plants, and the general opinion is, not among our world but also among the local population, that most of the plants, both industrial and these high-tech, or this engineering centre that has only 200 of these higher education personnel and over a thousand employees in Serbia, is just one of these examples that points to the following, which is that the Germans are moving their facility to Serbia. Older colleagues remember well in 1965, when Tito opened the borders, so, unfortunately, here, from my neighborhood and here in Serbia, a large number of our workers went to Germany to work. We used to call them the gaster-bitters. They fought how they'd make a pension, how they'd come back here, etc. Now look at the situation that we are in, what ambience we are here, headed by the President of the Republic, sparked that we have this result. And then someone has the right to attack. Well, that's a real score. What we're talking about today, in Panchev, is just one example. Do you think German industrialists joke when they need to invest somewhere, especially that technology that makes electric cars, etc? They don't want to joke. This company, I read about them, in 42 developed countries invests, has its own plants, etc. Serbia is among the 42 countries. This is really very important information and it is very important to highlight it in this regard. Why is it also important to highlight this when we look at these agreements, for example, in the context of an agreement with the EFTA countries and the free trade that we will achieve in this regard? So here is also because of an initiative that has also received extremely great support from the Federal Republic of Germany again, which is the initiative "mini Schengen" or Balkan Schengen, whatever it is called. Germany is strategically defined, industrially, to bind to the Western Balkans, and the first strategic associate in the region sees Serbia as the engine of these things to be launched. Here, just one example to say, which supports all of what I've said. Says – Germany is considering appointing a special representative for the Western Balkans to implement the Green Agenda. That sounds very imaginary, far away. We talked about how in the previous period there was no focus on green energy and how much this government and the ministry are now running, let me say, initiatives and legal solutions, regulations of different and all that will regulate this market, and put Serbia in one great position and green maps in Europe in context and in green energy, as well as in the overall of this agenda. Why are they doing this? Well, because they want to invest. So this foreign investment here will continue. Serbia is ahead of that kind of story. The idea of "mini Schengen" that President Aleksandar Vukic has launched, which he has worked extremely hard with Northern Macedonia and Albania at the moment, will certainly no longer be necessary for anyone to pray in BiH, Montenegro, to join this initiative simply, they will not have anywhere and they will have to join it. Who are they going to bind to? Serbia was in that direction -- come on, people, together to create this story to take advantage of time, to take advantage of the better position. Here, so Angela Merkel herself promotes that kind of story. Allow diplomas to be certified in the Western Balkans region, recognised in all countries. Why? To make them easier, they see their interest, we see our interest because we will open new jobs where and how good wages will be. These are investors who will remain here for a long time, decades, not speculatively coming here to take advantage of some of our natural resources for several years. No, they work here to make not half-products, but what today is the highlight, which are, say, electric cars that should be the future in Serbia. Serbia will surely go that way. Here, we have a chance through this campaign to do something like that. Therefore, as much as our political opponents, because I can't say less about them than that, use every opportunity to humiliate President Vukic, to humiliate Serbia, the real results speak for everything that we present as our messages every day, like everything we say here in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. To whom should the average, to say, citizen of the Republic of Serbia be trusted? Dragan Gilasu, Vuk Jeremic, this Zelenovic from Sapac who say there is nothing wrong with Serbia, that ecological disaster is here, that there are no investors at all or should be trusted by German, say, multinational companies, strong investors who come to Serbia to invest? Who has more credibility in this kind of story? I am fully convinced that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia know best, and they know best who their interests are and that is why they vote for Alexander Vukic and SNS. Long live Serbia!
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-14-0.u8407	Thank you. The People's Messenger Milos Bandur has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-14-0.u8408	I will talk about the loan for a remote heating project in Kragujevac, a loan to the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Indeed, I am this quick to realize the agreement and the rapid realization of the project that will come will be a joy. In fact, Kragujevac is one of three cities in Serbia that uses coal as energy in its city's heat and of all possible energy sources that were previously used, and sometimes are still used in Serbia, mule and coal, especially coal, are the least acceptable on the ecological side. So the replacement of boilers that work on coal with gas boilers is something that delights, especially when it comes to a town the size of Kragujevac, because there are 22,000 users, which are natural persons, i.e. apartments, which is business space, connected to the remote heating system. It's big-force boilers, 110 megawatts, so it's going to get by the environment, or environmental effects, really big. In addition to the ecological effect here, we have an energy efficiency effect, because the boilers that are being replaced are almost 40 years old. I think in 1982 they were installed, so, for 40 years, they worked. There was no significant remont, so their rate of exploitation is very weak. All in all, replacing these boilers with new boilers will also produce results. A special result is that the future town of Kragujevac will no longer have a problem with the recovery and remediation of the dump containing ash and coal-derived slags, so after the job is finished, because gas, natural gas, is the purest energy, the most environmentally acceptable energy. I fully support and consider the visionary statement by Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic on January 1st, when he announced the completion of works on the Balkan Stream through Serbia, when he said that his vision and our vision that every household in Serbia joins the gas, because 85% of the energy needs of every household can be satisfied with the use of natural gas. In this way we will have much cleaner air, much healthier environment, but of course we need to do certain things in order for this situation to occur. I am pleased that in the National Assembly a few weeks ago we adopted loans for the gasification of parts of eastern and western Serbia, more specifically the Kolubar County, Borski, Zajecarski and Pcinj County. In this way, cities such as Valjevo, which are highly polluted by some parameters, will also have the possibility to transfer their heat to natural gas, and households will be able to connect to the gas distribution network and instead of solid fuel, coal, wood, heating wood or oil lodge to use gas. Bor is also one of the cities that is at the top of the polluted scale. The Bohr heat will be given an opportunity to move on to natural gas, as well as households. Bor is one of the three cities in Serbia that continues to use coal in its city's heat, so that the gasification of Valjev and the gasification of Bora achieves a huge profit and a great effect on the quality of the environment in the two cities. The crow, according to information I have, also uses fossil energy, or lube. The crow will, then, have a chance to move on to the use of gas. What made me particularly happy, looking for data, is that in Pirote, although there is no pipeline transport network, the city's heat has moved on to natural gas, using the compressed natural gas that is driven by tanks instead of mules. Otherwise, a week ago, two of us here passed a law giving consent to a loan to build a pipeline, a Niš-Dimitrovgrad-Bulgarian border that should connect the entire region of eastern Serbia to the pipeline. Also, in the past two, three years, Serbia has invested 400m dinars in reconstruction of boilers in the city's Krusevec heat, which have also been in a very difficult state and have not been remounted for decades. Nis alone is dealing with the problem of its city's heat, or with the problem of remote heating. We are participants in all phases of the KfW Development Bank project and we know that in this Assembly we have also ratified, or agreed to the 30 million loan agreement that the Republic of Serbia is taking for the purposes of its eight city heat. The town of Nis competed with its fourm-euro projects and received fourm-euro funds. All that I've said so far is that Serbia is in favour of large steps, when it comes to remote heating systems that have produced in the past a large amount of carbon dioxide and other polluting matter and particles, are significantly improving and adopting ecological standards. On the other hand, we in the congregation have passed a number of laws, recently, that allow for significant results in the matter of ecology. We also passed the Energy Efficiency Act and the Law on Renewable Energy Sources, as well as the Climate Change Act. By adopting sublegislative acts and drawing up action plans and, say, a national energy and climate plan, by applying laws where all emitters or major emitters of harmful substances will be obliged to monitor their emissions and to submit reports will achieve certain results. So all those who criticise the current government on this issue are wrong. They are wrong, but they simply count and play on a stronger environmental consciousness that exists today in Serbia. So it's stronger today than before, and it's perfectly natural for the environmental awareness of citizens to grow. We raise it ourselves. We're talking about it ourselves. But in the lack of space for objective criticism, in the lack of space to criticise the economy, foreign policy or other real political areas, political opponents are turning to criticism in the field of ecology where they also have no real cause. At the time when they ruled, from 2000 to 2012, not only was no one taking care of the environment, but nobody cared about jobs or people or factories. The factories have been shut down. Many have stopped their work. Hundreds of people lost their jobs. Serbia was unreally in debt and, of course, when the state is in trouble that there is no money for environmental projects. Only when she stepped on her feet and increased her GDP did Serbia create the possibility that, from either the budget or the loan of funds to a certain limit, she would commit herself to environmental projects. Only a country that is on track, on the road to development, such as Serbia today can take care of both environmental and environmental issues. So all these criticisms that come from political opponents, as far as the environment is concerned, are actually an empty story. Of course, here I support those NGOs, and there are those, or groups of citizens, who really point to some real problems and take account of the best intentions of environmental matters, but among them is the most now that they are trying to tell the story of the ecology of abuse for political purposes, because I say there is simply no space where they can objectively criticise power. In the previous quarter, growth was 1.7%. In the second quarter, growth was 15%, so who can criticise it? No one can. As colleagues have already said, by the end of the year, GDP growth has been projected 6%, and it will be far greater than projected. There's a factory opening every week. Every week a cornerstone is laid. In Serbia, wages grow, pensions grow. Who can criticize that? Where is there room for criticism? Of course it doesn't exist. With regard to vaccination and the fight against herds, Serbia is a leader, not only in the Western Balkans, but also in Europe, and that we are a leader in the Western Balkans shows the fact that we have offered the vaccine not only to our citizens, but also to the citizens of neighbouring countries and that many of them have come and vaccinated right here with us. Thus, in the absence of the possibility and lack of room for criticism in the field of economy and in other areas of life, people invent problems in the field of ecology. Of course, there is also a need to point out those problems that some competing companies may have, so in order to challenge competition, they are now inventing environmental problems, or they are talking about them, but also some neighbouring countries that want to slow down economic growth or Serbia's development, by challenging some projects that can contribute significantly to this development, but they are trying to challenge them from some environmental side. To commit to today's topic, we also had a chance yesterday to talk about a law that also concerns the environment, because nature protection is an integral part of the ecological story, and a respected minister was present here yesterday. The amendments and additions to the Nature Protection Act are also a major shift and a step forward that this government and this ministry are making. All those who based their political story on mini power plants, here, we can say that this law will prohibit mini power plants, or their construction in protected areas. Of course, when it comes to protected areas, more to the general public, to say that there are three protection regimes. In that first protection regime, no use of resources or any construction is allowed, and that has always been undeniable. However, in the second and third protection regimes certain resources are allowed to be used and certain construction and operation of certain activities is allowed and construction was allowed, i.e. the use of mini power plants. Under these changes, which I hope, and I'm sure, we'll adopt, it won't be possible anymore. Namely, Katastar small, or mini power plant is from 1987. He is over 30 years old, and he predicted in Serbia about 856 or recognized 856 locations in central Serbia, 13 in Vojvodina that could raise mini power plants. As far as protected areas are concerned, or according to August 2019, 18 mini power plants have been built in protected areas. During that period in 2019, five were built. It's probably the construction up to today. Three waterfalls are located in protected areas and 51 potential locations. These potential locations will not be used, i.e. these changes and additions to the law, say these locations should be deleted from Katra. Otherwise, the whole Catastre needs to be revised because it is quite certain that neither the spatial nor the hydrological conditions on the spot, in the field after 30 and a few years, correspond to those in Katastra. What was still a problem when building a mini power plant, especially in protected areas, is that the minimum flow guaranteeing maintenance of the ecological or biological minimum was calculated by some methods, and without concrete monitoring of the state of life of the world on the spot. In the future, it won't be done that way. So it's mandatory to monitor the state of the living world on the spot. Afterwards, with respect to spatial and hydrological conditions, a minimum flow will be determined which determines, i.e. enables the minimum functioning of the living world, i.e. that ecological minimum. As regards mini hydropower plants that will be built outside the protected area, they will also need an act on the conditions of acceptability for the environment, and this act issues to the Ministry and other than the Nature Protection Office that will provide a professional basis will also contain a position on whether or not the project is likely to have adverse environmental impacts or not, which are restrictions that the building entity, or the investor, will have to respect when it is built. So, all that I've said so far about the conversion of boilers in heat with some fossil fuels and natural gas and about the law that was on the agenda yesterday, and about the laws we've passed over the past few weeks, it's about Serbia and how it takes care of the environment, about the environment, and how big funds are invested in this direction. Not because it is in the topic, which is modern both in our Europe and in Western Europe, but because the healthy environment has a huge impact on citizens' health. It means not only to meet certain requirements or standards that we have committed to in the EU accession process, but primarily because of ourselves and our citizens. And in the end, I would really like to repeat the call my colleague made a while ago to the public to vaccinate. I think that in such an effort that the state has made to provide Serbia's citizens with vaccines in good time and before others, 49% of the vaccinated adult citizens are ashamed. Shame on all of us, shame on those who know they can be vaccinated and thus protect both their own health and others' health, and that they do not do so and that a particularly younger population of 18 to 30 years old, where only 17.4% of them are vaccinated, must think about what they do in such a way, how much they endanger their own health, but also the health of their own householders. Finally, the Government of the Republic of Serbia or, in essence, the Crisis Headquarters, which deals with this issue, may need to consider some restrictive measures for those who do not want to vaccinate, as I see that in some countries there are restrictions on access to restaurants, discotheques, cafes, theatres, those who are not vaccinated. Maybe that's what you should think about. In any case, a combination of restrictive and stimulating measures always results when those who need to be aware of certain things are not self-aware enough situations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-14-0.u8409	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-14-0.u8410	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Madam Minister, today the topic of ecology is very current in Serbia and as much as it is for you as a resolute environmental minister creates a single obligation, I can only say that this means that Serbia is on a very good path. Let me remind you, when you were a folk MP at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, that's when these Gilasses were speaking, first of all, that Alexander Vukic would print the money. That was the first story. That didn't happen. Then they said we'd have hyperinflation, and that didn't happen either. Then they said that we would close down what few factories remained during their government, not only were these factories not closed, but then the Prime Minister, and now the President of the Republic, Alexander Vukic, opens at least one factory each week. There were a lot of current topics that they started. When they were measures of fiscal consolidation, they fought for pensions. Now that pensions are never bigger, what do they have left? The only topic to deal with in some future period, the former regime of Dragan Gilas, is environmental protection and environmental protection. It's kind of always acceptable, because everyone must want to live as long as possible in a healthy environment and to raise their family in such a environment, raise their children, raise their children in such an environment, it's one natural tendency for a man to achieve such a goal. However, we need to be aware that not everything is always the way someone talks and that there is always some particular motive why some of the topics that are current in society, which have actually been present in society for decades, have become very relevant in a short period of time. Here, one example is that throughout the winter we have been listening through the funds of public information, which is the city's most polluted, first in Serbia, and then in Europe, and then the minors come to the end of the globe, globally, and always after that, that was particularly interesting in Gilas' media, always after that is the next story, which is that we are looking forward to the entry into force of the new regulation on registration of motor vehicles. And they don't hide it. They don't directly accuse that motor vehicles are responsible for air pollution, they don't say that or not, but in an indirect way they're trying to show the authorities that they're irresponsible and that they're letting someone out there, because of their little need, create a global problem and pollute the environment. To be clear, I am absolutely in favour of cars participating in the traffic territory of the Republic of Serbia being technically correct, that as far as emissions of harmful gases are concerned, it is in line with that emissions declared by the manufacturer, but I am not for us to set standards that are stricter, but in countries in the region, or in the countries of Central and Eastern Europe. There's a reason why such a story stretches. One of the reasons is that political nature, because if you don't pass a rule like that, it will charge you not to worry about the environment, and yet if you bring it in, you don't care about the standard of living of citizens who simply can't afford it. Of course, there is also this financial motive where I believe that there have been many involved in the campaign, and these are traders, dealers of motor vehicles that are now going to import other vehicles again, whether new, whether used and thus the state to help them realize their financial interest, and all at the expense of citizens. For example, the media of Gilas was very involved in this. Then we have this famous story about these mini power plants, the story about our thermal power plants, the story about wind parks, the story about solar panels, etc. Energy is always a subject that is present in society, and one reason is that many are no longer fighting for energy only, but also for the market, or judge where who has as much market and how much market they can place their energy in. So I'm not surprised by some of the data that my colleague Bandur and colleague Tomic both provided. We should be aware of one fact that a highly developed EU country, say two or three times over the last year, produced more electricity than it could sell or place on any market and that at that time their energy plants are working with one huge loss and they have no one to place such energy. And that is why we should not be surprised by these famous initiatives that we cannot open, build new hydropower plants, that we cannot create new wind parks, that we cannot build solar panels, that we cannot use fossil fuels to get electricity, because that Serbia should become only a energy consumption, that it is completely dependent, and that some financial interest that exists there is achieved on the other side. That's why I can't blame them. It's their right to fight for their market. I'd blame us if we agreed and were naive to accept something like that. And that is one serious problem that your ministry will have to solve in the future. It's always true, it's an offended opinion, and it's easy to sell to citizens, that economic development with environmental protection is something incompatible, something that can't go together. I don't agree with that. That is why we are passing laws that will allow Serbia to develop economic development, re-industriousisation, and primarily environmental protection. However, it goes to the point of simply wanting Serbia to freeze and stop on the path of its economic development, not even giving certain projects a chance to live. Again, there are, of course, economic and political motives. Can you imagine, for example, three of the largest European producers in the automotive industry have defined where in the next 15 or 20 years they will invest about 80 billion euros to build new plants for the production of electric cars. Can you imagine how their whole concept changes now if Serbia appears as a potential country where such cars can be produced? Then don't be surprised that for every project we have, which has only a hint that it can endanger the environment, that you'll have problems that we already have and that become political. So, that financial piece is not responsible for Serbia continuing its economic development, Serbia appears as a competition for some in the world. On the one hand, they are economically, on the other hand politically. Imagine, Gilas no longer with violence, nor with attempts to burn the Assembly, let alone in the elections, may come to power in the Republic of Serbia. When they talked about this air pollution, they forgot to say that air pollution, let's say, I heard even once that Uzice was one of the most polluted cities. As far as I know in Uzica, there are no thermal power plants, there's no heavy industry that can do something like that, that kind of pollution. Then through a little better analysis, we came to the conclusion that the largest, in fact, pollutions make individual bars, which use raw lignite as fuel, which have no filters, and that they essentially pollute the environment in many cities in Serbia. I am pleased that our government, and your ministry has not succumbed to this pressure, but has been defined in several steps to improve the quality of life and the environment in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, and this is primarily the first replacement of heat used by fossil fuels with fuel that is more environmentally clean and justified on the one hand, on the other hand, the replacement of individual bars, which is already a project run by the Ministry of Mining and Energy, the replacement of a shed that uses raw lignite, again with some bars that would be completely clean. However, in order not to take part, when it comes to discussions in particular, I will take another chance. We discussed the Law on the Waters of the Republic of Serbia. It is a law that is good and in your jurisdiction. The law determines who can exploit the water, under what conditions, is a good part of local self-government. Mrs Vujovic, do you know what water problems the town of Pogorec has, from which I come? Local self-government owns a water source in Pogorevec, a water source that has a capacity of 600 second liters, that's more than enough for Povorec. We have another problem, a fireman as a local self-government doesn't own rivers, that water source is relying on the Great Morava River. We've had gravel exploitation from the Great Morava riverbed for decades. You can imagine what that looks like, that the water supply on the quota is minus five, that means that today the surface of the Great Morava River is at Ljubicevsky Bridge, where the quota is measured, five meters of water surface, five meters below the bottom level 30 years ago. The entire structure of groundwater has been disrupted. The water source comes, because when it was the normal level of the Great Morava River, that water went through the natural filters and came to the water source, now because of the low water supply, there are polluted waters and Pogorec has serious problems. So, I think you as the Ministry of Environmental Protection with your colleague Nedimovic need to start solving this problem, because it makes no sense that the city as a population of 45, 50,000, as an administrative continent, is being held hostage by a few people who exploit that gravel. As much as they may have some economic profit, and at least let them solve it, and I don't agree with it, it's a worse variant, let them solve some of that money to make a water factory, and not like they're doing now, they're carrying profit, they're destroying our pipeline, they're disrupting the streams of groundwater, they're destroying our agriculture, they're destroying our roads, because they're coming out of these separations of freight vehicles that have 40, 50 tons. And that's how they pollute the environment. Instead of the capacity the fire line has, that any settlement in Pozarevec can obtain water from the city's waterway, the network is slowly expanding, as the water supply has been reduced due to the flow of polluted water. Then those villages that don't have water use their individual wells and re-consume broken drinking water. That's one serious problem. It cannot be solved as a city, neither can you as a minister, but I think that as the Government of the Republic of Serbia we solve this problem and finally, if someone wants to exploit the gravel, let the state pay the rent properly, and not to find the cheapest way to avoid the recycling of agricultural land, but to disrupt the riverbed, the groundwater, and thus endanger the lives of all who live in the banks of the Great Morava River. Now I ask the question to NGOs, who were here in front, and there are also from the Fireman, where are they to protect their city, their water source, their drinking water? Or they'll be dealing with politics to talk about how someone's incapacitated to, well, gain some political point and perhaps in some way take some kind of vote in some future election.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-14-0.u8411	Thank you. National MP, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-14-0.u8412	Thank you. Today is a very important day for the whole world and for Europe, and therefore for Serbia, today is the 14th of July and today is the anniversary of the great French revolution where France has founded the values on which modern Europe, namely Serbia, rests today. So, it is about the values that form freedom, brotherhood and solidarity between people and peoples, and that is what means and good relations between Serbia and France today, the good relations that, thanks to President Vukic and President Makron, have reached the level of strategic partnership and have reached the level of integration that Serbia is seeking, of course, and which Serbia will naturally seek in the future and all that it does in the field of economy and political integration of our country, and all for the benefit of our citizens, our nation and our country. I would like to remind the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and my distinguished colleagues that all of President Vukic's initiatives, starting with the period when he became prime minister in 2014, have been focused on integration and have been focused on co-operation with all countries and all integrations, whether they are in Europe, whether they are around the world, were thus also applicable to co-operation with countries that form and which are members of the EFTA agreement. So with CEFTA, so is Mini Shengen, my colleagues have spoken about it before, and very well explained why it is important for Serbia to adopt such agreements and to spread its friendships on a bilateral but also on a multilateral level and plan to expand its friendships, extend its influence and, of course, open new markets, but it opens up as one country that has a very good business environment, a country where companies from all the world's meridians are very happy, regardless of where they are on the continent, whether they are far away, and they speak examples of Serbia in the past few years, as there have been large investments from Germany, from the countries of the region here, so there are also from South Korea, Japan, from the Middle East, the Middle East. This speaks of a country that has changed dramatically, which has dramatically improved its business environment, which puts one serious focus on economic development, GDP growth and, of course, all in order to employ its citizens and all in order for citizens of the Republic of Serbia to live in peace, live in prosperity and live in a stable, good and quality environment. I must say something about the complexity of your work, Mrs. Vujovic. Given that, returning back a 10-15 years and returning to the current criticism of the work of the government of the Republic of Serbia by the opposition, which absolutely has no idea, has no political platform, no initiative, they have now seen some public opinion research where one of the main priorities of citizens put on an ecology, puts on air quality, or combating air pollution, and think they can play and win some votes on that map, even though politics have neither, nor understand what this is about. Since the economy didn't work in their time, since the economy didn't work, the question arises whether they should have at all the Ministry of Environmental Protection, which you're running today, given that the economy didn't work, since the absolute theme was not in circulation, or any debate, or anything we're talking about today. We are talking about that the chapter on environmental protection is one of the perhaps most important in terms of Serbia's European integration. Nobody's talking about your job being such that your results can't be seen right away, that it's a very long process, that it requires huge investments, that it requires great coordination with other ministries and, of course, requires one balance and optimal level of economic development and what you need to pursue and what your result should be, which is environmental protection, so environmental protection and all of those environmental standards that we need to meet, not because of Europe, but because of our citizens. I have to point out that everything you've done in this short time, Mrs Vujovic, over the past few months, whatever you started, you've done. However, you didn't go with fans and talambas and talk about it, you didn't deal with pi-ara, but you solved and you started to solve the dump problem, I think it's called "Stavine" in Prepolje, a problem that lasted for decades, a problem that threatened the lives of thousands of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. No one is talking about the fact that it was not initiated from the territory of the Republic of Serbia as much as this waste and as much as that dump is, because that waste, and everything that came from Lim, comes from Montenegro and Bosnia and Herzegovina, and that you cannot run environmental policy and environmental policy in neighbouring countries. I think today is a real opportunity to say what it really is and how things are about, I'm sure and I hope that you will have enough time in the next few years, all of this about environmental protection and environmental protection standards will meet and do what you've done in the previous positions that you've had, and they haven't been a bit easy, and they haven't been easy, nor about managing the Sava Veneto municipality, nor about keeping social activities and the whole corpus of activities you've had as assistant mayor of Belgrade. I think that our ruling majority, especially us in the SNS, should give you strong support in the process of fighting for environmental protection, but also in finding a balance between economic growth and development, because it is impossible to say that there is no problem in the environmental protection process, if we open almost at the weekly level of the factory, if we want the natural resources of our country and everything that belongs, therefore, and water and ore, to use it in the best possible way, guaranteeing our citizens the safety, guaranteeing their level of health and safety, therefore, the safety of their health and the protection of their environment that will be at the highest possible level. But to talk about that we are not expected to have a huge investment in environmental protection with such economic growth is not serious, nor is it realistic and I think it is good that President Vukic himself, and you, Madam Minister, do not send anyone in your work, the messages you have, because the easiest thing to say is – we will protect the environment by doing nothing. Well, it's best that way. We'll have a complete, 100%, even then we won't have a 100% protected environment, because of course we don't live alone in this territory. In addition to us are some other countries that are also fighting for investment and that would hardly welcome the factories that come to us, both from China, from America, the Russian Federation, the European Union, Germany, France, whatever you want or want. It is up to us, as one serious ruling majority here in Parliament and you in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, just to find that balance, to find an optimum between the money that we earn and the state earning from paying taxes, new investments, new markets that we have, new jobs, harmonize and focus on protecting the environment. We showed, and President Vukic definitely showed it, that he can do it, that a strategic policy in advance, which is planned for the next 20 or 30 years, can be successful, and we also showed that in terms of capital investments. I will remind you, you were a folk MP in 2012 and 2013, and we were going through this period together when we voted here on budget and budget rebalancing in 2012 and you witnessed the state of economic collapse. You witnessed how much money was used for capital investments, absolutely nothing at all, and now we are using everything we have in the Republic of Serbia's budget to focus on capital investments. In that sense, I am not only talking about this hard infrastructure and everything we've done about building highways, railways, gas pipelines, but also about this soft infrastructure, which includes both the process and a clear environmental protection strategy and everything that needs to be done, building. But it is particularly important in the next few years that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia are told the real truth and how important it is, in fact, that we are in some way also fighting these false news and disinformation that speak of SNS, Aleksandar Vukic or any ministry that pollutes this country or part of that country. They then hold referendums, as it did with Loznica related to "Rio Tinto", in which 95% of respondents who do not live in the area of Loznica and the region in which Loznica, Sabac and these cities and those places in the Republic of Serbia are located. So, it's about a cheap, ground and malicious manipulation of some people who thought, because they saw what our people would say -- a frog sees that the horse is sweating, so they would, too, see that they are "green" in the Federal Republic of Germany growing up, they see that they have crossed the censorship in Austria again, and now they would like to make a political story and a political platform of hope that Vucic and SNS are polluting Serbia, that they bring evil investors, and they are truly their own, and they want to protect this country from pollution and air and the very environment. What is essential, however, is that over 60% of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia clearly and unequivocally support the policy of Aleksandra Vukic, also supports what you do in your portfolio, so at the ministry you run. I want to repeat, it's not a bit easy for you, you can't do the result in a month or three months, you can't do it in a year, and it needs to be open and honest. Your score will not be seen for two, three or four years. In this result, we here in the Serbian Progressive Party absolutely do not doubt and we can only be very big and good and any support that everything about environmental protection, health protection and the safety of our citizens is fulfilled as defined by the plan of your ministry and the plan defined by the Government of the Republic of Serbia for the next period. After all, it will help us both at the speed and in the dynamics of our European integration. I can tell the citizens of the Republic of Serbia that we are in 95% of all that is in the clusters to be negotiated or negotiated to be a full part of the EU. Of course, that prevents us from other geopolitical interests, geopolitical influences, which we have to resist, which we have to fight, but we have to fight as Aleksandar Vukic fought today, today in Pancheva, several days ago in Valjevo with a new factory, with new technologies showing that Serbia is not a country of cheap labour, that Serbia is the country in which engineers work, that Serbia needs highly qualified and highly educated personnel, that Serbia is no longer the country where the brain drain happens and youth and the best and most qualified and highly educated people, but it is the country that attracts them. We will only be, because everything that started in 2014, our result and mine, how can I say, will only have their final picture in a few years and when we build "Belgrade on water", and when we build a network of highways and railways, and everything we need to be definitely the most modern, best, economically strongest country not only of the Western Balkans, but also of all Europe. In that area to refer. Serbia is involved in all possible economic integrations that exist in Europe. I mentioned this earlier, but we are involved in political integration. It is good that President Vukic is working to improve co-operation with the multi-city group. I think it is one of Serbia's vital interests to become part of a multicity group in the near future. It is good that we are going into European integration and that we do not deviate from that strategic goal. I'm sure we'll go and be part of the three seas initiative. We don't threaten anyone, we work for our citizens, we work for our people, and that's not the problem of Alexander Vukic saying, not in Washington, not in Moscow, not in Beijing, not in Brussels, not in any other city and the center of Europe and the world. In the end, let me just say about the energy you and the Ministry with which you have both determined coordination and need without your coordination there are no results in this area. What's good is that we have delegations that come to our president to try to invest here. The other day we had an interesting term as assistant secretary of state in charge of energy diplomacy. A very interesting term that speaks of the interest of the American side, alongside the Russian, Chinese and European sides to invest here. What's good is that in the interests of our citizens and our people. And I am sure that you too will have further uncompromising support for the president himself and us here as a majority in parliament in developing our economy, working to create new jobs, new factories, but also to lead what we have shown during this pandemic, to have the opportunity, the knowledge, the human capacity to deal with every challenge. Of course, I think that's what we're best at in Europe because we have a leader. Today, I see that he is criticised by some tabloids, some tycoon media, for God's sakes, why he called, from where he is entitled to call on the finance minister to talk about investing in Serbia sometime, whether there is room for the state to invest nine million euros. Well, should he go to the gym like they did at 10:00 a.m. and go to 12:00 a.m. to drink coffee, at 2:00 a.m. to eat lunch, at 4:00 p.m. to raise the plane to go to Rome and see who knows who and then to come back? President Aleksandar Vukic, twenty-four hours, seven days a week, 365 days a year works for this country, works for this people, and we will, of course, be as the Serbian Progressive Party and remain on that path and strongly support such a policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-14-0.u8413	Thank you. The word is from MP Zoran Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-14-0.u8414	Thank you, Chairman. A respected minister with a co-worker, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, we have really had the opportunity to hear from my distinguished colleagues and colleagues a number of examples of all that has been done in Serbia thanks to President Aleksandar Vukic's policy, not only in terms of economics, but also in terms of ecology, when it comes to raising living standards. What we are talking about today is solving a major problem in Kragujevac, when it comes to their city heat, which is certainly one of the major problems when we talk about air pollution, so this loan that is ahead of us will solve the problem in a long term sense by using fuels, or energy to protect the environment instead of fossil fuels. It's not just about heat in Kragujevac and just solving environmental protection. By solving this problem, you allow and create more favourable conditions for further investment in Kragujevac to raise the standard of living and the quality of the citizens themselves that an even greater number of people, i.e. the people of Kragujevac, decide to join their central heating system and thus say again on the economic side, improve their lives. On the other hand, we talked a lot backwards and about the gasification process that certainly contributes to solving the environmental pollution problem and exactly what counterpart Arsic was talking about, is certainly one of the problems in the past, that large number of individual bars we have. Certainly with these results behind us thanks to President Vukic and raising standards that today we are also talking about raising a minimumer that will be 300 euros, unlike 159 euros, as it was during the former tycoon regime, there will be conditions that people and this problem can also solve with joint efforts further raise the quality of our environment. Here we are talking today about the concept of sustainable development. Sustainable development implies that in addition to the development of the very economy that will raise our GDP, we maintain and protect our environment, because sustainable development implies that what we take from the environment needs to be restored for future generations. Only in this way can we achieve stable and high GDP growth rates, and as I remember both the IMF and the IBRD have confirmed that this year our GDP growth rate will be at least 6% and this is a real growth rate. In the next period, we can expect only an even higher rate thanks to the investments we have in Serbia, and today we have had the opportunity to see the big investment in Pancheva, which is proof that we are slowly from an economy that is working intensively, moving on to an knowledge-based economy where we invest in knowledge and best implement this knowledge in our economy in order to increase this added value that will allow us to perform even more successfully in international markets. So, and these agreements that we are talking about today when it comes to both the EFTA and the Agriculture Agreement, will make it possible for our goods to be more competitive in international markets, that we can export easier, that in this way we can increase our GDP, and certainly, that, with the help and support of the Government of Serbia, we stimulate further development, new investments in their production plants and that we continue to brand our own products. We are well aware that we are very rich in land and raw materials and resources and that and how we have what to offer when it comes to abroad. When we talk about protecting the environment, I certainly like to look back on my native Kruševac. You have had opportunities, too, to visit Kruševac for 650 years since the founding, which was on Vidovdan. You were present at the presentation of the project Regional Deposit in Srnj. It's nothing from some aspect of economic logic new, it's something the presidents planned, but, well, unfortunately, a period of the yellow tycoon government, which wasn't capable or what the predecessors had plotted, to realize, has brought us back a lot of steps. Thanks to the consolidation, thanks to the reforms, we have this momentum today that this important project, when it comes to the Rasinski district, we can realise, and certainly from the aspect of my case, I am grateful for solving the deposit in Prepolje, which was and how burning the problem. Believe me, Serbia's beautiful end with great tourism potential and a very ugly picture which, unfortunately, was sent while the dump existed there. We're talking about further promotion of the Kruševci. Here, I will only mention the wastewater treatment plant, as it is an important project that is not only implemented in Kruševec, but also implemented in other cities in Serbia. I say again, some idea of a project that existed in the '90s, which unfortunately the yellow tycoon regime didn't even consider, even though the plot existed, everything existed. We managed to finish it, so that today Kruševac has contributed significantly to the protection of the environment not only in its surroundings, but in the whole district, by no longer releasing fecal waters in West Morava and Rasin, but by going all the way through the wastewater treatment plant and nature is returning, as I said, to what we took from it. In such a state as we take and return and leave nature for future generations, that they can successfully continue to develop and that they can enjoy natural beauty. Dear colleagues were actually talking about what Dragan Gilas and his associates were doing in Serbia at the time of the yellow government. Unfortunately, environmentalism was not important to them at all. If we are talking about ecology, all they care about was their pocket's ecosystem, which is that in a more efficient and effective way they can take as much money as possible from the citizens and take that money abroad so that they can meet their needs. The lessons have not been learned, and we can see clearly from what colleagues have said, that they are criticising President Vukic, because he is fighting for the even development of Serbia and because he is in the field with people, because he is the leader in the right sense of that word and he solves problems. So he's not here among the citizens, like Boris Tadic did, to take care of the chickens, to drink enough chicken bensedin, to go lurking cows and calves. He absolutely didn't care about the citizens of the Republic of Serbia if they had a job, whether they had to feed their families. Unlike him, President Vukic is not going to take a picture, he is not going marketingly to visit Serbia, he is going to see what the situation is, to see how problems are solved, to see what new problems are and, if possible, to solve them as quickly as possible, so that what we have had the opportunity to see is the move of the right leader in action, and what they are trying to make fun of it. It is actually their face and I think it is absolutely clear to the citizens of Serbia how much they care about the citizens of Serbia. They absolutely don't care about the citizens of Serbia, and that shows the polls they're doing. According to one of Gilas's statistical doctrines, where the unnamed agency he employs and that, imagine, for these on a fixed phone, only citizens of Belgrade, has found that some opposition, which he imagines as such, has 39.4 plus 9.2% of citizens' support, while Aleksandar Vukic has only 40.8% of the support. Of course, research by Ipsos is immediately criticised. Why? Well, because it absolutely doesn't belong to him. Unlike his unnamed agency, which must not put the name Dragan Gilas as one of the candidates or examine the opinion of the public opinion, how much support he like Dragan Gilas has, Ipsos has done so and they have come to the conclusion that for now it is at some 4.2%, which we will see, are the choices that absolutely speak of what support he is, but he must not go out to the elections, which is absolutely talking about his actions that he is doing when it comes to talks, since he must not talk to other political opponents looking for some intermediaries, but I do not think that he is looking for intermediaries to come to an agreement, but rather, to avoid any agreement. He has been making a massive effort with his experience as spin master while he was mayor of Belgrade and while he has been performing various functions to reach 619m and more euros, which he has drawn from Serbia, of course, the competent institutions will determine, he continues to spin and he is trying to keep this one on track, not saying the basis of the item, which is – what is the sample of the respondents and, of course, is already imposing some of his parameters, and that is that it corresponds to the 52% turnout, and by some assumption, if it is a smaller number of voters, it is 61%, which is absolutely in favour of him and on that basis he has declared a larger victory in his head. Dragan Gilas lives in philosophy that one lie is a hundred times true, so he's been repeating this lie a hundred times in his head and trying... Being able to convince himself does not mean that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia will convince because the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and the citizens of Belgrade remember a great deal of time while he managed the city of Belgrade while the DS, which he belonged to, which he has destroyed, is now the biggest trustee, or we can freely say that he is the one who rules the fate of the Democratic Break. What were they doing not only in Belgrade, but also in other cities? In particular, when we talk about Kruševac, the biggest criticism he has is the reconstruction of the city's cent, where in their statements, they take great care of the interests of the citizens of Kruševac, so they ask why there is no greenery, why there are no trees, why, I don't know, the reconstruction of the city was done which, in their understanding, absolutely shouldn't have been done. In their time, they tried to reconstruct only one piece of the plateau. They couldn't do it either, they didn't make the space functional, and in a few years we've seen how long-term their investments are. Unlike their period, we see today that Kruševac and how he is progressing and that the reconstruction that has been done is really excellent and, according to the assessment of the citizens themselves, who, in the evenings in these warm days, spends in the city center with their families, see that Kruševac really lives, that there are a lot of young people who come here and, thanks to the agricultural college, which is the Serbian Progressive Party, led by Aleksandr Vukić, and opened it, which is the first state college in Kruševec. Unfortunately, Kruševac had no state-run university based in the city and was the only city in the West Morava Basin that was excluded from becoming an academic centre. He's a successful academic center today. If they think that such spins, lies to deceive, cheat, because Serbian citizens and how well-informed, and they need nothing special or Twitter or social networks, it's just enough to go out into the streets to see what's been done in Serbia and how much money and resources are being invested to make Serbia progress. When we talk only about this loan, and I would like to finish my speech today, I absolutely do not expect Gilas' media to say that in Serbia a significant step has been taken both in the direction of environmental and environmental protection. Their title will probably be - there's another assignment. They are doing everything in this country, all the investments that are there, including the Moravski corridor that is being built, which next year will be released from Kruševac to Pojat, in two years' time complete, not seen as an investment that will bring new jobs, which will allow Serbia to progress further and touristic, but see everything as a kind of borrowing. And do you know why? Because they are doing an auto projection, because as long as they were working while they were in power, it was only in their own interest, filling their own pocket, and they were the ones who, unfortunately, owed unfavourable loans of 6%, 7%, 8%, and 9%, which reduced Serbia's credit rating and made it impossible for it to progress. Unlike their period, we today and how we can take favourable loans, although Serbia's citizens absolutely, unlike their period, are working transparently today and can look at these materials themselves, and they will see that according to the agreement, we are the ones who determine on the market whether the interest rate is more favourable as variable or fixed and we have absolutely an opportunity to decide on what is more favourable to the interest of our economy, and we are also working successfully to raise our credit rating and expand that spectrum the way we can get the funds in order to make important investments, which require a longer period of time to realise their return, have managed to realise. Why? Well, because each of these investments is taking on additional benefits that Serbian citizens and their families will benefit from and how you have. What we discussed today, and what our colleagues discussed, is the way Serbia is being promoted, the way we implement the country's sustainable development policy, but not just in words, larger and in works. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-14-0.u8415	Thank you. The word has Velibor Stanojlovic. Before I give you my word, just one notice. There are 19 minutes and 20 seconds left for your MP group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-14-0.u8416	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Ministerial with the Co-operation, today we have two agreements on the agenda with the EFTA States, namely Switzerland and Iceland, which have signed an agreement with the Republic of Serbia. These agreements mean free trade in agricultural products between these two countries and our country. This makes it clear that Serbia opens new markets every day and expands co-operation. This is another way to build and co-operate in bilateral relations and in every other way. Serbia's agriculture is developing and that's what's most important. At the last session, we adopted a very important Law on the regulation of the agricultural products market, which was simply necessary for further progress by our agricultural producers and their stability, which also affects international co-operation, as it meets the rules and standardisation of products. Last year, we had the opportunity to see how important agriculture was to the economy and how much overall economic impact it would have had on GDP growth. These agreements are just another indicator of how much we want to move forward, how much we want to have a strong peasant, to modernize, equip and facilitate the performance of our jobs, through competitions, subsidies that the state gives each year. We've had one period of delays with subsidies, but I have to point out, because I've told live committees several times that almost all requests have been processed and paid off, except for those that have been filed this year and are still in progress. Another very important news is that from a few days ago, the Free Trade Agreement between Serbia and the Eurasian Economic Union came into force. This opened the market of 180 million people, up from about 90% of domestic goods, signed by Serbia on 25 October 2019 in Moscow with Russia, Kazakhstan, Belarus, Armenia and Kyrgyzstan. Now, when we look at the situation, the citizens have a clear picture, to see what the struggle of this government is, headed by President Alexander Vukic, for every segment of our society and for every citizen of our country. How difficult it has been to strengthen the economy and to stand on sound and firm ground and that today we can proudly say that Serbia is one big construction site that shows the picture of progress. Then, on the other hand, we have former, yellow tycoon marginalized politicians who only know how to show hatred for Alexander Vukic and who are conducting an aggressive foreign campaign and who would force and lynch to return to power and re-implement their katanac politics. That's why citizens know what a group of people are, and that's why citizens are giving this much support and the policy he's leading, and that's why, the more they attack him, he leads Serbia forward. As for the Water and Nature Protection Act, I want to wish you, Madam Minister, even more happiness and struggles in the coming period, and I hope that this way we will improve the quality of life of all our citizens of the Republic of Serbia. This may be one of the last moments and we come into a situation where there is no longer waiting in what is expected of us in the next period, which is that the environment must improve, as it has been until now, to deal with all the other things that show us in the way that the struggle has led to the increase in wages and all the other segments of our lives. In voting day, I will certainly vote for these agreements and support all these laws concerning a better and better life for all of our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-14-0.u8417	Thank you. National MP Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-14-0.u8418	Dear Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly, Honored Minister Vujovic, with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, since colleagues and fellow MPs have almost exhausted the agenda, I will say a few sentences, though I have prepared to ask Dragan Gilas a number of questions as part of this topic. I'll give up on them, I'll just ask him a part tonight, because he said last time he didn't understand any questions. So here today are very important agreements, Madam Minister, for improving and protecting the environment, especially when it comes to the project of modernising the remote heating of the town of Kragujevac, which is on the one hand aimed at reducing fuel and on the other hand, reducing air pollution. That's very important. With this in mind, I will quote before the end of my speech today and the head of the peoples in the European Parliament, about Serbia, that citizens of the Republic of Serbia see that Serbia has, especially Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic, a vision when it comes to environmental protection and industrialisation of our country. The Kragujevac is, as you said, the first city to go into the realization of such a project. These other agreements do not have direct financial support, but will allow for a greater trade exchange and thus achieve greater competitiveness, which is extremely important for our economy. Respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, when it comes to environmental protection, the former government of Dragan Gilas had no hearing about it. Since I don't like to talk by heart, let me still present evidence and concrete data. Their minister was, as you know, Dr Oliver Dulic. Just to remind the citizens of the Republic of Serbia that Dr Dulic paid 25,000 euros for the site "Let's Clean Serbia". That's when the site cost 1,000 euros. That's not what I'm saying. That's what the DRI says. You see, the same Minister Dulic paid for the promotion, believe it or not, of the "Let's Clean Serbia" action, so to promote the action, 475,790 euros. Can you, respected citizens, now see what the former government has done to protect and improve the human environment? And look at the wonders, I know exactly how you'll guess, respected citizens, who supported it? Mayor Dragan Gilas defended him and this money. I'm asking him tonight, Mr. Gilas, and for Europe, Gilas, are these the exact details? Of course they are. Speaking of Dragan Gilas, I'll only ask him a few questions tonight, and the other questions will follow at other sessions. Here, let the citizens of the Republic respond. Is it true, Mr. Gilas, just to remind you, because there is someone to remember in this House, that in the course of the pandemic, during the quarantine, you invited our pensioners to walk freely and that the Covid-19 virus cannot do anything to them and attack people who were protecting their health, starting with the doctor, the crisis staff, at the head of Dr. Kon, and our doctors, our nurses, and especially President Alexander Vukic? If you have any morals, come out, come on, on TV under your control and tell me if this is true or not. The second question – is it true, Mr. Gilas, that you led one part of the opposition parties into the boycott, in fact, and thus excluded them from political life and put them under your control, especially Dragan Lutovac, in a people called the stray. Why the stray? Because he's gone into politics and here he is, controlling him, that's what their DS say. Tell me, is it true or not? The third question - is it true, Mr. Gilas, that your official Biljana Lukic wanted to run over a journalist, Predrag Sarapa, but she gave up not to, quote, get the car dirty? It's a finished quote. It was May 2021. That's how you showed your attitude to the press. Unfortunately, NGOs have not responded. Is it true, Mr Gilas, that in 18.7.2019, you said on TV under your control: "Serbia is a country where there is no freedom, no democracy, in which moral values are violated"? Imagine what he's saying to his country? So, which democracy are you talking about? What freedom, Mr. Gilas, with 619m euros, with accounts in 17 countries, 56 and who knows how many bills, etc.? This showed your relationship, not only to the country, but also to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Is it true, Mr. Gilas, that in 18.7.2019, on TV under your control, you have shamedly stated: "You have no doubt that Alexander Vukic would bring Serbia into war now only if he had someone to fight with"? Are you aware of how much you accuse the institutions of the Republic, the state, the system, and especially President Alexander Vukic? The moment Alexander Vukic implements a policy of peace not only in the environment, but also in Europe and beyond. That's not what I say. That's what European officials say. Do you have any shame now after that statement after a year? Do you have cheeks? Of course you don't because you're fatter than my sole. You have no cheek to be ashamed of. Let's move on. Is it true, Mr. Gilas, that the late Verica Baraq revealed the ways in which you, Mr. Gilas, as mayor of Belgrade, made a fortune by setting up state tenders? A fortune for your private companies and for your colleagues? Was it true that Verica Baraq said that you, Mr Gilas, had your own private firms as mayor of Belgrade and that you were constantly doing business with the budget, not only of the local communities, but of the Republic and so on laundering the huge money of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and before entering politics, you were simply naked? Hence, the respected citizens, 619 million, are in 17 countries and 67 accounts. Is it true, Mr. Gilas, that you were in control of the media in Serbia at the time by buying minutes, paying in advance and thus affecting the media, and that you were in control of daily newspapers, buying space in the media and censorship of newspapers? Is it true or not? That's not what I'm saying. That's what the late Verica Baraq says. What kind of media are you talking about? Dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia allow me to say about the protection and promotion of the human environment a few more sentences. Dear Minister, these days, various NGOs are being attacked by the Republic of Serbia through associations to protect and improve the environment. That's not what I'm saying, that's what the head of the peoples in the European Parliament says, because it threatens us to activate the modernisation of the Republic of Serbia, not only Serbia, but Europe. I'll quote it, I don't like talking in my head. The head of the peoples in the European Parliament, Manfred Weber, otherwise a close associate of Angela Merkel, one of the best associates, addressed the public in the same words, believe it or not, as did our President Aleksandar Vukic, a respected citizen, to you. Now I'm going to say the exact quote, and you judge whether it's true. Says Weber: “We are concerned about ecology, but we must prevent the crawling deindustriousization of a dangerous economic order in the case of a major turn towards a policy that is carried out by a certain so-called. Green movements’. Is it true that this is President Aleksandar Vukic for the last 15 days, he has, I think, 10-15 days speaking to the citizens of the Republic, spoken these words? Of course it is. Why am I telling you this? I am talking about seeing how much our president has a vision, not only of the Republic of Serbia, but also of the European vision and how much danger we have hidden from deindustriousism under the leadership of these movements that aim only to stop investment in our country. Wherever the factory shows up, here they are, against it. Not to mention, I've got 20 cases where they showed up, despite whether we're really taking care of the protection and improvement of the environment that the colleagues were talking about. Thank you, Madam Minister, for doing all this in a very short time, visible to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Having come to an end, let me finally say that while our President, Alexander Vukic, daily, as you see, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, returns our country's international reputation throughout the world, implementing a policy of peace, and not war, as lies between Dragan Gilas, security policy, solidarity policy across Europe and the world, health policy not only of our citizens, but also of health in the region and beyond, the policy of accelerated modernisation of the Republic of Serbia, compromise policy and a lasting and sustainable solution for our Serbian province, until then Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic and that unfortunate President Boris Tadic, you saw him yesterday as a squabbler, whether, on TV, he is under the control of Dragan Djilas, filling his pockets, mudning the Republic of Serbia, the institutions of the Republic of Serbia, especially President of Aleksandar Vukic, while he is constantly burning in Serbia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-14-0.u8419	Thank you. The rest is exactly three minutes. The word has a folk MP, Prof. Dr. Ljubisa Stojmirovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-14-0.u8420	We won't mind the titles. How much time do I have? (President: three minutes. ) Dear colleagues and colleagues, I have spent the last year and a half working on a job that is very much related to ecology. I'm going with one of my teams across Serbia, and we're going beyond Serbia's borders and we're giving books to individuals, libraries, schools, citizens, all those who want to read something, to refresh this space and our knowledge and to contribute to the development of Serbia and to the protection of the environment. I was recently in the village of Gornja Gara, it's the municipality of Black Grass. Very congratulating, wise people who are distinguished by honesty, strength, and clarity. One of them comes up to me and says, "Well, come on, MP, once that democracy's over, let's live again like the whole normal world." What does a man have to say to him? I'm starting to explain how it's normal, how it's going to be, how it's going to be, and how it's going to be, and how it's going to be, and he tells me -- don't look too much in someone's yard, that's true for you and all of your colleagues, look and save Serbia, those who are away from Serbia, who convince you that you're going to join the EU, they've been giving us problems in history a couple of times, so they're in their bed. I think that only with a wise, smart, coherent policy can we overcome all these problems that Serbia is facing today, and one of the problems is the one we are talking about these days – environmental protection. Serbia will not be able to solve these global problems, it will not be the one to solve the melting of ice, nor the increase of these temperatures, but one thing, Madam Minister, you can try to solve -- to clean up Serbia a little. I went across the street to that assembly of ours. I've come across ten masks of thrown, piss and wonders, and when you take the roads out of Belgrade or across Belgrade, you've thrown waste, you've thrown garbage, and there's countless of them. So please, you're a young woman, a girl, an intellectual, the higher your responsibility. As far as I know, you're an academic, and I'm going to do a little gesture now to give you a book called "The Protection of the Environment of the Republic of Serbia", and you try to find something new in it that will help you in your work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-14-0.u8421	Thank you. Since we have used the time foreseen for the parliamentary groups, and before we conclude a joint single search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? Minister Irena Vujovic answered, but only to receive a gift, a book from our colleague. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-14-0.u8422	Thank you for this lovely gift. Of course I'm going to study this book. First of all, I thank you, MPs and MPs, for having been extremely involved in the debate today when we talk about the ratification of the contract regarding the remote heating system in the town of Kragujevac and what each of you has seen the importance and importance of this project, I can also say the biggest project this year when we talk about environmental protection and this portfolio. In recent days, we can hear much in public that the impossible situation in the town of Kragujevac is, as ashes fly all over the city, that citizens cannot live normally. I'm glad there's a lot of writing about it. Of course, I'm not happy that this is the situation, but it's written at the time the ministry announced it would solve the issue of air pollution in Kragujevac. That's what I said at the beginning of the year, that we have intensive negotiations with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, two credit lines. Of which one is directed towards reducing air pollution, and that's exactly what we're discussing today. All that is said is certainly true, but it is much more important that after 50 years of such a situation we are now one step ahead of the solution to this great problem for the Kragujevci. Of course Kragujevac is not the only city in which we have similar problems, but from that ministry and through the competition will replace many city boiler rooms, boiler rooms with legal and physical persons. We've heard here today many suggestions in which cities should do all this. I must repeat once again that in the fight against aero-contamination, that is to say, to combat aero-pollution, we have singled out 400 million dinars at the beginning of the year and that over 50 units of local self-government have reported to the competition and won funds, which is to replace the boiler room, which is to resupply. We heard today that it is necessary to do so in the New Market. Yes, the funds went to Novi Pazar, and if I'm not mistaken in the city center in the sports hall, it will just be replaced by an old and worn-out boiler and will significantly improve the quality of air in the city center. It's also shaming. Also in Kruševec, Kragujevac, Priboj, Prijepolje, Užica. These are all cities where things will change significantly for the better when we talk about aero-pollution. I told the Kragujevac again because I have to say that the Kragujevac has won funds for the replacement of boilers in individual households. So that's what's very important. And also in the King. We are now all here to monitor the realization of these projects and the conditions for all these boilers to be replaced by the following heating season and the locations to be forested and greened. Of course that's how it's gonna be. First of all, dear citizens of Serbia, thank you for your initiatives and thank you for writing to us, for communicating with your presidents of municipalities and mayors and for being able to meet all your environmental needs. So, of course, not suddenly, not in the day, but to run them as future projects that will significantly facilitate the lives of Serbian citizens. Once again, I must point out that for the town of Kragujevac, this is a solution to the decades-old problem. So the worn-out boilers after 50 years will be completely replaced. When we replace boilers with more environmentally acceptable energy, there will be no more ash. The boilers will be replaced by the end of the year, followed by the trial work, and all of this is done intensively at the second phase of the project, which is also much more important by the scale and quantity of funds that will be separated, and this is the complete closure of the ash dump. So, right now, it's a study of what to do with that ash site and what it's best to use it for, in order to respect the principles of the circulatory economy. We hope and will be in the first quarter of 2022 a tender for works to close the ash dump. So this is definitely a big deal for the Kragujevci and all of you who come from Kragujevac and who are staying there know what the problem is with aero-pollution. Also a major problem in the city of Valjevo with aero-pollution will be resolved by the end of this year because the same complete city boiler changes in Koserić and in many other cities, as I have just counted. When we talk about cleaning Serbia, we will not clean Serbia the way Dulic and Djilas did in Belgrade, and we will not clean the budgets that way, but we will be far more responsible, as I think we have shown in the past months. Of course, I understood my function in the most responsible way and duties I perform both my team and I work daily and we try to do our best to ensure that the quality of life of Serbian citizens is at a higher level exactly as they deserve. When we talk about cleaning Serbia, we will clean dumps and waste. That's what I was talking about yesterday and every time I stayed here in the congregation. We'll clean the dumps along the highways. We'll clean the dumps on the banks of the river. That's very important to us. We're going to renovate the land that's erotically in the streams of rivers. We're going to resuscitate the rinks, and that's all the municipalities are going to do in the next period, which they've certainly committed themselves by contracting that all these projects will be completed by the end of the year. We'll see the first results at the end of this year. Of course that's not enough, that my team and I have to work faster and more valuablely and try to listen to daily needs, but hopefully with the help of all of you and, above all, the citizens of Serbia, who are also our allies in this fight, because we certainly wouldn't be able to solve all these problems ourselves, and we couldn't without their criticism and advice and suggestions, I think we'll do a lot of things and do a lot of things. The most important thing is that we have the possibility, as we have opportunities for this loan agreement, which we hope to adopt today, or you will vote for it, we also have a credit line from the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development for eight regional centres when we talk about solid waste management, regional recycling centres. The first of them is Kalenić "Colubara", a regional centre for 11 municipalities in the first phase where we will join four other municipalities in the second phase, which will be very soon after that first. So, Kolubara Kalenic for 15 units of local self-government. The other day we just presented to Ubu this large project that is being intensively worked on and I expect also the beginning of the first quarter of next year for the most modern and modern regional centre which we will also start to build thanks to the European Bank's loan for reconstruction and development. Once again, I would like to thank you all for having a lot of discussion today about the importance of environmental protection and its importance, and also for recognising how much effort has been made and how important it is to us to replace the boilers in the town of Kragujevac and to close the dump and the ashes, a project worth 18m euros. I hope that soon we will all be able to be proud of seeing Kragujevac and going through these papers together. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-14-0.u8423	I thank the Minister. I am concluding a joint single search and we are moving to the eighth item of the agenda - Proposal for a DECISION ON THE AMENDMENTS ON THE MEETING OF MEMBER STATES AND THE REFERENCE OF THE MEMBER STATE OF SERBIA. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. According to Article 192, paragraph 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a single search on the proposal for a decision to amend the Decision on the selection of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the parliamentary group "Alexandar Vukic - For Our Children". Does a representative of the promoter, a national MP, Dr Aleksandar Martinovic, want a word? (No) Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? (No) Since we don't even have a list of speakers, I am concluding a unique search into the motion for a decision and setting a break by 18.10 hours, when we will continue the discussion on the details of the proposed agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-14-0.u8424	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the search in detail. Point 1. – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Nature Protection Act. According to Article 90(1), I would like to inform you that the Rules of Procedure have been invited to attend: Irena Vujović, Minister of Environment Protection, Aleksandar Dujanović and Jelena Tanaskovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Environment Protection, Sara Pavkov, Special Advisor in the Office of Ministers, Aleksandra Dolić, Jelena Dučić and Mirjana Vasiljevic, Head of Department, Lidija Stevanović and Snezana Prokić, Head of Division, Slavica Stojanović, Group Manager, and Alexei Stepanov, Advisor. You have received amendments submitted by MP Marko Parezanovic on the bill. You have received a report from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law and the Committee on Environmental Protection. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. National MP Marko Parezenovic submitted to the 10th amendment. At its meeting of the Committee on Environmental Protection, the Proposer's representative accepted the amendment. The Environment Committee has accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word has Veroljub Matic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-14-0.u8425	Thank you. The amendment is in any case a desire to improve the law, to get a better quality law, as well as any debate that lasts on laws and legal solutions. I want to say something primarily about this Nature Protection Act, because it's just such an important thing that we all need to take care of, we should all just make our contribution to protecting nature the better. There's a sentence that was found here in this material and I have to read it, it's short, and I think it gives the essence -- we need to be aware of the fact that nature is in the world, but also in our country, it's under a lot of pressure from different factors of endangerment. I think there's a point here where it reminds us that we're overly endangering nature and that we have to make sure of it, to cut it down or completely throw it out, of course, if possible. I want to say on some living examples from some of my knowledge of relations from my municipality of Kocelev, where we have a bad example, we have some good examples. I'll say that, let's say, the dump in Koceljeva is in very bad shape, it's already in the urban zone, it's messy, it's filled. So, it has to be resolved quickly. More specifically, in this form, it interferes with the normal functioning and life of people living in Koceljeva, especially those living in the immediate environment. Within that or with the garbage dump itself, the transfer of cells was built to bring together the regional dump "Kalenić" to have one common continent and function, so that the work of the transfer of cells and regional dump "Kalenić" would simply lead the dump into one state so that it can function, work well and dump the garbage in the right way. Here, the minister said about building Kalenic's regional dump. I hope that we will experience the beginning of the construction of the dump in the first half of next year, given that it is a major procedure, and that we too from our municipality that we are the founders of the regional dump "Kalenić" that we are one of those 11 or one of those 15 future users. I think with that, my community will be in a position to simply avoid these bad things that bring us unplanned waste disposal. What's good, this year we're doing project documentation, and next year it's going to be construction, it's sewage purifiers, and three purifiers, one will be in Koceljeva, the other in Draginj, the third one in Donji Crniljev, and the purification framework will build up the existing sewerage in that missing area, so that on the territory of the Koceljeva municipality, where we drop the sewerage into the river, we simply decide with the purifiers that the purified sewerage will be at that level that it can be an integral part of the river. That's a good thing. It's good and renewable energy sources are good. We'll get a biogas power plant in the legendary village of Svileuva. It will begin to be built this year, probably early next year, where we will be able to produce electricity based on biogas. The total power plant capacity is 6 megawatts. It will be one of the larger biogas power plants and will be used basically renewable energy sources. What's still good, that byproduct, that's heat, is used for heating, and probably for building plastics. What I'd say, as far as the Water Act, or alterations and additions, I'd be short on that. There are two members who deserve attention. One is that the practical law will be applied in accordance with the General Administrative Procedure Act, i.e. that the administrative procedure will be carried out under the provisions of the Water Act and that what is not resolved by that law will be applied to the General Administrative Procedure Act. It is further said here that the immovableities, i.e. water, facilities, will simply move on to the public property of the Republic of Serbia. Serbia wants to make it practically serious to the end, and we are serious about water and water facilities. All of this will be conducted by the cadastre and the Republic Geodetic Institute, and the erasure and registration of public property. As part of the water supply, I think water supply is a key thing for all environments, as well as for my municipality, where in the next period, we will certainly not in the next two years, but in the coming years, get a lasting stable supply of healthy drinking water from the Stubo-Rovni system and the purifier that will be located in Valjevo. It will be water supply for the Colubary County, without one municipality, it is Osecina, with added municipalities, Loznica and Koceljeva. I think that's how this whole neighborhood gets to the quality of life, and in the future, it's going to measure the quality of life and survival in those areas if there's healthy and proper drinking water. I think we've solved it. We need to be patient for a few more years to get rid of it, and these ends will certainly be supplied with quality and proper drinking water. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-14-0.u8426	Thank you. Academic Zukorlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-14-0.u8427	The Honorable President of the National Assembly, the respected ministers with the co-worker, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs and respected citizens, the amendments that are before us actually confirm that the process of adopting one law or law that is before us and about which we have had a very rich debate in principle, in fact, these laws are not adopted until they are adopted, and that means that the purpose of all the discussions that we have, as well as the possibility of submitting amendments, is an opportunity to correct possible failures, mistakes that are always possible in every human part. I'm glad we have the amendments that are really these natures and that these laws are trying to be as much as possible, from a human point of view, brought to a certain perfection, even though perfection is God's quality, not human, but in a human dimension perfection is an ideal to which it tends. The ideal is ideal because it is ideal and because it is inaccessible and that is why the ideal is an unexhausted source of inspiration. What is realistic cannot fully be an ideal, but it becomes a human act and therefore we have the motive to pursue perfection and to use this ideal to actually make what we do look as good as possible. But even if something is moving, which we did not correct through the debate, or through the amendments, we certainly have opportunities, as we do with most laws, that through future changes and additions of these laws we make as good as possible. The amendments and additions to the laws are not only because we have missed something, but because the opportunities we live in, the circumstances we face, the challenges we face, all of which affect the need for the laws to comply with the needs and to work to the extent possible from the human perspectives of these laws as much as possible and the better they serve man, enables him to live in this country and this country with dignity, walk freely and freely, work and act in harmony with his own beliefs, spiritual, ethical, cultural, ordinary and all that makes us what we are, in all his similarities and all his differences. I must admit that the topic of nature protection, i.e. the general theme of nature, is so inspiring that and the time that we had at our disposal in principle and this time that we now have according to the amendments is, I can say, not enough to put out all aspects not only of the technical and legal relationship to the legal or amendment text, but according to this subject. I'll remain consistent with that thesis that I've laid down last time, the truth, applies to all the laws, not only to these two, that to the extent that it's important to achieve at least relative perfection in law making, either by substance, or by formulation, whether by accordance with the law itself and in accordance with other acts, from the highest which is called the Constitution, and all others, including compliance with the possibilities of implementing these laws, as important as this aspect of our operation here is, as much as possible, but because of some neglect, I think an even more important aspect of raising awareness about these issues and these laws is. In political practice, from the highest authorities that pass these laws, through the authorities that need to implement these laws, to the citizens that are either subject to these laws or which are to apply these laws, in the whole range of legal norms that we are making, we are able to make sure that the one by the model of the scars, the scars in which a lot of water is at the beginning of the ridge, however, if the furrow is long, there is little water at the end of the ridge. Because the water turns left and right inside the chin itself and doesn't always arrive water as far as it goes at the very beginning. It's similar with the application of these laws. The more complex the mechanism of application, in practice, it is shown that it is not exactly in place until the end that law has pro-circulated as we wanted or as the legislator imagined or as the legislation itself contains. Analyzing where these cracks are where they leak to the realisation or the possibility of the realisation of the law, we will mainly conclude that one of the major cracks or places where a lot of energy is lost in implementing or implementing the law, a general lack of consciousness, a personal and generally social, cultural consciousness in relation to the value of certain laws. So it's something that I'm really going to try to insist on, regardless of what insistences on cultural and ethical issues from the aspect of daily politics, daily practicalities, pragmatics are often not so interesting, but as healthy food is not delicious, also boring topics are sometimes of value. Otherwise, children at school prefer physical education than moral education, ethical education, cultural education, mathematics and physics and chemistry in particular. So these relationships are common in relation to social phenomena. That's why it's important to insist on consciousness. That's why I'm potentialing one, to say, a fundamental or a kind of fundamental approach and a matter of nature protection. Why is nature so important? Is it just the nature of this, to say, reflection of some direct communication, so if it's important that we don't have wild dumps, for example, it's logical - if I don't have a wild dump in my environment why would I fight to remove wild dumps or, I don't know, if it's a green matter issue, so if I'm near my house having greenery, why would I be nervous that there's no greenery out there somewhere, etc. So these questions are higher than those of immediate interest, selfishness. So these are cultural-civilization issues. Culture, as I mentioned earlier, is one of the most boring topics. That's why we almost pushed her out of public discourse, or maybe if we didn't push her down, then we brought her down to one small aspect, into that elite culture called art, and again inside the art, maybe some cultural event, like theater, and that's similar to that, and that's our whole culture. Ladies and gentlemen, it's art. It's just one branch of culture. She may be on top of a tree, maybe on top of a tree are the most beautiful cherries, maybe the most delicious cherries and fruits on that branch, but it's just one branch. It's a culture and it's a big tree and that root we don't see. In fact, that root of our tree is culture, where our culture and cultural pattern draw from. That's why I may react too explicitly, unusually, even unmodernly, conservatively, I admit, to these waves of presentations so-called. unlimited freedoms and I will always react and I will not accept that, simply so, we are forced to have the idea of unlimited freedoms as a higher cultural degree or as a cultural pattern. No, gentlemen, unlimited freedom means chaos. Unlimited freedom means I go to the red light because I'm in a hurry. It's unlimited freedom for me to break the fence of your yard, because it's easier for me to get into my backyard by truck. It's unlimited freedom. Culture and the meaning of culture is the arrangement of freedom. Either by that Roman principle, Roman-French, if I may say so, Roman-continental, that one man's freedom or the right of one man reaches the right of another man. It is the most banal form of regulation of freedom and rights, and the essential form of regulation of freedom and rights are principles. Valuable principles are those hard corner pillars that are actually stationary, that cannot be changed through human history, human history, human civilization. It can't be stolen for five thousand years, and now someone comes and says, "You know, we've made progress and we want to declare the theft that it's not a shame." And when we see someone steal today, they don't say thief, they say they got along. He's capable, he says. When he sells drugs, no one says he's a drug smuggler who, for selfish reasons, makes money, kills other people's children for his hedonism. It's not said, but -- it's capable, it's got business, we don't know exactly what it does, but, brother, it's managed, it's worth it, it's worth it, it's got three cars, it's got squares, and so on. He can't do that. It can't. It can be temporary, it can be forced, it can run us over, it can because in some places they're stronger, because someone's allowed them to be stronger, but in the long run, it can't be worth it. So, evil can be stronger at some point, but no one can make us applaud it all and say it – that's good. That's what the roots of culture are and that's what we need to do. When it comes to nature protection, it is much more than what is the superficial aspect of the Green Agenda. The Green Agenda is great. These are all important cultural-civilization achievements, but what we need to do is face certain gaps, certain shortcomings in our education system, in our cultural pattern, in our media communication, in the preservation and formation of our families, in the preservation and development of our schools, on the formulation and presentation of our models. Ladies and gentlemen, who are our role models? I apologize to the singer's category, I don't want to demean it in any way, but sometimes, even at the time of my childhood, if a girl went to singers or singers, it was a shame for the village, a shame for the waving. Now we've twisted the cultural patterns where parents go, force their child who has all fives at school and want to make him a singer and cry people because he didn't go the first round, but the third round. Guys, what's going on here? There's been an escalation of the wrong role models, an affirmation of the wrong patterns. Singing like art is something else entirely. Here, my colleague is here, a real singing artist, and she listens to me very carefully. I never understood why it wasn't said for someone who sang best to sing like Pavaroti, but to sing as a celebration. I'd like someone to explain it to me, because if it's a human civilizational cultural dimension and a range of art, then it would be logical for a man to be someone who has reached the highest reach in it, and not to celebrate as a nice, sweet, tiny bird, etc. Until in some other arts, that's not possible. So it's never going to happen that, for example, in the poetry of a bird, an animal or a computer is going to be better than a human, but that's another topic. What I want to point out is actually the necessity of affirmation of consciousness through education, education, through affirmation of equities with respect to nature is something that is an integral part of our culture and our symbiosis with nature. Why is a relationship with nature important? Because man is made of earth, and earth is the most important part of nature. We just had two topics, nature as earth and water. These are the two elements of which a man was created. A man is made of earth and water. In that meeting, it was created biologically and when it has a harmonious relationship with nature, with soil and water, the man is biologically healthy. When she has a harmonious relationship of souls with ethics and principles of God, she's healthy. So a healthy body needs symbiosis and harmony with earth and water, and a healthy soul needs harmony with God's laws of ethics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-14-0.u8428	Thank you, Mr. Zukorlich. I'll explain to you later on about the singing. I don't have time now. I'd like to ask for the urgency to cut short for the need to pass the law as soon as possible. We're moving on to the second amendment. Member of the 31st Amendment was submitted by MP Marko Parezanovic. At its meeting of the Committee on Environmental Protection, the Proposer's representative accepted the amendment. The Committee on Environmental Protection has adopted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Viktor Jevtovic, but I really ask all of you who signed up to be brief.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-14-0.u8429	Thank you, Chairman. In addition to the amendments, I will also talk about the draft law amending and supplementing the Nature Protection Act. The basis for the adoption of these amendments from the law is the assessment of acceptability, as well as the elimination of shortcomings in the application of the provisions so far. In this respect, the provisions relating to the acceptability assessment process for the ecological network, which defines one of the most important processes in nature protection, the establishment of the ecological network of the Republic of Serbia, or the ecological network of the European Union Natura 2000, in accordance with the requirements, in the conservation of natural habitats, wild animal and plant species. Also, one reason is to build a mini-hydropower plant. In the Republic of Serbia, around 10.4% of the total energy potential is located in water streams where small hydropower plants can be built. A more serious consideration of the use of small hydropower plants in the Republic of Serbia begins at the end of the 1980s, when the Energy Project and the Jaroslav Černi Institute made the Katastar of small hydropower plants. The document showed the great energy potential that Serbia has. What this concept of law is based on is that building a mini-hydroelectric power plant does not disrupt the environment, the way the surrounding population lives, as well as in protected areas as the most valuable parts of nature. This system not only protects and protects flora and fauna in Serbia, but also improves the damaged environment, disrupted habitats, and also contributes to the development of infrastructure projects. What is focused on is the policy of Alexander Vukic and SNS itself, in spite of the huge investments and the increase in living standards in the Republic of Serbia, where the minimum average salary at the end of the year will be 35,000 dinars, unlike the 2012 period, where the minimum wage was 15,000 dinars. Today, the IBRD doubled Serbia's growth forecast. It is a reflection of responsible policy, where we finally care about nature in addition to basic existential issues. Unlike the time of the former tycoon company, led by Dragan Gilas, when people watched only how to survive, experts led by the tycoon regime, Dragan Gilas, are returning to Serbia today, and they see the future in the way Aleksandar Vukic leads Serbia. The recycling project, which was installed in Belgrade's territory at 25 locations, where the municipal waste of 338kg per capita in 2019, is now being implemented, where Belgrade is classified in the order of large metropolis that care about the environment, and also has an economic benefit for all citizens. These projects were inconceivable at the time of the yellow company, the thought directory, and the public depicted the imagined projection of underground containers invented by Gilas' great machine brain with its Porsche breakthroughs, on which millions evaporated. Today, Serbia is leading a regional match, primarily in the economy, which is based on one country's progress in all fields. Today, we are no longer just an ATM tycoon and a well from which they were pumping money into their accounts on exotic destinations. Today we are a sovereign, developed, modern state that takes care of every citizen, and primarily of the poorest parts of society. Serbia is moving forward and I am proud of the fact that the topic of environmentalism has finally been launched, that there are no longer pictures of Serbia that column outside the foreign embassies of young scientists who have head-to-head fled from Serbia. And today, when Serbia headed with Alexander Vukic, the tycoons remembered the environmentals, hypocritically, as only they can, from mini-hydropower plants to Rio Tint and many other projects where they failed to profit and transfer their money to the already known exotic destinations and tax credits, so now they only have to cry on Twitter. Now they care a lot about the environment. Yeah, right. And they laughed at SNS activists who had organised thousands of action back in order to edit the environment for years. If they weren't miserable about it, they'd be funny to us today. But it doesn't stop Serbia, it goes forward as a champion in all fields. And regardless of the miserable attacks of the tycoon of the former regime, unable to do anything but attack Alexander Vukic and his family, just like most Serbian citizens, who Decidantly said not to the thief and hopelessness in which they held us for decades. They won't, ever again, we promise them that. Long live Serbia!
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-14-0.u8430	Thank you. Member of the 33rd amendment was submitted by MP Marko Parezanovic. At its meeting of the Committee on Environmental Protection, the Proposer's representative accepted the amendment. The Committee on Environmental Protection accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The word has Dusan Maric.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-14-0.u8431	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, the respected citizens of Serbia, it is a great honor to speak again in the National Assembly after nine years. I am taking this opportunity to thank the citizens of Serbia, the citizens of the Great Plane and the SNS for their expressed confidence. I support this amendment because I believe that it improves the proposed law in a legal and technical sense. Also, I believe that the changes proposed by the Government in the Water Law, along with the Nature Protection Act, create a better legal framework for nature protection in Serbia. In the past few years, a rise in the number of citizens' associations dealing with nature protection has been observed in Serbia. These associations are getting more active and more aggressive, and that's good. The more these associations become, the more active they are, the better the government and the competent state authorities will do their job to protect the environment. The bad news is that in some of these associations that are the loudest main word of the people taking more care of politics, they are more concerned with politics than with nature protection. The fact is that Serbia, however difficult this may sound, is covered in garbage dumps. We've got thousands of big garbage dumps. We have tens of thousands of small garbage dumps. It takes several billion euros to clean them up. We have a situation that it is rare to find the shores of a Serbian river that is not damaged by plastic bags and similar garbage. The MP Stojmirovic spoke of our roads being damaged by garbage on the one hand and on the other. However, when you listen to the leaders of these individual associations, then you get the impression that the only problem Serbia has is about environmentals as to what will happen to rafts on Savi and Dunava in Belgrade and whether small hydrocentrals will be allowed in Serbia. I understand that for certain reasons, someone has arguments against the construction of some small hydropower in a particular place, and if these arguments are justified, of course this hydrocentral should not be made. However, if an apriori in the beginning without any arguments -- I'm against having small hydropower being made anywhere in Serbia at all, and even in this call the people to rebel, under the password defend our rivers and our mountains, then it is clear that there is no struggle to protect the environment, but that it is business political interest. Interested in the environmental issue, on the defence of our rivers and mountains, as if those rivers and mountains were being threatened, as if they were not our rivers and mountains, means that another front against the current government in Serbia is opening up on the issue. They say -- small hydrocarbons endanger the existing ecosystem, endangering the environment, so of course they're jeopardizing. Everything a human hand does, almost in some way endangers the environment. When you build a house, you threaten the ecosystem, when you make the way, you open a living wound in nature, when you make a highway, it's like throwing an atomic bomb into nature. You're practically one ecosystem, you're dividing one community into two parts, but that doesn't mean you don't have to make highways, you don't need to build factories, it's simply the price to pay for development. It's a civilization step forward. If we ban, I end up, construction of small hydrocenters, then we should ban the construction of large hydrocenters, because if small hydroelectrics are jeopardizing the life system, the community of life, and they're jeopardizing, then it's logical that large hydroelectrics are further endangering the environment. And by that logic, we shouldn't make hydrothermia, or thermothermia, and then there's just one more problem -- how do we provide enough electricity? It would likely come soon if we imported this electricity from the EU, precisely from these countries that built 14,000 small hydropower plants, which finance environmental movements in Serbia that advocate that small hydropower should not be built at all in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-14-0.u8432	Thank you. National MP Marko Parezanovic submitted to the 36th amendment. At its meeting of the Committee on Environmental Protection, the Proposer's representative accepted the amendment. The Committee on Environmental Protection has adopted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word has a People's MP, Djordje Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-14-0.u8433	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, in recent days, we have been discussing laws that are very important, as regards the environment protection sector, and these amendments speak in favour of this, so we are seriously committed, as to the Assembly and the Government, the ecological transition from the formation of the second government of Ana Brnabic, and in particular the financial resources that we have invested in the budget rebalancing, additional funds that we will further implement through the activities of the Ministry of Environment Protection and in support of how and how much we are working on protecting the environment and the river is just talking to Prime Minister Ana Brnabic on the Chinese ecological global eco-forum, and when she announced that Serbia will invest nearly six billion euros in water management over the next few years, namely two thirds in water management, i.e. protection from water pollution and one-third in water supply. It's important to me to take this opportunity to say more about what we're going to do, not to be too long, in Palilula, in the Belgrade municipality, and what we managed to do in the previous period, in terms of the protection of the river. First of all, we are investing significant funds, almost 260m euros, in the construction of a wastewater treatment plant, and thus we will solve 80% of the total flow of fecal water into rivers on the territory of the whole of Belgrade, for almost a million and a half citizens. That we are seriously committed to solving this kind of problem, says the fact that we signed a financing agreement with the European Investment Bank two years ago, 35m euros, where 15m will invest additionally in the city of Belgrade to build a sewerage on the left bank of the Danube, and that is a clear signal that we will seriously and diligently approach the problem that has plagued citizens for decades. For decades we had the opportunity to talk about protecting the environment, preserving our rivers, air pollution, but we didn't, because we had more serious things that we were committed to, we took care of the economic situation in our country. We had to deal with the exhale budget at the 2012-2014 ambience, and when we implemented difficult economic reforms. Today we don't have those problems that we had six, eight, ten years ago. We have far higher employment, wages are drastically higher, and you can see that this matrix of environmental protection, allegedly under that cloak, has been applied to a large number of opposition parties. I don't want to deal with them, because they had their chance to focus on this problem from 2000 to 2012, but they didn't. The only thing they invested their energy in, but the Serbian citizens' budget is personal wealth. That story stays aside, completely irrelevant, irrelevant because no justification in what they would have done would have been, and clearly the result of the work, in the period, I say, up to 10 years ago. If I didn't owe on this point, I'd like to, I don't know if we're live on the broadcast, but I'd like to invite the citizens of Serbia, primarily the people of Palilu, to the left coast of the Danube, Borce, first of all, to the opening tomorrow, at 10:45 p.m. The president of Serbia is coming, will attend the opening of the House of Health in Borca. It's the House of Health we've been waiting 30 years for. As we have managed to build the House of Health in Borca, we will also build a sewerage on the left bank of the Danube, so we will also build a wastewater treatment plant and everything we have planned in years ahead of us, which is defined through the 2025 plan, because Serbia is now far stronger, economically more stable, and it can bring it out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-07-14-0.u8434	Thank you. With no more time, I apologize to the MPs who stayed on the list. Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a search of the bill, in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide on the bill in the voting day. According to Article 87(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, set Wednesday, July 14th, starting at 18.55pm, as a day for voting on the agendas of the eighth extraordinary session of the 12th Assembly. I thank the Minister and the Secretary of State. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before we move to a decision on the agenda points, we need to determine the quorum. According to Article 88(5), The Rules of Procedure, a quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the voting day, exists if most of the total number of MPs are present at the National Assembly session. I ask the Members to insert the cards into the MPs' units. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 171 MPs are present in the hall at this time, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for decision-making. We're moving on to a decision. Point 1. - I remind you that the National Assembly has carried out a review of the draft law in principle and in particular, and since all amendments submitted have become an integral part of the draft law, the National Assembly will agree to Article 160(3). The Rules of Procedure shall decide only on the draft law in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Nature Protection Act in general. Please press the corresponding key. Stopping vote: 173, total – 173. I find that the National Assembly unanimously adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Nature Protection Act. Point 2. - I remind you that the National Assembly has carried out a review of the draft law in principle, and since no amendments have been submitted to the draft law, the National Assembly will, in accordance with Article 160(3). Rules of Procedure, to decide only on the draft law in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Water Act, in general. Please press the corresponding key. I am stopping the vote: a total of 173, for – 171, did not vote - two. I find that the National Assembly has adopted, by majority, the draft law amending and supplementing the Water Act. Before we move on to a decision on the draft laws referred to in paragraphs 3 to 7 of the agenda, I remind you that on the basis of Article 105(3), paragraphs 4 and 6. Serbia's Constitution The National Assembly decides on laws that determine public borrowing, as well as the conclusion and demand of international contracts by majority of the votes of all MPs. In view of the fact that no amendments have been tabled on those draft laws, pursuant to Article 160(3) of the Code. Rules of Procedure, the National Assembly will vote only in general on these bill proposals. Given that, we're moving on to a decision. Third item of the agenda. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Loan Treaty A project of district heating in Kragujevac between the Republic of Serbia and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. Stopping vote: 175 in total, for – 175. I find that the National Assembly unanimously passed the bill. Fourth item of the agenda. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Decision of the Mixed Committee between the EFTA States and the Republic of Serbia No. 1 of 2021 amending and supplementing Protocol B with the Agreement on Free Trade between the EFTA States and the Republic of Serbia on the definition of "produced products" and methods of administrative co-operation, in general. Please press the corresponding key. Stopping vote: 176 in total for – 176. I find that the National Assembly unanimously passed the bill. The fifth item of the agenda. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Amending of the Agreement on Agricultural Products between the Republic of Serbia and Iceland, in general. Please press the corresponding key. Stopping vote: 176 in total for – 176. I find that the National Assembly unanimously passed the bill. The sixth item of the agenda. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Amending of the Agreement on Agricultural Products between the Republic of Serbia and the Swiss Confederation, in general. Please press the corresponding key. Stopping vote: 176 in total for – 176. I find that the National Assembly unanimously passed the bill. The seventh item of the agenda. I put to the vote the draft law confirming amendments and additions 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34 and 35. Customs conventions on international transport of goods on the basis of the MDP (Karneta TIR) (TIR 1975 Convention), in general. Please press the corresponding key. Stopping vote: 176 in total for – 176. I find that the National Assembly unanimously passed the bill. The eighth point of the agenda. Since the National Assembly has carried out a unique search and before moving to a decision, I remind you that, according to Article 105 paragraph 2. 15. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, exercises electoral authority by a majority of the votes of all MPs. I put to the vote The motion for a decision on amendments to the Decision on the selection of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Legislative Group Aleksandar Vukic – For our children, in general. Please press the corresponding key. Stopping vote: 176 in total for – 176. I find that the National Assembly unanimously adopted the motion for a decision. Before I close the session, allow me to remind you once again that I have scheduled the next session of the ninth extraordinary session for Wednesday 21st of July with the beginning at 1:00 p.m. There are nine points on the agenda. We don't work Tuesday, July 20th. I must say, this may be the first time in recent history, we are not working for a Muslim religious holiday of Kurban Bajram. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and decision on them, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the session of the Eighth Extraordinary National Assembly of the 12th Assembly. Thank you.
