ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-30-0.u8035	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the session of the sixth extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 12th Assembly. Based on the official record of the presence, I find that the session is attended by 76 MPs. To determine the exact number of MPs present in the hall, please insert all cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Thank you. I find that the application of the electronic system has established that 102 MPs are present at this time, i.e. that at least 84 MPs are present, and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that the sittings are prevented from being attended by the following MPs: Josip Broz, Dunja Simonović Bratic and Ana Karadzic. We continue our work and move on to a search in detail on the 1st item of the agenda – Proposal for a law on student organisation. Before we go any further, I'd just like to remind you that, as agreed earlier today, we should be done with the work and in particular and there should be a vote today around 18 hours, so that's what you have in mind. The debate in particular must be on other points of the agenda, so that, in the morning part of the session, we will deal with this topic, that is, the 1st item of the agenda. According to Article 90(1), I would like to inform the Rules of Procedure that they have been invited to attend the meetings of Branko Ružić, the first Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Education, Science and Technological Development, Prof. Dr. Marijana Dukić Mijatović, State Secretary at the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development, and Prof. Dr. Bojan Tubic, V.d. Assistant Minister of Education, Science and Technological Development. First item of the agenda – Proposal for a LAW ON STUDENT ORGANISATION. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by MP Sandra Christmas. The People's MP, Sandra Christmas, drew amendments to Articles 5 and 13. You have received the report of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Education, Science and Technological Development, the Information Society, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. On Article 5 of the Correction Amendment, MP Sandra Christmas, the Government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society accepted the amendment with the correction. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment with the correction is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find that the amendment with the correction has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-30-0.u8036	Thank you, Mr. Dacic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we Members of the SNS are also in the principle debate when we talked about this bill that we strongly support everything that this law provides. Our authorised representative, but all SNS MPs are very clear and taxing, I would say, I would like to point out which benefites this law will produce for our citizens and what it is that our citizens have since the adoption of this law. The support of this law is not questionable and that is what is good. But what is not good is that we have been re-exposed recently to attempt to create an atmosphere of persecution and lynching, led by some media in Serbia. As I said, by creating this atmosphere of persecution and the links of all political inexperiences by campaigning primarily against the president of Serbia and all that the president is doing, not even considering whether it's good for the citizens of Serbia, whether it's good for Serbia, but rather trying to get it into the context of the day policy and try to use it to attack Alexander Vukic on every topic, in every place, every day and not to choose what it is to criticise and against what he will lead the campaign. So these days we could see a brutal negative campaign by some media, even a military exercise that was held the other day on the Cave. The magnificent military exercise, which gave the best possible picture of the current state and power of the Serbian Army, which showed how much Serbia's army today was more capable, stronger and stronger, than in the days when those who control these media, who run the campaign, led the state, and destroyed Serbia's conscious and systematic army, melted our weapons, sold out as old iron, and so on and so forth, and now attacked that military exercise. Now it's no good, and now it bothers them. Now it's unnecessary, so they're campaigning how it's playing with the military, how it's, I don't know, abuse of the military for political purposes, and they're not doing it to force our army, strengthening our defensive position, in fact, safeguarding both peace and stability. Serbia thus shows to everyone in the world that exactly the guarantee of maintaining peace and stability in this part of Europe, in the region, in the Balkans, is whatever you want. It doesn't matter that for the first time 11 MiGs 29 were used, in that military exercise, in their time it was a thought noun. One MiG couldn't fly, not 11, that 25 different bomber hunters, our air force was involved. Well, we've seen in part all the abilities and skills and expertise of our staff and helicopters MI-35 and MI-17 and all the other techniques, missile systems, combat systems, systems that are the product of domestic production, domestic industries, our dedicated industries. That's not news to them. It is not news that numerous ambassadors who are on the scene to see our army's ability were present, even the KFOR commander was present. But that's not news for them, they're going to attack, they're going to say, "Oh, no, that's what Vukic's playing at, that's what Vukic uses for daily political purposes and so on." In particular, they have no news that for the first time in recent history, the president of the state has called on heroes from Koshar, invited our heroes from Koshar, provided them with, let me say, recognition for everything they did at times when it was difficult, perhaps the hardest for Serbia, when they risked and gave many of them their lives, for that same Serbia. For the first time, one president of the state called on them to attend, thus giving them recognition and sending them a message that Serbia values their gesture, their sacrifice. That's not news to them either. You won't read it in their media. What the best way of saying that I'm right is that today we are witnessing that a new newspaper, a daily newspaper, has come out in Serbia long announced by these media, a list, it's a "New", it's a new tabloid that will deal exclusively with and only, by attacking Alexander Vukic, and that I am right, says the front page of the first issue, the first number of this new list, on the front page, of course, who, but Aleksandar Vukic, in the worst possible context, and besides that title, the chairman, on the first two sides of Alexander Vukic is mentioned 28 times in the negative context. He didn't hate me to read it, he didn't hate me to do the analysis, he didn't hate me to count it. Twenty-eight times the president of the country was attacked in the most negative context possible, only on the first two sides, 28 times. Well, if it's morning known, then it's clear what we can expect from this tabloid, or I don't know what to call it. So this is all saying that the pressures will continue on Serbia, that it will continue a negative campaign against Alexander Vukic. And why is that? Because Alexander Vukic is the protector of Serbian national interests, always, everywhere, at every step and every day. That's what bothers them, both them and many from the region and many from the world, of course. The campaign will continue and will grow stronger and stronger, as far as we can remember the elections. The only thing that makes me happy is that the citizens of Serbia know well and every day they see who is who every day is fighting for their interests, who is trying to make Serbia a successful, well-ordered and decent country, and who is the one who, on the other hand, throws away such a cybicer, and constantly, plants clips in our country's wheels. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-30-0.u8037	Thank you. Milija Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-30-0.u8038	I thank you, Mr. President. There's something I'd like to say about the amendment of a colleague who filed. I think the amendment is really in place and that this law that I'm talking about here, the Law on Student Organization, is something that is very important for student organisations, because this is the first time formally legal, where there is a great opportunity to provide students' organisations with the best possible conditions, to know how they work. I'm talking here about these student organizations that work in the territory of the Nisco District, in the territory of south-east Serbia, because we have a Faculty of Agriculture in Krusevec, where there are a very high-quality number of students who are interested in future work in agricultural organisations, working with our agricultural producers, working with our people living in the country. There is also a high agricultural school in Prokuplje, where there are also a large number of students who are interested in staying there, because in this way, our students through their organization can approach our agriculture, get close to our village, that within their advancement, learning, they can do it practically, come to our villages, whether it is in Svrljag, Bela Palanka, whether it is in Gajin Han, or any other municipality, that together with their professors on the ground they can see how it can be done, how it can improve production, quality of production, that theory is practically applied on the ground. I think this is a big and good thing, and I'd like to invite all the students, students' organisations that have the direction of agriculture, health, to come into our midst, to come to our hosts, to apply some things with them practically and to pass on knowledge to these people. As counterpart Zukorlic said earlier, concerning the agricultural culture in the country, we should promote our village in the best light, to be in the first paycheck, not in the reality of the programmes. Once again, I will support all these amendments, i.e. the bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-30-0.u8039	Thank you. The word is by MP Ljubisa Stojmirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-30-0.u8040	Dear colleagues and colleagues, what to say now after all that my colleague Milly said, but since I've already called, let me say something. These days I talked to many colleagues and people who followed these laws and one of the main remarks, about this with students, was why we allow students who were in certain bodies to be allowed to put their studies at rest, they say, and that's true, and I remember that, at some point in time, they were mostly students who were the best in their generation, students who had a great average. In this way, we may be doing them a bear service, instead of stimulating them, to be the best students in various bodies, we allow them to slowly neglect their studies and in some ways become more involved in politics than in science or education. That's one thing. The other thing, Mr. Minister, I'm kind of particularly pleased with you to discuss, although he doesn't listen to the minister, he doesn't care. My proposal to you last time was to think a little bit about prom, and I thought I was right, because again there are some problems in the period of graduation, it may be a problem in informing students, but I think it would be good, that in the future during your term, or some other minister, there is a solution where that graduation would be abolished, for the simplest reason, let's make children learn nonstop, to have a certain degree of knowledge, and not to torture them to re-edit one, two, three, four or more exams at the end of their education, and to create problems both for both the state and parents and those children. I agree with my colleague Markovic, who said that in the coming period there will be a lot of attacks, a lot of problems, and there will be these problems and related to the ministry where you are. I pointed out some of these problems last time, so I want to ask you now, this law will pass, normally, it's already over, but look in the near future what can be done to preserve and preserve our letter, the Cyrillic, the letter that's most perfect in the world, some experts have tried to make something like this, but they haven't succeeded. And we're a strange people, we don't respect our own, everything that comes from the West, it's mostly very nice and nice, and we're trying to get in touch with them. Let us keep our letter, keep our tongues, for it is a mirror of the Serb tribe. I hope that soon before the MPs in the Assembly there will be a law on the Cyrillic letter and I will be glad to have it as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-30-0.u8041	Thank you. The word is Mikhailo Jokic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-30-0.u8042	Your Honor, Your Honor, I would like to speak directly to the Minister. We had a long, long discussion on the board yesterday, and I couldn't handle it physically, and I had to leave it, so I wanted to say some things that I couldn't say there. Minister, when you look at this material that we as MPs get, it's not good for one attitude to be one sentence. Let's say, an example here, that's Article 7. Look at that article seven, first position. That's all one sentence. From this sentence that when you start reading and come to the end, forget about the beginning. It could have been made and written five or six simple sentences that would clearly say what was to be said. On the other hand, it must be kept in mind that this is coming from the Ministry of Education, so this is not coming from the Ministry of Agriculture. So you also take care of the words used. You here, for example, in article 7, you say -- an informal group of students who have written support. Be careful, Minister, written support. I'd say not written, but written support. So these are some shades that when someone unwittingly reads, they can suspect who's standing, who's writing this. It's my request for some future work for the material we're getting. And that's what the esteemed colleague of the Cyrillic said. Laza Kostic said "Every use of the Latin is an anti-Serbian act" and that initiative to dominate the Cyrillic must be led by the Ministry of Education. What else does the Ministry of Education have to do? So these are my remarks. It has to be examined, it has to be done. It is your own income from higher education institutions. Here in this law it is clearly demarcated and said how the student conference is financed. All those other associations are student-listed funding opportunities, all this is foggy and there will be problems. But when you say – from your own income, your own income from higher education institutions is a problem that is not regulated status in the finance ministry. The dual education that is now present in secondary education, the realization of practical teaching and dual education, students and teachers generate income. It's inevitability. One part of that income belongs to that high school, belongs to the students who did it, because they may be a burden in the first year, perhaps in the first semester of the first year. In the second, third and fourth years they already create. What they create and what they do, in part, regardless of what they do with privates, goes to high school. How it's going to be written, how it's going to be distributed, it has to be regulated, and it's mostly in high school and regulated. I was talking about it, a student cooperative is the form through which it can be regulated, because members of a student cooperative are not only students, but teachers who do, who realize that teaching. I know there's an idea, you know, that dual education should be in higher education. This must be regulated before and with the Ministry of Finance must be cleared legally, regulations and precisely determined by who it belongs to, because I am a supporter that this own income that creates educational institutions will be as high as possible, in order for the quality to be as high as possible, in order for the receiving of those who participate and who do as much as possible. But I'm saying, it's not regulated, especially because you put all the other student organizations there that will partly be financed from their own incomes. So, once again, your own income along with the Ministry of Finance needs to be arranged as soon as possible when it comes to higher education. When it comes to secondary education, you can accept it, the student association has developed quite well and organised and legally regulated. So much for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-30-0.u8043	Thank you. The word is Gjorge Milicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-30-0.u8044	Thank you, Honorable Chairman, Mr. Orlic. Dear Ministers, the first Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, the Honorable Representatives of the Ministry, I find it difficult to speak after my professor, I'm used to it, but professors, I'm sorry, these are the circumstances. I agree with all the suggestions made by Professor O'Donnell. Jokic, they are very well-intentioned and I think the ministry should consider them properly. Once again, I want to repeat why the SPS parliamentary group will support this legislative proposal. So, very taxingly, we believe that the presence of all participants in academic processes in the intended bodies is important, then the law is gender-equal, transparency in selecting members of the working bodies. It is good that project reviewers, among other things, and our suggestion during the debate in principle, that project and work reviewers can be from abroad, as this raises competence and competence and quality, among other things, research and research. It is important that the Accreditation Commission can work with quality and openness because it is a guarantee for quality higher education. So, with all these suggestions that we have just heard, which are well-intentioned, with everything we could hear during yesterday's debate on the Committee on Education, Science and Technological Development, we will certainly support this legislative proposal in the day to vote. We didn't mean to talk about this today, I answered because I was encouraged by my colleague Markovic in his discussion. He was talking about something that, in our opinion, is of great importance and importance at the moment, and it comes from those who come from the assumption: "The worse for Serbia, the better for us," and are trying in some way to minimise and negatively portray everything that is going on in Serbia. A fellow Markovic cited a very good example, which is a military exercise on the Cave, a lightning blow in 2021, involving as many as 2,337 members of the Serbian Army and the Ministry of Defence, 1,224 members of the Land Army. So the military force will be dramatically increased over the next nine months, and that is a message sent by the President of the Republic, and that is of great importance and great importance. In this way and in this exercise Serbia is not threatening anyone, Serbia has never spoken to wartime rhetoric, and the equipment of the Serbian Army, the equipment of the Ministry of Defence, just means that we want to be ready to defend our national and state interests at any moment and that we can defend our people. The strong Army of Serbia and the Ministry of Defence means a strong state, and that means, among other things, strong financial stability. Of course, no more than that. That's totally fair and honest. On the other hand, he's right, Mr. Markovic. For the first time in our sky, there were 11 MiGs 29, four G-4, as many as 25 new bombers in the past four or five years, with significantly less quality. It's a good thing the KFOR commander attended, because we need to co-operate with KFOR units. But it is a pride that the heroes from Koshar attended, because they certainly are pride, and if they were not, there would be no force of the Serbian Army and the Ministry of Defence. The 240 attended this exercise, and of them 240, seven of them from the territory of Montenegro. What I also want to say is that we, as MPs of the Socialist Party of Serbia, are, above all, legitimately elected, the voice of the people and legitimately elected representatives of the citizens, proud of the fact that, above all, the citizens of Serbia, strong and economically stable Serbia, Serbia who thinks for itself, who has its own opinion, which has its own position, which leads to an independent foreign policy, in the best interests of its citizens, Serbia, which is a symbol of new values in the region, Serbia that has strengthened both international reputation and international image, Serbia which is recognised as a reliable, secure and stable partner and only because it fulfils its international obligations, which confirms Serbia and Serbia's international integrity, which does not want to spoil traditional friendly relations with traditionally friendly orient countries. You know, I'm very often encouraged by the discussion of an esteemed colleague, and I attach myself to what happened during Vidovdan, June 28th, and what we could hear from the so-called provisional institutions of Pristina when it comes to 1389. I am very often encouraged by the discussion of my colleagues from the Democratic Front, a respected colleague of the Prince's. Somehow from the moment I learned to read and write, even with Honorable Professor Jokic at Serbia's best secondary economic school, he was at the moment engaged in the history of the Serbian people and we are an MP group that respects the history of the Serbian people, somehow it seems to me that everything was supposed to be directed towards us and Serbia, and that we are allegedly not guilty, and we are actually guilty of everything. We are also guilty of this 1389 year because we chose the heavenly kingdom instead of this earthly life. We're also blood for the First Balkan War. We're also guilty of World War I. We're guilty of World War II. We are also guilty of all those events and the last civil war in the space of SFRY, because there was no justice and justice in The Hague. There was no international right, because it can't be the international right to be selective, so for someone less, for someone more, it has to be for everyone alike. We are also bloodied for the conduct of ethnic cleansing in the KIM area, which has left over 250,000 Serbs and non-Albanian population in KIM space. Of the 437 Serb settlements, 312 settlements were ethnically cleaned. In Prizren, which was the medieval Serbian capital, where 10,000 Serbs lived in 1991, today, may the correcting colleagues who come from KIM live only 23. 40,000 Serbs lived in Pristina in 1991, and today barely a hundred people live, and that is our fault. We are also guilty of the Storm. We are also to blame for the fact that 380 thousand Serbs once lived in Croatia, and today barely 160,000 live. We are also guilty of the fact that there once lived 150 thousand in Sarajevo, and barely 10,000 Serbs live today. We're both blood for "Storm" and "Jasenovac". We are also bloodstained for always saying that we respect the history of memory and that we never counted Serbian victims, started from Balkan wars, until the last civil wars in the space of SFRY, because we didn't want to violate and deepen conflicts and violate the national and emotional feelings of other countries, and did others treat us like that? We are also to blame for 15 tonnes of poor uranium being dumped on Serbia. It's just that it's all our fault and we're responsible for everything. We know how difficult it is today to defend national and state interests and that only brave and determined fighters in the defence of national and state interests and of course it is very difficult and that these may have been the most difficult negotiations in Brussels and that this one, Mr Markovic, is right, a period of challenge and temptation, and that there are only huge pressures on Serbia in the coming period, and that all of this has been kept quiet for many years, that this has been kept quiet for as long as 20 and more years, and that politics and EU and Serbia have been headed here since 2000 and that border crossings have been hidden and that resolutions have changed on board and that the Kosovo and Metohija issue from New York has been moved to Brussels and that a wrong question has been raised before the International Court of Justice. We, of course, welcome the readiness and the president of Serbia and welcome the willingness and the Government of the Republic of Serbia to provide answers to those most difficult questions at the moment and not to transfer this responsibility to generations that are coming, because if we stick our heads in the sand and shut up, then time will pass, and we, unfortunately, will have nothing to talk about. We are proud that Serbia's president, together with now the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and then Foreign Minister Ivica Dacic participated and implemented an important national and state project in which 19 states withdrew recognition of Kosovo's unilateral declaration of independence and Metohija. It is not about the number, it is about finally realizing that Serbia is part of the solution, that Serbia is part of the compromise and that without Serbia there is no solution and there is no compromise and that the moment has come that Serbia cannot just be kidnapped, but that Serbia can finally seek something. This is not the same period as the period from 2008 to 2012, when you go to the White House and you can talk about the Kosovo and Metohija issue just those technical things at the Stafer level. We came by 2020, when precisely thanks to this important national and state project, which was led by the President of the Republic and then the foreign minister, when we strengthened the international reputation and image and we are proud that the president of the state in the White House said very clearly and precisely - point 10. we leave aside, and the last negotiations on four times the same question - when you will accept Kosovo's unilaterally declared independence, he said - never. A colleague Markovic is right, I repeat, the pressures will certainly continue and this is one designed pressure strategy that goes in several directions. Certainly one direction is to put pressure on countries that have not recognised Kosovo and Metohija. The other direction is to criminalise Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic's family, because it is a factor of stability in Serbia, but it is also someone who has united the region in an extremely difficult period, a period of covid. The third type of pressure is from countries in the region, unfortunately, from those who live next to us, who live somehow with us. The fourth type of pressure is on the inside, like those shameful resolutions that were filed here at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I am not surprised that in the coming days and Aleksandar Vucic will be someone who will certainly be the most responsible for all the bad that has been going on in the region because the BBC has not taken some non-paper off the front page for several months now, and ends with Kosovo's independence. It's just, since 1878, since the Berlin Congress, to this day someone's been in the way of a strong Serbia. On the other hand, it wasn't all designed just in June. It is not by any chance a UN Security Council session scheduled for June 8th, when the verdict was issued to Ratko Mladic, because it was well known that at that time someone would file a complaint that Serbia allegedly is not co-operating with The Hague tribunal because it does not want to deliver representatives to the UN tribunal in The Hague. No, Serbia shows its readiness to co-operate and Serbia has confirmed it and shown it, but respects the laws, because the Supreme Court in Belgrade is completely clear. He said the law did not meet the conditions for these two Serbian citizens, representatives of the SRS, to be delivered to The Hague tribunal. I am sorry, first of all, that one intensities and the will of the president of Serbia are not recognised, that in the period when it was most difficult, we are still faced with this biggest health challenge, as well as the whole world, but we are sorry that our friends, so to speak, will not say anything bad about Croatia, whose president says that Ratko Mladic is great in The Hague tribunal and that he should remain there, and I do not remember that he said that when the first-degree ruling was handed down to Markac and Gotovina. Fausto Pokar, the first judge and president of the Board of Appeal in the process, used only one word describing Serbian victims in The Hague tribunal and it is quite enough, and that is grotesque. I also recommend that the president of the Croatian state watch the film. It wouldn't be bad for him to see the movie "Dara in Jasenovac". I know this will be difficult for him, but it would not be bad for him to look at the movie "Dar in Jasenovac", instead of referring to calls from countries that have not accepted Kosovo and Metohija's unilaterally declared independence to recognise Kosovo and Metohija's unilateral independence, because it is a interference in the internal affairs of other countries. As far as Montenegro is concerned, I don't want to talk too much about it. I think these things are completely clear. There's a confusion and there's absolutely no telling who's in power anymore, or if there's a ruling majority, but one thing is clear why at this point... It is clear to us, but it should be explained by those who are running Montenegro today and who forgot what they said during the election campaign. We with the Montenegrin people want good relations. We want the Serbian and Montenegrin people in Montenegro to live in peace and harmony, and according to those who have made such a decision, I am convinced that both the president and the government will know the appropriate answers. I am sorry that they did not recognise the intensities of the President of the Republic during the Kovid period, when he managed to unite the region, because the question of vaccines and donations is not only a matter of donations, but a question of trust and renewal in the region's space and when he made it clear – let us try not to speak ill, we are very small, that we do not speak ill of each other, but with one voice to perform together in front of the European Union, in front of Brussels, in front of world leaders, because so we will best realize those projects that are of great importance to our people. Let's watch how our citizens live. We can't agree on some political issues, but let's talk about economics. We can talk trade with the European Union, it is big, but the biggest trade exchange is right in the region, 70% to 80%. Instead of talking about significant projects, such as the regional summit in Belgrade, which has been announced, such as the "Turkish Stream", "mini Schengen", the Washington Agreement, the fresh Brussels Process, which is an economy, we are trying to create an atmosphere of war-homan rhetoric that is certainly not good, and Serbia's goal is peace and stability in the Balkans. I am convinced that both the President and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as has been said, among other things at the session, when we talked about the Office's report on the negotiations on Kosovo and Metohija, will manage to reach a compromise and fair solution through dialogue and to preserve in the best possible way both the defences of national and state interests and those living today in the area of Kosovo and Metohija, and consider Serbia as their country, because they are certainly the best defenders of Kosovo and Metohija. Excuse me, Minister, I did jump off the subject, but my colleague Markovic encouraged me to talk about this, and as far as the law on the agenda is concerned, we also said that during the debate in principle that we are certainly ready to support this legislative proposal. In addition, of course, another request to respect all these suggestions and suggestions that could be heard and to be heard during today's debate, but also heard during yesterday's debate on the Committee of Resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-30-0.u8045	Thank you. The word has the People's MP, Ugljesa Mrdić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-30-0.u8046	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Mr Zukorlic, dear Mr. Ruzic and his associates, distinguished fellow MPs and dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, during the rule of the DS government forced young people from Serbia. So it was until 2012, and we had a situation that thousands and thousands of young people, whether after finishing high school or higher schools and colleges, were leaving Serbia and leaving the belly after bread, because in Serbia there was an atmosphere of crime and corruption, the atmosphere of loss of jobs, the atmosphere of nepotism and the rule of tycoon and crime. Fortunately, the political changes in 2012 care for the path of crime and corruption and have gone back to strengthening universities, state and private, colleges and secondary schools and all higher education institutions in the Republic of Serbia. So there's been a time of rule of law again. We have a situation today that young people, not only stay in Serbia, not only open new jobs, not only have we never had a higher enrolment in colleges, and not just as at one point they were in five, six different areas, but the minority has no state and private college in the Republic of Serbia, and that we do not have a lot of interest in young people to sign up and end up and when they end up having jobs, and not just jobs just to have jobs, but also to stay in Serbia, buy an apartment on loan, start families. Because Serbia today gives hope to young people and, of course, it does not match the individual tycoon, neither corresponds to Dragan Djilas nor Vuk Jeremic. When Vuk Jeremic was the minister of foreign affairs of the Republic of Serbia, young people were driven from Serbia. When Dragan Djilas was mayor of Belgrade and in the leadership of the DS, young people were driven from Belgrade, so we had the situation, not only were the young tyrants from Belgrade, but she ruled in Belgrade and Serbia some kind of fake elite, some fake elite of Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic, Boris Tadic and their parliamentarians, who not only destroyed universities and universities in Serbia, forced young people abroad, but also shared our people. This fake elite in the Belgrade circle shared both young people, their parents, grandparents, and their backgrounds, so Dragan Djilas shared with Vuk Jeremic, not only people by religion and nation, but this one from Republika Srpska, what in Belgrade, this one came from Bosnia, this one came from Herzegovina, this one came from Slavonia, and then they went to attack – what are these origins of Montenegro, so this one is from Metohija, this one from Kosovo, what will we need from the Vranians here. They led the situation to madness, that young people in Serbia knew neither their prospects in Belgrade nor Serbia, nor their education, nor their jobs, and so much that they attacked young people in Serbia that they attacked both their religion and their nation and their origins and their birth and birthplace. That's how we had the situation in Serbia, and that's what we need to remind ourselves of. Why am I saying this? I was encouraged by my colleagues Markovic and Milicevic and others who spoke. Because now the fake elite is awakened and criticises both universities, universities, and the Serbian government, and President Vukic, and proposed laws, especially to criticise, alongside our president and the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the Serbian Government. Because they are bothered by all these reforms Serbia is doing today. That's why they do the worst possible attacks through Gilas' media, and when you look at the basis of those attacks, I've been a journalist, I've been doing this job for 15 years, when you look at that purpose -- it's not, when you look at the motive -- it's clear. Serbia's evil intention, President Vukic, to do as much damage as possible to Serbia, Vukic and the Serbian government. The basis of the attack, the facts – they do not exist. Data – fictional. That's what a fake elite does today. That's what Gilas does. This is what Vuk Jeremic does, who lost the strings, can no longer put millions in their pockets, can no longer pass laws that match tycoons, can no longer manage ministers, cities and become nervous. The only weapons they have are false attacks, allegations of establishing media, that through portals, social networks attack our government, attack our country, attack the majority will of citizens, thus the people of Serbia and then go around complaining about embassies, complaining about individual tycoons, making deals with those parties in the region of other countries known to be anti-Serbian. Then they also go to Croatia, go to Pristina, go to Montenegro, seek out parliamentarians, seek common ground in hatred of Serbia and President Vukic. But fortunately, our country is not responding to any provocation. We are in favour of peace and stability both in Serbia and in the region, and we are not in favour of divisions, but we are in favour of unity, unity of all citizens of Serbia, for unity not only when it comes to religion and nations, but also of origin. We see Serbia as what it is, Serbia and the country, Serbia is a mother, not only for Serbs and Orthodox people, but also for all citizens living in Serbia respect the Constitution. Our dear Bosniaks and our dear Hungarians and our dear Albanians, Roma, Bulgarians, Romanians, all who live in the Republic of Serbia and respect this state of Serbia, because today those who attack the state of Serbia and President Vukic, they care not about religion or nation, but only about personal interest. They are not suited to strong universities and universities in Serbia. They are matched by the collapsed universities and universities in Serbia. They answer that as many young people leave Serbia and that those who remain are their equalists and work for small salaries for their companies. This is not the case in Serbia today. Today we have the strengthening of the state and private sector and state and private universities and universities. Today we have new investors from month to month, job creation and salary and pension increases. That is why we from the SNS from the Legislative Group Aleksandar Vukic – For our children, we will always support this policy led by President Aleksandar Vukic, together with our associates, because this policy, as the slogan says, is for our children, for our future, for the future of the next generations, for the future of all young people, to stay in Serbia to strengthen our Serbia. What I want to say at the end, we saw that some countries, well or poorly reacted to the coronary virus during the past and this year, and we saw that a number of young people who were expelled during the DS, fortunately returned to Serbia, had returned to their homeland where they were given jobs, where they continued their education, had returned to our young scientists to continue their master and doctoral studies and specialist studies at universities in Serbia that were strengthening. That's what's good. In the end, I have one appeal, one application for all citizens of Serbia. We have heard these days statements by the president, the prime minister, the resolution minister of health and members of the crisis staff, I ask the citizens of Serbia and young people and pensioners, all generations, my dear citizens, to be vaccinated who is not. Let's not get into a situation where some new wave of coronary viruses that can come into the fall to increase the number of people on the respirators, the number of people suffering from the crown and, unfortunately, the potential and death toll from the crown. Whoever didn't vaccinate, I'm asking you to vaccinate. Serbia is the only one in Europe who has the best strategy to fight the crown of viruses and vaccinations. Citizens can also choose the vaccine and where to vaccinate. Please, citizens, be vaccinated, because this is how you help yourself and your families and all of us, because we must primarily protect the health, health of our citizens, the health of our citizens so that we can continue what we started, which is that we fight for Serbia's future, for our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-30-0.u8047	Thank you, buddy. We're moving on to the next amendment. The 6th Amendment was filed by the People's MP Sandra Christmas. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and Information Society, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Does anyone want a word? (Yes) The word has a National MP, Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-30-0.u8048	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I'd like something about education. It is said here, regarding a too long sentence, that the proposal did not come from the Ministry of Agriculture, but from the Ministry of Education. We farmers rarely make those mistakes. You have to share people, except for the writings and the illiterates, the educated ones, not the educated ones, you have to share them with your lips. Most of ours, especially old peasants, were oral. My people are from BiH. They rarely had teachers and teachers, and everyone knew how to write and they were all oral and they were all reasonable. They only had one teacher who came to train him with Najkrla Kalaitovic and all those children remember him, my parents remembered him, and everyone knew what was necessary for one man to know. A military official to sign, to read, etc. (Alexander Martivić: What was the teacher's last name? ) Some teacher Kalaitovic, but he was an unofficial teacher, had already walked in meadows, mountains and trained these people. That's how literacy used to begin. Now that you've passed Karadjord, you see only the flocks. He's a man who's so glum, he's asking, "People, are you guarding this country?" But you don't see literacy with him. He wasn't a written man, but he was oral. For the first minister of education, Dimitri Obradovic was not appointed by a written man, but one oral man named Karadjordje was appointed by Dimitri Obradovic, the church's Dosite, as the first minister. He is the founder of a "Great School" that has grown into Belgrade University. Oral people really appreciate writing people, but honest, patriot. I'm asking you today, I can't explain this worst doctor science. Modern science can't explain some of the most edifices of science. I don't know if that Janko Veselinović is a science doctor. I pity the students he teaches to teach to the mirage, like the thousands of Gilas' men, to present 100,000. Imagine Danica Popovic. She has to train her students about morality, and she prescribed it from her late colleague, it has been proven, I also claimed, and student Jaksic, it has been proven that she forged the work of a late colleague. Not only is it a fake, but it's immoral. Let's move on, Jovo Granny. What a man can do, he must train and teach athletes, when he says, we will chase the streets of political opponents. Then why does he teach his students? He probably teaches them how to run how to reach a political opponent, how to strangle him, hit him, etc., he promises them a revolution, etc. Revolutions, all revolutions, say when they come out, they're just left behind by the scum of a new bureaucracy and nothing else. The revolution gives birth to poverty, and the poverty of a new revolution. What will Jovo Bakic teach the students? Come on, take George Vukadinovic. What can he teach his students? Because of election techniques, electoral quotas, electoral laws quickly change the nation and become Vlach from Serbs and try to change the nation to gain some political reputation, or political function. Happiness Borko Stefanovic is not a lecturer, he could be an assistant to Djordju Vukadinovic and say - how to quickly change your residence to enter Gilas' quota, how to change your name to one way today, and the next day in another way? How can many of these politically active professors, what can this Dusan Teodorovic teach his students? How to escape to the aggressor side in trouble? He is known for the fact that when Serbia was bombed, he quickly packed and fled to America, thereby on the aggressor side. What can he do about patriotism to teach students? This country has been made oral, semi-literate or illiterate, and the literacy through the Dosite has been made oral, and we can say illiterate people, those who haven't graduated from schools and colleges. The difference between title and knowledge is enormous and today we have the most produced diploma, or calling, and behind these calls there is no knowledge and is not applicable. Our ancestors, semi-literate, written, orally written, have created, created this country. The big question is that they were supposed to make writings about whether they would ever make it, and not in difficult times, much harder than they are today. Today we have no problem with the patriotism of ordinary people, nowhere, no matter what nations and religions, everyone loves the state and everyone loves to keep the state safe. Who produces uncertainty? And these are supposed to be written. They are written, but as well-intentioned as there are morals in that literacy, we can discuss it nicely. Let's see who's preaching all these violent acts. Let's see in July last year how many of these people were instigating protesters, written, with no knowledge, with diplomats, doctors, etc. How many of them were encouraged to destroy, burn, etc., even though it is not only a symbol of the MPs who are gathering in it, it is also culturally good. They were destroying it, throwing cocktails, destroying cameras, breaking into the National Assembly's lobby, shooting cops with rocks of three to four kilos. How can a written man, if he's really written, how can a man with a call support an activity where protesters target police with three to four kilos of heavy rock? It's an attempted murder for me. How can written judges let such people get away with attempted murder by police officers who were only there to preserve this object, which is the object of culture, keep order and peace as long as possible? Could the judge who graduated from college, the judicial exam, etc. have let it go? There is a saying by the time we're talking about corruption, which says: “A illiterate man can steal something from a wagon, and those with a university degree can steal both train and rail. “ Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-30-0.u8049	Thank you. I would ask the MPs in their discussions to devote at least one small part of their time to the subject of the amendments, and let them use the rest as they wish. A fellow MP, Marko Atlagic, came forward. Here you go. (Mihailo Jokic: Replica! ) Can't be a replica from the same parliamentary group. (Mihailo Jokic: We are not the same parliamentary group. () Of course you are, you are the same parliamentary group. So, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, you cannot ask for a replica for a MP from your parliamentary group, please. (Mihailo Jokic): Then I will tell Milija, and let Milija pass on. ) You can contact the Rules of Procedure or on some other basis. (Mihailo Jokic: It can be done by the Rules of Procedure. Here you are, according to the Rules of Procedure. National MP Mikhailo Jokic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-30-0.u8050	I made a slip, I admit, after the discussion of Marjan. I wanted to strengthen the responsibility of the Ministry of Education for the written word and I didn't make a good comparison and I shouldn't have told the Ministry of Agriculture, etc. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-30-0.u8051	Please, which member of the Rules of Procedure are you invoking, given that you are reporting in accordance with the Rules of Procedure? You know the procedure, you're an experienced MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-30-0.u8052	From 1 to 158.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-30-0.u8053	One member, please, you can't.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-30-0.u8054	Article 107.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-30-0.u8055	All right.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-30-0.u8056	So, I was wrong, I shouldn't have appointed the Ministry of Agriculture, etc., I just wanted to point out responsibility for the written word when it comes to the Ministry of Education. So, once again, an apology to Mr. Marian and the Ministry of Agriculture. Thank you for understanding.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-30-0.u8057	Do you want the National Assembly to declare your reaction to the Rules of Procedure? No, I don't. I thank you. Now the word has a colleague Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-30-0.u8058	Dear Vice President of the National Assembly, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, we are discussing these days the amendments to the Law on Higher Education and Amendments submitted to this bill. It's about extremely important things. Since my predecessors have said a lot, let me say, however, that both education and education as part of a single system has been transformed in every sense since 2000. We still have to, seeing what's going on today and these changes that we have today and the amendments on the agenda, go back to 2000 and see what we had then, and what we have now. This comparison is extremely important in order to transform the overall system of education in the future. In 2000, we also moved to reforms, under quotes -- so-called reforms, I will only talk about one segment because it is on the agenda, by removing education from the overall system of education, from school and society in general, not to mention, as well as from the means of mass communications, even from the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, not to mention from society in general. It's a basic mistake. So, a thousand-year system of education and education in Europe and more we gave up. Instead of accepting all the positive pedagogical fluids of the old century, from Aristotle and Plato to this day, we have made a transformation according to the multiparty system and brought up the place that belongs to him, we have not done it. All we left was education. You who are pedagogical professions very well know that there is no education without education, it is a unique process. Even teachers in primary and secondary schools, about colleges not to speak, education never even existed there in higher education institutions, was forbidden to mention the word education. I have schools, school lists and school directors who spent it in 2000. Mr. Minister of Education, Mr. Rose, it's very difficult for you today to make a transformation, it's been done, you see, for more than ten years. A lot has been done, your predecessors have done. We may be citizens in general dissatisfied, but it's hard to do when we've destroyed the education and education system. That's the point. I'll take some specifics out. Here, Mr. Vice President of the National Assembly, student violence and student violence, we talk about it every day, it's a mistake. It's the substitutes in 2000. We're not talking about violence. We're talking about education. We're out of education. Violence is the result of a mistrial. If we'd been conducting education plans from preschools to universities, we wouldn't have had violence. Is it true, you who taught pedagogy? You taught everyone who graduated from teaching schools. Now you see school fights example, or student, what we experience daily. There's been school fights before, but, gentlemen, they've never been painted with hate, because we've been conducting education through schools, through society in general, through mass communications, through television. Is that what we're doing today? We don't. Vice President, I'm going to make a proposal on what we need to do at society level, but allow me, I'm going to link this really to this hatred and this violence in general. It is particularly dominant in primary and secondary schools, as well as among students. So they weren't colored with hate and a desire to seriously hurt a student or student like today since 2000. That's it. When someone fell, we didn't beat him like students, and you were all students here, did we? So you don't beat him, you don't beat him anymore, you don't kick him in the head, as we look at students and students. The students today weigh knives in the schoolyards. Is it true, ladies and gentlemen? We can't close our eyes to that, because we feed them to make it worse in the future. I will make a suggestion on what we should all do, even in this National Assembly. They're pulling knives in the schoolyards. There are more fights today, knives, chains and satires, you've seen recently in a school yard. Now I'm asking myself, and I'm part of that system, and all of you parents and all of you teachers from preschool to this day, I'm asking myself a question - to what extent are our children "dismissed" by parents and "dismissed" by the institutions of the state? It shows us the latest in a series of social phenomena – the appointment of fights among minors, in order to be recorded by mobile phones and uploads to YouTube, a site available to everyone and filled with violence or vulgarity. Am I telling the truth or not? What are we doing here? Nothing. It's not the teachers at school, they know this. It's coming from the top. I've been suggesting 12 years here. What do I suggest? To talk about education, to be in charge in front of the Ministry of Education of all schools, all educational institutions to have in addition to the school's programme and plan for educational activities, each class and every class of free activities, so that the professor of fiscoculture will go into town, communicate with the head of sports activities and co-ordination of educational activities and there, so we won't have to kick footballers. Well, that's what we threw out, and that's what we've been doing for a thousand years. Let's move on. Dear ladies and gentlemen, I think this violence is full of our politics. We promote the violent in the media, under the control of Dragan Gilas. I'll be direct. Did you watch the day before yesterday on one of the batins' TVs in an attempt? The president of the political party Vuk Jeremic. Is that what students need to watch the president beat up in the presidency? Has it ever been done? That's the result of the question we've thrown out for 10 years. Furthermore, we constantly have every day the satanization of the president of the Republic and the state and the Satanization of the majority in the National Assembly. So did you watch an hour and a half of the film this morning, tonight, turning around, the Satanization of Minister Vulin, the satanization of the hour and a half? Have you seen two films made about the President of the Republic? The satanization under the control of Dragan Gilas TV is nonstop. The Satanization of Milorad Dodik, the Satanization of Andrija Mandic. Do you know where that's coming from? Well, come on, we're written people, we know where that came from. The combined vultures not only in the country, but also out of the country, in the environment and beyond, all came together to lower the results of economics and each other in this country. Now, that's the goal. Now, ladies and gentlemen, let's go to this part. Let's not, gentlemen, put the theme "A school without Violence", but the educational function of the school, so we'll program, then there won't be violence, I guess we all know that from pedagogy. Why is that? That's right. Two thousand were then made a mistake, the consequences of which are corrected by all ministers of education, including this minister, State Secretary and Assistant Minister, and will be corrected next. That's the point. It's harder to destroy a thousand years of education in one year or five than to build a hundred years. You who deal with education and education know very well that's the problem. So we have to replace everything. Not talk about fights, not talk about violence against women. And what are we going to talk about? So the relationship between a man and a woman, a boy and a girl, a student and a first-class student. The subject on the agenda. Now, that's the point. Until we turn that around, we won't have the economic prosperity of the country. If we'd done it ten years ago, we wouldn't have had this -- 7%, that's a lot, we'd have 14%. Why? Because they'd get more educated people in the process. Now you will ask me, and what does discipline have to do with it? Well, there's a metal code. So we'll see how the tools work. What am I going to say, in metals, educational function? Well, that's where it's supposed to be in every department. We lost it. Parents have become the ones who haven't been brought up since 2000. How will an rude parent raise children? How will a rude professor raise children, and there are many younger generations, and among the elderly, thank God, let us be open right now? How is Jovo Bakic, a doctor, for the third time, a professor, going to raise students when he says he's going to force us into the streets with knives, blood to fall? So is that violence? Well, it is, yes, violence. Let's move on. Speaking of violence with students and students, it's good, Mr. Vice President, what we've put on, ministers, organization of student organizations. There's no way out of action. That, gentlemen professors, we need to talk to the students together. Gentlemen, you can't do politics unless you're in political organizations or through science in scientific journals. But I'm not going into politics, I'm not going here, I'm going, and that's what they used to sing during NOB: "I don't want Tito, I don't want Draži, go home and tell them." Now, that's what most people do. We have to give activists, define certain things, and I think in some things we've gone far, for example, in dual education. Now you will tell me – we had. But we're not this system. We had it back in the 1980s, my childhood spent it, school, in a school factory. But this isn't the system. We'll move on now. I'm just going to say, how we're going to perform the educational function of the school, when the doctor says, "Here, I'm going to quote, on November 19th, 2020, a daily says, "If Brnabićka resigns, you know, a lifelong Vukic is coming up. Now, there is no boycott, just a tube in the head," finished quote. And this is Vesna Pesic, who runs political councils, not political parties. So where are their educational activities in their programme and political organizations? You'll ask me – is that me? Well, we do, thank God. So we're standing in one really walk. Next, not to say, this morning you saw a colleague who has offended President Vukic a hundred times, here he is this morning on the media under the control of Dragan Gilas. I'm last time 16 insults that the human mind can't, which he said. Here we go. He says we're fools here, that we're not MPs. Imagine, a professor doctor at universities. He says, quote, March 21st, 2020, but this morning, he reiterated: “Who is there in Vučić’s environment at all that he is not a moral nitwit or a complete fool? “ Is that a professor? Is that educational? When did you hear from this side? When did you hear? Here, citizens know very well. We've never offended anyone. We've had a keen discussion, I want a edge contest, but in respect of every political opponent, who's coming sooner, who better to prepare, who's going to work more. Now, that's what we want, that's what the people want, that's what the citizens want, that's what we want to compete with as many bridges... No, there's no highway, and everyone sees it. Did you hear yesterday? They say there's no highway built. So they won't even get 0.5% in the election. To bring this to an end. One MP, you see, who was here, whose duels we've always exchanged, says like this, has reason to have a patriotic education, and we've released it down the water, it's a special story, I quote, "Everyone knows that Kosovo and Metohija is definitely lost in the war of 1999," the quote concluded. It is former MP Balša Bozovic. You know what he's doing? He founded the Academy of Democracy. One more sentence. The European Commission has been building a project, mapping false news in the Balkans. And look at the wonders, instead of lying to the media the most. You know who they listed? The ball of Bozovic. I am now asking him to apologize, Mr. Vice-President of the Assembly, for all the insults he has said in this high house and outside this high house, the President of the Republic, his family, Alexander Martinovic, Vladimir Orlic and all the MPs in this high house, if only a little morality. Here he is yesterday talking about the Kosovo and Metohija issue. What can we expect from him? You saw a movie this morning. Who satanicizes us here? Former Defence Minister Dragan Sutanovac, whom they call "grab money". This is where we talked about what he was doing at the Sorceress. That man who retired 28 generals, the most educated. Stole money, formed an association and to cover himself and think he can do whatever he wants. That's what this law school pedophile was doing. I ask him if it's true or not? Let's have a polygraph, and let's all enlighten. Let him answer whether he was doing it or not? I apologize for mentioning, Vice President, Law School. There are honorable people and honorable professors, wonderful people, but there are people who would never go to college, even at other universities. In order to avoid it in the future, we must return to education both in school and in society. The teachers are ready for it. I suggest that the Ministry of Education establish a department of two, three men who will only be a educational function of school and society. That's where our economic gain is. Just imagine graphics in Belgrade, I calculated, if they were deleted now, a billion euros. It's a little bit. That's what our kids used to do. They haven't done that before. And the end, Mr. Vice President. You and the Ministry apologize these days, too, talking about textbooks and writing textbooks. I suggest you not give any textbook authors to those who never wrote the textbook, but those who only wanted the money. Yes, there is. People will work for free. They will, they will, because they love this country, they love these kids. They're already recommending over various TVs under the control of Gilas as well as RTS. How an academic will write me a textbook, when he says that the state of Serbia is not unique, in a territorial sense. Or for Kosovo and Metohija, this academic says -- it's not ours. You know where the basic problem is, Mr. Vice President? In Kosovo and Metohija, we have transposed national minorities' rights into a territorial issue. It's nowhere in the world. That's what the predecessors did, and now we need to get back to normal so we can talk to fellow Albanians, bring them into line. They did everything wrong. I will not quote, I have quoted those 12 political leaders who have given up, they will now save it. They weren't interested in anything, except their pockets. Here, thank you very much, Mr. Minister, I'll be happy if we really give either one counselor or someone at the ministry level, and there's us volunteering to work and contribute to trying to get our education back to school. I'll talk to the teachers. I know it's a tough job for them. He's like a mining mine. Gentlemen, we love our children, we love education and education, we raise them in that spirit, and we will fight for your place in society, we will do everything to fight, not just materially, but in this to raise our children. I apologize, Mr. Vice President, I did not violate the Rules of Procedure because we have time, our parliamentary group, but I will be happy if at least a milligram, what the people say, we take from this, and I hope we will because I know that both the Secretary of State and the Minister and the Assistant Minister will. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-30-0.u8059	I thank my colleague Atlagic. We're moving on to the next amendment. The 7th Amendment was filed by the People's MP Sandra Christmas. The government and the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Is anyone answering for a word? Yeah. ) National MP of Life Starcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-30-0.u8060	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament. We are here today discussing the laws on student organisation and the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Higher Education, in particular. What I am pleased to say is that all the proposed amendments are well-intentioned and aimed at correcting the text of the existing laws and that I am pleased that the Committee on Education has agreed on the amendment to Article 20(1). Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Higher Education. I think that this and that law will gain even more justice, and certainly the JS parliamentary group in the voting day will support this law, as well as in particular, as well as in general. I, speaking in the principle of laws and the Law on Higher Education, first of all, ended this exposure in a sentence – that education as rowing upstream, as soon as you stop, you start moving backwards. I would therefore continue for the simple reason that we have witnessed that for the past 20 years, our education system is in constant education reforms. Of course, these reforms of education at all levels that can not be carried out overnight in the middle, the basic and the high, because every reform of education must last at least as long as it lasts and an appropriate educational cycle. What's important to say today is that the development, the civilizational development, the development of scientific and technological development in the world is moving so fast, at such a lightning speed, it's changing the world that it's a need for reforms and that some education system is going to step up with these changes and that progress, it has to keep changing. Not only does it follow that progress, but it also has to Anticipate in which direction these changes are going in the next five, ten and more years, because today, when we enroll one founding, it ends its education in at least 12 or 16 years or more. We need to know what it will take for our country, our economy and society from education, from educational profiles and so on. Of course, it puts every educational system in the so-called. the state of permanent and constant reforms. The simple education system can no longer be so rigid, it must be flexible. Classic and rigid formal education systems must be changed and many more qualifications, requalification and specialisation programmes must be offered to people so that our citizens have the opportunity to continuously educate themselves for those jobs offered on the labour market. So that what happened 20 years ago, 15 years ago when those who today accuse today of today's government closing jobs, closing factories and leaving people out of work, and these people losing their jobs had no solutions for themselves to find a new job and a new job. Of course today, unlike them, we're opening new jobs. There is always a need for labour, and in this sense we have to offer as an education system a more flexible system with a lot of qualifications, retraining and specialization programs. Why am I saying this? This, of course, applies not only to secondary vocational education, but also to higher education. The day before, I was on TV, when they announced the entrance exams, the guest was from the Faculty of Electrical Engineering and he said a sentence that really burned my ears -- since it was a great interest in the Faculty of Electrical Engineering, after many candidates applied, they prepared a special exam to make the stronger triage. I think it's a fundamentally wrong setting. Why? It is not the job of the university to choose, or it is the ultimate time for the university to leave that department of the scientific institution and finally enter the department of the educational institution, because it is not the job of the university just to choose the most brilliant, best and most capable, which will deal with science and, if, for example, the greatest interest in IT directions is at present, that one huge number of interested students of future students simply with their difficult triage, as they said, simply remove them and eliminate that large number of potentially good IT experts, not those geniuses who will deal with science, but high-quality, valuable people who will want to deal with this profession, whose job there is a need on the labour market. There is a need for such labour force on the labour market, IT experts are required. Then, in my view, it is a much more logical and better approach to make such colleges agree with the state to extend quotas for such jobs that the labour market needs, where there is an interest of students, or future students, rather than simply rejecting them from these directions. Otherwise, the state of Serbia has been constantly saying for the past 12 years that investment in education is an investment and is not a cost. In this regard, perhaps this recommendation to colleges and their enrollment policy can be useful. After all, I would say this quote by Brian Tracy, who says, "If you want to change or improve something in your life, you have to start by changing the inner aspects of your mind." Well, there's also recommendations to those colleges, to think a little bit about finally getting out of that science institution suit in an educational institution suit. We need each other, but it's a matter of measures. Maybe we should discuss it. As far as these educational laws and education are concerned, I'd like so much. However, fellow MPs encouraged me to talk a little bit about the current situation. In fact, counterpart Markovic said that the society creates an atmosphere of lynch and violence. And, of course, not only in this home and not just the Members of the Single Serbia, but we are all talking about violence as a model of the behaviour of individual political options lately. Of course, we point out that system institutions often do not respond to proven and confirmed cases of violence and that it may be the behaviour of institutions that stimulate and fuel this atmosphere of lynch and violence. I was talking about a bully here, you know, who we're always talking about, that he's been making violence on his family, that there's an official note about it, that he's been talking about it all the time in this assembly, and that the institutions haven't responded until today. And this very same man, this same bully, is the main director of the creation of this atmosphere of lynch and violence. Serbia needs stability through today, more than ever, because Serbia is under a lot of pressure these days, especially in terms of Kosovo and Metohija. We must contribute to this stability policy all of us, including those famous institutions we have called here, and we people's MPs, where during the pleums and issues to the government and the prime minister herself and other senior officials have said they are waiting for the announcement of these famous institutions, etc., etc. I think those famous institutions must also contribute to the necessary political stability in the state of Serbia. Somewhere, speaking of these people and those stories, a fellow MP said for a little while that people who are highly educated have a lack of patriotism. I think that, I have to answer that and look back, patriotism is not the opposite of education, it has nothing to do with education and education, but, above all, patriotism, ladies and gentlemen, it has to do with honor, education and, above all, with a adopted and learned system of values, an accepted system of values. The question of patriotism really has nothing to do with some degree of education. Those on whom Mr. Risticevic is, they do not have that degree of patriotism, not because they are educated, not because they know a lot, but do not have a sufficient degree of patriotism because their adopted system of values is primarily money and only money. Those for Serbia and the citizens of Serbia are not concerned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-30-0.u8061	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Alexander Mirkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-30-0.u8062	I would like to point out at the very beginning that we will support this law and all proposed and adopted amendments, but I would also like to point out that last week, during the debate, we have highlighted how good and good and quality this law is, but above all, important to the generations that come and for those generations that will lead our country in the next period or continue to school and improve themselves in another direction, so that everyone together is proud of the results they achieve. I certainly believe that this law also clearly shows the position of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and how it is based on providing better opportunities for education, for each of our inhabitants and how much such laws contribute to better and better quality education and how much they contribute to the fact that every student in our country today wants and sees perspective and knows that he can get a quality education here and that, also after completing education, he can stay here and achieve business and create a family. Unfortunately, such a situation was not in the period until 2012, 2013 when neither high school students nor students saw better tomorrow in our country and when everyone looked as easily as possible, to school somewhere in the world, and by the rule of staying there. The latest data I have received over the past few months, not to mention a year, clearly shows that we have a large inflow of highly educated people of our people, who have been educated somewhere in Europe or around the world, and then returned, because they finally see that Serbia today looks much better and that Serbia provides much greater opportunities than it was in the period until 2012, 2013. You will all agree that this is primarily the result of the responsible policy implemented by President Aleksandar Vucic, as well as the responsible policies of the Serbian government, which has been continuing to improve life conditions since 2013. When we talk about this, the data that support all of this and draw closer to it is the fact that unemployment in Serbia until about seven or eight years ago was even at a record level of 24%, while today it is below 7%. When we talk about this, I can't look back on people who are today the strictest critics, of course without the arguments of this law as well as many other laws, but they were able to do something about our country and that any of what they're propagating today was fulfilled as a promise they made in election campaigns, but unfortunately, of course they didn't do anything about it. Here, fellow MPs spoke of Dragan Gilas, Vuk Jeremic and other people representing the DS regime who led our country for a decade, but I don't want to look back on their failures. I want a concrete example of how much the difference is in what happens today compared to that period when they were in power. We are witnessing that today Dragan Gilas is the strongest critic of everything that is happening in our country, and it is about the law or any decision that is in the interest of the Serbian citizens. When you remind him that he was able to do something for our country, he usually gets the answer that he was a senior DS official, but that he was involved in local politics or that he was head of the city of Belgrade and he couldn't do much. Unfortunately, like a lot of things he says, and that's one big lie, and in case I'm going to show you what it's really about. In fact, we talked about unemployment, but I want to point out that in 2014 there were around 60,000 people in Belgrade, according to some data he was presenting at the time, while today that figure is around 60,000, but I don't want to discuss it either, but I just want to point out to the citizens of Belgrade and Serbia that the number is... We're talking about the number of unemployed, but I want to talk about the number of employees, where you can clearly see how many new jobs are open in Belgrade. How much better the situation is today tells you the fact that in 2014 there were 559.000. So these are the data that Dragan Gilas provided, and today that number and that number are about 738,000, which is your difference of 179.000. So you have an exact number and exact data as to how many new people are employed in Belgrade, and this clearly illustrates the policy of what the politics of the city of Belgrade is today, but above all, the government of Serbia and what it was like in the period when Dragan Gilas could have done something, to hire both young people and those who today offer such a superficial and easy perspective. As for education itself and young people, respected ministers, you were in the “Sava Center” yesterday when a project was presented by the city which I certainly consider to be one of the exact indicators of how far it has gone forward today in the education of young people. I'll come to that later, but I want to address the citizens of Serbia with one message. I've met a lot of people here who come from cities all over Serbia. The most common way to look back was – there you have no such problems in Belgrade as we have or have had before in our cities. When I tell them one thing, they stay fascinated and somehow they find it hard to believe. You are the minister of education and you certainly know that, unfortunately, one city municipality, and it is not the only one, had a primary school in Belgrade until last year that used the Polish toilet. It's about elementary school in Leštani, the Municipality of Grock. So in Belgrade, unfortunately, we had a school where the Polish toilet was used, and that elementary school was one of the most common barracks. For 10 years, they have been in power and tried in any way to portray themselves as great visionaries, people who wish Belgrade well and Serbia, and who were unable to make even normal toilets in the 21st century. I'm telling you this as a fact, because it wasn't the only school we found in a destroyed or destroyed state. Not to tell you that many of those schools were in the same shape they were when they were made. So they weren't able to nail one nail. The tablet or goals in the schoolyards, on sports grounds, have never changed, and it is almost never the biggest defeat of us as society, because we have had a power that was hard to do anything for the youngest, for those who are most important to us, for those who will inherit all of us. It is unfortunate that one of my fellow MPs, Luke Kebar, was attacked and satanized for days only because he told the truth - unfortunately, by 2012 or 2013, there was a notion that children in elementary school were using a normal toilet and here is an example from Belgrade, not to mention the problems my colleagues from SNS faced in some other municipalities or other cities. When I talk about this, I also want to point out one very important thing. Most hypocritically lately, Dragan Gilas has been playing on some empathy and playing on the emotions of the citizens, so most often children are also mentioned – how, when he comes to power, everything will be free of charge for children, and I don't even know what for free, will be free of charge and schools and kindergartens and textbooks and meals, but there is always a simple question – why did he not do any of this when he was in power right in Belgrade? Not to spread the story further, because he has always moved the ball from that field of Serbia to the field of Belgrade, because he says he was not in a position to be able. To know how he led Belgrade and used the trust shown, I will only tell you that in 2013, it was covered by kindergartens, so for our youngest citizens, only 45,000 children were in kindergartens. Today it's about 77,000. The waiting list, the most affected by parents, was as many as 17,000 children. There were 17,000 children on the waiting list. Today that list is somewhere below 1,000 children. What I want to encourage all citizens in Belgrade, but also in Serbia, is that we have a strategy that we want to remove these waiting lists by building new kindergartens. The best example for you is the city of Belgrade where eight kindergartens are currently being built or completed. By the end of this year, it is planned to consider tendering and procurement for seven more and to enter the procedure for 10 more absolutely new kindergartens in the coming months. It's as many as 25 kindergartens in a period of maybe two or three years which has never been the case in my town. The construction of these kindergartens will remove all waiting lists absolutely. When I tell you this, I am only telling you to know the intensity of the people who are leading both Belgrade and Serbia today and how many people who are in charge today are trying to make the next responsible policy of Serbian President Alexander Vukic any segment of life for our citizens even easier, even better. If it were not for the irresponsible treatment of our youngest, it shows that during the period when Dragan Gilas was mayor, 15,000 families were charged twice for kindergartens and for the compensation of the City of Belgrade today, we have paid the debts and so far paid as much as 30m euros in compensation to families, because without any basis, they were illegally charged to kindergartens. Just so you know, to turn it into a clearer picture, 30m euros is almost about 15 new kindergartens. In fact, what would a man tell me on the street – why did we have to throw 15 kindergartens? Because Dragan Gilas was irresponsible. I'm going to finish with this, and I mentioned earlier, dear Minister Ruzic, as I said, you were in the Sava Center yesterday, where the project was presented where 67,000 tablets of computers were purchased, which will help our founding fathers in school. So each tablet computer will have a special Internet card, unrelated to whether parents or whether they live in an apartment where they have the Internet. Electronic textbooks will also be purchased. For all of this, buying close to 7,000 laptops for teachers and teachers is also envisaged, so that everyone can learn more easily, be educated, but also follow what is modern everywhere in the world. We have this honor and an opportunity to be proud. Many countries in the West don't have this kind of program. This is just an indicator of how much we've progressed in the last few years as a society, as a country, to renovate schools where our children use our Polish toilets, today we move to that level that our children use computers in their education. This is a clear indication of how much we want and how quickly we keep our wishes and promises in action. For the very end, dear ministers, I wish you, as well as the entire government, to present to us as MPs such good laws, which are in the general interest of all our citizens, because only as a great team and all together, following this government policy and the next policy of President Aleksandr Vukic, we can make Serbia exactly the place we want for all of us and for all the generations to come. Thank you. Long live Serbia!
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-30-0.u8063	Thanks, buddy. Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to item 2 of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Higher Education. You have received amendments submitted by the national MPs Sandra Bozic, dr12 Aleksandar Martinović, Sandra Jokovic and Mladen Boskovic, as well as the Committee on Education, Science and Technological Development and Information Society. You have received a report from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and from the Committee on Education, Science and Technological Development and Information Society, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The People's MP, Sandra Christmas, submitted to the Third Amendment. The government and the Committee on Education, Science and Technological Development and the Information Society accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP, Zoran Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-30-0.u8064	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers and Vice-Presidents of the Government with associates, colleagues and fellow Members of the People, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, we have before us amendments to amendments to the Law on Higher Education and certainly that these amendments themselves will contribute to changing and supplementing those before us, allowing the effects of the law to be even better. What is important to say and what we discussed in this plenary is that when it comes to higher education that it is really high quality and the day we talked about, we discussed the changes and additions to the law, then otherwise, we had a visit to the ambassadors of Iran, who said that there is a great deal of interest among the citizens of his country when it comes to studies in the Republic of Serbia, because he thinks that the real knowledge that their students receive here, when it comes to the Faculty of Medicine and the University of Stomatology, is extremely high. Sam said if there were programmes in English to make that interest even bigger, which is just additional support how much our education system when it comes to colleges is highly ranked in the world. Of course, what we can say is that the teachers themselves, teachers who work, who publish their scientific papers, I am particularly proud of the mathematicians, since I am a single student, who have shown how much our people can really contribute when it comes to further development. So, these changes and additions that are ahead of us, as well as amendments, will allow us to continue to improve only higher education. What I'm very proud of is that in our hometown in Krusevec we have a Faculty of Agriculture at the University of Nischi, which is the youngest state college, which has shown for these four as many as there is, otherwise, now the entrance exams in the first round for the fourth generation, that there is a great interest and that the really decision to come to Kruševac was correct. Unlike the period of the yellow regime and the tycoon that when they came to power, they tried to close everything, not only the factories they were known for, but they absolutely tried to destroy and humiliate our education system so that in their time Kruševac, who had two departments of the Faculty of Economics and Law, managed to drive them out of the city, and even a private college whose headquarters was in the city, did not make sure that he stayed in Kruševec, but had already gone to another city. So when we look at the region, the West Morava Basin, unfortunately, Kruševac was the only city that hadn't had a single university based in that town for a long time, which is why young people were leaving, of course. In their time, they were absolutely not interested in it, nor in the needs of the students, nor in the needs of this country's own economy, but in those young people they probably saw as one of the export chances because they didn't try to keep these young people in the country, and those who went abroad to school to go back to Serbia and that the knowledge they gained here was already really trying to get people out of mass. So, all these statistics that they make out that at a time when Alexander Vukic is in power people are leaving are incorrect. Actually, it's a characteristic of their period. Like I said, the Faculty of Krushevac is working successfully. He has received two more new buildings for use that will soon be put into office, where the university library, reading room and additional teaching space will be held. What's very important is to point out, not only were they working to destroy the university, but they were really trying to destroy the scientific potentials that we had. So when we talk about agriculture, because yesterday we had a very important law on agriculture that we discussed, there are no institutes that have dealt with agriculture that have not tried to shut them down, to destroy them, and among them is one in Kruševec, the Institute of Blood Plants. In their time, the Institute looked as a cow to the mazar, as they looked at any other public enterprise, means one way to get money out of there, not to create conditions for young scientists and people to have a perspective, to have space to work, to carry out their scientific research, to publish and that knowledge can later be cashed through certain products that the Institute would create and then place on the market. Today this Institute is doing well, and it is, to say, a scientific base and an important segment when it comes to the development of agriculture in the Kruševac region, which and how it has great potential when it comes to it. Furthermore, when we talk about the development of science in Serbia, I will also mention nsu-technological parks. We have a science and technology park in Nis, Chačka, Belgrade, and will also be in Novi Sad. These are all the centers that will gather young Serbian brains where there are adequate conditions that those of their theoretical knowledge that they acquired in college, and even young students who gain these knowledge, to slowly through this system, to say, a dual education that will slowly be implemented in the high school segment cashing, to slowly position themselves on the market and to show really our human capacities that are really great. Otherwise, we ladies and gentlemen live in the age of the knowledge economy. I said that time had passed fortunately when Serbs came to investments that required labour intensively, or labour classically. Investments that include that segment of research and development are increasingly coming today, and therefore these scientific and technological parks are important, and it is also important that today there are communications between the economy and the education system in order to know what kind of ability we need to school, what business is looking for and what it is that we as a state can offer to the economy. That's why these science and technology parks are important, the business incubator centers that exist, and I'm very proud that in Kruševec we have a really successful Business Incubator centre that has implemented numerous projects for young people, which today is in 100% capacity filled with space. It's just, there's no room for these people to stay. I am pleased to see that during the psychic celebrations, marking 650 years since the establishment of the town of Kruševec, the prime minister, together with ministers, has been able to convince herself that one of the key projects that will be implemented in the future in Kruševec is this regional industrial and technological park that will be built, which will allow young people in the field of robotics, information technologies, modern technologies to use the services of this centre itself to develop their own companies, to turn their ideas from something that was only on paper or in their head into a relationship, but also to offer services to industry, to offer services to the economy, where that research and development sector itself will be able to realise, to employ our young brains and scientists who will help them further develop their products, to better position themselves on the market and to be new brands for which Serbia will be known, as well as we know, and further. Today we see that we have also become an economically small brand that is champion, which has succeeded in a period of the crown of crisis to make sure that the economy does not fall, but that this wheel of economy is working and that we create a good basis for further progress. Therefore, we should not be surprised at the EBRD's assessment yesterday that the minimum growth rate of our economy will be 6%, which is something we discussed when we adopted the Budget Law for this year, when it was created with, let's say, perception that it would be that 6%. You remember a number of so-called. Experts and experts from the ranks of former yellow tycoons who said it was unrealistic, that it was some kind of science fiction, something we could only dream of. Gentlemen, when an IMF and the EBRD say it will be a minimum rate, then you can only expect it to be even bigger, and then the time comes for your experts and your diplomas to be questioned and to see what you're saying, and we all know that these institutions will not give the basics, or their forecasts without well-founded facts and grounds and their very prognosis are always quite pessimistic, or they don't go with some too optimistic prognosis, they are very precise and water accounts. I'm really glad that in addition to the university that got it, which successfully developed and thus placed himself in the ranks of academic cities, this kind of center where young people, not only from Kruševac, are going to be called regionally, from other cities, from Jagodina, from Kragujevac, and Kraljev, and Nis, and other parts of Serbia, will create conditions for these ideas to develop and that, as I said, it will be another brand by which we will be known. I am pleased that more and more young people are returning to Serbia after completing education and professional training and their ideas are being realized. As I said yesterday, we have an increasing number of young people who enter agriculture, as one developmental chance of our economy, but what's important is that we not only go with that story of classical agriculture, but also invests in developing and modernising agricultural production, so that you have an increasing number of young people dealing with the problem of agriculture development, applying digital and modern technologies in agriculture, which are dealing with further development and insurance segments, i.e. how to reduce the risks that farmers face further, which is another proof of how many Serbs and policies Alexander Vukic and what we did in the previous period gave good grounds for our country's development, that our young people get a chance. I am really proud to have such quality and successful young colleagues in our parliamentary group who have just, thanks to Alexander Vukic, been given a chance to fight as young parliamentarians for the future of these young generations, including myself. I can really say that we're doing a good job and we're trying to keep in communication with our friends, our friends, and that what they say here in the Assembly is going on. Unlike the haters of Serbia, unlike the people who have been told lies by the court seal, the judgments of the convicted thieves, unlike those who have switched from Coca-Cola to beer, who deal with the rematch policy, we are concerned with the development of prosperity, creating better conditions for young people. We're not even interested in political belongings, we're interested in what we're putting an accent on, and that's the quality of it, and giving us a chance to always give priority to quality. Unlike the yellow periods, unlike the Gilas and Jeremic period, who looked at their burazer combinations, their dynasty combinations to realize, who tried to manage their local self-governments as principals, which is why today they still bear the titles of obo-princes, who boasted with education in the world, and when ministers were usually a journalistic question that, as a schooled physicist at Cambridge, Jeremic explained what it was and Newton's law did not know how to say, so much about that acquired knowledge and so much about that diploma he carries. Today, as he moved from Coca-Cola to beer, he dared to go, to attack President Alexander Vukic, not only as a person, but he attacks the institution of this state, he attacks the institution of the president of the state and still leads three or four people with him, trying to show that some of the important stories are, I don't know what they wanted. In fact, they tried to replay what they did in 2017, 2018, when they wanted to occupy the presidency. For this period, you can see clearly how much that support fell, so it came down to this little group of people who, when Alexander Vukic came out front, which they didn't expect, in one dignified way he answered them, they went better in front of their media, you know that -- a little kid who's getting married with others, and he's going faster to sue someone else he's been looking for, saying that they're big heroes, that they're big patriots, and then, faster, back to the bar, probably to tear up a bunch of beer for a happy break, because they obviously are nothing else and they don't know. It's the image of their policy. When we talk about the place, I'm glad when we talk about education in Kruševec, a lot of things are done when it comes to schools, which you, Mr. Minister, have had the opportunity to make sure when you were our guest for 650 years of town, that not only is Kruševac a regulated road infrastructure, you've also seen a magnificent square that will serve a great number of events, safe traffic with a large number of circular flows. We have been working to raise capacity for the development of our schools, so a lot has been done in terms of energy efficiency, training schools with digital classrooms, modern techniques for work. The Centre for Professional Training has done a number of seminars so teachers can improve, especially during the Corona period when the course was online, that it was successfully implemented and that the students transferred their knowledge. The secondary medical school received its second floor and thus expanded capacities and young people who are increasingly enrolling in that school can be properly educated. What's important to me is that the primary school in Parunovac was attacked most by the Gilasovites. By the way, their representative was from this local community, they attacked that there were problems with school, with sneezing etc., and in the period when DS was in power, whose member, and he was ashamed to say, simply always says – I was no official, and there was obvious evidence that he was a member and a very prominent official, simply biting seeds while watching everything that did not work in his local community, starting from the House of Culture, through travel infrastructure, to that school. This school, ladies and gentlemen, is today remedied, the students will be able to use it and will continue to work on its development, and all thanks to the efforts that local self-government has made to solve this problem. Unfortunately, you know how, a large number of problems have accumulated since their period, although they ruled for only 12 years or how they like to say in Kruševec – only four, since other coalition partners who came to power in 2000 give up. They've left so much trouble behind that we still need time to get some of their missing, solve their problems. We are pleased to put the accent on the secondary and education of young people, because as I said, today we live in the age of knowledge, knowledge economies and today it is not just three factors – capital, work and land. Knowledge is one of the essential factors in which it is invested, and the Republic of Serbia has since 2012 invested significant resources in the education of young people, in their retention and creation of incentives to make all of these ideas and visions they have realized. That's why we have the subject of entrepreneurship, and that's why we have young high school students from Kruševec. It is important that I point out and I am proud that there is also the daughter of our distinguished Member Dragana Barisic. They showed an entrepreneurial spirit and they showed a desire to fight to stay in this country and to stream their ideas, not like in the yellow period to go out of this country and, as they say, we have the costs of schooling that we have invested in and that we give these funds to other countries and that we have to buy their knowledge back to implement them here. A lot's been done. These amendments and additions to the Law on Higher Education will ensure that the further reforms needed are successfully implemented and we, as MPs, from the list Aleksandar Vukic – for our children and how to support each of these beneficial reforms will continue to encourage them to work because we are fighting for the future of our children and for their knowledge. What I want to say and what our esteemed Kruševljani Bratislav Gasic always tells us young people, which is – they can take anything from you, but no one can take it from you. Investing in knowledge is the basis to have further investment in our economy, our economy, and look at only Kruševac, I say, on June 28th, we marked 650 years, see how much this city has changed since 2012, from the city of greyery, from the city of pessimism, from the city where the young went, we become a new academic centre, the centre where young people will just come, develop their businesses and the city where the new brands, where the Republic of Serbia will be known, will grow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-30-0.u8065	Thank you. The 20th amendment was submitted by the MP, Dr Aleksandar Martinovic. The word has Serbian Filipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-30-0.u8066	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, with fellow workers, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the topic of November organisation, the theme of youth's future is something that is particularly important and something that we need to talk about, perhaps more often, because Serbia today has something to boast about when it comes to supporting young people, supporting students, supporting those who make up the future of this country and who, after today's generation of politicians, will continue these new young people tomorrow to lead Serbia, to lead it exactly the way it should go. That trip, I would say, is a good, excellent way to route Serbia's President Aleksandar Vukic since 2012, then in 2014 and after becoming president of the Republic of Serbia. This road is the way to fight for the future, the way to stability, the way to peace, the way to responsibility for both young and old in Serbia. If each other in their own country had an equally secure, equally peaceful future and I would say a certain future, a certain good perspective, that they know that it is worth staying in, that they know it's worth creating families, that they know it's worth it to be born in Serbia, that they know that it's worth fighting in Serbia to get their own apartment, to get their own hearth, to build a house, to train children, because those children will have a perspective that will be good and look good in the years and decades ahead of all of us. It wasn't easy to do that. It was necessary to fight crime, against corruption, against all those who usurped positions in the state just to give themselves a better status, a greater social reputation for them, and that reputation implies millions in their pockets. That's all we had to fight at the beginning of 2012 and 2014, to cut in the beginning, to say that now it's the end of corruption, now it's the end of crime. Systemically to defeat corruption and crime in the system, so that we can further disintegrate everything that former regime members have ruined in the Republic of Serbia between 2000 and 2012. This country was completely destroyed during that period. The entire social and state property is broken down clean, it's sold out. We all remember that state-owned enterprises were leaving for one euro, we remember how they passed "The Iron" in Smederevo, we remember many other giants in Serbia who had collapsed, systematically destroyed, for more than a decade. They were systematically destroyed just so that she clicked on authorities, a Thai criminal, would have more and more money, while young people in Serbia were deprived of as much of the future as they needed, because they didn't need to keep young and smart people in Serbia. They didn't need it, because the mind was the one that united in 2012, headed by Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic, and said -- a lot of robbery, a lot of kidnapping in Serbia. Therefore, smartness should have been driven out of Serbia to a greater extent so that tycoons and criminals could continue to rule Serbia for life, to its complete destruction. At that time, there was that saying, when they said, you were going out last, you turned off the light. We had this task of not turning the light off in Serbia, but of turning the light back on in Serbia, of running factories, of starting production, of economics, of reviving and healing our public finances to start building a new Serbia, so that we could start building on new foundations, of a sustainable and stable decent and normal state and start building in the future. We did it, fortunately, especially for young people, to achieve it to this day. That's what the roads testify about, that's what the parks testify about, that's what the science and technology parks testify about. Over 200 factories, 400,000 new jobs, all this means a safer future for young people. That when you graduate college, you don't wonder what I'm going to do with that degree. Will she serve to hang herself against the wall and say, when the relatives come, here I am in college, I have a degree, I put it on the wall, but I don't know what to do with it. Then the tycoons came and said, "Take a diploma and go, go from Serbia, go look for happiness in another place, go to another state of Western Europe, or who knows where, you'll be much better there." We said -- no, we want our children, all of our children to stay in Serbia, to have a future in it, that they can build this country, that they can enjoy their Serbia. Because no other country, as rich as it is, will treat you, respect you as it can and must your own country in which you live, in which you were born, in which you create. We had no right to our ancestors, nor to those who died for this country, who created it, built centuries back to agree to defeat, to agree that Serbia would no longer be. That is why we started the radical reforms in 2014 and decided to change everything in Serbia, to finally light up in Serbia, that people are not in line for passports, for visas at foreign embassies and that they are eager to leave Serbia's border to then dawn. It dawned on people in Serbia by the arrival of Alexander Vukic to power and SNS. It dawned on them because they saw the first factories, the first kilometers of new highways. Only this year are eight highways working in Serbia, only this year. We did more roads than we did in Broz's time. It is the basis that gave us the opportunity to have over 200 new factories in Serbia and move on. You've seen Alexander Vukic keep his word in the Rudna Glava where he was vaccinated the first time he said he did - we'll bring a drive here to open a factory for people to stay in this place, so they don't have to go from here. It is an example of how we invest regionally, how we develop all of Serbia. Not only a circle of two where yellows sit in cooled cafes and enjoy, but throughout Serbia. We're going where it's the hardest place out of those places where people have left off, who are shutting down, where there are several hundred residents left. In these places, to bring factories, to employ people, and to conduct daily propaganda against those people, through the Thai mafia media, attacking precisely that man who is responsible for all the prosperity Serbia has achieved over the past ten years. No one has done as much for Serbia in the past hundred years as Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic has done. It's not just a political story, it's concrete data that's being told every day. Tell me who's in Serbia, there are older people here, who hired 400,000 people over the past 30 years? Who did this? Who opened over 200 new factories? When was the average salary in Serbia as high as it is today? When did people know that Serbia would not go bankrupt and that they could safely, stablely and definitely plan their future, when? When could this happen in Serbia except today? When the head of Serbia is a statesman like Aleksandar Vukic. It couldn't happen in Serbia either during Jeremic or during Tadic, or during Gilas, and I don't know who they all are. Young people in Serbia see the future offered by SNS and Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic. We showed it in 2012 to date unequivocally. On the other hand, you have what we thought was over in 2012, you have the awakening of the Thai mafia political group, though small right now, but very aggressive, very dangerous with some performances where they try to get into Serbia's presidency to be physically accounted for. Then when the president of Serbia comes before them they run away, the little mice are gone. When I think of them four who came to the presidency to threaten the President of the Republic, many of them are dangerous, I remember, but only by number, those performances at the Puž Theatre – Four Pigs. With them all but the contents of the show, four pigs came and ran everywhere when the lion came before them, escaped little mice. We'd better run before our media to say, we were very strong, we scared the president. Who did you scare? Who? Do you think only four of them would come? They'd have brought in if they had anyone else to bring in. Then they say -- we came to see, look out for you, which is an insolence, which is the level of political unculture, which is defamation, to say – we came to see if Alexander Vukic is normal. Are you out of your mind? You who broke into the National Assembly were on fire. Are you normal, who never condemned the death threats to Serbian President Alexander Vukic? Are you as normal as that? Are you the normal one who says you need to have one sniper in every local community? And you're decent and normal? You're Democrats? You guys don't know what I'm doing either. I'm not going to use any hard words right now to not be warned again, and they call us every day whatever they want, whatever they want, whatever they think, which in mind, on the road, what our people say. The synchronised thief Alexic and that corrupt Jeremic together insult the president of the Republic. One day one makes a statement, the other day the other makes a statement that the president of Serbia is not normal. Shame on you! What's that for? Because he allowed children in Serbia to go to school? Is that why he's not normal? Because he raised so many highways in Serbia and roads? Over 200 new factories, over 400,000 new jobs? Because today Belgrade and Serbia are one of the most desirable tourist destinations for foreign tourists? Is that why? Because in the fight against the crown of the virus, we proved ourselves to be the best in Europe? Is that why he's not normal? Is that a problem with them? When no one could reach the respirator, we succeeded thanks to the president of Serbia to get them. Is that a problem? Are they the problem with new hospitals, clinical centres? Are these the problems that the tycoon mob elite will deal with if God forbidds victory in Serbia over something and cannot win the election? That's why the street is that road they're trying to use to get across the street to power. It won't work. You'll have an election, go ahead, if you dare. If you can't, sit in your muscle holes. Serbia will continue to develop through programme 2025, will be the average salary as we have said, average pensions. Serbia will move forward, young people will have their future in Serbia thanks to SNS and President Aleksandr Vukic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-30-0.u8067	Thank you. The Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society submitted to Article 20 of the amendment. At its meeting of the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society, the proposing representative accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. On behalf of the promoter, the president of the Committee, Dr Zukorlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-30-0.u8068	The Honorable Vice-President of the National Assembly, the Honorable Ministers with the Secretary of State and Assistant, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Citizens, I would like to unite the time on behalf of the Proposer and as authorised, given that this is a very important issue, and also because of the fact that yesterday we had a session of a committee that was unusually long, almost four hours ago. That means we've had a lot of work to do. The session was very dynamic. There was also a very bile debate. Some thought it was something that wasn't good, that it was better it didn't happen, and I don't see it that way. Since we are often honored by some kind of unambiguousness here in the National Assembly, I think that yesterday a very different atmosphere, therefore the capacity of different opinions and the possibility of these opinions being delivered, and the MPs represented whether they were different positions within a party or a group of MPs, whether they were Members of the committee of different parties. So, when we generally observe that session, I think it was very successful. What's been hard, all it's worth is effort. That's how I grade that session. The quality is always measured in the end, as one process ends, thus measuring the quality. In fact, after such a long debate from the session, we came out of a concerted position and as one of the results of that session yesterday was actually a committee amendment that we submitted. Namely, it is an intervention in Article 20. Article 20, as you know, was also about the amendment of MP Aleksandar Martinovic, which was in fact the main cause of such a large and dynamic debate, as it was actually about different views on the regulation of Article 20 of this Law, which regulates the issue of participation in the bodies of the higher education institution of those teachers who are over 65 years old, who have extended working relationship. In fact, we had two approaches, one where it was thought that it was necessary to completely disable the participation of such teachers in the bodies of a higher school institution, regardless of which bodies it was, and another attitude which was reflected in the amendment of MP Martinovic, who actually requested that the restriction be removed. The opinions that were made were actually between those two attitudes, with a very clear, convincing argument. In fact, the very intensity of proposing this member to restrict the participation of teachers over 65 years of age who had extended working relationship in university bodies was, in fact, that in some way, they were determined to participate exclusively in the teaching process, because the argument for any possibility of extending their working relationship was that they were great experts, significant teachers with great knowledge, and that it was a pity that they were not actually available to higher education institutions for another year, which made sense if they were people who were vital and who could continue to contribute to the teaching and scientific process at the university, i.e. at universities or other higher education institutions. But what was, on the other hand, the ambition of this restriction, is that in some ways, we would care about the end of one practice of holding the domination of higher education institutions by individuals, which is not the subject that we first treat here, and that we have repeatedly argued that one of the problems of further high education reform is, in fact, the concentration of enormous power among certain individuals who occupied these positions many years ago, and that both legal norms and failures in legal norms often use to simply change the situation, go from one state or from one form of their position to another, and in fact, to the end, retain the power of governance and then use the possibility of extending their working relationship, not to contribute to the teaching process, but to actually extend the duration of their own power in governance, i.e. in the rule of higher education institutions. Such examples were very much, and most often they were about personnel and people from the past system, from various past structures that used these possibilities. Of course, on the other hand, they were hiding behind the idea and category of autonomy of the university and you couldn't just reach them. Then they, after spending two mandates on the rector's position and the dean's position, one of the abuses they had, were that their secretaries and lawyers at universities and universities interpreted and those regulations even about the restriction of mandates. You have people today who have been dean or rectors five times over at some universities, because their secretaries, their lawyers interpreted those regulations to them, so every time the law was passed, they reset the regulations, so they said, it's okay, you were three times a dean, now this law allows you to be twice, that means twice more. Since we have very often resorted to amendments to the Law on Higher Education, then each time they reset to unfounded interpretations and extended their duration in those positions. When we actually put an end to them in February of that authentic interpretation, then it couldn't happen anymore, especially when it comes to the age limit. Then he resorts to other possibilities of continued influence and power. We, for example, in Novi Pazar at the State University had this case where a man who had been a rector since his founding, when he couldn't have been any more, of these manipulations that I'm talking about, he invented the position of director of the university, even before the managers were introduced. It was his invention – the director of the university, and he actually added to this term and this word "rector" to "di" and became the director who conducted the rector and was actually the supervisor and today he is at the post. He has already spent one rector in two terms and now, of course, since we stopped in Ukraine, with the help of the Ministry and the inspections sent there, and that category. Then a third option is sought, and a third is the possibility that one of them will be president of the university's council, and once again be in the position of a superior and once again rule for life and I don't know how long more with higher education institutions whose founder is the government. We keep forgetting that. The category of founders, they mostly remember those categories only when they have to take the money and never take it again. There's the only relationship they recognize with the state, admit with the government, everything else is related to abuse, everything else is on the relation of manipulative rule in which they are very eternal, unfortunately, in earlier structures and in the Ministry and in some other bodies they had their mates, they helped them, they threw each other the ball, and it actually lasted. Now the government has noticed it, or the resolution ministry, and has proposed this provision, which is actually stopping in the country. What was the argument of the second opinion is that it is not logical, however, that one professor who has his own reputation, has his own weight and belongs to prominent professors, who extends the possibility of working in the teaching and scientific process, but cannot be a member of the teaching and scientific council. It was founded and we eventually had hearing about it. After all these discussions and, in fact, based on this understanding and this diversity in attitudes, there was actually this committee amendment, which means that we have respected the arguments that we are exposed to, that it is not normal for someone to be a lecturer, and that he cannot be a member of a teaching and scientific council. So he can be a member, now according to this amendment to the Committee, he can be a member of all the scientific and professional bodies of the university. So he could be a member of a teaching council, he could be a member of committees of various experts, defense committees, any scientific and professional committees, which makes sense. What cannot be, according to this amendment that has been accepted and which, I hope, will receive the support of the National Assembly? It may not be a member of the Authority or of the managing authority, or of the operation. That's the point. So that actually puts an end to their oligarchical and personal governments that have been going on for decades, and that's what we've actually reached a consensus about after so much and such discussion. I want you to know that in the end, we adopted all decisions unanimously. So, yesterday's session of the Committee certainly is one of the legendary and in no way do I see that it has a negativity, but it is actually a different experience, that it is possible in such a ruling majority, with this large majority of one party and with this many partners in that ruling majority, that it is possible to have an atmosphere of different opinions, but of course at the end and the capacity of negotiation. So that, in my opinion, is a new quality. I would recommend that other committees learn from us to work for more than 10 minutes, more than 20 minutes. Of course it's not easy. We skipped lunch and all the refreshments we had planned earlier, so we had to derivate and coordinate after everything we planned, but I came out proud of that board and very pleased, and I think also the representatives of the Ministry, or the Government, and we actually came up with the solutions that we needed. I think that's what we need. So we need to have full freedom to express our opinions, because we have actually come to quality this way, because also the promoters, the Government, or the Ministry, had in mind the need to limit this. They did not simply find it appropriate at the moment to nuance their proposal and put a formulation of restrictions, i.e. restrictions on participation in the bodies of the university, or higher education institutions. That was fine at first sight. But when we actually went deeper into the debate, we really made sure that it could be exaggerated and we actually exaggerated it. I think that's what brings real quality. So, freedom of mind, freedom of expression. However, it is a Committee on Education, which perhaps some members of the Committee on Education, Science and Technological Development forget that it is one of the most important committees, don't get angry with other committees, because it deals with science and education and logically would be that during the discussions and the participations themselves, we do not forget the responsibility that we bear as members of the committees, but this also happens in the heat of the debate, and the increased tone and the decline without giving a word, but it is all parliamentaryism. Here, the English, who are much older than us in the tradition of parliamentaryism, so they get carried away, so let's get a little carried away, too. In the end, everything remains within the frames of humanity. So, nothing personal, nothing personal, nobody came out with a grudge against anyone else. So, in my opinion, this is a new experience of our parliamentaryism that I don't consider to be good, but I even think it can be used as a new quality in this assembly, that is, the composition of the National Assembly. Of course, and through that debate that lasted, as I said, almost four hours, we've heard many more ideas. Not all of these ideas could be incorporated into this amendment, or even into this law. But, as you know, I think the Law on Higher Education is one of the laws most endured by change and most often changes. On the one hand, it may be a question of why we're doing it, whether we're not making a good law, and then we have to change it in a year or a half, that question can be asked. I don't think that's what this is about. It's a matter that's very delicate. We have, truth be told, we have these leads that are, I say, not that big, but we haven't found a solution for them yet, like the question so-called. a number of students. And they're the ones who come to our table almost every year, so we have to make a statement about it. But what's more important than this topic is that, in fact, the very need to change the Law on Higher Education so often says that it's still a very living and undefined substance for our conditions, our circumstances, I don't like that word – transitions, especially for the reasons it lasts so long, but until we invent a new one we'll have to use it. But certainly that means our process of finding ourselves in education in general, especially in higher education, is not over. The problem is very much, but what I want to point out is that these legal solutions have also made another very important step. We didn't finish everything, we didn't finish everything, we said something in the debate in principle. Especially this establishment of theological sciences is a newspaper on our high school stage. So far, the theological sciences have been included somewhat shyly and at a small door, exclusively through the Faculty of Education of the Serbian Orthodox Church, which was a member and is now a member of Belgrade University, and that was the only link, while we did not have it explicitly stated in the Law. Now we've regulated it with two members. There is still a need to regulate it, and last time I spoke about it, I will just repeat – that we must approach the resolution of higher education institutions of other traditional churches and religious communities in an operational sense, because they are not covered operationally through the implementation of this law, in order to be in a position of equal rights and equal opportunities guaranteed to them by both the Constitution and the Law on Church and Religious Communities, but also by this law. So that's what's still waiting for us. We are still waiting, therefore, to find that measure of the relationship between state and private universities. We haven't worked that out properly yet. It's an experiment that takes too long. We allow when it comes to all other rights we have in principle guaranteed the views of equal opportunities. However, we all know that these are not equal opportunities. So state universities and non-state universities don't have equal opportunities. The idea of the existence of all these universities is the idea of a free market of knowledge. However, the free market for knowledge should be protected by anti-monopol laws, because in order to have a free knowledge market you cannot have privileged on that market. We, today, when it comes to the state universities besides the objective advantage that they have come from earlier, would not be treating it now, but there is what is not an objective advantage which is some kind of unfair competition, which is the question of funding. So you have the funding of state universities, you have on the market those who are subsidized and those who are not. What kind of market is that? Then after that, private universities are accused that they are not good quality, that they have failed to grow, etc. Of course, I separate these private universities that really have the ambition to be real, professional among which most of these universities, from those that are actually mixed, who have defined themselves from the very beginning as kind of gigs for various forms of plasma diploma. It's one problem that we're going to have to face, especially what we have, and the problem, which is actually kind of constitutionally problematic, because you have kids who are studying at non-state universities, they're kind of discriminated because at these universities, they don't have the ability to be budget-funded, to have scholarships, and their parents pay taxes equally. This is a big subject, we can't treat her right now, but I'm opening her up, she's waiting for us. The second topic is also a question of conflict of interest. You know the attitude of most state universities towards private universities, that they don't allow their employees, except for a few exceptions, to work at private universities, and that's how it works, and that's why it puts private universities in an awkward position. On the other hand, the law allowed mainly all review committees, as a member of the accreditation commission, to have professors of state universities sit. Professors of state universities give reviews and make fatal decisions about non-state universities. It's problematic from the aspect of the Constitution, it's problematic from the aspect of conflict of interest. These are two big topics that we're going to open, hopefully, some other time, but know, they're what I suggest to the ministry, and I suggest to you the MPs, but I'm sure how we've solved these other open questions that we'll find ways to deal with this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-30-0.u8069	I would like to thank the President of the Committee. The word is Gjorge Milicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-30-0.u8070	I would like to agree with my colleague, Mr Orlic, that yesterday's session of the Committee is actually a new quality and capacity of different opinions, that the quality is measured at the end of the Committee session and the consensus and the agreement and compromise reached when it comes to arguments could be heard at the Committee's session. It doesn't make sense that we always have the same opinions, because if they always thought the same thing, they wouldn't think enough, it's certainly not good. Of course, that the Law on Higher Education, and there is Mr Zukorlic right, is one of the laws most often changed, but not because the law that we currently say, we have amendments and amendments to the law are not good, but because it is about one dynamic, living and still undefined, as I would say matter, and therefore it is always necessary to monitor flows and try to adapt to modern flows and harmonise our legislation with EU legislation. I was just a little permuting when I was talking about the law, so I thought it was on the agenda, first of all, the Higher Education Act, and I said why we would vote for this bill as a parliamentary group of SPS. What I want, very briefly, in a few sentences to say below, was encouraged by a little classmate who was talking about his city. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister of Education and the First Vice-President of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, first of all, as a patriot and as a Valjevac, who has found time to visit Valjevo, which the Ministry of Education went out to meet a higher education school, and believe it or not, it is the only highly educated institution in the territory of the city of Valjevo. I mean one in two or three in Western Serbia territory, which through the Ministry of Education project was allowed to continue the work of this high-professional school, which, for what reasons, is united with a high-professional school in Uzic. It's inconceivable and unimaginable to me. If I'd known the moment it happened, I'd probably have fought like an MP, with all my powers, as a Valjevac, to keep it from happening. Also, I want to thank you for equipping the IT classroom in Valjevo. Visit one of the most elite, with all due respect, if not the most extensive agricultural schools in Valjevo and the promised assistance to the agricultural school in Valjevo, as well as the talk with local self-government representatives about solving what currently is a burning issue in Valjevo, which is a question of kindergartens, building a new kindergarten. We have over 470 young people who have not found their place in the city's kindergarten or kindergarten in Valjevo at the moment. As far as the law is concerned, very briefly, therefore, strategically, educational policy is indeed one of Serbia's priorities, because without young and educational people, creative, innovative cannot be any progress of society in general. Further development of Serbia's education has been defined, as we said during the debate in principle, through four key strategic objectives, and above all quality, efficiency, relevance and scope. With a new strategy, our education system at all levels, our education policy is in line with scientific, technological development and modern social movement, but also in the economy. These flows should also be monitored in the next period of time. A vision designed by a new strategy is a quality education to achieve the full potential of the population, and especially every child, young person, but also adults. The vision of development involves further work to build a society and economy based above all on the knowledge of a society that cultivates values such as solidarity, respect, respect, strengthening inclusive approach to education, which enables quality education, regardless of the diversity above all. So, no discrimination. In addition to what I said in the opening statement during the first announcement, of course the parliamentary group will support this amendment of the Committee, which was a matter of few moments, but of course will also support a legislative proposal in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-30-0.u8071	Thank you. Member of the 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Sandra Jokovic. Does anyone want a word? The word is Mrs. Jokovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-30-0.u8072	Thank you, Vice President. This amendment further potentiates the importance of enroling persons with disabilities and members of the Roma Nationality to higher education institutions in the Republic of Serbia. The affirmative measures have been applied since school 2003, 2004 pursuant to Article 4 of Item 2. The Law on the Protection of the Rights and Freedom of National Minorities. With affirmative measures, we help members of national minorities and people with disabilities to study and acquire higher education. This means that they are practically taking the entrance exam like all other students, but are ranked on a particularly affirmative list according to the given quotas. This is a great help to those who have a more difficult property status and have more needs in terms of care or financial support. School 2013/2014. the years were introduced to enroll these students due to the abuse of the affirmative measures that took place. Quotas of one percentage of the number of approved posts at higher education institutions were introduced. Initiated to increase the quotas to at least two percent because they gave the result, and certainly needed capacities and exist. For this reason, I believe that quota 1 is indeed a small quota, of which 2% would solve the problem and all Roma children, as well as children with disabilities who want to study, would have a chance to be on the budget if they were enrolled according to these affirmative measures. In order to avoid abuses such as in 2003 and 2004, 400-500 students should apply as Roma, i.e. As members of this national minority, the National Council of Roma would carry out checks and, based on these checks, issue certificates, as it has done for the past two years. School 2019/20 The National Council of Roma issued 141 certificates, out of which 87 Roma students were enrolled in the budget, 20 on self-financing, while 33 passed the entrance exam. For school 2020/2021, 238 certificates were issued, of which 157 students were enrolled under the quota, 30 were self-financing until 51 passed reception and were not enrolled in college. I gave you this as an example so that 20-30 students who were self-financing could make a budget if the quota was 2%. This would give us a greater number of highly educated Roma, which is the need, in order to reduce the poverty rate of these marginalised groups, and this is also SNS policy – the same chance of life and the work of all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-30-0.u8073	Thank you. The word has Sanja Lakic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-30-0.u8074	Dear colleagues, respected ministers, the Republic of Serbia does not exclude the application of the affirmative measures taken by the Government of the Republic of Serbia to enroll persons with disabilities and members of the Roma national minority. The fact is that the application of affirmative measures in practice works, but I agree with my colleague Jokovic, who further potentiates the importance of enrolling persons with disabilities and Roma in higher education institutions. For example, in the last eight years since the application of affirmative measures in high school, 12,427 Roma students have been enrolled, and this is a significant number, given that only last year we entered 1,894 Roma high school students through affirmative measures. In addition, they are provided with help and support in different ways and are best testified by the Roma themselves who are users of affirmative measures, and one of them is Martina, whom my colleague Sandra Jokovic and I had the opportunity to visit during yesterday and who said that the difficult way from discrimination to integration is, but that thanks to the different programmes, she today has the opportunity to learn and progress. This is today's Serbia, a country where every child has equal chances.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-30-0.u8075	Thank you. National MP Mladen Boskovic submitted to the 27th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Vladica Maricic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-30-0.u8076	Thank you, Vice President of the National Assembly, Mr. Orlic. Dear ministers with associates, fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, we have been discussing two important laws from the system of higher education of the Republic of Serbia for the second day. The first time was on Wednesday last week when we discussed these legislative proposals in principle, the second time today according to amendments, and this debate shows all the quality of our legislative process, which includes the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as the holder of the executive authority that is the promoter of these laws and the Ministry which is the processor, which is the authority of the state administration and of you ministers, who are at the head of this ministry and you are also a member of the Government, but also the role of the National Assembly, of MPs, of the work on plenum, of committees, of discussions in principle, of discussions on amendments and of only submitting amendments. The aim of our MPs is that when we submit amendments, we improve the legal text so that it is easier to apply in practice, so that we do not have cases where we have to change again in some future period what has been adopted and everything in the interests of Serbian citizens, in this case, in the interest of teachers and co-workers of higher education institutions and in the interests of students. Students of this law, the law on student organisation, have been waiting almost 20 years. Why is this law important to students? Well, because students in the higher education process have certain rights and certain interests. The main interest of students in the higher education system is to seek as high-quality education as possible, so that they can be as competitive on the labour market as they can, that is, their diploma, which is a public instrument, which certifications acquired knowledge, have as much value as possible. These interests and rights of students can often be the subject of indulging, both the administration of higher school institutions and teachers and associates themselves, and then students must advocate and defend their interests, and two are ways in which they can defend their interests at a higher school institution, the first is extra-institutional, and the second is institutional. It's an extra-institutional protest, student petitions, and it's quite less effective. It occurs only when a certain violation of a certain right of students or the interests of students occurs, while the institutional mechanism is what is much better for students, because students who are involved in a system of management and decision-making at a high school institution can warn some decisions that are contrary to the interests and rights of students and thus allow as much quality of education and later as possible the quality of their knowledge and diplomas acquired. When I thought about who was not in the interest of adopting this law for 20 years, I came to the conclusion that there was no political will to pass such a law, because political parties often liked to abuse this irregularity, or abuse students from some famous student organisations, and that was so widespread until 2012. Since the SNS was in power, it has never abused students, never used them for its own interests, but we have had examples that since 2012, the opposition has loved to use students for its political interests, not student interests about one of these cases in the tide, my colleague Djordje Todorovic said, and that was September 2019, when students reported by Gilas' media, students from the organisation "One of 5 million", blocked the university rectorate, so that the authorities of the university would make that decision that corresponds to their political mentor, Dragan Gilas. It is true that the blockade was to put pressure on the university's authorities, but it is incorrect that they are students from "one out of 5 million", because "one out of 5 million" organisation was never a student organisation, it never worked on any high school institution, in Belgrade, or in Serbia. Today, by regulating this area, the student organisation prevents any future authority or opposition from using students for its interests, and this clearly shows the intention of the SNS, that the students, that their law, that our parliamentary majority today at the end of the day, can say so, the first student law in Serbia, because we want students to actively participate in the processes of governance and decision-making at high school institutions, we want to raise their responsibility or responsibility for the functioning of the system, which they are part of and of course make active citizens of them, and all because we want to keep them in Serbia. We want them to feel comfortable, at their high school institutions and feel comfortable in their Serbia, not only to keep existing students in Serbia, but also those students or finished students who once left Serbia, we want to return to our country. The Vienna Institute for International Relations published a study that said that between 2015 and 2019, more young educated people returned to Serbia than they left, and returned them to new investments, returned them to scientific and technological parks, returned them to profit growth. We know that in March, the average earnings in the Republic of Serbia were 555 euros, but young educated people earn far more. For example, about 70,000 people work in the IT sector in Serbia, and there is an average profit of over 1,000 euros. So, young people return new investments, new jobs, new roads, one word of youth in Serbia returns Alexander Vukic's policy. As for the second law, which we are discussing today, these are amendments and additions to the Law on Higher Education, or amendment to that law, I would welcome that these amendments and additions are for the first time recognized by the specificities of those higher education institutions that teach in the field of theology, or theological sciences. The best example of such universities is the Orthodox Faculty of Education in Belgrade, which is part of the University of Belgrade. We know that he was not in Belgrade University for over 50 years, or he was expelled from the University. Some before us, early in the two-thousand years, returned the university to Belgrade University, but did not recognise the specificities of the university. Today, these amendments and additions to the law recognize the specificity of this university in the sense that the Church, or the religious community whose needs are being taught at that university, can't matter who teaches, or who studies at that university. So the Church gets the mechanism through consent to the teaching service to give consent and withdraw consent to those who would teach at such a higher education facility. The competent authority of the Church or the religious community may also give consent to enrolment in primary, master and doctoral academic studies and higher education institutions. It is not a newspaper in Europe, although Serbia is a secular state, many secular states in Europe, and I will remind you that secularity does not mean neglect of church and forget about church and religion, but a separate existence of state and church with mutual respect and recognition. Such practice is also known in many European countries. We also allow these amendments and additions of the law to students who have completed basic academic studies in a three-year or four-year period to continue their studies at two-year master's studies, thus meeting those students who have found themselves in the economy and want to continue their studies where they can be given some applicable knowledge. On the other hand, we are going to meet newly formed Academy of Professional Studies which have significantly less coverage of students, because much fewer students completed basic vocational studies than primary academic studies, and the state has done a lot in the previous period to improve the quality of education at the Academy of Professional Studies, above all through the introduction of a dual model of higher education. For example, the Academy of Technical and Expert Studies from Nis has accredited nine masters of professional programmes and has completed contracts currently with nine companies from the south of Serbia that carry out a dual model of higher education. Also, the change that should allow for the full membership of our national accreditation body in ENKVI in the European High Education Quality Security Association is important, especially for those of our students, young researchers, teachers and associates who want to join the mobility process in Europe. Thus, our higher education institutions and their study programmes will be accredited by a national body that is a full member of the European Association, which will significantly increase the attractiveness of our study programmes for researchers and teachers from European countries. Of course, this time we meet students who started their studies according to the rules that were in force before 10 September 2005, the so-called old students, those who enrolled primary studies in colleges, who enrolled primary studies in higher schools, those who enrolled in master's or doctoral studies, or reported their master's thesis, were due for their completion on 30 September 2021. With this, we are now extending the deadline for another year in June so that they can finish what they started, get a diploma and then go back to valorize the labour market later. For our children, today in voting day we will vote for these legal proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-30-0.u8077	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Sanja Lakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-30-0.u8078	Dear colleagues, I support the opportunity to give students the opportunity without wanting to enter the autonomy of universities and other higher education institutions and to allow for the extension of the deadline for completion of the study until the end of the school 202122 year and the students referred to in Article 148(1). The law, which has a deadline for completion of the study, expires in 2020/2021. I think the adoption of this amendment would give Boskovic enough time to pass the missed exams and complete the studies. I am sure that this potential extension of deadlines would especially mean to Serbian students who, through the excellent programme of the government of the Republic of Serbia, "Serbia for Serbs in the region" who very often did not have the opportunity to stay in Serbia, would allow them to achieve all remaining obligations and could not be present in Serbia because of all closures of the borders and vaccinations of PSR tests and also, restrictions on free movement and normal study. I would just once again take advantage of the time I have, to remind myself that 80 scholarships to Serbian communities in the region have been granted for the school 2020/2021 year, and for the implementation of this project, the Government of the Republic of Serbia has been provided with funds of 73. 900,000 dinars, which is the largest budget yet, despite the fact that we've encountered a coronary virus. Also, I would like to briefly refer to an important factor in higher education, namely, a student organisation that exists in different forms, however, the problem of too many general provisions relating to student organisation through the Law on Higher Education will be fully resolved. I believe that the Working Group for draft legislation has done a great job at the head of the then-president of SCONUS, and today to Secretary of State Milan Savić and that finally the goal that they set at the beginning of their work, Mr Savic and his colleagues, has been achieved, because they have really made good solutions for decades of problems. One of them is that we will bring our legislation into line with European legislation, but we will solve decades of problems in this area where both the framework and the possibility of full participation of students in the organisation will be given. The proposal for a law on student organisation also addressed this important issue and reduced the possibility of a two-way interpretation of the institutional framework for student organisation and created conditions for more independent functioning and work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-30-0.u8079	Thank you. The word is Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-30-0.u8080	Dear colleagues and colleagues, the Honorable Chairman, the honourable ministers and members of your team, I would like on behalf of the SPS and the parliamentary group to express the satisfaction that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is today discussing amendments to these two laws, generally discussing laws relating to the area of higher education. I use the word "space" of higher education on purpose because in 2021, no country in Europe can say that it is completely autonomous, related to a system of higher education, but each of them wants to be part of a European space of higher education and that all young people who study create conditions that they can, by completing a college or a higher school of vocational studies, gain in their country the opportunity to expand their knowledge, improve their skills and become citizens of Europe in a different way. When I say - citizens of Europe, I don't just think about the EU. In fact, 47 Member States of Europe make up the European area of higher education and it is important to know because we are not alone in settling these issues. I would like to congratulate the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development on everything they've done so far, how they organize higher education institutions and other educational institutions at the time of the pandemic Kovid - 19, because they have managed to achieve an extraordinary result to preserve both students and students' health while teaching. Believe me, I was proud of my country and the way of the organisation, made at all levels of education, when a few days ago as a member of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia delegation I was in the CoE Parliamentary Assembly and I was able to hear my colleagues from some other countries, so I was surprised how successfully and quality we organized teaching at the time of the pandemic compared to others. You may know little about it, and even less is said, but that's no reason if we know we don't. The Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development really deserves absolutely positive reviews regarding the organisation of this work. As far as these two laws are concerned, one more personality needs to be mentioned. Now I remember, the Law on Student Education has been on hold, if I may say so, for more than a decade. At the time when I was running the education system of the Republic of Serbia, it was said that we would make a law on student organisation and it was then written as one of the things we did, but it was very good that this ministry, after a decade or more, because from the beginning of the application of the Bologna Declaration and the creation of a European space of higher education, was meant to create normative conditions for the participation of students in the process of higher education, and I am very glad that this ministry was able to achieve this outlined goal, later than it should have been, but, as our people say - better ever than ever. The role of students in the process of higher education should also be known. They are part of higher education, and without them there can be no quality higher education. Their place and role must be known in the design of higher education. I am simply glad that the Ministry of Education, Science and Technological Development managed to pass this law after more than a decade and clearly specify the role of student conferences and student parliaments, the role of students in the process of forming higher education, to see their contribution, to see that students are in every way part of the space of higher education and in the Republic of Serbia, and that they can improve the quality of higher education by their active participation in the higher education process. When it comes to this second law, it changes and changes, it's neither the first nor the last time. The Law on Higher Education has been changing for a decade and more, again an expression of the wishes of each promoter to make as good a law as possible, as well as an expression of the need for some solutions to be constantly checked in practice and to improve the quality of these solutions. What I am looking forward to, I think, is that one general assessment can be given regarding changes and additions to the Law on Higher Education, that this law has made the process of higher education more transparent and, if I may say, restore the National Assembly to one important place in the process of forming a higher education with the seat of the National Assembly in selecting members of the body that are important for higher education and make this process more transparent. I think that this is a step forward in the process of higher education and that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has been given the opportunity to influence the choice of the National Council of Higher Education between several candidates, of course, in the established procedure, where each body is given the opportunity to propose those candidates it considers relevant. I think it will simply help higher education to be as high-quality as possible, because this transparency helps to see who participates in higher education, what are the competences of those who structure higher education, who participate in higher education, and I think it is important that the choice for the National Council for Higher Education and the selection of the board of directors of the National Accreditation Body. It is very important that you put in a legal solution to make a public call, so that everyone can apply and answer. It is also logical, but there should also be this transparency at every step, in every part of the higher education process, so that all elements of the higher education process are made available to the public and that there is no kind of doubt that there is no good will to improve the quality of higher education. Higher education, as well as education in general, is a fantastic resource that we possess. I think that compared to our size, the number of residents, the number of students and students, it's very important that we have quality higher education. Amendments and additions to laws such as this or the amendments of some other laws are important, as this promotes quality and education and higher education. Not to forget, I have to mention another important thing that this ministry has done, and it should also be welcomed to the public, the ministry adopted the Development Strategy by 2030. This is extremely important because, you know, I remember some of my first talks in 2008 at the European Commission for Education and Science of the then Commissioner for Education, who asked me if you have a strategy, and if you don't have a strategy, no offense, you don't know what you want. You can individually have good will and the best solutions, but through the strategy you can see exactly the definition of both the state and the ministry dealing with the process of education, what you want to do with higher education. I think it is terribly important that this ministry has managed to bring the Education Strategy by 2030, because it will simply now be in the situation of Minister Ruzic and his associates, together with all the people involved in the education process, to simply apply and implement the parts of the strategy, but also to check in practice whether any of the solutions are not adequate. Of course, such education cannot be of quality unless it takes care of the needs of the country. It will always take care of what the interests of the Republic of Serbia are, as it must not be overlooked that the education system is not just an expression of the need for the labour market. The education system is an expression of the need of states, because in the education system they are prepared, taught and educated by people for everything the state needs. Tomorrow we also need a new Ivo Andric and new academic painters. Although it may seem to have nothing to do with the education process, it all has to do with the education process. We also need quality people in the administration. We simply need people for every area of life, for everything that the state is, but also to respond to the needs of the market. I'm glad that in the body composition of higher education, in line with some earlier solutions, we have people who are related to the economy and I'm glad that there is this link between economy and higher education. What is important, I think, is that solutions that have now made higher education more transparent than before, and everyone will have the opportunity to express their views and learn about what the ministry is doing for higher education and the state's intentions. Of course, all of this is done without bringing about no autonomy of higher education institutions, and I think it's good, because many of us don't understand the content of the concept of higher education autonomy. Autonomy is in the process of organising classes, autonomy is in the design of textbooks, autonomy is in grading students, but the state has absolutely the right to be a partner in the process of higher education. I use the word "partner" on purpose so I don't get it differently. So, as a partner, she participates in the process of higher education and education system, that she simply, together with the authorities of higher education institutions, with all people who participate in higher education, including teachers and students, improves the quality of higher education. I think a good solution is to form a special commission that will decide on complaints, because the accreditation process is something that is an integral part of the higher education system, and here we always have questions. Since the very beginning of the accreditation process there are always those who are satisfied, dissatisfied. It's part of the life we live together, but it's important that the Ministry has found the right way to form a special commission that will deal with those items that are considered... Of course, since it is a complaint, anyone who submits a complaint will always feel that its value is not properly assessed. It's a good thing competent people are going to grade, give a grade on it. I'm glad the Ministry decided yesterday on the Education Committee and this question of the participation of professors who have knowledge and experience in the teaching process. I think this is an excellent solution that we adopted yesterday on the Committee and this amendment, which says that a teacher who is extended working relationship, in line with the position of the 2nd Amendment and the addition of this law, can be elected to the bodies of the establishment and management of higher education institutions and its organisational units. It is a good thing because teachers with knowledge and calling will be able to transfer their knowledge and experience to younger colleagues, to participate in all those jobs that are related to the work of a higher education institution, and simply will not be part of that management process, because objectively there are some other legal provisions that prevent such a way. After all, the intention is also shown whether it is really an extended time for his involvement in a higher education facility to pass his experiences on to another, so that we can create some young staff who will continue to develop higher education tomorrow in that higher education institution or is an ambition to be the managing authority in that higher education facility. In any case, I can say that both laws have brought a lot of new and quality, and I think we should say hello. They repeat once again, I am pleased, because this law on amendments to the Law on Higher Education introduces one transparency, even more transparency than it has been, some very specific issues are being addressed. I do not mention other issues contained in the law on the theological education, issues related to education in the area of security, etc., other defences. I've been focusing on these few questions. I think it's important that you did this and that the National Assembly was given a chance to be part of the higher education process. Through the National Assembly, since these sessions are publicly transmitted, each has the opportunity to express his view of any part of the law or of the solutions that the congregation will decide on. It will be an opportunity to discuss higher education. I think it's very important, because every conversation on education in general and on higher education is something that will help people, the Ministry of Education, science and technological development to make better solutions, and the public of Serbia to get acquainted with the quality we have. We often underestimate our higher education, completely unjust. Of course there are things we absolutely need to work on. I am fully convinced that even with this advanced economic situation that exists, practically with the work of this government, the state will be able to allocate more resources for the educational process and for higher education in some of the parameters that exist in the countries of the EU or the countries of the European higher education area, so that we also have the possibility that this material part or material element of the education system will be like others. I think it's good what the Ministry is doing. Of course, we absolutely support all amendments and additions to the Higher Education Act, because we simply feel that we will improve the system. Once again, I am very glad that we are finally getting a law on student organisation after more than a decade of waiting. I think that the Ministry can be proud of the adoption of this law and, of course, together with students and all others who work both in higher education and in the education system to improve the education system, because it is the most important resource that Serbia has and which is practically unknown to borders. I think it will help us greatly in the future development of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-30-0.u8081	Thank you, Professor Obradovic. The 32nd Amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Aleksandar Martinovic. The word is by MP Viktor Jevtovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-30-0.u8082	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, we all know that education is power. It's where we achieve success at all levels, and without it, there's nothing we can do about it. As in sports, we raise awareness, strengthen our personality, create strength, build character for our body, but the spirit, to be stronger, especially in the turbulent time in which we live, and where the future depends on information. He makes us always the best for ourselves, and he makes us great for each other. As a country of champions, today we are not only sports champions, in the economy, vaccinations at the time of the pandemic, in the fight against unemployment, unstoppable in the construction of factories, roads, infrastructures fought in all arenas by Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. This furiose progress was launched by Aleksandar Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and it bothers the yellow tycoon company, because it is a struggle, except for their personal interest, by the side, especially at the level of education. In Serbia's political ring, Serbia is constantly progressing through the virtuoso policy of Aleksandar Vukic, while daily low blows of tycoon selector Dragan Djilas, Marinika Tepic, and a failed competitor who precedes unscrupulous statements, the powerless, Vuk Patrick Ho Jeremic, who is a synonym for the supplement of thugs and vice-sampion in the discipline of destroying the money of the people of Serbia and vice-sampion in corruption, the champion is, however, known to be the one with 57 secret accounts around the world. We can also see that from a lesson that the other day could receive a lesson that he missed on the famous Cambridge graduate physicist from Cambridge. He finally learned that and Newton's law. The lecture he missed was given by Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic, and it was no less than in the Serbian presidency, after the Wolf in the IRS was in a state of rest and under the fact of beer evaporation with its bitangs, and from there he continued to move towards the presidency at a constant speed, a cyclical trajectory, where Alexander Vukic acted on him and stopped him by force of justice and truth and directed him in the opposite direction, but this time with acceleration. In the hall, the occupied thugs, the politicians, the thieves, he returned the traitors to factory settings, so they went back to the same bar where this lesson from physics began, to mourn times when they could rob the people of Serbia, but not anymore. Returning to that bar, they remained to repeat the equation -- the curve of times the speed equal fog, the fog they sell to the people of Serbia. Now, in this turbulent time, when new disciplines came in order, which we can best see in education, through educated, intelligent, young people, my colleagues and at many other universities, academics... Now, when Serbia is respected as a sovereign state, when order, honesty and struggle for the future of the Republic of Serbia and its children, who are unknown to the tycoons, and threaten all those who are better than them, those who have sold Kosovo and Metohija and hundreds of thousands of jobs, the factories that they have destroyed with their clubmates have managed to destroy everything, because it is the discipline in which they are best, as well as riding the favorite sport of Dragan Gilas, who, as the country's jockey, rode the coat of arms of citizens and achieved fantastic results. No, in the education system, not to help the City of Belgrade and the citizens of Serbia, but to fill their bishops in tax havens. In the same yellow tycoon committee, which has nothing with the Olympic, they want to bring down everything that President Aleksandar Vukic has arranged, putting Serbia on the throne in the economy, vaccination, through new investments, roads, hospitals, a reduction in unemployment. Instead of seeing Serbia win, they see defeat. Their devastation policies that they've been leading for years and they want to bring us back, but that thieving policy, the devastation they're best at, is ancient history. They were left behind by the people of Serbia, and tycoon pests threw on the bench of political forgetfulness. Maybe not in Switzerland, Hong Kong, Mauritius, where they don't know them, maybe there they can try, in Serbia no more. This is where we remember them by the evil. Here their bench is a permanent place, the margin of fate, and the contempt of the people deserved punishment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-30-0.u8083	Thank you. The word is by MP Ljubisa Stojmirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-30-0.u8084	We have an interesting discussion, which mostly comes down to the approval of everything that's proposed in the law, so I'd just like to make a few notes. I agree that there is no difference, or that there should be no difference between private and state colleges. It's something perfectly normal, every college that meets the legal requirements gets accreditation, can totally participate in the market, and that's how it should be. Now, what's to help students identify whether they're going to a private or state college? The quality of teaching and what they will get during their studies, and each of these colleges must allow students all available education. I think it's time for all these colleges to forget about that financial part, rather than put an accent on the quality of knowledge that students from that university will take. Now, another part is quite interesting about allowing Roma and disabled people to enroll in the budget by some quotas, etc. You have to be aware that we have one big problem that I don't know how we're gonna solve. Every day we have more and more academys, higher vocational schools, colleges, and we have fewer and fewer children born, or fewer candidates for studies. It's something that we as a state must insist on fixing. We now had another law during this session that deals with the possibility of increasing the population, or by stimulating the birth of children. Until we solve this problem, we won't be able to make a good education. But, with education, we've spoken here a million times, so does education. Since we were little, we need generations, our children to be brought up, to learn, to show by example that we, as teachers, teachers, parents, and that they can look up to us. We're mostly a nation that's hard to get along with. That's why in the coat of arms we have four letters of "s", so they say -- one turned their backs on the other. But is something going on in that field? It happens and I'll tell you a positive example from the other day. On Sunday, there was a celebration of our citizens of Krajisnik, who had one piece and some cultural-art program. These Krajits have several of these associations of their own. I kept telling them and convincing them to unite, let it be one association that you all be together, not one side, the other side. That day, I was thrilled that this event was attended by our colleague, Linta, who is the president of another association. At last there should be some sort of harmony, at least we agree on something. I hope that Serbia will take the same path in future where we will all be unique and where our goals will be common. They've all gathered together against us and are trying every way they can to break our legs. We can't let that happen. Only the only one can beat them. As far as old students are concerned, I can't help but say something about old students. I said that when the debate was in principle and I stay on it and now I tell the Minister and all future ministers and all MPs who will again continue these dear students for another year, another year. Guys, let's not play games and make paupasian out of it. We are serious people, we represent seven million citizens of Serbia. Let someone once find themselves who will slap on the arm of a hundred and say – they can study as long as they want and then we won't have that problem each other or every year to extend it to them. Fifty percent of them will never end, but this is how we bring them and ourselves into a pain where, as the month arrives in June, their moaning, begging, etc. We're trying here, some are for them to be extended, some are not to be extended. In my opinion, they have the right to study for the rest of their lives and that should be made possible. It's not the fault of this ministry, not the previous one, not ours, not the previous one calling for us to fly into that hospital unprepared and for putting a lot of stuff on our necks. We need to create such an education system where we will create top engineers, lawyers, biologists, doctors the way we do in certain areas of sport to make top athletes, so we are proud of Djokovic, so we are proud of these girls who have now won gold, so we are proud of the water poloists and all of us. That's how we have to go in the education system, from primary school, from preschool, to continue to force these good, smart, valuable and intelligent ones. Maybe you should even cancel that "Wolf" prize that's causing them a big problem, 'cause everyone's killed themselves to be wolves. We need to see, find a way to choose from these children the best and force them best, because Serbia is a country that is a country of decent, honest and hardworking citizens. No one gave us anything, no one gave us anything. Everything we've created, all we have is credit, it's created by the blood and the sweat of our ancestors. We must preserve it, increase it, and pass it on to generations to come. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-30-0.u8085	Thank you, Professor. Stojmirovic. With this, we exhausted the list of people that were reported for discussion. Dear Members of the People, pursuant to Articles 27 and 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that today we will be working after 1800 hours because of the need for the National Assembly to pass laws on the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. Since we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. Now, in accordance with article 87, I'm setting a break. We'll continue the next debate at 15.00 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-30-0.u8086	Ladies and gentlemen, let's get back to work. It is now time to search the details, item 5 of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on financial support for the family with children. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that they are invited to attend: Radomir Dmitrovic, Minister of Family and Demography, Aleksandra Camagic, Deputy Minister for Family and Demography Minister Mirjana Radanovic, Minister for Family and Demography and Milena Antić Janic, Head of the Group for the Jobs of Population Policy and Financial Support to the Family with Children at the Ministry of Family Care and Demography. You have received amendments submitted by MPs Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić, Djordje Komlenski, Marijan Risticevic, Bojan Torbica and Ana Karadzic, as well as the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and from the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. National MPs Djordje Komlenski, Marijan Risticevic, Bojan Torbica and Ana Karadzic submitted together to the 3rd amendment. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and from the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a People's Messenger, Nebojsa Bakarec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-30-0.u8087	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable Mr. Minister with an associate, respected citizens, these amendments, above all the amendment we will come to later, but I will not report back, are excellent, and above all I mean the amendment 26 signed by Ana Brnabic. Otherwise, it should be recalled that these amendments to the law are defined and extended by a circle of faces that have the right to a child's supplement, these amendments, one of these amendments. So, these amendments to the Financial Support Act to families with children further improves the position of employees of women, entrepreneurs, farmers and this law and that basic law adopted in 2018 encourages birth, introduces new rights, spreads the circle of rights users. I think it's very important that both that basic law and this bill have been passed by governments headed by Ana Brnabic and I would say something about it because I think it's of great importance. So, first of all, I'd like to remind you of one of the noble provisions of family law because it's about what I said. "The family enjoys special protection of the state, mother and child enjoy special protection of the state, and the state has an obligation to take all necessary measures to protect the child from emotional abuse. “ Ana Brnabic, who signed this bill, is one of these amendments, is the parent of a two - year - old boy. That little boy doesn't deserve to be insulted by extremists every day by his mother, he doesn't deserve to be threatened by hanging and rape. Those who have been insulting and threatening Anna Brnabic emotionally abuse this relationship, both her and her wife and her little child. That's what Jeremic and Vladimir Gajic are doing in the last case. How psychically these two gave in to the fact that they insult Anna Brnabic by calling her a fool. Ana Branbic is ten times more educated than these two and smarter, business success. She had a great business career and she doesn't need politics at all. So Ana Brnabic needs Serbia. For three years or four years, as far as the Serbian government is concerned, Ana Brnabic has shown that she is capable, fit, decent, worthy, decent and modest. In addition to never hiding her commitment, she didn't particularly point him out. Ana Brnabic has done more good for all Serbian citizens than any other woman in Serbia's history. Ana Brnabić, as Vucic's revelation, has contributed to the improvement of relations in our society, tolerance and understanding, and this proposal is also witnessed by the amendments to this law. What's she been facing since she was four years old? He faces threats and insults. We remember the threats of Gilasovci sent to her through Veselinović by rape and hanging. We remember the insult of Sergey Trifunovic two years ago, who insulted the birth of Anna Brnabic. It is these amendments to the Law on Financial Support for families with children that Ana Brnabic provides significant support for noble values, family, parenting and offspring. Why are Gajic, Jeremic and others insulting Ana Brnabić? Because homophobias and certain racists who hate members and SNS voters are covered up. I'm going to say something about four people who otherwise gave financial assistance to families with children and only to their families. Who are the four riders who would lynch Vukic, who violently stormed the presidency, who call the prime minister a fool? They have one thing in common: a thief, and none of them had a successful business career independent of politics. All four of them deal exclusively with politics so they can get rich and rob. Let's start with Vladimir Gajic's lawyer, he's the longest in politics since all four. He was, you will not believe, a member of the Serbian People's Reconstruction, the SP, the NSP, the DS, the SGG, the DJB and the People's Party now. As Secretary-General of the SPO from 1992 to 1994 he was a member of the Stari Grad Municipality Executive Board and then directly assigned financial assistance, which you think may be good, for one child, under the name of the child, and that child was his 22-year-old brother, a student. The financial assistance of Vladimir Gajic, who selflessly assigned to his brother, a 22-year-old child, was in the form of a new 50-square apartment on Tadeauša Kostushka street 54 to 56. The apartment is worth 150 000 euros today and the town of Stari Grad is so damaged because the apartment has been allocated illegally. So that's Vladimir Gajic's contribution, that's his early work. His mid-2006 work included the fact that the Serbian government appointed him as director of one of Genex's daughters' companies "International CG" in 2006 and already in early October, all the media reported that the "Geneks" Mafia had been arrested when Director Vladimir Gajic was arrested, and the "Geneks" mafia was accused of damaging Serbia's budget for only 22m euros. In that case, only in this case, Vladimir Gajic has again granted financial assistance to his family with children, now his own, for about a million euros. And finally, in his later work, lawyer Gajic faked himself three years ago as president of Belgrade's Bar Association, which he was not. Otherwise, he is the president, imagine, of Jeremic's party's legal council. The second rider of the robbery, Borislav Novakovic, was one of the actors of his time in the Thessaloniki affair and the criminal vote on the Labour Law in 2001. Otherwise, the genius Jeremic, his timely DS, Bora Novakovic, was arrested on suspicion that from 2007 to 2010, he damaged Novi Sad's budget for only 1.3m euros. That Novakovic, in 2017, was sentenced by the Supreme Court to three years in prison, due to the very malversions I listed in Novi Sad. So, this Jeremic Novakovic granted financial assistance to his family with children, weighing only 1.3m euros. Today, this genius is the head of the province's committee of Jeremic's party. The third rider of the robbery, Miroslav Aleksic, also provided financial assistance to his family, and it was abundant. While he was president of the Triestenik municipality, he is suspected of robbing a lot of money. So the media reported on February 11th 2021: "Jeremic's vice president robbed Trstenik, pulled millions through his father-in-law." Aleksic was accused of being director of the Directorate for Planning and Construction of Trstenik and as president of the municipality of Trstenik robbed both the municipal register and the registers of municipal enterprises, by working with the mother-in-law and their father-in-law. Only during two years, Alexic's authorities signed five contracts, and there were many more, with vanity and father-in-law, totaling 24 million. By the way, Aleksic was a member of the G17, the URS, and his party, NPS, resold Jeremic. So he also granted financial assistance to his family with children, weighing 24m euros. He is the vice president of Jeremic's party. The fourth rider of the robbery, Vuk Jeremic, known as Jeremiah Vuk Brankovic, is one of the fathers of the fake state of Kosovo, and we remember the disastrous, only briefly, results of the former Minister Jeremic. He is one of the most responsible persons on the planet to declare the fake state of Kosovo, more than Tadic and Borko Stefanovic, and otherwise Albanians from Kosovo are all three celebrating as deities. Kosovo's independence at the time of Jeremic's mandate has recognised 91 states, Jeremic has transferred talks on Kosovo and Metohija from the UN's authorities to the EU's incompetent. Finally, Jeremic destroyed Serbia's sovereignty in front of the UN assembly, a phetic demand by the International Court of Justice for the legality of Kosovo's unilaterally declared independence. Jeremic, by the way, spent 3.6m euros while serving as minister for five years on his luxury ministerial journeys, which is evidence, you will not believe, and has granted himself 55,000 euros in the five years, which he has doubled, otherwise, the amount of his official salary. State auditors have established the illegal operations of Jeremic's ministry, be careful, in exchange for the exchange of foreign exchanges and, again, through a exchange shop called "Transge france", instead of via the National Bank of Serbia, and in paying the airport, all together damaged the country by 33,000 euros. A harmful contract signed in 2012 by Jeremic with the Energy Project, the state is suspected to have damaged only 5.2m euros. Jeremic, by the way, has been associated with both domestic and international criminals. Otherwise, Jeremic's closest co-worker, but not in his party, as it is the Hong Kong Chinese, Patrick Ho, former Hong Kong Interior Minister, former Jeremic's NGO, 2019, was sentenced to three years in prison. In addition to Hoa, Jeremic's donors, all criminals, mega tycoon Ji Ji Gian Ming in China, who is otherwise head of Patrick Hoa, Sheik Tidian Gadgio, former head of Senegal diplomacy, and Mexican businessman Emilio Lozoja, a great friend of Jeremic. By the way, Ho and Gagio were members of the board of Jeremic's NGO board. By 2017, all four criminals donated an incredible 7.5 million dollars to Jeremic. About former Minister Jeremic's assets and his family, the Antidot media network published data in 2017, among other things, that say that Jeremic and the family are heavy and that they have a 1,100 square empire and at least 11 hectares of land. Meanwhile, from 2017 to today, Jeremic has marketed a huge apartment in downtown New York. Otherwise, you know that, to conclude this part of it, Vuk Jeremic, like those previous three, has granted financial assistance to his family, to his family with a child, of about 10 million dollars. Jeremic is usually caught telling lies in the media several times. Last year, he was answering a question in the media about the origin of his wealth, misleading the public with a statement that he was employed as a member of the board of an international company, and the company denied it. Jeremic said on January 2, 2019, and this was published everywhere, that Putin allegedly despises Vukic. Four days after that Jeremic statement, Putin decorated Vukic with the highest Russian medal. On 17 March 2019, Jeremic lied that Vukic was falling until Easter 2019. It's been two years, Vukic not that he didn't fall, but he's strengthened, and the SNS has since jumped from 50 to 60%. The other day, and it's important for this law, he lied to Jeremic. The footage that Jeremic's people released and recorded in the presidency's haustor shows clearly that what Jeremic said on Friday (June 25th) ahead of the presidency is a complete lie. Five homeless people – Jeremic, Aleksic, Gajic, Novakovic and the fifth to insult the president of the Republic are seen in Jeremic's video. Jeremic personally told President Vukic there: "The thieves, traitors and cowards", and the footage clearly shows that the president who came out on the line is calmly speaking to them, not to yell, not to swear, not to threaten anyone. In this case, the president of Serbia has shown that he is not afraid of anyone, not even five Kabadiahs. He showed how cowardly and empty their threats are with rematchism, revenge, change of government in blood, hanging and rape. And the greatest danger in this case didn't threaten Mr. Vukic himself, she threatened the presidency building, and that's from the robbery, because there are valuable art in the building, and these four and probably this fifth are known robbers. President Vukic welcomed them himself. There were five of them, I said. President Vukic turned his sleeves a little bit, and they immediately began to whine, to whine, to bend their tails and snap right away and disappeared in the form of their own tail. President Vukic found himself wondering where they were going, wanted to lead them, electrolytes and tranquilizers, and they ran away. I mean, they're obviously out of heat, they haven't been drinking the drugs prescribed, they haven't been drinking the fluid, except for the brandy they've been drinking, so they don't know that at 40 degrees they don't drink the brandy, they're dehydrated, and then when they get out, they're disturbed, they're out, they're out, they're out, they're out, they're out, they're out, they're out, they're out, they're out, they're out, they're out, they're out, they're out, they're out, they're out, they're out, they're out, they're out, they're out, they're hooking, they're hooking, they're hooking, they're hooking. Look, if they tried to break in like that with Biden, with Merkel or with Boris Johnson, they'd be down on the floor safely, tied up, maybe beaten, if they were to resist, and processed. And what do we see here? President Vukic and our competent authorities are mild and tolerant and I think that's right. And President Vukic has shown that his door is open to all, and even to such kabadiahs, that he is peaceful, tolerable, but also that he is not afraid of primitives and violent men like these five. That everything I say is true is also established by N1 TV journalist Minja Miletic when she caught Jeremic two days ago in a lie, two days ago, and asked him a series of unpleasant questions that have exposed and unmounted Jeremic. At the end of the interview, journalist Miletic asked Jeremic if he really thought such an extreme rhetoric would come to power, and Jeremic replied: "So if you don't like it, don't vote for us," which is why he confirmed it. And why did Jeremic break into the presidency? First, he was desperate for his rating and he admitted it on this show on N1 when he said he did it to draw attention to himself. And why is that? So Jeremic's party, according to the latest survey by Ipsosa, has 1.2% of citizens' support, which means it is at the level of a statistical error. The nobility of President Vukic, testifying and recognition he has received today for the noblest endeavor he was awarded in the Belgrade City Assembly, because the president has just made a decision on the donation, that is, until today or until the other day, 230 thousand vaccines of countries in the environment, the Czech Republic, but also foreign citizens who have been vaccinated in Serbia. This is not done by anyone in the world, only now the states are making decisions on the donation of vaccines and are going the way that President Vukic has gone. And finally, a very decent one, there's a joke about Jeremiah that describes all these events. He sits in the fountain at Andric's wedding and washes his feet, the porter comes up to him and asks him, what is he doing? Jeremic says - I'm here to beat the wolf. After a while, a cop comes up to him and asks him, "What's he doing?" Jeremic says - I'm here to beat the wolf. After a while he comes up to him and he asks him what he's doing? And Jeremiah said, "I feed my feet, and eat that which is not eaten." Velika Dusan Radovic said, and as if he meant people like Jeremic – about traitors, prosecutors and snitches at Belgrade schools, a new recognition of "wolves", by the name of the wolf who published in Kosovo according to the folk song, is being introduced. Thank you. Long live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-30-0.u8088	Thank you. The word is Zagorka Alexic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-30-0.u8089	Thank you. Dear Vice-President, distinguished ministers, as said on several occasions by the Single Serbia parliamentary group will support the amendments and additions of the Law on Financial Support to families with children. The amendment that will bring about the issue of child's supplement is considered very important, above all, because more user groups will be covered by this amendment. These important changes are expected to take place for a few, more precisely three years, and we expect a law guaranteeing financial support for families with children to improve further in some future period. All these interventions in the social sector, which the state is working on, are necessary in order to protect children and families, particularly endangered categories and, of course, support for certain operating costs of life. Money aid isn't the only one, but we think it's a very important instrument of social protection. Following the entry into force of these amendments and additions in line with the new legal solution, maternity benefits cannot be less than minimal. Also, a very important change applies to the mothers of children with disabilities, i.e. those provisions that conditioned that these same mothers chose between the profits and the fees they received from the difolt because they gave birth to children with disabilities. We can freely say that these provisions had one discriminatory character and that it was not a good practice and that it is very important that this solution be overcome. Also, the law knows farmers, and since January 1st, an independent enterprise will be able to make a profit in the amount of five average earnings. Also, the question is whether these amendments can positively reflect population policy. The answer is yes. Whether these amendments and additions of laws can be positively reflected in the overall social policy and the answer is also – yes. However, if we ask whether these measures are sufficient, I believe we will agree that they are not yet and that we need to work to improve this area, set priorities and continue to face problems. I think it's known to everyone that JS is constantly pointing to the problem of so-called. White plagues in Serbia, at a low birth rate. Since the founding of our party in 2004, and as far as our president was concerned, because he was the founder of a single fund then in Yugoslavia, the Third Child Fund. So, from 2004 to today, we find ways, measures, stimulants, let's call it whatever, for one active fight against white plague, because we see it as one of the most prominent social problems. The president of Serbia himself spoke about the problem of the white plague in this high house about a week ago. We still have an active Council on Population Policy, a strategy to encourage birth, defined budget funds, from the formation of a new government and your specialised ministry that deals with it. No one has the right to enter privacy and influence such personal decisions as a decision to have a child or not. But what the state can do is create an ambience where people will want to have children, it's not just money in the middle, I think you, Mr. Minister, talked about when we discussed this law in principle. I'd mention one of the factors, there's a safety factor. Now we had a very good discussion on the Committee on the Rights of the Child. So, I'm not just thinking about economic security, I'm thinking about basic human security. Are we the company today that's safe? We can't ignore all the violence involved, especially this peer violence in schools, and ask ourselves who raises the bullies, who makes them, whether they're parents or we're carrying one collective guilt as a society. Although much has already been done on economic conditions is really done. We feel it is not appropriate to revise existing strategies, to articulate them, to improve them, and ultimately to modernise them. The 2018 strategy mentions more involvement of local self-government in the topic because there was an assumption that they could help concretely on the ground. It is very important that in the future, for some future changes and additions, we listen to citizens' associations, as we do now and even more respect their suggestions. Once again, I would like to point out that JS is concerned about family and finding a way to survive it is a permanent commitment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-30-0.u8090	Thank you. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Djordje Komlenski, Marijan Risticevic, Bojan Torbica and Ana Karadzic. He's got a word, Stefan Srbanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-30-0.u8091	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers of Cooperation, whenever in this high home, it is about some draft law regarding democracy or family, or if it is as concrete as today as some financial donations and support, that is what causes me to have special interest and attention for one simple reason, and that is because I am one of those who believe that the problem of the birth and biological survival of this people and this country is the main problem that Serbia faces. Certainly, Serbia is not the same country today or in the last five, ten or 15 years and we have managed to make some progress in some areas. Unemployment is at a historic minimum. We are trying to create a labour market in every local government, in every city, and in this way to establish and raise a standard that will allow young people to plan a future in our country and possibly return those who once left our country for a better life. With this in mind and it's very important that we build schools and kindergartens and roads, but it's all for nothing if we don't have those who attend those schools and kindergartens. I certainly think that this country has done a lot in the previous period but this problem, the problem of birth is not a problem that is only the problem of these governments and these authorities, it's something that's been going on for a few dozen years. You of the 50s have a problem with negative natural growth, and if we take into account the losses our people have in the first two world wars, we certainly understand what kind of problem we are in. What I think this government and this government are doing is talking about it more than ever. The president spoke about the Kosovo and Metohija reports a few days ago. We're setting aside certain resources, they're no guarantee that you'll get some results. We have results in some of the poorer parts of our country, but with this problem that many European countries are facing, and if we start from some of us being smarter and richer, certainly these larger financial allocations and they haven't solved it themselves, they haven't managed to solve this problem of growth. As far as this law is concerned, it is certainly a very good part of the part regarding the assistance of foster parents who did not have 18 months of work experience before the start of maternity leave, they have already had at least one day of work, because they will have guaranteed incomes in the first three months of that stay that must not be below the minimum wage defined in the Republic of Serbia. This is very important for future parents, believe as someone who will be a father in the next month or month or a half of the day. You know, I often hear from my friends, who came true as parents – well, you'll only see how expensive it is. I think only two things have no price. The first is health, and the second is offspring. We only see the value of health when unfortunately we lose it without realizing what wealth we have while we are healthy and the offspring? What to say about offspring, children are the only guarantee that one day, when we are gone, our name will not be forgotten, because everything will be past and past and career and business and money, everything will be and pass, but offspring and children are what remains definitely behind us. I've read, and the laws and I think there's one thing that's been bothering me for several years now that I've seen it repeat, maybe even two, three decades, and that's with Mr. Minister, when it comes to exercising the right to a child's allowance, and among other things, you need to submit a cadastrian report, or if you own and how much you own a certain part of the country if you own it. I'm someone who didn't have the right to a child's allowance because my father owned a certain part of the country, which goes beyond that border, but that country is in a village 40 kilometers from Priboj, which he hasn't gone to in years, and I'm not going there either, which prevented me from having a child's allowance. My point is, maybe somewhere in the future, it could be solved in some other way if someone had some agricultural land, so it could be seen on that basis, because if someone owned a country, especially in the villages, why would it prevent his child from exercising his right to a child's allowance. At the very end, I want to give support to single mothers and point to problems that single mothers have and point to problems that single mothers have. I spoke to a friend of mine a while ago, who is a single mother, despite all the problems she's brought to me, and I regretted one thing that left me so cut into my memory, that's one finding and more of the questions she's brought to me. She told me if it was possible for a man to divorce a woman to divorce children in Serbia. I didn't know what to answer at first, but I told her that it couldn't possibly be a problem for the state and it couldn't be a problem for the authorities who are at that point at the head of the state, it's still a problem for that man's moral and ethical problem, but it certainly has to be the one that will fit in every sense and in every respect behind single mothers, who will give more support than ever in any way possible. For this reason, I wish you much happiness and success in your work and I really want you to be the first minister to boast of some concrete and positive results when it comes to this problem. Thank you for your attention. Long live Serbia!
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-30-0.u8092	Thank you. The word is Dejan Kesar.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-30-0.u8093	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected ministers, respected citizens of Serbia, today we are facing amendments to the draft law amending and supplementing the Financial Support Act for the family with children. The proposal for a law aimed at improving certain legal provisions and certain legal provisions shall be governed, if we take into account the decisions of the Constitutional Court of 2017 and 2018. When we talk about the text of the law, I must first of all say that today we are talking about one of the youngest legal rules, although its application began on 1 January 2018, this legal text gave a special incentive to meet the basic needs of children and to meet the basic needs of children. Just like these and similar laws, the Serbian government as an authorised promoter expressed its clear intention both to the government and to all relevant institutions, that we care about demographics are future generations of high priority. The Serbian Progressive Party, led by Aleksandar Vucic, since 2012, has been trying to make Serbia a better place to live, for all citizens of Serbia and to do it very successfully and responsibly, shows and demonstrates support for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia in the June 2020 elections, when the list of Aleksandar Vucic – For our children, won over 60% of the votes, i.e. in absolute numbers over 2 million votes. This support is a clear wind in the back and President Alexander Vukic and SNS, so that we can all continue with economic prosperity policy together and continue with the policy of building highways, hospitals, clinical centres, which we do very securely and responsibly. But what separates us from all the political parties in today's political scene is that we are doing very safe and responsible for the future of our generations, and the future is children, the future is our generations and the future is our families. The Serbian Progressive Party is in the 2020 elections, out with a list – for our children. And our children are our Serbia and there is no room for differences and there is no room for political floscule. That our children and future generations are high priority, show exactly the basic text of the law on financial support for the family with children. One of the basic rights and responsibilities of each parent is to raise and raise their children, and one of the basic rights of each child is to provide him with conditions for proper development and therefore it is precisely a great responsibility in the state to invest in the welfare of the families themselves, because if we invest in the welfare of the families themselves, at the same time we invest in the future of our new generations. Indeed, since 2012, we have done a lot when we talk about building healthy foundations for future generations, but we also have to continue to work very securely, responsibly and diligently, so that we will never allow us to return to the period until 2012. This law covers all categories and shows one social concern where there is no room for distinction. When we talk about the very text of the law, the proposed amendments and the proposed amendment will certainly make this law better, clearer and will create clearer opportunities for the exercise of the rights resulting from the law. When we talk about changes and additions, I would just like to point out two things, which are changes and additions to Article 14. which says that the full amount of compensation, i.e. the full amount of payment during maternity leave, cannot be lower than the amount of minimum earnings, on the day of the start of the right. I really believe that these changes will contribute to the better status of future mothers on maternity leave, given the previous legislative solution that prescribed that there is a obligation to record at least 6 minimum bases, for which no contributions have been paid. When we talk about the amount of minimum earnings, I would also like to remind the citizens of the Republic of Serbia that the minimum earnings in 2012 were 15,000 dinars, and that today it is 32,000 dinars. When we talk about Article 28 of amendments and additions, the introduction of a single - parent family institute, or a family in which one parent exercises a parental right, provided that another parent is unknown, that he has unfortunately passed away without exercising his right to a family pension. I think this solution is extremely good, because such a provision gives the possibility of achieving a broader spectrum of rights, compared to one parent without judicial intervention. I think the proposed changes and additions to the State Law clearly show that families with children can trust the state's capacity with one goal, which is to improve the demographic image in our country. But creating better conditions for children and creating better conditions for families and new generations was not a practice during the rule of the former regime. In order to create conditions for greater talent and create conditions for new generations at the same time, you must work seriously and responsibly to create educational capacities for new generations. I'll give you two examples. One good example is the Municipality of Savski Venac, from which I come, that in the period from 2016 the classrooms and cabinets in all primary schools have been completely reconstructed, where four physical halls have been renovated and where the problem of joining a primary school has been solved. This was all achieved thanks to the expeditivity of the then municipal leadership and the up-to-dateness of the city of Belgrade. Just when I'm talking about the city's up-to-dateness of Belgrade, I come up with that other, negative example. We were all witnessing that the city of Belgrade from 2008 to 2012 was a sort of front of Dragan Djilas and people who were in the former leadership of the city of Belgrade and who were in the Democratic Party's leadership at the time. In just four years, the city of Belgrade, as the largest local self-government in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, is in charge of 1.2 billion euros. Dragan Gilas was not concerned at the time because he owed each individual resident of Belgrade, but concerned that his Multicom group would legally conclude harmful contracts with city enterprises and city institutions, which led to his income of 619m euros. You're facing a direct conflict of interest at that point. Not only did Belgrade remain in charge of 1.2 billion, but during the rule of the DS, the parents of children attending kindergartens on the territory of the city of Belgrade are illegally increasing kindergarten prices. And when the new leadership headed with the Serbian Progressive Party came to the city, 15,000 lawsuits totalled 3.3 billion euros. My colleague Mirkovic talked about it when we see it as equivalent to 30m euros, but at the time Dragan Gilas and DS were not completely interested. Also, they didn't care that the town's families had 400,000 euros left behind, but they were much less concerned that the Belgraders were then in charge of commercial loans, so that Dragan Gilas could continue robbing city enterprises and city institutions and for his pocket. We all witnessed that the city of Belgrade was in debt with commercial loans with interest rates of 7%, 8%, 9% and more for only one exclusive goal, which is that the Multikum Group continues to co-operate with the city's companies and to take the profits to Mauritius, Delaware and other countries. Also, today all those people who used to act are now at the head of the so-called "DS." opposition parties, and you have an IPSOS survey a few days ago saying the SNS has the support of 59.8% of citizens, while their parties cannot cross the 3% censorship. You see, when you don't have a plan and a program, when you don't have a basic goal, the only thing you can do is to carry out violence, to call on violence, which we witnessed a few days ago when four representatives of the opposition parties tried to attack the legitimately elected president of the Republic. You know that in every country it is possible for you to express a certain political dissatisfaction in different ways, but it cannot be in 2021 a way to achieve a certain political point by attacking a legitimately elected president of the Republic, and it is done by four men who should be covered with ears rather than going to an institution like the Presidency of the Republic of Serbia. You have Miki Aleksic, former president of Tristenik Municipality, who completely turned the municipality black, and then was sentenced to a fine of only 10,000 dinars, as one average citizen of the Republic of Serbia pays today because he did not tie the belt in traffic. You have Mr. Vladimir Gajic, a lawyer who falsely represented himself as the president of the Bar Association, while being arrested in the Geneks affair. You have Bora Novakovic, former DS official from Vojvodina, who was sentenced to three years because of his embezzlement, and then magically released. You know, he wasn't released because there was no evidence, but that's what I'm constantly talking about in this House, because in 2010, a judicial reform was implemented and they were directly appointed by judges and prosecutors, or those judges and prosecutors who were responsible for them, so they wouldn't be responsible for these embezzlements in the coming years. In the end, you have Vuk Jeremic, a man who founded his own party, who put the Kosovo issue in an entirely unfavourable position, whose consequences we are trying to correct today, 10 years later. You have, apparently, a group of people who don't know what to do anymore, because they see on the street that the people don't want them, and then they go towards making some kind of, uh, unknown point by attacking Alexander Vukic. In order not to owe it to my colleagues enough time to discuss it, I want to say that all of what the SNS did in previous years when we talk about demographics and the future of our generations clearly shows that the theme of Serbia's future and its generation is not something we can and can deal with lightly. The future of our generations is extremely important to us, and that is why we want to invest constantly in this area. In the voting day, I will support the proposed amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-30-0.u8094	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-30-0.u8095	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the people, back in the few years when it comes to demographics, it is a very general and sensitive subject in our society since we have certain flows that are not exactly commendable when it comes to our demographics. The fact is that a certain improvement has been observed over the past few years, and certainly the adoption of this law should encourage those backflows that have been present for several decades to turn and that Serbia becomes a far more stable country on this issue. This is also the subject of demographicism and of planning as president of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandar Vukic also spoke to us at a session dedicated to Kosovo, and even then he said that he would advocate that financial support for families with children would increase as much as possible in accordance with our options, so that we would put Serbia in a far better place than at this point. What the president said is commendable, but what was the reaction of a part of the political scene in Serbia cannot be called in any way commendable, and it seems to me that there have been a lot of changes in the thesis in certain reactions, and even certain car projections, I can say, Mr. Minister. Of course, the first party of Dragan Gilas, in my opinion, appeared to me in a shameful, at least top-notch statement on a statement by the president of the Republic of Serbia, and is likely to address the citizens of Serbia with a similar statement once we adopt this law. So, after a session, Serbia's president said it not because of concerns about how hard people live in Serbia, which is why 60,000 flees in one direction annually, and more than 450 since he is in power, but because of the panic that he will remain short sleeves in his combinations with investors. That is what Dragan Gilas said, whether he, whether or not his party, is completely irrelevant to me. I don't just know what 60,000 people were thinking a year about, what 450,000 people? I think this text, published by Dragan Gilas, has been late for at least a dozen years and about what our nationality is and how many Serbian citizens have left Serbia, running from some government. I don't know, Mr. Minister, exactly what he meant. You may be able to answer me, but I'll get some information for you. I come, first of all, from the Fireman, and I know that during Dragan Gilas, the fire economy has literally ceased to exist. During the rule of Dragan Gilas, the following factories were closed: “Record protection”, Auto house “Shumadija”, Farm machinery factory “Morava”, Milkar “Poparevac”, “Vojceprod” Povorec, MIP Požarevac, Sugar factory Požarevac, “Zitostog” Povorec, “We must textile” Povorec, Building company “Stig” Pogorec, “Firevac traffic” and “New trade”. Are there 4,500 people in those 450,000 who have left Serbia who have lost their jobs during the rule of Dragan Gilas? Did he mean those fellow citizens of mine when he wrote and published that statement? In Pozarevc, he remained working only "Bambi", but not because the privatisation was conducted under their laws, but under an earlier law proposed by the Ministry of Privatisation at the time, when the minister of privatisation was today's governor, Mrs. Jorvanka Tabakovic. Out of the entire fire economy, only "Bambi" remains, and then the party of Dragan Gilas will tell me about who drove Pozharevljane out of Pozharjevac and Serbia. Well, that's top-notch insolence. It can't be described. It is further stated -- that kind of mind, concerned only by itself, values people by propagating that everyone who has or wants children in Serbia decides on parenting because of "Zi Gina", "Jure", "Ling Longa" and fantasize about how their children will enjoy diapers even when they wear these diapers as adult people in the workplace for temporary miserable pay. That's what Dragan Gilas' party said. You know, we are fighting, the president of Serbia, first of all, Alexander Vukic, that factories are opening in Serbia, that our citizens stay in Serbia, that our children stay in Serbia, that they base their families there. I don't know if it's a shame or a bad thing, but I do know that those who leave Serbia, who have been leaving for decades, have been on the run from everything that Serbia has threatened to become a valley of sorrow and a valley of wages, while those who have exercised power back then have been increasingly richer and richer and have robbed Serbia's hearts and have destroyed and are now the same... So figure out how many times that is, 74,000 euros he had when he came to power in his pocket, and when he left power 600 million, how many times is someone richer. So it is little that such a statement is given to them as one of the ultimate insolences, but they always find someone, a certain Mrs. Aleksandra Ćurčić, who is not just what it is presented for, a politically neutral, very large activist and a fan of the character and of the work of Dragan Đilas, who all of what the Freedom and Justice Party of Dragan Đilas has declared continues in the following manner: “Now you have fallen deeper into the mud of your complexes and insolences in the circus tent that once, before you have filled yourself with your clowns, fire-eaters and swords, rat and odorizers, buffalo and donkeys... “ It’s just a matter of time before I go home. ” Mrs. Alexandra Curcic, I wish her and her family all the best in spite of giving these adjectives as ambassadors. There is an auto projection, the beginning of her address, or the continuation of this statement: “It’s not enough for you to rob us every day, which people are more afraid of new days than death, it’s not enough for you to provide great-grandsons and great-grandsons, kidnapping anyone who can breathe anything that can be kidnapped, it’s not enough for you to sell us land, air and water, which will be rotting in poisons for generations, ” she just forgot to say that Dragan Gilas and the former regime are responsible. How can this mathematically, economically, be it possible for someone who comes to Serbia with 74,000 euros in five years to earn 600m euros? How much does that lady's cheek cost to write something like this and how much she got out of that 600 million euros, because what she writes is pure hate? Hate is usually cheap and I'm always worried about the health of people who hate it. You may not love someone, you may love someone, but the feeling of hate, which is very deep, is either a reflection of some great injustice or disease, but let them think about it and that's her problem. We had a chance to see how the former regime cared about families with children. Should I mention the lawsuits brought by the citizens of Belgrade against pre-school fees and a pricer who was just bringing in Dragan Gilas while he was mayor of Belgrade? Look, he illegally increased that fee. How much of this increased fee ended up in his pocket and how much is in the 600m euros he has when he loses power? Well, don't worry about our future by getting richer. Is there a state preschool facility open during their rule? I don't remember. Is there a school open? I don't remember. Is there a hospital open? I don't remember. Is there a foster home open? I don't remember. For 12 years, they were harassing Serbia and becoming richer and richer. What bothers a first cousin to have a second or third child? Not just that financial moment, one of the motives is, and that's under what conditions he's going to have that child, what kind of health care facility, how health care professionals are going to take care of her, what conditions he's going to have, what preschools we're going to have, what schools we're going to have, what colleges we're going to have. Will the children finish our college so they can have a degree, and they can't work anywhere or run from Serbia, like they did years ago and decades ago? What was done during the former government, the former regime of Dragan Gilas about all this? They mocked the president of Serbia, then the Prime Minister, when he visited schools and said they had to be arranged, for example, and sanitary knots, so they called him the prime minister for the toilets. They thought it was funny. They thought it was funny what conditions our kids were in school, what our schools were like, what our preschools were like. It was only important to get the money. I think this much hatred is also the result of the desire to regain power in Serbia just to rob Serbia again, because it now has more money than it was 12, 13 or 14 years ago. They rule when our people fled Serbia. I said I'm from the Fireman. The fireman is in Braničev County, eastern Serbia. You have villages that no longer exist. During their time, their government ceased to exist. You don't have a dog in that village to bark at you. That's the kind of Serbia they left for us. And then they talk about how we should lead Serbia. And then they have so much to say that we're thieves, that we're buffalo, cockroaches, donkeys, fire eaters. Thieves and shovels are common. They didn't do anything for Serbia, just for themselves and for their own pocket. And they will attack this law. And whatever good law you pass, it will attack. And the more they attack him, the better the law, Mr. Minister. Because most angry with them is that the money the state has in a certain way will not be able to return to the citizens, it will not be able to end up in their pocket as it was when they exercised power. And because of these results and the laws that we're making, Dragan Gilas is constantly attacking both the president and his family and the SNS and the Government, and he's all trying to make fun of the mockery and to present that Serbia is not ruled by the rights of Serbia, but by the credentials, illiterate and what I've already told us about the people's MPs -- donkeys, cockroaches, bisons, etc. Dragan Gilas has not yet learned that the amount of insult does not mean both the amount of arguments and that the amount of insult does not mean the result of the elections. Even moreover, the people will certainly not vote for such people who, after four or five years, become neither less than ten thousand times richer. The story ended with Serbian citizens. Mr Minister, I hope that in the assembly procedure we will have more laws that will put this problem really burdening the Republic of Serbia to start solving in the right way and as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-30-0.u8096	Thank you. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Djordje Komlenski, Marijan Risticevic, Bojan Torbica and Ana Karadzic. The word has Adam Shukalo.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-30-0.u8097	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister Dimitrovic, honourable MPs, I have been waiting a long time to report for discussion, since last week we had an important session and important laws and we didn't have all the space to talk last week about the amendments and amendments of the law in principle, so here are the amendments that somehow this discussion is coming together. As far as the amendments are concerned, just for a moment, they are all extremely important, which we should vote on, and it seems to me that the most important thing to do is to amend these and supplement them in terms of the broader rights that Serbian citizens, parents, most importantly, will have in all of this is to point out, and therefore children, to come into force as soon as possible. It's the key to today's debate on these amendments. Whatever you say here, the most important thing is that we now expand the possibilities, to support every family and every child, every mother in Serbia. What is crucial in the very Financial Support Act for families with children is what we have defined at the very beginning in Article 1, which is four attitudes that say this: one - improving conditions for meeting the basic needs of children; under two - harmonising work and parenting; under three - especially encourages parents' support to achieve the desired number of children and four - improving the material position of families with children. When this law was passed in 2017, I lived in Republika Srpska then and I have really been following it since the first day of adoption of this law and its application since 2018. I was extremely pleased then that the Republic of Serbia had entered into such a systemically important law that should now do something in the name of your ministry, dear Minister, and you are the Minister of Family and Demography. I don't know if there's a harder and more complex task than the name of your ministry, and therefore the jurisdiction that you have. And of course it's not only in your ministry's jurisdiction, it's a sublimation of practically total work by all the Serbian government ministries, Serbia's policy, and here's President Vukic, who was primarily identified and spoke last week, when we talked about KIM, about the problem we have down there, how important the issue is. It was indeed one of the most important issues in the Serbian government's exposé. As you can see now, we are going to expand these rights and in any case that these are things that will make many parents and many children in Serbia happy. There is no partnership in the region with this system law. Absolutely no one in the region has such a law. There is another law, and such a united system law that supports a family that has children, encourages family and supports children, most importantly, does not exist. I'll tell you, I think I've been invited and privileged, given that I'm the father of four children, that two sons were born in Banja Luka, one son and one daughter in Belgrade, and that I'm privileged and on that side that I'm a user and these rights under this law, because my third son was born here in early 2019 and my daughter almost two months ago, so here I am. Since this is a system law, that he supports everything, irrelevant to property censorship because in any case, as MPs, we are privileged to other citizens of the Republic of Serbia, but we are particularly privileged to this kind of story that we can consider these laws today, and I am privileged as a father that I can through this kind of story to my children, as well as any other father and any other mother, to give additional support. It is also financial support in terms of how we defined it, in terms of a parental allowance defined by Article 23. Indeed, no one in the region, with full responsibility and a partnership that I have made in terms of legal regulation, has such support, neither this one-time, for the first child, nor one for the second child, which is realized in two years for 10,000 dinars, for a third child where the amount is more than 100 euros and for a fourth child, 18 thousand dinars. Of course, you should start thinking in the context of other families, and many people say "more members", and I think the real expression is "many" of a family, because more than two are when you have, and many members define that there are little more than two children in one family. Speaking of which, I want to say a few things. Although this law has succeeded in a great deal in achieving its objective as set out in Article 1, where we have defined it in four positions, which is that, just now, after all the reforms that have been implemented in Serbia and that have allowed us to first adopt such a law, and on the other hand, on financial lines, in the budget of the Republic of Serbia, by preventing the various abuses that we have today been able to hear from all our colleagues how the former government has done, I must say, when I hear about it at all, I feel bad. At least I'm going to try to skip this discussion, not to mention their names in any way, because obviously we're still dealing with the consequences of everything they've been doing today. As far as this topic is concerned, they are not concerned about this subject of demographicism, the support of families, and not because I am not saying it now, not because they are our political opponents, don't give God enemies, political opponents are the right expression, but really when you look at the support of the state, the systemic legislation that should be supported by families, children, there is no such regulation. So they weren't dealing with the subject, and now they're jumping out of the way. I don't know, someone was here talking about cockroaches. In my neighborhood, we call it roaches, when those black, big bugs come out of the dark when the light comes on. The light has now turned on in Serbia. We have decided to raise the Republic of Serbia, its national pride, all its symbols, to raise the family and systematically support the adoption of such laws, to expand the opportunities that give us new financial items again. It's because of the reforms that we have the opportunity to adopt laws like this. We can adopt ten times the financial amount here, but if it's not in the budget... So, we went into this phase that as Boris Tadic sometimes goes with the demagogue flossules, says in the Republic of Serbia, its citizens what is sedatically affecting them, in that sense saying that it calms them, and there is not a single item that can justify it, in the sense that we can pay something, whether it's pension yesterday or anything else. You know that; it will be good. It will be good when a mother who today in the "National Front" or any maternity home in Serbia has a child, so the next day when she comes fills out a form for herself and does nothing more than that. In a month when he comes home, based on the development of the electronic administration, the Office for IT Government of the Republic of Serbia, the portal "e-baby", comes to the home address of the solution, and on its current account, which may have been the first one to receive, for example, a woman in Negotin, Kragujevac, in rural areas, and at its expense 10,000, 12,000 dinars a month or 18,000 or 30,000 dinars, etc. It's a concrete thing, it's a concrete improvement and it's concrete support, but I'd like a few things a little wider to say. I'll give you a few examples of how we did it and keep doing it. Here, I will set an example of Belgrade, Novi Sad, Nis, in terms of support and in other segments that are not financial and those that are financial in terms of, here I say, preschool institutions. Kolega Arsic spoke earlier, let's now say here in Belgrade that the city of Belgrade supports all those parents who have not been given the opportunity to enroll in public kindergarten, city kindergarten and how much the city of Belgrade finances the stay of every child who goes to a private preschool facility. Well, let's say that for every child, the city of Belgrade pays that difference between 5,500 dinars and 22,500 dinars per month donates to every child in the context of the story of his stay in a private kindergarten and that each parent, had one, two, three or more children, thank God, comes to their expense. Give me an example of where this is happening yet? That's what the first Novi Sad started, Belgrade. I see Nis is also applying a lot of local self-government to start with that story. Give me an example of a city in the region that gives such support. Don't tell me that's not support when parents know their child's been taken care of, and the financial city stands behind you in such a way that you can financially push it out on a monthly basis. You know, every parent who gets up in the morning he cares, of course, about his children, and he also has to worry about how some things are going to be financial, whatever the need is. One aspect I would like to say to the minister, which is extremely important, which is unfortunately not normable, is not only in the jurisdiction of your ministry, but also in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Education, which is a childcare activity, a nanny activity that is not normally normalized in Serbia, is virtually nowhere in the region normable. It is extremely important that this support in terms of it, if we are already talking about coordination, in this case of work, obligations, work activities, careers and everything else, especially in urban environments, who will be your children when you have to, and not as some monster to earn that habit, because the most important thing is to be with your children all the time, who will watch over those children for you? Who in Serbia is even authorized to be a nanny, to look after, say, four hours of someone's child? Unfortunately, we don't have certified babysitters, babysitters, etc., that's what different organizations do. They're advertised on social networks, etc. The basic principle is a recommendation. Imagine, unfortunately, we've had very ugly situations that are due to everything that's caused it, perhaps normative in this sense of the word, which implies... You see, you trust a child to someone, you have no idea who it is. Or, to relate to that kind of story. Support, if we are talking about this law entitled "The Law on Financial Support for Families with Children", the primary focus and this goal and this law is not only a parent, but the primary goal is to support the child. The kid's in focus. What to a child today other than these basic things that I've listed that everyone has a hard time fighting for, but here, there's also significant support for the state. Serbia now takes care of families. In particular, cities are concerned and remain time to fill in another segment that should be quality in terms of support for each child, even if it is an aspect of the protection. Support for child development is something we also need to pay attention to. Children go to different sections, different educations. Many people provide these services on the market, no one checked, certified different trainers, different educators, teachers, teachers where children go, many and others. It is an important issue and should be systematically addressed in terms of support for children, but primarily care for their safety and safety and everything else. Finally to say, of all this when we talked about different incentive measures how and in what way to encourage young couples, let's first, let's start from that, although it's one roundabout, because to get married, which should be extremely, as a marriage community, to be a first step, and then to form a family, or have children, after having a career, by working out the preconditions to solve a housing issue that is extremely important for each family's stability, education, raising children, training those children, supporting them. Tomorrow they have to get a job, get married, they have a family. One circular current that has no time difference, even though time between two generations has been counting in decades. What is important in this kind of story is that now that these basic things are basic, which are financial support, the state of Serbia has entered a position to think about how much more in the perspective of supporting each family, or to encourage especially young couples, especially in urban areas not to calculate, but to enter married communities and to create and give birth to children. Of course, the state of Serbia has supported all those who have problems in terms of obtaining offspring, in terms of out-of-body fertilisation, support in all of this, and it is an extremely important thing. All of this makes one, to say, a spectrum of system measures that today mean that Serbia has gone far, though challenges, the numbers we often talk about, say that we need more, unfortunately, much more and more. For that reason, Minister, I want to support all your efforts to keep the initiatives that are coming here from this high house in the direction of support of every family, every child. Because of everything we seem to be missing today, every normal family, I think the greatest deficit is time. You have today, thank God, in Serbia that rose from its knees, stood up, the ability to work, the ability to earn, to create, but working time, the working life span has extended, the working day lasts much longer, it remains less and less time for children. This is what is extremely important, and it is important that in the remainder of maybe two to three hours during the day when a parent comes home to take their children, we complete it as best as possible, and that the state supports the parents who have children with systemic measures again, in terms of supporting as much quality time as possible, which will spend, education and any other support that goes in that direction. For this reason, I will give support, in any case, to these amendments, for this law, and it is very important for me to have decided that Serbia is going forward and that Serbia has decided that its children are being born and that it gives them support in every sense. In that name, we lived Serbia, we lived her children.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-30-0.u8098	I thank Mr. Schukal. The word is Gjorge Dabic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-30-0.u8099	Thank you, Chairman. Dear People's MPs, ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Ministers, are ahead of us to amend the Law on Financial Support for Families with Children, as well as the accompanying amendments, and we are only correcting these amendments to certain gaps that were previously made, and regarding the compensation of mothers during maternity leave, as well as the rights of agricultural insurance companies, for which members of the law have been found unconstitutional by the Constitutional Court. We thus show that today institutions are free to do their jobs and that, regardless of the Constitutional Court decrees that some of the things that we adopt here are not in accordance with the law, we are acting on all these instructions from the Constitutional Court, changing these members of the law that were not in accordance with our Constitution. We do it, of course, not only because the Constitutional Court said so, but because we care about mothers in the first place. We are pleased that associations that have initiated such a verdict at the Constitutional Court, such as “Moms are the law”, seem to me to be about this association, which welcomed this very day of our day when we will vote all these changes that they have asked for, because indeed mothers are the law for all of us today. They need to have an even better status in society, because the problem with the birth rate we've been facing for 30, 40 years. It's not a problem that we inherited, it's a problem that's been here for decades. This is certainly today when we have a responsible authority one of the priorities of both this government and the previous government, when President Aleksandar Vukic in 2018 initiated exactly the adoption of that large package of measures to support our mothers and parents with children. That, I say again, is not just a problem of financial nature, as you can often hear in the media. If that were the case, you'd have a situation where the richest European countries with the most children and the poorest, African and Middle Eastern states, the countries with the smallest children. It is precisely, we know for ourselves, that the situation reverses, in the richest European countries, you have the smallest number of children. That case we can look at, we don't have to go that far, we can look at it here. So in the Belgrade municipalities of Vračar, Stari Grad, the Sava Venac situation is the worst, and in some smaller places we have better talent. It's especially good news to hear that in the Serbian environments in KIM, there's just the greatest talent in our country. So that's what we're particularly interested in and that's an indication that it doesn't have that much to do with finance, it has to do with other aspects. As for some forecasts that aren't so good, today the child's rate per mother is 1.49, which is nowhere near the rate of 2.1 needed for a simple reproduction. We know a town the size of Vrsca disappears annually. But this government, as we just heard earlier, didn't just figure out that fact as many of us have done before, but it has taken into account solving this problem. In such a way that we have brought that one serious package of support measures to parents who want to be realized in the role of parents. Adam Schukalo, my colleague, was just saying that we're not repeating ourselves right now. So we give 100,000 dinars for our first child. I hope that amount will be increased, we've heard announcements earlier that there will be 350,000 dinars and I sincerely hope that this is something to consider. We're giving one large sum for another child, 10,000 for the next two years, for a third child you have 12,000 dinars for four 18,000 dinars. It's simply a good framework that should be a motive for all those who don't have enough resources to commit themselves to being a parent. President Aleksandar Vukic, just the other day here in the National Assembly, reminded that the measure gave good results by the highest municipalities in southern Serbia, Toplica and those southern municipalities, as it proved to really mean the measure to people. I say again, and here in Belgrade where there's a better standard, and that measure doesn't give as many results as you can see in a case of smaller places. We will continue, hopefully, to implement all these measures and try to increase these amounts. I sincerely hope that happens. However, the key to resolving the birth problem is that I think it is also in improving the situation of young people in Serbia. It should be recalled that today, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and that plan, Serbia, 2025, have defined a huge amount of funding for young people, 600m euros has been defined precisely to address the problem of employment in young people. That's what actually drives a young man, when he has a stable job, when he has financials, to get his role as a parent. I really think that our government, this current government and the previous government have done a lot of things about it. I don't think there's much to talk about in public, there should be more talk about how much we give today through the Fund for Development, for realising, for launching different types of self-employment, for starting a business, how much the Ministry of Agriculture finances young farmers. Indeed, you have a situation where today the state is making a lot more out of money and paying attention to young people, but somewhere, it seems to me that they are not even enough to be directed into all these support programmes that the state is providing today. I think the Ministry of State, whose head you're headed, could commit itself to showing young people what it is that the state is giving them today. You also have favourable loans, we are planning for young couples soon, when it comes to buying an apartment. We know that the square will be very affordable, at 500 euros per square. We know that the Ministry of the Village also gives today huge funds to buy abandoned rural houses, 10,000 per married couple. You also have through the Development Fund a lot of projects to get young people to work. Again, it seems to me that somewhere the main thing for young people is, and it seems to me that this is not the best way to look for a connection to the public sector, because we know well that in the private sector there are much greater opportunities and usually the biggest problem is that initial capital. The state today has the money to give you initial capital, so I really think it is more important to promote this idea of entrepreneurship in young people so that they really dare to enter some ventures and thus provide security. Today the state has money and wants to help all these good ideas, projects, that simply start-up projects gives great impulse to everyone to fight for themselves and for their families, because it's a way that when you want to do something, a real state can give you a big impulse and start to realize yourself both as an entrepreneur and in some other ideas. I hope that all these measures that we're talking about will give one positive outcome, because this fight is not a fight that we can and we have the luxury of losing, the fight is just about to survive our country, to survive our people in these areas. We must not lose this battle, because if we gave ourselves up, we would not be in these places, and that certainly will not happen because our people knew how to get out of much bigger problems as a winner. When we think that it's over sometimes, that there's not enough opportunity to fix the demographic image, let's just remember that there were 300,000 people at the time of the uprising Serbia, or at the time of the uprising of Karajordje's leader in Serbia. Let's keep that in mind. Serbia was able to recover in much worse situations, not to mention World War I and the Second when we were killed by nearly three million, so we were able to recover again. And this current bad, you can say, situation when it comes to demographics can certainly be improved if we work hard enough and if we really commit ourselves to this problem in the right way, as we do today. Once again, we will support the voting day and the proposed law and all amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-30-0.u8100	Thank you. The word is Gjorge Milicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-30-0.u8101	Thank you, Honorable Chairman, Mr. Orlic. Dear Ministers, honourable representatives of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, as we said in the principle debate, the SPS Parliamentary Group, of course, will support this legislative proposal, especially an amendment covering several critical groups. Someone said very well during the amendment debate that when children are concerned there is no room for differences and there is no place for politicisation and there is no place for political floscule. Of course we support, Minister, all your efforts, of course we support all your initiatives. Demography is certainly one of the priorities of the government of the Republic of Serbia. It is clearly defined by Prime Minister Ana Brnabic's exposé of the Serbian government and it has been so since 2012, but should not be forgotten. On the contrary, we believe that at least we from the SPS Group should always be reminded of this, precisely because of those who at that time were against these measures, which is the period of 2014, because today we would not be able to talk about financial support, specifically financial support for the family with children, we could not, from March of the month until today, have one system that works, and not only works, but it does very good results, we could not single out three very significant packages of measures, first two packages of 800 billion dinars, and then the last package of 257.1 billion dinars, which is a total of 17.2% of GDP, so we could not have this kind of burden of crisis as a state to accept ourselves and to avoid that blackest scenario that was unfortunately in some countries, I do not want to mention which, in 2014, and that 2014 there was not a single reform of the government of Serbia. It was a brave, determined move politically unpopular at a given moment, but something that was necessary, which was inevitable, because Serbia was at a crossroads at that time. Whether to choose a path that represents, in some sense, a list of good wishes, what citizens would like to hear, what sounds nice, and if realistically financially implemented, it would lead to financial collapse and financial bankruptcy. Financial experts say about until 2016, and the second time it was difficult and thorny, but we have come to have a healthy system based on sound foundations, which is not based on politics and politics, but is based on life and economics. When it comes to the law, once again, I would like to state first the reasons why we will support this legislative proposal as a parliamentary group of SPS. First of all, the minimum profit benefit during maternity leave can no longer be less than the minimum earnings in the Republic established on the day of the start of application of the right. We think it's very important. The above limit is then established for income compensation during maternity leave, leave of work for the care of the child and leave of work for special care of the child. So instead of the three average earnings so far since 1 January 2022, the basis will be up to five average earnings in the Republic of Serbia. That's also more important, you don't know what's more important. Then, mothers who were farmers up to 18 months before the birth of a child can use the law provided for other benefits based on the birth of a child or special care child. We believe that this measure of equalising the motherhood of all mothers wherever they work will be even more stimulating. How important this is for our rural environments that have kept birth for decades does not need to be particularly stressed. The bill defines more precisely the conditions for defining the concept of a single-parent family, which is very important from the aspect of achieving the rights of parents and children in single-parent families. Then consider the possibility of a better legal solution for alimony to protect children right now. More to address the issue of prevention and prevention of domestic violence, which unfortunately becomes an increasingly pronounced problem, which is our appeal especially in the time of the covids, unfortunately. Our task is to pass laws that will make every family who decides to have a offspring, which are young people to provide affirmative conditions and to point to a failure to implement regulations this time rules relating to social and financial support to all families with children fully have our support. Now these are the reasons why the SPS parliamentary group will definitely support the amendment supported by the Government of the Republic of Serbia in the voting day, because we believe it is fully justified, but the law in general. On the other hand, Mr. Bakarec, I think he was talking today about one political aspect and a political act, and I want to make a very brief review of that part too. You know, from everything Mr. Bakarec talked about and I had a chance to read his column recently on a similar subject, only one conclusion can be concluded. The lack of political power and lack of political influence leads unfortunately to the most primitive behaviour. It's not even, I'd say, the most primitive behavior, it's violent and violent behavior. It is not politics, nor is it the essence of politics, and it must never and cannot become a norm of social behaviour in Serbia. It's something we all have to fight together. What you were saying, and you mentioned a number of threats that we certainly condemn, but I want to remind you, that family matrix, the threats, it just came up with one piece of the quasi of the opposition. Then when the citizens pass under the window of one leader quasi opposition, call the leader of the quasi opposition, and call him by some name, then we have that mounted director and that mounted scene, if you remember those crocodile tears, it probably took them a long time to mount it. I would personally believe him, you know, I would believe him if he had invited his friends, his buddies, and told them nicely – hey go to Mr. Martinovic and apologize for what you did at the board meeting. Go to the former president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and apologize for what you have entered the cabinet, violently and physically into the cabinet of the President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. This has never happened since the introduction of a multi-party system in Serbia. That he called his political supporters and said, hey, it's a shame what you did and what you tried to break through with the Serbian flag for no reason and enter the National Assembly, because we are MPs at that point. We could have gone without it, anytime and at any time to enter the rooms and the hall of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, but probably in that way ten, fifteen, many, wanted to symbolize some power and some power. They only symbolized primitiveism, and that's all they did. You know, they don't expect citizens from politicians to feel sorry for themselves, as the leader of the quasi opposition meant, but they expect a solution. Since there is no solution, I cannot trust him, as the citizens of Serbia do not trust him either. Then it's just political fog. And in political fog, Serbian citizens have long stopped believing. Citizens are very pragmatic as voters and believe in only one thing, and that's the result. The results are certainly on the side of this ruling coalition from 2012 to today. I am convinced that these results, you know, as much as they say that this Assembly is illegal and illegal, so they do not insult us, they insult Serbian citizens, they degrade and insult Serbian citizens who have come to the polls in a period of time and have given confidence to one of the political parties. I want to remind you that in 2020 the turnout was about 50% or over 50%, correct me if I'm wrong, and in 2016 it was 56%. Now, since there's been a period of covid, so wait, at least let them get together, so that fear of going to the elections and the covid is far stronger than their political power. Well, it's simple and simple. If they have political maturity and if they have political wisdom, they do not seem to have. So that kind of political fog can no longer pass in Serbia. What courage, Mr. Bakarec, are they talking about? Well, they have the courage just to schedule a press conference and not answer the questions of journalists, but to threaten journalists, or to run away from a press conference or to face journalists physically and verbally. It is this modern democracy and that freedom of mind, freedom of speech, freedom of expression as they imagine in Serbia. If they had the courage, they could at least one thing, go to the polls in 2020 and finally see how much they were worth, or how much they weren't worth. But I hope we see it in April 2022 or at the end of March 2022. She has a campaign run by that part of the opposition, they say – the day after. And then the day after, you have this company of theirs that says: rematchism and lustration. Now, that's the only program. And there's no other program. So, the only program they're up for and they've managed to come up with are threats, rematchism, lustration. As for rematchism, we weren't afraid of them from 2016 to 2020 when they were here in the O.R. We weren't even afraid of them on October 5, 2000, all together. There were many of you here on October 5, 2000. So do they think we're scared of 21 years after that? When they ask that question, they should always ask themselves the question – where are they today, and where are we? We are in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, we are the voice of the people, we are representatives of the citizens, not because we wanted it, but because the citizens said it in the elections, democratic elections held in 2020, and I am fully convinced that this huge trust and support will be confirmed in late March or early April 2022. And as for lustration, I fail at all, I've tried several times, these party friends of theirs in some television duels to explain that they don't even understand what the word lustration means. And if it's a lustration, they should realize they've been lustrated a long time ago. The best lustration is carried out by the citizens in the elections. Citizens tell you in the election whether you're for lustration or not. Some of them couldn't even help that Bruce Lee, of Hong Kong with a few million dollars, so he's lustrated, and that's how it's gonna be, I'm convinced in 2022. If we weren't doing too much of them, I just wanted to take a brief look at this Mr. Bakarec exposure, I hope you don't mind. Mr. Minister, we will once again support every effort you make, every initiative of yours, because we really think that the issue of demographics is a priority in Serbia at this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-30-0.u8102	Thank you, Mr. Milicevic. The government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to Article 14 of the amendment. The Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction has adopted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The word is Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-30-0.u8103	Dear Vice President Dr Orlic, the honourable ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, only a few sentences since my colleagues and colleagues have said a lot to say that I support this proposal to amend and supplement the Family Law, and this amendment that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has accepted and to say that the family is not only the basic cell of society. It is, but it is a fundamental historical, fundamental economic, basic spiritual cell of society. I will talk about the family from another aspect, which you did not mention here today for reasons, ladies and gentlemen, because Mr. Minister Ratko Dmitrovic dealt with before he was Minister of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, right from this aspect that I'm going to say, which is that the family is both a spiritual and a national category. That the family is not at risk, only in economic terms, but also in national terms. We have been threatened by the Serbian family in Montenegro, the Serbian family in Croatia, the Serb family in northern Macedonia. I am going to say a little more today about this aspect, and thank you Mr. Dmitrović and you and the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the President of the Republic for pointing to this aspect and what you are doing, and the former government did not have any hearing, but was doing exactly what they did to suppress our family in both national and spiritual terms. Dear People's MPs, in Serbia's, historical, human and moral verticals in Montenegro, there were more human moral freaks and nothing, or you would say the Serb brothers in Montenegro, or "jada". Milo Djukanovic belongs to the very top of the vertical. The former Serbs, Milo Djukanovic, in a people called "milorac" end Serbia's history in Montenegro. Believe it or not, but I believe you know, but because of the citizens, it is proposed that the Orthodox Church be formed by national Montenegrins. Look at the wonders. No one has ever done that since the Serbian statesmen in the past. He says, quote – I think it is better to have an Orthodox church that will also have its believers. So, not the Serbian Orthodox, but the Orthodox Church. For former Serbian Milo Djukanovic, it is important that the epithet be cast out. You know whose thesis is for respected citizens? Ante Pavelic. He also presented the thesis and asked that only Orthodox, as he said, "black national Montenegrins" be expelled from the self-kefal Serbian Orthodox Church in Montenegro. I'm undermining this so you can see what this freak is doing from a former Serb. It is also conscious of the formation of new nationality in Montenegro and Montenegro. Dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, honourable MPs, such nationality never existed in Montenegro. From the 10th century to today, and particularly historians do. Only by the way, in all textbooks in the 19th century, there are Serbs living in Montenegro. Nowhere stands – Montenegrins. And the former Serbs, Milo Djukanovic, well knows. But no one normal will question the statehood of Montenegro since the 10th century and our students know it very well. And allow a few more words when we are, to see our family in Montenegro be destroyed. Milo Djukanovic destroys not only the state identity, but also the national identity of Montenegrins. So, when it comes to state identity, Montenegro is a state. He says he's rebuilding, so it's been since the 10th century, there's nothing he can do to restore it. National people's identity, older centuries, let's go from the 10th century, so the Montenegrins and Serbs know that everyone thinks this way and can't say it from him. That is the essence, if you can see now, how the national people's identity is created in Montenegro and what it does, and what Milo Djukanovic destroys and how our families in Montenegro, via the SPC. He suppressed the roots of Serbian, Serbian Cyrillic letters, Serbian cultures and Serb customs, Serbian Cyrillics. The Old Slovenian language was also spoken by Serbs, Croats, Montenegrins and until the 10th century, until 1925, or by 1928, when they left the old Slovenian and Croats and others and took as their own language. What's another language, Roman, Latin, and it's not exactly what we heard here today. The Serbian Cyrillic is a Serbian national letter and I ask you to hear it in this House. Let's not mix it up. Latina is not a Serbian national letter from the Croats. It is as Serbian as it is Croatian as the Croatians in the Xth century borrowed a Latin letter from the Latin Romans and wrote in Latin in the Parliament until 1835, I followed a lot since 1837 officially on the records. If you're bored, you don't have to listen, but it would still be good to hear some things you may not have heard. How does Djukanovic think to provide believers for the Orthodox Church of National Montenegrins, here I ask him? How and where are your believers? Let me remind you, there's a television station under the control of Dragan Gilas who says he has someone to remember, but 24 hours of lies. As you can see here, I never speak in my mind and quote the facts and I would also like him to deny me both Gilas and Jeremic. Well, here's Gilas for 30 questions he hasn't answered one yet, I repeat, and I'll keep telling him again. Here, to remind you, Djukanovic singled Montenegro out of the state union with Serbia in 2006. Contrary to most of Montenegro's referendum, John Markush so-called White book on page 290 all the documents, so the Americans testify that I don't list them, their authors. It would be good for us as MPs to get into these things, so let's see what we've been doing, so we can answer to Dragan Sutanovac this morning when it says that it's us sitting here today that we're war-scrapers, and he'll hear me in the end who's a war-scraper. We move forward, on 12 May 2020, Milo Djukanovic was arrested by a people called Milo miloorac ex-Serbian, after the Svetovasilic Lithium in Niksic, believe it or not, Vladika Joaniki, now a Metropolitan, and remember very well who often criticise the communists. Communists have never arrested a single bishop during 45 years of government, someone tell me. Yesterday my esteemed colleague said Milo Djukanovic - well, he's not a communist, he was. Well, there was Stipe Mesic once, so Uncle Marko joined him in 1945, etc., and he was a Ustasha. So none of the bishops even interfered with church relations. We who are from that period know very well. Let me cut this short. Respected citizens, respected free Montenegro, have been free since Djukanovic lost most of us, young and old in Montenegro have finally understood, young and old I repeat, that the Serbian Orthodox Church in Montenegro is the last and biggest dam of what makes us human, that is the last dam of religious identity, and when it comes to the Serb people, in this case to anyone, then cosmic energy rises and collapses everything in front of it. Those who deal with identity know very well. Let's move on. Our families are not only destroyed in Montenegro, but also in Croatia. But let me now say about Montenegro one sentence and Serbs in Montenegro. The broadcast of the Croatian singer's song and the declared Ustasha Mark Perkovic Thompson on Victory Day, watch out for the Day of Victory over Fascism, on Montenegrin state television is the reaffirmation of Fascism's avets, which Serbs in Montenegro have never inherited. Never. Let's move on. Northern Macedonia has printed Mark a token of Croatia's gratitude within the borders of the former NDH. As our families feel in Macedonia, we know very well. And that's where they checked our church, back in 1963, they haven't even confessed yet. Northern Macedonia President Stevo Pandarovski also said he supports the state of Kosovo. Imagine miracles. Mr. Pandarovski, how about I say here that I don't accept Northern Macedonia at the current borders? You see, we keep quiet here. Who meddles in whose inner relations? Did we interfere with Montenegro? Did we interfere in Macedonia? We didn't. We never did. You know what, it's not fair for them to interfere with our internal relations. "Kosovo is an integral part of Republika Srpska. “ Sir, Pandarovski, Mr Milo Djukanovic, you are just neighbors. The problem of human rights in Kosovo with the West and your press has shifted human rights to territorial rights. It's nowhere in the world. Find me an example in the world, along with an ex-government. Today, it brings out Alexander Vukic, whom you satanicize here at full 24 hours, and not only him, but also his associates and MPs. Let's move on, see what's done and what's coming in the future. It was held in Sarajevo, at the same time with Ustasha criminals. Is it true? That's right, gentlemen. Where are our reporters? Did they write about it? No, they're not. Most of it gives support. We don't interfere with the internal affairs of Bosnia and Herzegovina, but we have one part of the opposition that says we're interfering. We never talked in this high house about it. Among them, Milan Antonijevic led an NGO and resigned. He saw that he was ashamed, and, behold, he went to bed with his doctorate at the Faculty of Philosophy, not the right one, ethnology. Doctor. You know what he said? I quote: "Serbia is interfering in a destructive way with Bosnia and Herzegovina's problems. “ Let him say one sentence, a quote, when we have done so. He's got someone to remember. I'm answering that TV under the control of Dragan Gilas, there's someone in this House to remember. Let's move on, famous linguist Milo Djukanovic answers you, Dalibor Brozovic, otherwise famous Croatian linguist and one of the founders of the Croatian Demographic Community and former Croatian Vice President Franjo Tudjman, is on the subject... Otherwise, let me say, professor at my university, I had the chance to lead the Republic Science Community, he was a member of the Presidency of the Republic of Croatia for science, so he asked why the average from Montenegro get the chance to defend the doctorate in Zagreb, I quote: "Yes, all this is true. They are diletants, but we need them as our exposure in Montenegro, because they need to work to prove the diversity of Montenegrin identity in relation to Serbia and the approximation of Montenegro to Croatia, so they need scientific calls in order to get their thesis on scientific research and... that their word would have a better echo and weight for the Montenegrin public. “ A quote has been completed. Is there anything controversial? Do you realize now what they're doing? Sekula Drljević, whose ideas were accepted by current Montenegrin Milo Djukanovic, finished his studies in Zagreb, and during co-operation with Pavelic, launched thesis, quote – aggressive Serbian politics is responsible for all problems in the Balkans. It's a finished quote. Whose are these aggrieved, respected citizens? Do you recognize? Whose weights are these in Croatia today? Whose are the more difficult ones in Macedonia? Whose are the more difficult ones in Serbia here? Our opposition, not all of it, but part of the opposition. That I don't keep spreading, but I still have some things to say. You see, this is where you mentioned Vuk Jeremic, the leader of the international gang of thieves and frauds, and, behold, miracles and not only that, he got a new epithet -- the batinash, the leader of the beatings in an attempt, because he came to fight in the presidency. Now I ask him for who knows which time, he runs the Centre for International Co-operation and Sustainable Development, here, I ask - Mr. Wolfe Jeremic, go on TV under the control of your Gilas and answer me the question is it true that you got $200,000 from Mongolia for your Centre for International Policy and Sustainable Development, and to this day you haven't explained, we keep asking, on the basis of which service did you, Wolf, get it? Here, just one more question I repeat - is it true that in the period from 2013 to 2017 he received as much as $7.9 million from various suspicious sources? That's why he's upset with Alexander Wolf, which is why he can't do it anymore. It's been a while. You didn't paint for nothing, Mr. Wolf. If you had experienced what you had experienced from journalist Miletic, so you would never go out among the people, you would be ashamed of yourself, but you have no face, because it is thicker than my sole. Now, that's the point. Furthermore, $4.5 million was paid by phantom energy companies operating in Shanghai and Hong Kong, whether it is true or not, where his close friends and associates were operated in the United States and convicted of corruption and money laundering, Patrick Ho and Shake Tidian Gadio. You mentioned Lozo. That's his brother from Harvard. You know what the Wolf is at Harvard, I used to say, it's not that college from Harvard, and we'll talk about it another time, but just one more sentence. Vuk Jeremic received $120,000 from Qatar, the embassy in Berlin, for $200,000. Here, I call on you, Wolfe Jeremic, to explain to the citizens of Serbia what you have received from abroad, and I know and I have the courage to tell you -- you have sold Kosovo with the question and the glory of that so-called. The state of Kosovo is better than Hashim Thaci. Is it true, Wolf of Jeremiah? Here's when you sold it. I'm not gonna say anything in my head. Vuke Jeremic, as a member of the Balkan and international gang of thieves and frauds in talks with US Congressman Ted Doe in December 2008, said: "The entry of Kosovo and Metohija into the UN is the best thing Serbia should hope for. “ By doing so, Wolf Jeremiah, you put a knife in the back of your own country and took the lead of a team of traitors and bastards of our country. I don't want to talk about Vuk Jeremic, but I have to say that what the media are doing to us is under the control of Dragan Gilas. You know what they're doing? They make films for an hour, an hour and a half, all for the purpose of Satanising Alexander Vukic, to throw him out of power and bring Serbia back to the brink of bankruptcy. That's what they do in cahoots with the neighboring countries I've been talking about. Well, look at the wonders who appeared, criticizing -- Dragan Sutanovac, called the grab of the money. Well, that one stole for that software, paid more for the VMA when the minister was in charge, than three softwares cost. What about the Sorceress? The Pasha of the Witch. And he's got a finger on his cheek, he destroyed the army, he says he didn't retire, and 28 of the top generals retired. There's someone to remember in this home. Let's move on. As for the family in Croatia, Mr. Minister, you know very well, because even before you were a minister, the Serbian families were destroyed there as well as in Montenegro. I'll only read one piece for time. Edo Murtic, who you certainly know as a painter in 2003, published in the magazine "Identity", number 61 on page 8 through 11, says this, please see Croatia destroying Serbian families spiritually. I had a terrible time. I was troubled to hear from Tudjman a few months before the 1990s election. He came to my studio, thinking that he would make me his Augustinčić and enthusiastically start talking about that Croatian people must have their own state with blood, that he would do to him with HDZ what Pavelic failed in 1941, that 50% of Serbs would have to pack their bags and move away. So our families, Mr. Marinkovic, were destroying and 50% of the others were either becoming Croats or disappearing. Thus, not only in 1941, 320,000 Serbs were translated into a Catholic church, but in this war, 34,000 Serbian children. Do you want me to tell you names, Dragan Gilas, Wolfe Jeremic and Dragane Sutanovac? Well, let our patriarch tell you. He was a Metropolitan and made a list. Only in the area of the former macho diocese have the entire family been verified. That's how they killed our family spiritually with this inside. Speaking of that part, another sentence. Never did you former regime gentlemen do it harder and harder now, that I didn't hear you say we were to blame for the war in the 1990s. I will only quote one Croat, which is Bolkovac, who said – the Croats attacked the Serb anti-tank weapons in Borovo Selo to provoke war and for this reason they brought down the bridge in Osijek, 12.02.2009. The same Bjelkovac, I quote, was the first to attack Serbs and Yugoslavia in 1991, not Croatia. Gojsko Sušak, Branimir Glavas, Vice Vukojevic, anti-tank weapons attacked Borovo Selo to provoke war, finished quote, "Free Dalmatia", Split, 13.02.2009. Well, how come you're not ashamed to say we're war-squawkers? The most beautiful thing about our biography is that we were on the side of our people and our country. No doctorates, no books we write, no scientific papers. Nobody's saying that anymore. Chase Becker says otherwise. Well, he, U.S. Secretary of State, said in 1992 -- Croatians waged war. I assured Tudjman to give the Serbs autonomy, he says -- no, he won't give us the Serbian state, we will lead the war. It's a finished quote. Let me bring this to an end. In the end, I have to, don't be angry, a few more sentences to say, ask these from the opposition, and you answer the same question, MPs and citizens of Serbia. I'll ask, and let the citizens answer. Who first in Serbia marked NATO aggression on our country? Well, Alexander Wolfie. Well, these shouldn't have said "aggression" but " humanitarian intervention". Who said I wouldn't go to NATO first? Well, Alexander Wolfie. Who told the first West - won't stop me from working with China? Well, Alexander Wolfie. Who said first - I won't impose sanctions on Russia? They made fun of it. Well, Alexander Wolfie didn't bring it in. Who first raised Serbia's army to an envious level? Well, Alexander Vocic. Tadic said, "What the army will do to me in 2008, and yesterday it says otherwise." He's got someone to remember. Who returned the 166th of Miroslav's Gospel from St. Petersburg to Serbia the first time in 175 years? Well, Alexander Wolfie. Who today is the only and last free ruler in Europe? Well, Alexander Wolfie. Give me one. There's no one else. Who first erected a monument to the father of the Serbian medieval state after 800 years? Alexander Wolfie. The former regime's representatives make a joke out of it. Who first implemented comprehensive reforms in Serbia after 30 years? Alexander Wolfie. Who first built hospitals, health homes and clinical centres in the last 30 years? Alexander Wolfie. Who is first in his term and who built the most highways, streets and bridges? Alexander Wolfie. Here I call them to deny it. Who is the most worthy of Serbian rulers to build the temple of St. Sava on Vracar, the most beautiful Orthodox church building in the world? Alexander Wolfie. They would never build it. There's plenty of that. I don't want to keep counting. Let me finish this in a sentence. While our President Vukic daily returns our country's international reputation, implementing peace policy, security policy, solidarity policy, not only for our citizens, but also for the region, Serbia's economic and modernisation policy, so far Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic and Boris Tadic are filling their pockets in various destinations and not only that, but they are muddying every success in Serbia. Long live Serbia in that name.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-30-0.u8104	Thank you, Professor Atlagic. The word is Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-30-0.u8105	Thank you, Mr. Orlic. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will be very brief, and I apologize in advance, Mr Orlic, if at some point I will step away from the very subject of the amendment, which I certainly support. Namely, the Hague tribunal sentenced Jovic Stanisic, former head of Serbia's State Security Service, Frank Simatovic, commander of the special units of the National Security Service, just over an hour ago. This is who knows what kind of proof that The Hague tribunal is exclusively a political institution and that in its work it is exclusively run by politics, that it is the urgency that Serbia and the Serbian people are found guilty of all the crimes that took place in the 1990s, that Serbia is the one responsible for all the wars and all the evils that took place in the 1990s. How else to interpret the fact that Serbs totalled seven lifetimes and 967.5 years plus this sentence today, plus the number of years of Serbs convicted before the BiH judiciary in the processes transferred by the UN tribunal, and that on the other hand, members of other peoples are almost not convicted or, if convicted, they would be, we can say freely, symbolic penalties. It all says that we were right when we warned, when we instructed that the pressures on Serbia would continue in the coming period and that it would increase in the coming days. It is not by any chance that these pressures are being intensified today, just at a time when Serbia, freely we can say, became the absolute leader of the Balkans in economic terms, when Serbia is an absolute leader in the Balkans in a military sense, when Serbia is standing up, when it no longer bends and doesn't apologize to those who need it and those who need it, at every step, at every place, and when it is guilty and when it is not guilty, when Serbia has finally become proud, when Serbia is able to build highways, roads, infrastructures, railways, bridges, hospitals, schools, kindergartens and everything else, when it is able to help its people who remain outside Serbia's borders. Of course, it is our fault and, of course, that we, who support the politics of Aleksandr Vukic and Alexander Vukic himself, who is their daily culprit for everything and everything and of course we are guilty because Serbia has stopped being powerless, we are guilty because Serbia is no longer helpless, because Serbia is no longer humiliated and as our colleague and friend, an MP in the Montenegrin parliament Milan Knezevic, said – we are guilty because we are Serbs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-30-0.u8106	Thank you. The People's MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić submitted to the 21st Amendment. The government and the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction accepted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law believes the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word is Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-30-0.u8107	Thank you, Chairman. Honored ministers with co-operation, respected fellow MPs and MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Financial Support for Family and Children and how significant it is, since it shows that the state in a responsible way supports the welfare of the family, the welfare of children and the welfare of future generations. I thank you, of course, and for the amendment. It refers to the entry into force of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Financial Support for Family and Children, which has been published since the day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia", as its application is expected since 1 July 2021. What I want to point out is that Serbia today is economically stronger, that Serbia shows positive results and large steps forward in many social spheres. Thanks to economic progress, thanks to a stable state, it can also help the part relating to the socio-protective function of the state, and the socio-protective function of the state is precisely one of the elements of the amendments and addition of the Law on Financial Support for Families with Children. I have to point out, I don't know which time, that since the 50s, Serbia has faced a negative natural race, but no one has cared about this to the President of the Republic of Alexander Vukic. The first to draw the birthmark problem, which was deeply buried somewhere by previous authorities under the rug, is Alexander Vukic, who has also made a significant contribution to demographics and population policy, which shows that the Government of the Republic of Serbia in 2020 received a special ministry, which is the Ministry of Family and Demography that should have a significant contribution and to achieve very significant results in the field of support for population policy, because one of the elements of population policy certainly is this law. What I also want to point out is that this law, except that it determines the minimum salary of the maternity leave to an employed woman, which is that this income cannot be less than the minimum earnings in the Republic of Serbia, it fully equalises women who are provided on the basis of agriculture with other women who are employed, and that is to say, the basis of which is taken 18 months to pay child care benefits. I must say that thanks to economic progress, economic strengthening of Serbia, but thanks to the recognition of your ministry and former Ministry of Labour, Employment, Boring and Social Affairs, but also to the Ministry of Finance and Associations, namely NGOs that have families and children in the focus of their work, this law also deals with protection and a particularly sensitive category of mothers, which are mothers who are on the labour market and who receive financial compensation based on unemployment. In fact, these mothers can extend the right to receive financial compensation for special child care if the competent commission of the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Fund determines that there are mental development disturbances in the child and in general if there are some difficulties in the development of the child. I must point out that this law and how it recognises single-parent families and how significant it is from the aspect of protection and single parents, but also that it is significant from the aspect of additional support given to parents and children with disabilities. In single-parent giving families that stem from this law, for example, a child's supplement increases by 30%, and in parents who have children with special needs, this increase can go up to 80%. In fact, this law shows that it was done in sy-energy, i.e. multidisciplinaryly, and that it was also done on the social aspect, and on the health aspect, and on the educational aspect. Could children who attended high school ever use the right to a 13th child's allowance? Never, until Alexander Vukic and the law of 2018. Why is it important that children attending high school receive that 13th child’s allowance? Because in this way it was wanted to increase the coverage of children attending high school, because education was actually shown to be in a direct causal relationship with poverty. So, kids who don't graduate from primary school, high school, have a much less job opportunities, and of course, and if they get hired, their work fees are much less. This government has done, as well as Alexander Vukic's policy, much to bring young people back to our country, but for young people to stay in our country, to work, to create their families and offspring, to keep their country for themselves, for their generations and generations to come. According to research by a Vienna-based Institute for International Economic Relations, Serbia was a country with an inflow of brains from 2015 to 2019, not a brain drain. 90,000 young people have returned to Serbia, mostly those who have graduated from college education and who want to make their contribution in their country, to create their dreams and their family here in Serbia. I would also like to point out that during the tycoon and national pair robbers, Dragan Gilas, Vuk Jeremic, youth unemployment in the total unemployed population was 50%. It's a record 50%. And then they wonder why the young people in their day were leaving? Well, because they couldn't get a job in their country, because they went after bread with their stomachs. Today, young people return to the country because they see a perspective here for their perfection, for their survival, for their wages that will meet their existential needs and, of course, provide a basis for creating their families. In line with the "Serbia 2025" plan, it envisions 14 billion euros for Serbia's new face, of which 700m euros for young people, so that young people stay in this country, so that the country will move forward with large steps, in line with the policy that Alexander Vucic has set out and that Serbia will never be on the side of losers again, but always on the side of the winners. That's what Serbian citizens recognize. Serbian citizens recognise the lie, Serbian citizens recognize the deception, Serbian citizens recognize the robbery, Serbian citizens recognize the violence of Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic and other ethnic pair robbers, but also recognise patriotism, work, responsibility and the result of Alexander Vukic and therefore the yellow tycoons will go to the dump of history, to collude themselves in their own hatred and mud. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-30-0.u8108	Since I had to delete the list, I'd just like to invite those who have been reported, and they want to keep talking, to re-apply. The word is Snow White Paunovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-30-0.u8109	Thank you, Vice President Orlic. Dear ministers with a co-worker, respected colleagues, Serbian citizens, we have already talked about this, I would say, an extremely important law. However, I have made a conscious report, literally following the amendment of my colleague Milanka, because he also says how determined this House and this Government are to deal seriously with this issue, so it intervened on the fact that the law does not take effect on the eighth day, as planned, but on the day of adoption. It'll practically be applicable from tomorrow. We talked, Minister, on the day we talked about the law, about all the advantages of this law, about everything that's good for this law, but in a conversation that was after the prey you told one great truth -- it's important to help the family with children financially, it's important to understand the problems primarily of mothers, there's just nothing new to say about what we heard that day in the tide, but it's important to recognize another moment that you pointed out and I appreciate that you're absolutely right, which is that the financial moment is not the only one. It may be important, but not crucial to define it as parenting, especially when it comes to second-born and third-born children. That's why I think it's important and that all future legal solutions to the improvement of this law that we now have will actually know the problem that is happening on the ground. No accident, I'm sure, in the first part of the session, before the break, there was talk about the Law on Higher Education and somehow when we talk about these laws regarding children, they're all about family. What do I think we should pay attention to? Special attention should be paid to the parents of children with special needs, to the parents of children who are of this law, yes, it is possible for them to receive assistance on both grounds, and I think it is very important to raise awareness, but it is also important to raise awareness, above all of us who are MPs and representatives of the people, and then in every rural environment, what is it that we need to improve that there is not much of this financial moment, perhaps some education of additional courage, a perspective that really promises from this distance if we look at it. I'm going to take a slight step away from what this law is, but I just have a moral obligation under the circumstances to say it in today's day, so I'm going to look back on our fellow citizen. It is a Serb from Montenegro, who was brutally arrested on Vidovdan on KIM only because he defended the nun, or asked not to search one representative of the church, a nun who did not really carry any danger with her. Because of oral and verbal intervention, he was brutally detained and imprisoned. Why am I sticking to this story? Because I read his wife's appeal today, the parents are little babies, who beg to simply become aware of how much this man, who's recently been operated, as I understand from that text, is letting go of his liberty, because he really didn't do anything that could be considered any crime. I know that even this way that we return this topic to the Serbian parliament will be misused, but I am saying all this because the family is very important, and this is one family from which a male member was torn off just because he had the ambition to be in Gazacstan according to his tradition of Vidovdan. I realize that colleagues are completely irrelevant to this part that I'm talking about, because I'm really a little harder to hear myself, maybe I'm being heard by citizens in a direct transmission who can hear less of them, but the fire is so big, like I'm at a game. I guess it's less important if a Serb is arrested if that Serb is not someone we know. My appeal from here goes, first of all, to the international community. This man is a Serb from Montenegro, a national of Montenegro who, unfortunately, has recognised this so-called creation of Montenegro. Kosovo, a team would rather have the consciousness to intervene very quickly and let this innocent man loose. We can't be family fighters in our own country if we don't have empathy for everything that's in the environment, so before this is about a Serb living in Montenegro alone. To go back to this law that's good. Just before I went back to the O.R., and after the Committee on the Rights of the Child, if I am not mistaken, Professor Slavica Djukić Dejanović, who started working on this job before you and had an endlessly difficult task. And I said that in the tide, it's not an easy task for you, and it's not an easy task for you, but it seems to me, for the shade, it was harder because she had the Ministry without a portfolio and somehow just went into this wake-up action with all of us, how important it is for us to be more and more. I agree, it's terribly important that Serbia's economic prosperity, all the other branches that have to develop, but everything we do in life is bad if he doesn't have anyone to inherit us. That's why it's important to hear from you, and perhaps in that sense, to pay extra attention to what you saw on the ground, and I'm sure you've been around. I'm going to take you back to that initiative, and I'm asking you to think about it as seriously as you can, which is how you repay the births at the time of the crown. Really, I think we owe them a big thank you as a society. Whether it's going to be through an extension of maternity leave or we're going to go one step further, so we're going to give them a few months of benefits on the job, which would be ideal, I'm leaving you to agree in government according to your options. Once again, I insist – being a mother is a difficult task. To choose to be a mother at the time of the world pandemic, at a time when the whole world stopped is more than brave. That courage should be rewarded because that courage somehow showed that this tradition of brave Serbian mothers is genetically continuing. I believe that all future generations will have the same women as we have today and what we had yesterday and in some distant history, since the tradition of Serbs does not last so short. There is no dilemma that this amendment that has been accepted, I said, by the fact that the law will come into force immediately. We are at your disposal as SPS MPs in everything you plan to take further action to improve the improvement of our birthright, but from knowing what the problem of the family is, and you will allow us to point to the same moment that we recognize them in our environments, among our friends, or perhaps as the Women's Parliamentary Network, because with colleague Christmas, Natasa Vacic and all representatives of the Women's Parliamentary Network, we are preparing to go to any even rural environments to hear what the problems are from the female corner. I'm sure there'll be extra work for you when we get back from there. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-30-0.u8110	The word is Biljana Jakovljevic. The remaining time is about 10 minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-30-0.u8111	Thank you, Vice President, Mr. Orlic. Dear ministers with co-operation, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, an amendment relating to the Law on Financial Support for Families with Children to Article 26 aims to define and extend the list of persons exercising the right to a child's allowance. Certainly the national project "Serbia 2025" envisions work in the field of demographics and population policy, as well as changes in the area of this law. The financial support of the state to families with children and newborn children is certainly not crucial when young couples decide to start their family, but they are not small and not insignificant. I will remind citizens of what my colleagues have already said before, that the previous government on the initiative of the president of the state of Aleksandr Vukic has provided great financial support for newborn children of 100,000 dinars for the first child, which is paid once a month, for the second born child of 10,000 dinars paid monthly over a period of two years, for the third child of 12,000 dinars over a period of 10 years, which is also paid once a month, and for the fourth child of 18,000 dinars per month for a period of 10 years. All these financial separations are not small and are not insignificant and this is exactly an indication that our country is leading a responsible, strategic policy when it comes to the birth rate in our country. Also, the prime minister, or Prime Minister Ana Brnabic, stressed in her exposé that one of the government's priorities will be precisely the issues of demographics and population policy, and the amendments to the laws that lie ahead today. All these changes ahead of us today and the amendments are, of course, positive and refer to positive changes in the area of maternity rights. This refers to two periods, a period during maternity leave and a postpartum period, or during child care. I'm just going to read some of the most significant changes that are very important and important. The first amendment refers to the fact that every woman employed during the maternity leave that has lasted since the day of its initiation for a minimum period of 28 days, especially at the order of a doctor 45 days before the child's birth date for up to three months of child's life, will pay a salary during maternity leave that cannot be less than a minimum profit, which amounts to about 37,000 dinars. This change takes as much as 300 million on an annual basis. This amendment will begin immediately after the adoption of this law, so from July 1st. The second major change relates to cumulative payments, mothers who have children with disabilities did not exercise the right under this law and the right to care and assistance, now it will be possible to make those payments and will be made up to five years of child's age if there are needs and payment starts retroactively from 8 May. Also, women farmers are now in the same position as all other women, earlier their accounting period was 24 months, now it will be 18 months, which is also the case with other women. Another very big and important change is, which requires actually a huge amount of funding is a change in the maximum amount of compensation, so far there have been three average earnings, now there will be five average earnings, which is just, since the salary is a contribution of five earnings and mothers who have had high incomes according to this have been damaged. This part will begin from 1 January 2022. I am very glad that both the Prime Minister and the President of the State and the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Family and Demography have recognized all these problems and have allocated huge funds for all these changes of 65 billion per year, which is very commendable since we are in the year of the crown of the virus, i.e. a very crisis year. In fact, in the context of further priorities of operation and promotion in this area, the work of resolving housing issues for young couples as well as the subsidisation of kindergartens is envisaged, the allocation of further resources for biomedically assisted fertilisation. This sector deals with an entire portfolio and indeed a lot of time, a lot of effort, a lot of energy is being invested to increase the birth rate in our country. I will take the opportunity to propose to all local self-governments that, within their social work centres, the youth office establish some offices, i.e. counselling centres for couples who opt for biomedically assisted insemination, or help, as well as to provide all relevant information they need for this move. At the very end, I will support this amendment as well as any proposed changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-30-0.u8112	Thank you. The word has Milija Miletic, three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-30-0.u8113	I thank you, Dr. Orlic. Dear Ministers, fellow Members of Parliament, I think the bill has been passed right now when it is most difficult, when it is necessary to help our mothers, or our children. I think this law deserves great attention and we will certainly vote it here, because from this moment on, when the situation in the whole world is difficult, our country has the opportunity to help both mothers and children, which is great. I'd like to say a few specific things to the minister, since you said you'd visit municipalities where there's a really big problem with birth, one of those municipalities is Svrlig, where I come from, and the largest number of such municipalities in southeastern Serbia, where there's a really big problem, where there's more attention. This is now a good move, a good law, with me thinking that in the next period we should find the opportunity to provide more funding for municipalities where there is a high mortality rate, where few children are born, where villages are in a very difficult situation. There are no young people in some villages, so there are no children. We need to give these villages and these areas more attention, i.e. that we need to set out more for areas with more difficult living conditions, mountain-mounted areas, where the birth rate is very low. Greater detachments should be given, at least 50% higher for such areas, for mothers, for newborn children and for women living in the country. I'm undermining that one more time, giving more financial attention, because I'm sure that'll give you some results. I also invite you once again to come to Srlig, visit that part of Southeastern Serbia to see and talk face to face, because we have been helping every family since 2012, every child born in the territory of the municipality 50% more single for mothers and those children born in rural areas. Thanks again. I will support the bill and once again thank you for proposing this law in the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-30-0.u8114	Thank you, Mr. Miletic. Last application for the word Natasa Mihailović Vacic, three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-30-0.u8115	I thank the chairman and vice president of the National Assembly. I would only like once again to underline what I was talking about and in the principle debate, that it is extremely important that we correct certain mistakes and shortcomings that this law had, which, of course, the Constitutional Court has made a decision, but we are also improving and improving it, without a doubt, and the scope of mothers, women and families is much greater than it was before. Even that moment about the pandemic that slowed down to a good degree to make these changes, and the law compensated through one-time assistance to the citizens of Serbia, especially families with children, mothers, etc., in some ways complemented what we couldn't do in that time of the pandemic. What I would particularly like to draw attention to, which we also talked about, as were the prime ministers and the competent ministries with associations dealing with this topic, is that after the adoption of this law, we will start a new fight, the initiative that we will also adopt today, further advance, and that in some future period when conditions are obtained in the budget, we have improved and included women with, or families with more than four children, entrepreneurs. Of course, when we talk about entrepreneurs, they also need to allow for two years of maternity leave, of course it takes changes to the labour law, and there's still a lot of work ahead of us. What is important is that the basis for calculating maternity leave fees is reduced from 18 to 12 months, and that was also the subject of talks between the prime minister and the associations, and the association with which we talked, the "Moms are the law", whose representatives we spoke to before this session, have made amendments concerning these changes, but the reality is that there is no point in submitting at this time amendments that we know cannot be accepted, because their adoption requires money from the budget and I look forward to moving forward and I believe that we will further improve this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-30-0.u8116	Thank you. Minister, if you'd like a word, please sign in.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-30-0.u8117	Dear Members, just a few sentences...
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-30-0.u8118	I ask you to listen to the Minister, the Government's representative.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-30-0.u8119	Just a few sentences to say, in this debate on the draft law on amendments to the law could have heard several very useful initiatives that we couldn't cover, not because we heard later, we could have been in the form of an amendment. We could have been in the form of an amendment, but that's all we're doing and it's in correlation with budget options. So for these improvements, it seems to me that it's not said on an annual level of 64 billion dinars, so it's not small money, and someone's going to say about the state that it's not much, but it is, we're not a rich country, we're not a rich country, we're on a good path as far as recovery and economic and everything else, but we're far from a circle of rich countries that could and that single out an incomparably larger resources relatively, but last time we said here, it's not crucial. A few of you have repeated this, and we have come to this knowledge that is very important. Of course, it exists as something that's long since been established out there, and here we have more and more talk about it, something else is about demographics. Money is important, but, once again, and to those who are bored, to say, it is not crucial. If it were crucial, then very wealthy countries in Europe would have an incomparable, incomparably higher birth rate, or higher birth rate, and have it almost as much as we do. An extremely complex and extremely complex problem of demographicism and that is something that is ahead of us as a priority in solving and carrying out ideas as well as in what way. I've said something here that I'm just going to say again, using other words, just because I find it extremely important, and that's the position of a woman in our society, women as an absolute factor that decides on demographics. So, I said something that I'm walking around Serbia and talking to local self-governments and I hear and I potential and they tell me and they admit it, and it's the sad position of a young woman, a girl, a woman who's already started a marriage, who's experiencing from the employer the chicanism of every species if she decides to have two children, and three of them can't even think about it, because she's going to lose her job. What can be done is always a question on the table. Of course, legislation is there, laws exist, however, there is no state that has such fast laws that it can react that in this particular case a woman would say – well, okay, protect me law, quickly passed what started as a process and I will go to a third child, no one can forbid me, or a fourth. No, it stalls and mothers turn into martyrs or martyrs and give birth to one, possibly two children. The problem with employers is big, I'm asking wherever I can, and here I am, because there are no other options. It's mostly very wealthy people who, again, are not paradoxes, but it confirms what I'm saying, it doesn't mean anything, that don't have many children themselves, have a lot of money, but don't have many children, have one possible two. Mostly one. It's this disturbed system of values that we've talked about here and where these people and that consciousness that is dominant, unfortunately, thinks that the main value of capital, wealth, material condition, not biological condition. And that's the biological state, the dominant in our lives, that's what everyone's saying, and everybody understands that, and it's a big effect and a little victory. The big victory will be when we can move it, stop the negative trends and move forward. So the big win and the contribution is already being seen as problem number one. I repeat, I said here I am not giving it to myself, far away either, or to the Ministry that was founded, but the very fact that the Ministry of Demography was founded before that was the introduction of one Ministry without a portfolio for population policy, so it's saying and again this government, or the previous one, did not do it, they absolutely didn't think it was a problem, and the problem is all the problems. So, the decision itself says that there is great will and there is concern, this will not be big words, nor am I speaking them with that ambition, concern about the fate of our people, not fate about geography for Kosovo, for I do not know which other elements that are also very important, but the biological fate of a people who disappears from the birth and mortality and in the migration movement, which is also not any specific person of Serbia, but all countries in Europe, some feel less, some more. We have trends that are good and encourage people, educated people to return to Serbia, not just from the IT sector, because then someone says that the IT sector, it's something specific, it's something that you can do out of I don't know Kragujevac or from some village in Valjev to do a favor for someone in Australia, without any problem and do it well and to prove some of our young people. Thank you again, first of all, for the fact that you've taken part many of you in this, that you're interested in this topic, that's encouraging. If we do together what we can and does not require neither separation nor money nor anything else, we will enrich our own lives and our own families, and we will contribute to what we are talking about, to saving our people. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-30-0.u8120	Thank you. Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide on the bill in the voting day. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, according to article 87. 5. I hereby appoint the Rules of Procedure on Wednesday 30 June 2021 starting at 18.10 p.m. as a day for voting on the agendas of the Sixth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 12th Assembly. I thank the minister and his associates for their presence. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before we move to a decision on the agenda points, we need to determine the quorum. According to Article 88(5), The Rules of Procedure, a quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the voting day, exists if most of the total number of MPs are present at the National Assembly session. I ask the Members to insert the cards into the MPs' units. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 173 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and therefore there are conditions for decision-making. We're moving on to a decision. First item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Student Organization. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the Bills in principle and in particular, we move on to a decision. I'm voting on the draft law on student organisation, in principle. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: a total of – 178, for – 177, was not voted by one MP. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendment. The 6th Amendment was filed by the People's MP Sandra Christmas. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: total – 178, for – 18, did not vote – 159 abstention – one MP. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendment, we approach the vote on the bill, in general. I put the draft law on student organisation in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: total – 178, for – 178 MPs. I find that the National Assembly unanimously adopted the draft law on student organisation. Second item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Higher Education. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the Bills in principle and in particular, we are moving to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Higher Education, in principle. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: total – 178, for – 178 MPs. I find that the National Assembly unanimously accepted the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. The 20th amendment was submitted by the MP, Dr Aleksandar Martinovic. I'm putting this amaniac to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: total – 178, for – 40, did not vote – 138 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 22nd amendment was submitted by MP Sandra Jokovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: a total of – 178, for – 11, did not vote 167 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Mladen Boskovic submitted to the 27th amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: total – 178, for – seven, did not vote – 171. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 32nd Amendment was submitted by the MP Dr Aleksandar Martinovic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: total - 178, for – 34, did not vote – 144. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendments, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Higher Education, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: total – 178, for – 177, did not vote – one. I find that the National Assembly has adopted most of the votes the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Higher Education. Third item of the agenda – Proposal for a LAW ON THE MARKETING OF POLYPRIOR PRODUCTS. I remind you, the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle. I would also like to remind you that the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management has withdrawn an amendment that, after Article 30, the names of members and members of 30a - 30g are added. The National Assembly will, in accordance with Article 160(3). Rules of Procedure, to decide only on the draft law in general. I put to the vote the draft law on the regulation of the agricultural product market in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: total – 178, for – 177, did not vote – one. I find that the National Assembly has adopted most of the votes the proposal for a law on the regulation of the agricultural market. Point four, I would like to remind you that the proposal for a law on metrology has been withdrawn, that this point has been withdrawn from the procedure at the request of the Government on June 25th. The fifth item of the agenda – Proposal for an amending and supplementing law on the financial support of the family with children. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the Bills in principle and in particular, we move on to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Financial Support Act for the family with children, in principle. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. Stopping vote: total – 178, for – 178. I find that the National Assembly unanimously accepted the bill, in principle. I remind you that an integral part of the draft law has become an amendment of the Government to Article 14 and amendments of MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić to Article 21. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. National MPs Djordje Komlenski, Marijan Risticevic, Bojan Torbica and Ana Karadzic submitted together to the 3rd amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: total – 178, for – seven, did not vote – 171. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 6th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Djordje Komlenski, Marijan Risticevic, Bojan Torbica and Ana Karadzic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: total – 178, for – six, did not vote – 172. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Djordje Komlenski, Marijan Risticevic, Bojan Torbica and Ana Karadzic. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: total – 178, for – four, did not vote – 174. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. I remind you that the Government has proposed that the provisions of Articles 6 and 7. The draft law has a feedback. According to Article 197(2). The Constitution of Serbia and Article 160(4). The Rules of Procedure, when the draft law contains provisions for which a return fact is provided, specifically determines whether there is a general interest in this feedback. I put to the vote a proposal from the Government proposing a feedback to the provisions of Articles 6 and 7. It's a bill of law. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. Stopping vote: total – 178, for – 178. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there is a general interest in the feedback of the provisions of Articles 6 and 7. It's a bill of law. I remind you that the amendment of MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić to article 21, which has become an integral part of the bill envisioned that this law enters into force on the day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". According to Article 196(4), paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, laws and other acts shall enter into force on the eighth day from the day of its publication and may enter into force early only if there are particularly justified reasons for this when they are adopted. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I'm stopping the vote: total - 178, for - 178. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. We approach the vote on the bill in general. I put the draft law amending and supplementing the Financial Support Act to the family with children, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I'm stopping the vote: total - 178, for - 178. I find that the National Assembly unanimously adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Financial Support for the Family with Children. The sixth item of the agenda - Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Singapore on the Remembrance of Double Taxation in relation to Income Taxes and Prevention of Tax Evasion and Avoidances. Before we move to decision-making, I remind you that, on the basis of Article 105 paragraph 3. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, decides on laws governing the conclusion and validation of international contracts by majority of the votes of all MPs. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Singapore on the elimination of double taxation in relation to income taxes and the prevention of tax evasion and avoidance, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I'm stopping the vote: total - 178, for - 176, it didn't vote - two. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. Ladies and gentlemen, we've come to an end. I just want to remind you that I scheduled for Tuesday, July 06, 2021, at 10:00 P.M. The seventh extraordinary session with 10 agenda points. Since the National Assembly today, yesterday and these few days have conducted an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and decision on them, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude session of the Sixth Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly in the 12th Assembly. Thank you very much.
