ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-26-0.u2467	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening a session of the First Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 12th Assembly. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 138 MPs. I remind you he's a member of 49. The Law on the National Assembly provides for a quorum for the work of the National Assembly when each decision is taken if a majority of all MPs are present at the session. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the MPs' units. Thank you. I find that by applying the electronic voting system, 196 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Before we move to the agenda, on the basis of Article 287. Rules of Procedure, do any of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wish to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with this article? The word has the People's Messenger Samir Tandir.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-26-0.u2468	Dear President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the Honored Vice President, fellow Members and fellow MPs, my question has been addressed to the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Police regarding the opening of new border crossings. I want to say that the end from which I come is Sandzak and that part of the Sanjak municipalities are located in our country, and part of the Sanjak municipalities are located in Montenegro and that the everyday life of citizens and citizens in that area, due to the border that passes, is quite complicated, because the border passes through the courtyards, through properties, through houses and people, relatives, the nearest relatives from neighboring villages cannot communicate. In particular, this is present and visible and visible in the cave highlands, and therefore my question is addressed to the government of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Police -- when there will be an opening of a border crossing in the village of Djerekara, the municipality of Tutin, towards Bihor and towards Petnica. So, in order for our farmer to travel to the sea for three, four or five hours in the village of his shadowy country, he would place his goods from the goldy end to the north of Montenegro, but when that border crossing was established, he would reduce significantly, and then, in 15, 20 minutes, produce, shadow cheese, gold cheese, ham, can be placed in Berani, Petnica, north of Montenegro in 15, 20 minutes. Also, there is a similar problem with citizens and citizens of the rural areas, especially I want to say mosquito villages, because these people cannot enter the village of Apple near Prepolje, they cannot enter their forest property because it is located on the other side of the border. I appeal to our border police to zealously, as so far, protect our border, but to really have regard for these citizens because people were going to visit their herd or their meadow or their forest property and end up in the police administration of the neighbouring state. I would like to point out that the engagement of our MPs in the previous meeting opened the border crossing at Presevo towards Northern Macedonia, according to Kumanov, and we have received a lot of commendation from the business community of people in both Northern Macedonia and in the Republic of Serbia that this border crossing has helped us to have a faster flow of people and goods. I want to point out that Macedonia is an important market for our companies, an important market for our business community and business people, because our companies are traditionally present in the services sector and in the production sector, but also in tourism. And when their people, residents, citizens come to visit our country. What is also important when it comes to eastern Serbia is the permanent opening of the border crossing of Kadibogaz near Književec, and we believe that with this border crossing, the permanent opening of the border crossing would help citizens and citizens living in that part of our country, and in particular would speed up tourism, because then people would be able to visit municipalities, especially the Svrlig municipality, instead of traveling now 150 and 200km to 30-40km.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-26-0.u2469	Thank you. The People's Messenger, George Milicevic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-26-0.u2470	Thank you, Your Honor. The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the President, the findings and the question I will ask is addressed to you, and you, of course, if you are able to answer the question immediately. In fact, the SPS parliamentary group has repeatedly spoken together with its JS coalition partners that this parliament has huge confidence and huge support for Serbian citizens. At one of the previous sessions, I said that this Parliament and this assembly have a historic chance and that each of us should, as an MP, dedicate to our common state. I think we've done a lot of work as Parliament in the previous period of time. I think we have managed to implement the largest part of what was the content of the European Commission's report, as regards the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The last thing we did was adopt the Ethics Code, which was once unimaginable, was impossible to reach a consensus, because some political options did not respond to the adoption of the Ethics Code in the National Assembly. My first question – do you think that following the Ethics Code, we should go into the initiative to create a new Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, because the Rules of Procedure, which is current, was adopted in 2011 and you know it very well? It was then adopted as a transitional solution. The advice of the professional public and the European Parliament, or the EU, of the Constitutional Court, has been taken into account, but this transitional solution has open issues. We have referred to these open issues during the previous call, starting with how it can, in which way, prevent the mandate of MPs from being subject to political trade after the elections, because this can lead to political instability, which is not good. Political stability is a prerequisite for any further progress Serbia has made. We also talked about the responsibility of the MPs who are on permanent duty in the Assembly, according to work in the Assembly and towards coming to work. Let's start with the SPS parliamentary group – anyone who doesn't come to work, and on permanent work is, and Mr Markovic from JS agrees, anyone who is on permanent work, and doesn't justify his absence and doesn't appear at the Assembly, I'm sorry, must have material consequences, because we have to make an equal sign with the citizens. Citizens working in the private sector if they don't come to work, they must be punished materially. Also, we talked about it, Mr. President, we have several committees that are pillars, of course, three ministries that are pillars, but we have three new ministries, but in each government we have ministries that are somehow pillars, which are the backbone. It has happened and happens that we have, say, a ministry without a resolution committee in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, and the ministries are obliged to submit a report to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia three months, so it is completely unimaginable, say, that the Ministry of Youth and Sports reports, with due respect to colleagues from the Committee on Science, Education and Technology, but it is unimaginable to report to the representatives of the Committee on Science, Education and Technology. One of these initiatives came and from fellow SPAS, we supported it, a subcommittee was formed. I think you should think that way. That's the first question. Second question, Mr. President, a few days ago, you spoke in public about election conditions. I'm asking this question for the public, because I think you're being misread and I think it's very important that you answer this question. You were talking about electoral conditions in the context that we accepted electoral conditions. I believe, I know, and I am convinced that you spoke about electoral conditions, in fact, about an agenda that is the result of an inter-party dialogue that has been reached in agreement with the European Parliamentarians. So 90% of these electoral conditions are, over 90% are realised. However, information has appeared in the public that it is some new electoral conditions and that you have actually accepted some new electoral conditions. Just for the sake of the public, I think it's important that we clear this up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-26-0.u2471	Thank you. You know what, you have asked a number of questions, but since Mr Martinovic is here as chairman of the Administrative Board, of course the topic of the new Rules of Procedure and the change of Rules of Procedure or making a new one is one of the topics that we mentioned on our College, but it takes serious work and it is necessary that there is agreement between parliamentary groups and that it will certainly be one of the topics in some subsequent period. When it comes to inter-party dialogue, etc., as you know, I did not participate in a previous inter-party dialogue initiated by the exchange of letters by Maja Gojkovic and McAllister. All that was agreed at the time, I think that, at least according to the reports I read, it must be 90% of what was agreed and fulfilled. No one has ever debated, nor has any dialogue been opened new so that we can read about any of the conditions in the newspaper or hear about it, such as the famous invention of "the Ministry of Elections" or I don't know what else, no one has been informed of it, nor has any official memo arrived in our National Assembly. Therefore, there is nothing new about inter-party dialogue there is yet to be discussed with representatives of the European Parliament on the moderations to participate, which topics, but certainly these topics do not fall within the domain of inter-party dialogue at all. Besides, there are no electoral conditions that can make a winner out of losers, and that's clear. Let's move on. Since you asked me questions, that's why I answered, otherwise I wouldn't answer. The word has a folk MP, Daniela Veljovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-26-0.u2472	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I ask the question to the Ministry of Energy and Mining on behalf of the citizens of the city of Kragujevac. In fact, Kragujevac is in the dark, in most parts of town it's not street lighting, I'm not talking about bad lighting, it's about the fact that there's no street light in the narrow and wider center of town. The problem lasts more than a month. When asked about the question of the citizens asked by Elektro-distribution, she answers that she is not in charge and points the problem to local communities and local communities to Elektro-distribution and so on. This is no longer a matter of aesthetics, but of real security, because it's a big problem being a traffic participant in the streets that are completely in the dark. In one of the streets in the city, the gates also cheated due to power problems and connecting newly built buildings to public lighting. I remind you that the public lighting system is powered by over 712 measurement sites. Most of it is located in the trafostations that are in the power of the Elektro-distribution. However, in the tender, a public hearing job was awarded to a company from Požarec, with which the contract expired and the new tender was not completed. The question is whether the electrical energy inspection is in charge of such cases and whether it is legally possible for public lighting to be maintained in the city to be obtained by a company that is not in the city. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-26-0.u2473	Thank you. The People's Messenger, Nebojsa Bakarec, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-26-0.u2474	Dear Chairman, honourable MPs and MPs, respected citizens, ask RIK, the MUP and ask if the exact claims of the self-called opposition leader, who is otherwise recognised by most media as such, Dragan Gilas, tycoon, of 13.01, who said, "Six months ago, hundreds of thousands of ballots were supplemented by boxes, shovels were inserted." Oligarch Gilas means six months after the election he claims that at least 200,000 ballots were inserted into ballot boxes, and in six months other than him no one has noticed. Look, he didn't notice the OSCE that gave a positive report, didn't notice the CRTA, Gilas's CRTA, which gave a positive report. Here, Gilasov Rasa Nedeljkov said, "These elections meet the minimum democratic standards." Congratulations on the election were both made by Tusk and Verhei and Sam Fabrizio, saying that the boycott was not a good idea. Secondly, opposition parties also participated in the elections. Some of them include Gilas' current PSG partners, but others as relevant as DJB, SRS, DSS and none of their controllers, and they had them in all polling stations, he did not notice hundreds of thousands of ballots that were inserted into the boxes. So that doesn't mention any of the 8,500 minutes, none of the more than 85,000 members of the election boards mention it. Thirdly, which is entirely illogical, Gilas's party and others in their own will did not want to participate in these elections, they say, so that they would not be stolen. From the point of view of Gilas' logic, there was no need to steal it, and then the illogical claim from Gilas about the stolen election because then who was allegedly robbed by the SNS? Yourself? So that's just Gilas' hallucinations. I have another question about another false claim by Hazjin Gilas, who said on the same day that he leaves Serbia every day for 50,000 citizens. Yeah, you heard right, he claims it. So, Gilas argues that Serbia leaves 18 million citizens annually. Serbia has seven million inhabitants, if what Gilas claims is true, Serbia would be emptied in five months. So, simply, these are statements that have great and harmful consequences, the public is deceived, and Gilas himself, you know, two days ago claims to this Assembly, i.e. Threatens this assembly, threatens and threatens the authorities of this country, threatens Serbia that unless its insane demands are met, to remove Vukic from the election, to prohibit him from running, to prohibit him from carrying SNS lists, to allow Gilas to win elections on the spot if possible and without a choice and to get a non-existent "mysterism for elections", that means all this is causing serious consequences. Let's remember, Gilas' party has a 1.6% rating. He himself has a score of 0.6%. Simply for the end, why are the Serbs telling so much lies? They are jealous that we are treating Serbia, that we are building Serbia, that we are injecting Serbia, that we are raising Serbia, which tomorrow will be a magnificent monument to Stefan Nemanja, all of which are jealous. What Basara said - they are passing on the hormone of accident, wickedness and envy, and President Vukic and SNS want and we are all here to allow Serbia, the whole of Serbia, and the Gilasovites to only secret the hormones of happiness, oxytocin, endorphins, and to prevent them from passing on that harmful counter-erdorfin. Long live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-26-0.u2475	Thank you. Since Mr. Bakarec mentioned the issue of the list bearer earlier, since I participated in the first round table of government and opposition in 1992, there has been an institution of voters since then. It's the first time anyone's asked that question. That's why I just said, like the Department of Elections, like some parallel editing teams or I don't know what else, separation choices. Last time we had Tadic resigned a year before the deadline to be at the same time parliamentary and presidential elections. That's all you can tell someone who's not referred to what's been going on in the past. What they did not apply now sets as some conditions for the current government. I'm saying this, so I'm waiting for someone else to pick up, but since no one's answering any of the MPs anymore, we're moving on. So you didn't all use that right. I thank you. Logs of the Sixth, Seven, Eighth and Nineth Sessions of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly in 2020 and the minutes of the Second Special Sessions of the National Assembly in the 12th Assembly have been sent to you. As most of the total number of MPs attend today's session, I find that there is a quorum for the adoption of the minutes from those sessions. I would like to inform you that the review in the Office of the Affairs of the Committee on Administrative and Immunity Affairs has shown that none of the Members of the Parliaments has submitted any observations in writing to those minutes. Accordingly, we move on to decision-making. I am voting on the minutes of the sixth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2020, held on 8th, 9th and 10th December 2020. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: a total of 210, for – 193, did not vote – 17. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the minutes of the 6th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly in 2020. I am voting on the minutes of the 7th session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2020, held on 15th, 16th and 17th December. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: 212, for – 196, abstention – one, did not vote – 15. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the minutes of the Second Regular Session in 2020. I am voting on the minutes of the eighth session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2020, held on 22, 23 and 24 December. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. Stopping vote: 213, total – 197, abstention – one, no vote – 15. I find that the National Assembly adopted by a majority vote the 8th session of the Second Regular Session in 2020. I am voting on the minutes of the 9th session of the 2nd regular session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2020, held on 27, 28 and 29 December. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: 212, for – 198, abstention – one, did not vote – 13. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the minutes of the 9th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly in 2020. I put to the vote the minutes of the Second Special Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia held on December 26th. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: 212, for – 200, it did not vote – 12. I find that the National Assembly adopted the Second Special Sessions of the 12th Assembly by majority vote. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, convened by the session of the First Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 12th Assembly, which was convened at the request of 230 MPs, pursuant to Article 106(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 48(3). Law on the National Assembly and Article 249. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, you have been sent a request to hold an extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia with a certain agenda contained in that request. For the session of the First Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 12th session, the following Dn e n i d 1 was appointed. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg on the exchange and mutual protection of classified information; 2. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement on the transfer of responsibilities for the provision of air traffic services between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Montenegro; 3. Proposal for a law confirming the amendment of the International Convention on the Harmonised System of Name and Code Marks of Goods; 4. Proposal for a law confirming the Second Additional Protocol of the World Postal Convention; 5. Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement on Co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran in the field of plant protection and plant quarantine; 6. Proposal for a law confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on co-operation in the fight against terrorism; 7. Proposal for a decision on the choice of judges who are first elected to the judicial office; 8. Proposal for a decision on the choice of judges who are first elected to the judicial office; 9. Proposal for a decision to give consent to the Commission's financial plan for securities for the year 2021; 10. Report on the work of the Regulatory Agency for Electronic Communications and Postal Services for 2019, with a proposal for a conclusion of the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications; 11. A proposal for a decision to amend the Decision on the election of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Socialist Party of Serbia parliamentary group. National MP Dr Aleksandar Martinovic, on the basis of Articles 92, paragraphs 2, 170 and 192, and in accordance with Article 157(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly proposed to carry out: 1st Joint Single Search on: - Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg on the Exchange and Mutual Protection of Secret Information; - Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement on Transfer of Disposal of Services in Air Traffic between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Montenegro; - Proposal for a Law on Confirming the Amendment of the International Convention on Harmonised System of Names and Codes of Goods; - Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Second Additional Protocol of the World Postal Convention; - Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement on Co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran in the field of Plant Protection of Plants and Plant Quarantine; - Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on Anti-Coration of terrorism. 2nd joint single search on: - Proposal for a decision on the choice of judges who are first elected to the judicial office; - Proposal for a decision on the choice of judges who are first elected to the judicial office. 3. joint single search on: - Proposal for a decision to give consent to the financial plan of the Commission on values for 2021; - Report on the work of the Regulatory Agency for Electronic Communications and Postal Services for 2019, with a proposal for a conclusion of the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications; - Proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Parliamentary Group of the SPS. Does the MP want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: 213, for – 200, it did not vote – 13. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. We're going to work on a set agenda. Before we move on to the first joint discussion complex, let me just point out that we're going to be working for three days. You saw from Dr Martinovic's proposal that there are three comprehensive discussions that will be so in the days. Today we will discuss international agreements, discuss international agreements, tomorrow about the election of judges, and the day after tomorrow about independent regulatory bodies and the changes of members of the Committee of the National Assembly. On Thursday afternoon, as it is the last Thursday of the month, it will be time for questions to be asked to the government and the government headed by Prime Minister Ana Brnabic to be here in the Assembly from 16:00 to 19.00 hours, and then there will be a vote on all the points of the agenda. We're going to work on the agenda now. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly are invited to attend: Branislav Nedimović, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, Maja Popović, Minister of Justice, Tomislav Momirović, Minister of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure, Siniš Mali, Minister of Finance, Tatjana Matić, Minister of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications, Aleksandar Vulin, Minister of Interior, Daniel Vazura, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Milos Cvetanović, State Secretary at the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications, Dr Goran Matić, Director of the Office of National Security and Protection of Secret Information, Nebojsa Milosavljevic, Director of Plant Protection in the Ministry of Agriculture, Tourism and Telecommunications, Dr Goran Matić, Director of the Council for National Security and Security of the Republic of Serbia, Nebojsabiljavršja Milosavljević, Minister of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Croatia, Ministry of Croatia and the Republic of Croatia, Mr. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. As you know, not to remind, you all know how long it's scheduled for discussion. In accordance with Article 170(1) and with Article 157(2), paragraph 2. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint single search on the first six points of the agenda. Proposer representatives, any of the ministers come forward? The word has the Deputy Prime Minister, Minister Nedimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-26-0.u2476	Dear President, honourable MPs, you are now facing several draft laws of ratification of different agreements from different areas. I will brief only on some of these agreements, and later on, my colleague, Vulin, will say a word about the draft law confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation. As is usually the case in the country of farmers, I will start with the law concerning the direct sector in which we are located, as regards the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran. Now someone's going to ask a question, where does this subject come from, this story? I'll just tell you now in the opening notes. Before 1990, the food trade in the agriculture sector was more than a billion dollars, the old SFRY. Then there was all the changes, the disturbances, the wars and everything else that is the rule, so that today we would be in a position to trade goods in the food sector between Serbia and the Islamic Republic of Iran as much as $10 million. Why is that? There are different reasons, I'll list only one of them. The lack of bilateral agreements for different areas, including for the area of plant quarantine, in order to improve the trade exchange. What does that mean specifically, translate into our people's language so they can understand? Iran as a country of 80 million inhabitants has its own needs for agriculture. In all the conditions in which they are located, I just have to say that the food sector is excluded from the sanctions sector and that there is room for trade. These people must sow wheat, corn, and all that is necessary for their existence, they must also use other fruit material to encourage their fruits and vegetables. Thank God, tradition has given, science has given, Serbia has made it possible for us to have such prestigious institutes, such as "NS Seed", such as the Institute of Warning and some other scientific institutions and some other business entities that can produce enough goods to place it on that market, but in order for that to happen, there must be an appropriate legal instrument. Very often people don't see these ratifications as important, but without it, there's no way you're taking anything out there. Simply by this agreement, this bill actually allows us to establish control bodies that will give consent that one slave can go from one side to the other and vice versa. This did not come as a result of the theoretical thinking of individuals, but only as a market requirement and that is what is most important for each regulation, that it is the result that can produce some economic consequence positive. I am absolutely sure that on the basis of the demands we have from Iranian businesses, our seed houses will have a lot of work to do and thank God for providing a new market, and don't forget to export at this time to over 80 countries in the world of our seed house. They're recognized as such. Every time I've had a meeting whether it's an ambassador to Iran, whether it's some representatives of their agriculture ministry, or now they're gonna be their deputy agriculture minister, where we're actually going to valorize all of this, which, if God does, the Serbian Parliament is ratifying, we're expecting a good job of certainly a few dozen million dollars. This thing, as our people say - grain, per grain of cake, dinar, per dinar of the palace. A few of these jobs and we don't have to worry about the future of this sector. Thank God, obviously we're in the Middle East, and we recognize the Far East as one of the most important segments in agriculture, especially when it comes to the development of science. When I talk about these other bill proposals from these other sectors, we have, above all, a bill to confirm the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg in the exchange and mutual protection of classified information. There is no doubt that this will be used for all state authorities, in order to get as easily as possible information that is necessary, most often to detect various crimes. As for the proposal for a bill confirming the Amendment to the International Convention on the Harmonised System of Names and Code Marks of Goods, you have seen this year, which is behind us, the year of the crown in which thank God, Serbia has managed with its work to have the slightest drop in GDP throughout Europe, without talking about goods and without ciphers of these goods, you can never realize it in full capacity. Anyone who stays away from this, who doesn't accept that common nomenclature and the rules that exist, can play for a while, but what they would say - she sang one summer and that's it. After that, it's gone. So it's very important that the Ministry of Finance put this bill in today's agenda and I think that this can only benefit the economy, and we have major tasks and great goals ahead of us. This is GDP growth in the year 2021 of 6% and without such things as economics and exchanges, it is difficult to achieve them. So I would ask you to support these five laws that I have said a few words about, in the voting day, and my colleague Vulin will do more about this next bill.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-26-0.u2477	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Alexander Vulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-26-0.u2478	President-in-Office of the National Assembly, gentlemen of the Vice-Presidents, honourable, honourable Members of the People, ladies and gentlemen, friends and comrades, the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on co-operation in the fight against terrorism is one of the ways our country, our security system, our security apparatus, to deal with global challenges globally. Terrorism is a global phenomenon, not only affects Serbia, as it does not affect only the Russian Federation or only one country in the world. Terrorism is a global phenomenon, it can appear at any time and anywhere. Even the reasons for his appearance don't have to be recognized. Very often terrorist organizations manifest themselves, of course, with their crimes and their crimes where no one expects them, sending a message where I might be looking for them. So this is our way of being part of the world's global fight against terrorism. The Russian Federation has a rich and true experience of respect when it comes to fighting terrorism. We have something to learn, but unfortunately, we are neither poor nor knowledge nor experience when it comes to fighting terrorism, and how we can contribute to each of our partners. This is, of course, an agreement that further strengthens our strategic and allied relations with the Russian Federation and proves that our orientation is such that we work with both the East and the West. The agreement, of course, should provide the basis for further strengthening and promotion in co-operation in the field of combating terrorism, in a comprehensive way, by exchanging information on terrorist groups, their leaders and members, on their financial means and ways of financing them, as well as to enable the exchange of information on types of weapons, ammunition and explosive assets used by different terrorist groups. This is all information that means a lot to every security service and very often collect them, not because they are directly the subject of some of your processing, but you simply come to the knowledge, and this is the legal way you can share that knowledge or receive information from the partner service. Serbia is a country through which different paths are often crossed. On these roads, many who do not want well, not Serbia, but the whole world, can find themselves and can pass. That is why it is very important for our services to always collect information about such persons, about such organizations, about such people, and to be prepared to share such information. But in order to share some information with someone, there must be a clearly envisaged procedure for how it is done, for whom it is done, and for who it is done. Information is the most valuable that a security service can have and share it, and without a legal basis, it's a felony. In order for that to happen, in order not to be tied hands when we are fighting terrorism, then it is necessary that you in Voting Day support this proposal and give the possibility to our services and to accept and give, exchange information and be part of a global fight against terrorism. As you know, the Ministry of the Interior is working well with its most important partner services within the Russian Federation. The ones most often and most co-operated with are the Security Council of the Russian Federation, the Ministry of Interior of the Russian Federation, the Federal Security Service and the Federal Service of the National Guard. These are all organizations we work with, of course, everyone in their own domain and in their own area. The Ministry of the Interior of the Republic of Serbia with the Ministry of the Interior of the Russian Federation has concluded a number of agreements in the field of fighting organised crime and regular migration, readmissions, as well as emergency situations. Also, through Interpol, we make co-operation through the exchange of operational information. This year's average is about 400 information that we exchange with the Russian Federation's competent services, as well as through training organised by the Russian side, which contributes to raising the level of professional training of members of the Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Serbia. As you can see, we have fruitful, rich co-operation and there is no reason to stop at all, there is no reason not to cooperate with the Russian Federation's competent services, just as there is no reason not to cooperate with any partner service that can help Serbia remain a safe and secure place for each of us to live. Terrorism is a global phenomenon. Terrorism essentially asks neither about faith nor about the nation. Terrorism is universal evil, which we can only oppose by putting the Republic of Serbia on the map of the world, only by having as many signed agreements and good, useful co-operation with partner services as possible. The enemy is the same, so the answer to hostilities must be the same. Terrorism is a global phenomenon and only by global action can we fight it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-26-0.u2479	I thank the ministers. As far as the committees are concerned, Aleksandar Markovic, the Defence and Home Affairs Committee, reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-26-0.u2480	Thank you, Chairman. I'll be real quick. Dear ministers and guests from the ministry, ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs has unanimously decided at today's session to propose to the National Assembly to adopt a bill confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on co-operation in the fight against terrorism. This agreement, as you heard, was signed during a visit by Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov to Belgrade on June 18th 2020. It will contribute to a faster exchange of information, experience and good practice, especially when we consider the position of the Russian Federation on a political and security scene and when we consider its contribution to the international fight against terrorism. Taking into account the international obligations of the States and acting in accordance with national legislation, the objectives and principles of international agreements on the fight against terrorism Resolution of the UN General Assembly, it is necessary to integrate this agreement into the domestic legal system. The fight against terrorism as part of a broader and comprehensive fight against crime and corruption is high on the Serbian government's list of priorities led by SNS headed by Alexander Vukic. For all these reasons, I invite you to support this bill in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-26-0.u2481	Thank you. The word has a folk MP Jelena Zaric Kovacevic, the Committee for Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-26-0.u2482	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, we discussed at the session of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law on Proposals that are before us today and found that they are in accordance with the Constitution and the legislative system of the Republic of Serbia. At the committee session, we were particularly important and interesting, let's say, singled out the agreement between Serbia and the Russian Federation on co-operation in the fight against terrorism, so I, too, will, in a short way, look back on the agreement as my colleagues on the board spoke about it. So terrorism is a threat aimed at the rule of law, democracy, directed against the peace and security of citizens, sovereignty and territorial integrity of a country, directed against the stability and security of the state. We were able to see that the government and the National Strategy for the Prevention and Combating Terrorism set certain standards and certain objectives precisely in the area of prevention and the fight against terrorism. This agreement today, which is ahead of us, shows not only good relations between the two countries, therefore, between Serbia and Russia, but also shows that through co-operation with Russia's security services, we ensure the exchange of information, exchange of experiences and make some training available for our members of the Interior Ministry. As a state we must follow challenges and newspapers in this area, we must also follow potential threats to our country and our citizens and act institutionally in the fight against terrorism, in which this agreement will also help us. I therefore call on fellow MPs and MPs, not only this agreement, but all other proposals to support in the voting day because they are good for our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-26-0.u2483	Thank you. National MP Marijan Risticevic, Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-26-0.u2484	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, as chairman of the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, in my opinion the most important committee in the National Assembly, it is my honor to announce that yesterday as a committee we supported an agreement with the Islamic Republic of Iran. Also, I have to say, for four years, I've been president of a group of friendships with Iran. I had the pleasure and the honor of learning more about the Islamic Republic of Iran. It's a very interesting country, not only because it has 80 million inhabitants, but it can be a very favourable market primarily for agricultural products, and at that time we exported seed products of wheat and corn between two and three thousand tonnes. When you say between two and three thousand tons, it looks like a small amount of mercantile corn, which is also of interest in Iran. However, when you take each seed to release a single drop of corn, when you take how many hectares are sown between two and three thousand tons of corn, then you come to the conclusion that huge areas in Iran were sown with seed goods from Serbia. It hasn't been that way lately, so in the last few years, that exports have stopped and that's why a plant protection agreement was necessary, and that's why a plant quarantine agreement was necessary, which we adopted yesterday. We think that our chance is not only for Europe in the sale of agricultural products, but first of all, we must, with our agriculture and food industries, conquer markets in the region and conquer some new markets, and Iran can be a very grateful market. We have problems with sanctions imposed on Iran, we have problems with transportation that should be regulated for exporting larger quantities of corn. Also, besides herbs, I think there's a chance of exporting beef. We are in the position that after the real cowicide that took place during the former government, yellow cockroaches, the time has come for us to renew our cattle production and obtain conditions for more offensive exports to the Iran market, which can be a good market for our local industry, i.e. to raise the standard of our farmers. We need these new markets, but we also need to take advantage of the opportunity, because the Minister of Agriculture is here and I believe that he is an ally of the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, to say that we need to increase subsidies to be as competitive as possible, since Europe is at 104 million hectares of 45 billion euros. So, it's somewhere on average if we take a hectare as a unit to share these subsidies, since it's about 400 to 450 euros per hectare, our subsidies at this point, although they've increased two and a half times since 2012, still if we divide by hectares a little more than 100 euros. Although they've been increased three times, I think they should be even bigger. Our goal is to raise these subsidies to, in my opinion, one billion, so two or three more times to raise subsidies to these today so that Europe can deliver so many subsidies to us at the time and if we enter the European Union. When we say: subsidies, everyone thinks that's what farmers get. Subsidies are also an opportunity for processors to have cheaper raw materials, for consumers to have cheaper food. So not only farmers are subsidized, but they subsidize into the processing industry and consumers, to be as competitive as possible. I believe that under the same conditions as those in the European Union, our farmers in a few years can outrun European farmers. With that in mind, we need a strong processing industry and a machine industry, we need a strong economy from which we can take money and focus on agriculture, and then through cheaper raw materials we thank the industry again and make it more competitive in the markets that I was talking about. The European Union has a food hyperproduction, but we also perform there with certain quantities, but I think that the markets around Serbia and the new market, i.e. the renewed markets, such as the Iranian market, can be a great opportunity for our producers not only seasonal goods, mercantile corn, but also for cattle and slaughterhouse industries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-26-0.u2485	Thank you. Honorable Members of Parliament, pursuant to Article 27 and Article 87, paragraphs 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 1800 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to bring in acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Since there are no more reports from the committees in charge, we are moving on to the presidents or representatives of the parliamentary groups. I will remind you that it is in reverse order compared to the number of MPs. I give my word to MP Muamer Zukorlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-26-0.u2486	The Honorable Chairman, respected ministers, honourable MPs, ladies and gentlemen, set of laws confirming agreements with certain countries on the identified topics fall under those topics that may be the easiest for us MPs in the National Assembly because the issue of establishing and improving co-operation with other countries is something that in no way can be disputed, something that should always be our joy, which we have intensive co-operation, which we are establishing and promoting. That's why the theoretical space for explaining these topics is quite boring, if we want to stick to a very principled relationship. However, if we go a little deeper into the content and meaning of these agreements themselves, as well as the subject that they imply or implicate, then we have a lot to say about these topics. Certainly, the MPs of the Justice and Reconciliation Party and our MP groups will support this law, namely these laws and a set of these laws in the voting day for exactly the reason. But what is particularly interesting to us here are those laws that confirm agreements on improving relations primarily with neighbouring countries, in this case with Bosnia and Herzegovina and Montenegro, and regarding air traffic. Of course, we have had solid co-operation in this field so far, but this is important for us not only because it treats air traffic, but because of our own and personal and political belief that relations with all countries are of great importance, but that relations with neighbours, or neighbours, are more precisely with countries in the region, of paramount importance. Certainly, we, too, are also interested in co-operation with BiH, but also with Montenegro, but also with other countries in the region, since the Bosniak people are so scattered across many countries of the former Yugoslavia, that is, the region. So just this trauma that we had, through the disintegration of Yugoslavia and the establishment of a number of borders that have in some way complicated mutual communication and co-operation within the Bosniak people, we are actually trying to make up for, we look forward to any co-operation that will facilitate that communication and facilitate that co-operation, but not only within one nation, in this case the Bosniak people, but we share the beliefs and the personal and political, that in fact the quality of our future in general will depend on how much cultural and civilization capacity we have to establish mutual co-operation. In fact, the cultural and civilizational quality of one nation, one community is measured by the capacity of that community or that individual or that group, to establish co-operation with others. Selfishness is an instinct, selfishness is an urge, and it's not a human value. It's also unique to animals. To fight for yourself, to seek for yourself, it's not some special human virtue or nobility, but to have the capacity to balance what is the interest of an individual and a group of a particular community, but also to establish cooperation with others, with different faith, culture, ethnicity and other belongings, is actually a measure of human, cultural, civilization and human quality. That's why we'll always be in every place and every time we support every form of cooperation. And one that refers to our people, our ethical, Bosniak community, but also one that applies to other peoples and other national communities. On the same basis, an agreement on co-operation with Iran should certainly be supported. So there are great opportunities, therefore, not only with Iran and other countries, in this case Muslim countries. I point out more than once how important it is, this is to say very bravely opening Serbia to Muslim countries that have experienced the most significant step with the United Arab Emirates, and not only then have we received this much investment and already the very visible effects of investment nature in both "Belgrade on Water" and in Kopalnik, and in other projects, agricultural and other. So these are really some steps but from my point of view it has more than just a business effect. This has its very important cultural civilizational reflections, given all the burdens that we bear, therefore, from history, especially from the relationship between the Serb-Osmanic relations and all the consequences resulting from this, from all the many prejudices we have on the relation, between Orthodox communities, on the other hand, Muslim communities, it is of particular importance to establish good relations and develop these relations between Serbia and Muslim countries. We members of Islam, or Muslim communities here, no matter what political structure we consider ourselves to be a chance, as a bridge to further improve these relations with the Muslim world. Certainly, the issue of the Agreement with Russia concerning co-operation in the fight against terrorism is one of the issues, i.e. even the topics which are inexhaustible by their structure and content and which need to be given greater importance. True, when you hear or pronounce the concept of terrorism, mostly on the first one to say, you accept the understanding that is most present today in domestic and international media and generally has a dimensional sound. This topic is also important in this dimension, but it has a much greater meaning and needs to be treated much deeper in order to actually consider the importance of this topic. Of course, the notion of terrorism has come from the concept of terror, which means intimidation through violence, terrorism, each with the goal of achieving an ideological political goal. However, both terror and terrorism are, in fact, the concept of violence. I don't think that concept is unfortunately the right place in our public communication, in our overall political and media discourse, so perhaps not in this very National Assembly. Usually, this concept is overrun, so superficial and usually the concept of violence, the phenomenon of violence and the fight against violence is left to those parts of the government that are, by their definition, in charge of violence. Everyone that the police will deal with violence, it's her key job. Of course, the prosecution and the judiciary will also be involved, so that they will deal with the phenomenon of violence in every respect and legal, but the question arises – why is violence so widespread? Why the human civilization in the zenith of its success in the 21st century globally? But let's leave a global plan, come to our ground here, on our home plan -- why so much incompetence, our overall systemic incompetence, civilization, and cultural incompetence, therefore, in relation to violence. It takes ladies and gentlemen to face this issue. It's not enough to deal with the issue of violence superficially and just fly over, fly through some of our statements and convictions when some acts of violence happen. We must face questions that have deeper reflections. Why does human civilization, even ourselves, despite all aspects of progress that in technology and all other aspects that should facilitate our fight against violence, why are we getting weaker in this? Why is there more violence? It's a topic that needs to be updated. Unfortunately, it is also being updated because of what is happening outside this home. We cannot bypass the subject of the rape of young actresses, or students of the so-called "Students". Schools of acting, we can't get around what the whole public is about. We can't bypass the subject of the related Miroslav Aleksic, whom they still call Mika in the media for miles. We can't ignore it regardless of our theme today. Of course, the easiest way to define yourself is through condemnation, mass condemnation, and disgust. It's something that's even more than consciousness. It's something that reflects every man, especially his parents, especially his brother. That's what the first reaction is, and I believe that all MPs share that opinion. We here who are in a position to pass laws, which we are in a position to represent the people are elected in the elections, we must have clearer views on this and send very clear messages. Why our society shows impotence, not only to oppose such phenomena, but to show the inability to react preventively, that is, why it has not reached the necessary immunity, moral immunity, political immunity, educational immunity, social immunity so that these things will not be before us at all. These are the topics that we have to face in terms of the phenomenon of violence. Of course, it is undeniable that the person concerned, the man who is a suspect, is incarcerated, that he must be prosecuted, that he must be given trial, and that the justice system proves true truth. So that's undeniable. Nor can it be disputed and whose side we're on. We have to be on the victim's side. But don't think that's enough. No, it's not enough. It's not enough to be on the victim's side, in principle and emotionally, to convict the unsub and ask him to be properly sanctioned. We have to go deeper. We have to deal with a situation that actually leads to someone being able to do something like that. That is why this topic is also a topic for the Ministry of Education. We have to deal with who can educate, who can call it something school, what are the mechanisms to protect it, or against it. It's a topic about education, then, a topic about the media. What do we have in the media today in terms of violence? How do the media treat violence? When I say the media, I mean not only that information aspect, but I'm talking about the media in general, including what kind of series we're shooting, what we're promoting in them, whether we need to have some series that's going to be well sold, interesting to watch, that's going to be watched, etc. Are we wondering what's going on with that show? What are the reflections of this series on our young generations and society? Do we have the right to remain silent or to support ourselves through a certain serial, or film industry, obviously and in a very aggressive way to promote violence? These are all important topics and important issues. Secondly, what is the question of perception of violence within ourselves? I'm not sure we have enough debates in the academic community, and especially not among the political community. The most common issue of violence is treated again by that reflex, that violence is only important when it is done to us and when it is done to someone our own, whoever it is we are and how we experience it. No, the question of violence will not be treated properly if we fail to raise awareness of violence, in such a way that we treat violence as a question of self-relation, that the bully, the criminal, whoever it is, no matter what kind of violence or evil we have been awarded, so we treat it as something in which we define ourselves. My relationship to violence isn't my relationship to a bully or to a victim, it's my relationship to me, because my relationship with moral and cultural, to violence and violence, I actually define myself in a moral sense who I am, whether I'm someone who is against violence or for violence. If I'm just against violence when it seems to me in one of my own, it's not human heat again, it's not a human category, it's an animal urge. Every animal is against violence when it seems to her or her cub, but, man is not an animal, he is a higher species, he is given reason and spirit and soul, and he must show it in fact to confirm his humanity in his perception and his behavior. So this question, of course in one speech, and not a single day, can be absorbed, but we have to keep opening it, first of all with ourselves, even if it's true that the suspect of rape, that Alexic, was a member of some paramilitary formations, so he can be a educator, he can be someone to give children to education, please, it's a question that is deeply touching, so we have to reduce and revise our relationship to violence. On the other hand, I can't let my family go to the end, I don't mean just this case, the subject is very sensitive and we have to choose words, but this hysteria by the parents regarding the unscrupulous attempt to make your child a singer or singer, actor or actress, to achieve fame at all costs, people, that's already at the edge of pathology, that's something that also happens through the entire educational but also the media system that's the most risky in this matter, we have to face this issue, otherwise the value disturbances in this way, where it doesn't matter anymore, just that my son or daughter become visible on the other side of the screen, so if he can be an actor, he can, he can't, he can't. If he can't, let's go singer, singer. If he can't, then let's go to reality. Of course I understand the conflict of the whole subject and I don't want to open it up right now, but I am speaking from an ethical point of view, from the point of view of our educational discourse and course, so we can't as a community, as a society, as a people on this be indifferent. Believe me, this will have its legal epilogue through the judiciary, as well as many other topics, but it is a surface reaction, without deep reaction, without revising our relationship with true human values, and then without revising our relationship as our education system is worth it, we are doing various reforms of the education system in a technical sense, in methodically terms, we have some progress, but we are also lagging behind, but we do not have a theme of reviewing our relationship, our education system in a fundamental, idea, spiritual and ethical sense, until we do, believe us, we have not the problem to the end or open it. This relationship will be easy or much easier to deal with and with potential terrorism, domestic, which, thank God, is minimum and of course to be part of the overall international relationship, but if we don't save our souls, our children, our family, we're free of all the global actions we can participate in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-26-0.u2487	Thank you. The word has a folk emissary, Jasmine Karanac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-26-0.u2488	I would like to thank the President, the Honorable Ministers, fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament. We are here today discussing a few agreements that are in themselves important, but not just that. These agreements confirm co-operation and good bilateral relations between Serbia and the Russian Federation, between Serbia and Luxembourg, then Bosnia and Herzegovina, as between Serbia and Iran. An agreement on the fight against terrorism between the government of the Republic of Serbia and the government of the Russian Federation, signed in the middle of last year when Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov visited Belgrade, implies improving co-operation between the two countries through the exchange of operational information and professional experiences in the fight against terrorism. It is a matter of co-operation in the area of information exchange, training to equip special forces with specific information and technical means. When we talk about the importance of this agreement, it is certainly important to point out that there is no state in recent world history that is immune to terrorism. Terrorism is a global global problem, which easily spills and spreads from one place to another quickly, and as such threatens both internal and international security. Since the 1990s, terrorist recruitment has been very noticeable worldwide through the establishment of terrorist training camps, as well as the networking of terrorist organisations, and therefore every country has an obligation to fight this great evil today. That terrorism is a danger and a threat that knows no bounds, unfortunately, also confirms the numerous terrorist attacks that we have witnessed in recent history. Terrorist experts estimate that modern terrorism has experienced a sudden expansion between the 1950s and the 1970s, when violence has been applied for political purposes, or for raising social awareness has become a popular strategy. In the late decades last century, terrorism spread beyond the borders of national states and became an international problem. I'm just going to give some examples of who we are here today. We remember New York on September 11, 2001, when four passenger planes were hijacked, two of which crashed, Twin Towers, the skyscrapers of the World Trade Center. Then, attacks in Madrid on 11 March 2004, when terrorists carried out a series of coordinated bomb explosions on a public rail system in Madrid, Spain, which killed 192 and wounded 2050 people. These attacks are considered the most serious terrorist crime on Europe's soil in history. One of the latest terrorist attacks is certainly the one in Paris that took place on 13 November 2015. None of us can forget the hostage crisis in Beslan, which is the name of one of the most severe terrorist attacks in Russia in its history. It began on September 1st 2004, after Chechen terrorists took over a school and ended on September 3rd of that year, by attacking Russian special forces. 344 people died, of which 186 children. This is one of the bloodiest terrorist attacks ever. After 11 September 2001, a number of anti-terrorism measures were adopted that Member States of the anti-rerost coalition must implement. The international community, and in particular the EU, has developed a complex anti-terrorism system. There are a number of documents by the Council of Europe, the European Commission and the European Parliament for adequate fight against terrorism. However, terrorism experts estimate that, on the other hand, there has been a new situation where organised crime and terrorist organisations that create completely unnatural alliances are increasingly connected. In such circumstances, when international surveillance is strengthened, terrorist organisations are increasingly using less common funding mechanisms, such as illegal trade, counterfeiting bills, drug trafficking. If long-term co-operation is sought in the fight against terrorism and if the states have committed to it, in this case it is Serbia and the Russian Federation, then it is necessary to regulate it by law. I believe this co-operation will deliver good results, as Russia has a rich experience in the fight against terrorism and a highly regulated and reliable system that makes up its legislation, equipment, information, databases, which through this kind of co-operation could also contribute to the improvement of our state system in the field of combating terrorism. On the other hand, Serbia's rich experience and knowledge within the security system and how it can be useful and valuable to large countries such as the Russian Federation. Taking into account the increase in terrorist threats, as well as the international obligations of the two countries, I believe the confirmation of this agreement will contribute to further improvement, both the fight against terrorism and the improvement of bilateral co-operation between Serbia and the Russian Federation. We have another important document here today, which is the Agreement on the transfer of responsibilities for the provision of air traffic services between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro. Namely, this is about defining the rights and obligations of the parties, as regards the transfer of responsibilities for the provision of air traffic services in the part of the airspace above BiH. By the end of 2019, control over the part of the sky of BiH, which is more than 10,000 metres away, jointly carried out control of Croatia's flights from one and Serbia-Montenegro on the other. By meeting the necessary conditions, in line with international obligations, the BiH BHANSA Directorate since 5 December 2019 oversees full air traffic above BiH territory and up to 10,000 metres, as was the case before, but also above 10,000 meters, which was in jurisdiction until then, as I said to neighbouring countries. The countries signatories of this treaty have joined the creation of this document in order to ensure that flights across common state borders are carried out in accordance with the rules of the single European sky. The agreement defines that the provision of air traffic services in most of the airspace above BiH is carried out by BHANSA, the BiH Agency, with SMATSA, the Serbia-Montenegro Aviation Control Agency, in one part of the air space above BiH, at the border with the Republic of Serbia. In 2019, Serbian, Montenegrin and BiH ministers signed the proposal. By adopting this agreement, we are long-term establishing a legal basis for the responsibilities of providing air traffic services in the part of BiH's airspace along the border with the Republic of Serbia. One of the important agreements today is the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran in the area of plant protection and plant quarantine. Why is this Agreement important? In fact, it should be noted that 23 types of seed from Serbia have been recognised in Iran and that if payment traffic were established between Serbia and Iran, that is, when sanctions were lifted, theoretically, Iran with its 80 million inhabitants would be sufficient to place agricultural products from Serbia. The current level of trade of ten million dollars is just a drop in the sea of opportunity. As president of the Parliamentary Group with Iran, I had the honour and pleasure of visiting Iran, talking to their officials and making sure that the country's opportunities and prospects for exporting agricultural products from Serbia to Iran were possible. I must also point out, while the minister of trade, tourism and telecommunications was Rasim Ljajic, several important trade agreements between Serbia and Iran were signed. Also, visas were suspended for a time and direct flights between the two countries were established. It was a great opportunity and there was a possibility of co-operation. However, because of Iran's sanctions, it has been lifted and I hope that the new US administration will renegotiate the international sanctions on Iran and that the market will reopen both for the rest of the world and for Serbia, which is more interesting for us at the moment. The agreement between the two countries was signed in Belgrade in 2018, and has already been ratified by the Iranian parliament. It implies co-operation in the field of plant protection, i.e. control and prevention of the introduction and spread of harmful organisms. Plant protection as part of agricultural production is a significant segment in increasing the yield and quality of plants and plant products. It is therefore very important to attach to the health condition of plants, and particularly to seeds and fruit material, because they are used for further reproduction, and therefore the possibility of transporting harmful organisms is greater. One important measure that involves preventing the spread of harmful organisms is certainly plant quarantine. There's internal and external quarantine. Surely much more attention should be given to external quarantine, since the quality of the shipment imported into the country is unknown. For this reason, this type of quarantine is given special attention and therefore this agreement is important. Most quarantine harmful organisms come from other countries and it is important here to point out that plant quarantine exists in all countries of the world. The reason is that the defence of the country is because the introduction of a quarantine harmful organism can cause far-reaching negative effects on agricultural production. Therefore, the regulation relating to plant quarantine is very important because it prescribes rules of conduct when importing consignments from other countries, and in the event of the occurrence of a quarantine harmful organism in the country, it prescribes measures to stop the spread and eradication of infected plant material. The agreement implies the exchange of information regarding the emergence of quarantine harmful organisms in the territory of the two states, Iran and Serbia, as well as the methods used to contain them. Also, the two parties undertake to carry out the necessary controls on consignments of plants and plant products, and each of these consignments must be accompanied by certain certificates. Quarantine in plant protection began to be applied at the end of the XIX century after major damages caused by some diseases and pests in Europe, such as potato burners, wine grape ash and phyloxer on the vine line, which caused the destruction of huge plant areas and caused immeasurable economic damage. It is therefore clear that countries that trade in plants and plant products bring such binding agreements. We have another agreement here, between the Republic of Serbia and Luxembourg on the exchange and mutual protection of classified information, and there is nothing disputed here. The two countries agreed to lay down rules for the mutual protection of classified information exchanged under policies, military, economic or any other co-operation, all in accordance with the national laws and regulations of the two signatories. Given the importance of all these agreements, the parliamentary group of the Social Democratic Party of Serbia will also vote for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-26-0.u2489	Thank you, colleague Karanac. The speaker of the Single Serbia Group, Dragan Markovic Palma, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-26-0.u2490	Honored chairman, respected ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Unique Serbia will vote for a set of proposals and agendas that are in today's session and for the next three days. I would ask the Minister of Agriculture to see how to stop the import of meat and help Mr. Farmer, because the state has given its maximum of its subsidies from cereals, beyond the living measure of cows, sheep, pigs and so on, but something that does not remember the agricultural producer, and I, as someone who lives in the country, has fallen so much the price of living scales. For example, last year's cost of the pig was 300 dinars, today it's 220. Concentrate, concentrate price increased 20%. The 20-pound jacket was 1,000 dinars, and today it's 1,200 dinars. The price of the tollboys, the customers were 200 dinars, today they're 130 dinars. The price of bulls was 2.2 euros last year, today is 1.7 and 1.8. And that meat is being imported from all over the world. We must ban the import of meat not from these countries, but from our meat and meat products producers, and they write a request to the Ministry of Agriculture what they can import from meat, because if we don't, respected ministers, now, as it is said in the country, they sell a round of bulls, so they call it farmers, 50% in three villages no longer renews, they don't buy calves, so they keep up to 550, 600 kilograms, how hard it is to sell on the market. It even lost that market that was once huge in Kosovo and Metohija when it came to the price of bulls. We don't know what we're eating anymore, it's frozen meat from all over the world. So they have to get the license first. Furthermore, if the decline in agricultural products is live scales, how come it didn't drop the price in butchers? Where does that difference go? Well, he doesn't make 30% anymore, he earns 230%, and we save Mr. Farmer and we save the future, who inherits farmers, children, grandchildren, if they put on paper and say it's not worth it to deal with agriculture. So it's my request to you. It's not the government's fault, but we have to take measures. It is that we have signed a lot of international agreements for imports, but we can tell ours -- you can't import 100 tons of meat from the Union, you can import 5 tons, and you can really buy it in Serbia. If we don't do it in the next two or three months, we're going to have a farmer who has 20 ha and 10 ha of the country do it on a social case and come to help with the local self-government counter, which is valuable and working people and wants to work, to live off their work. What did the stock market do when it comes to the price of grain? I'm sure you know that for the last 12 years, the price of grain has not crossed 18 dinars, right? It is not the government's fault, nor the minister, but let's see who regulates that stock market in Serbia, where grain is stored and who has it, and not that millers buy at the price of 14, 15 dinars, because the average farmer has no storage capacity and they say - the percentage of hatching is high, the percentage of humidity is high and pays him 15 dinars and 16, not even 18 dinars. And as farmers would say, fuel and oil for the last 12 years have gone as many times up. I repeat, this government has helped the most agricultural producers and subsidies, but if we don't do prevention and protection, free of charge and the money we give to farmers from the budget. When it comes to other agreements concerning co-operation with Russia, I think Russia is the most experienced state in terms of terrorism and that we can learn a lot from Russia. What's the point? The point is, is that someone gives you, not when a terrorist act happens, that you're chasing terrorists around the country or I don't know what, but to find out that there's a terrorist organization coming in that's about to attack a country. Terrorism is like an earthquake, when you least hope, when you have not caused anything, terrorism happens, such as in Vienna, Austria, for example, a peaceful state. And we're a peaceful country. We don't send militant messages, neither does the president of Serbia, nor the government, nor you resolute ministers. We just want others to respect us like we respect others. There has never been a stronger military and police force when it comes to both military and police weapons and are motivated by both soldiers and police officers in a way that buys apartments at low prices, bows to those who do not, where children are born. When I was in America and there I had a meeting with Steven Meyer, he was a deputy director of the CIA for the Balkans. And we talked about terrorism. Then there was terrorism in Paris. I say -- what do you call these people out there terrorists now, and when something happens in Serbia, they're not terrorists for you? He told me -- those who work for us, they're not terrorists. I hope that's the ancient history of America, that America is stimulating someone to attack Serbia, that this administration will inherit the bar, like Trump did, that no war has begun. We respect the will of American citizens. Congratulations to Mr. Biden, although I supported Mr. Trump, because I'm the only politician from Serbia who's been to Donald Trump's inauguration. And then I listened to his speech. He said they would protect their borders, fight how economically they would strengthen the state, etc. So all these agreements have a previous store. What's the previous store? The previous action is that we and when it comes to economic standards and jump and the number of jobs and GDP are ahead in Europe. That's what I'm told -- they won't sign agreements and co-operation agreements with a blind man. We must take advantage of that, and use the MPs who are members of the group of friendships, to go to these parliaments and to invite these MPs to come to Serbia, because a large number of MPs and states think that Serbia is what it was 20 and a few years ago, and even then it was not what they represented in the big world media. For example, to me. I didn't need a ministerial post to tour 10 states and have top-level meetings. It's Egypt. Egypt has 110 million inhabitants, the most powerful state in the Middle East, a large market, a lot of agricultural products, a huge amount, and let's see how what Tito and Nasser used to do started our country, and not just Egypt, and with other countries. Serbia is ahead of these relations when it comes to friendship and I must congratulate President Vukic and while he was Minister Ivica Dacic, who visited and visited the world. The crown has put an end to leaving, or measures are present almost worldwide, so our ministers cannot travel and fight for Serbia. But therefore, I'm sure that we have the best food, the cleanest food and that, when it comes to the agricultural producer, I return to the fact that we are not only served by a farmer when we need something, but also to help him. It's not a great percentage of budget filling when you look at how much agriculture brings money, but let's fight to get as much exports as possible and get as little imports. This only requires every agricultural producer, that competition be in Serbia, not that competition be from the Netherlands, Germany and some other countries where it cannot place its products and that all local self-governments help the agricultural producer. That competition is in Serbia, not that competition is from the Netherlands, Germany and some other countries where it cannot place its products and that all local self-governments help the agricultural producer. For 13 years I have not charged taxes on agricultural land in Jagodina to a agricultural producer, we do not charge the gigs at the market. This in the total amount of money is very little for local self-government, and for the agricultural producer is huge money, if he has to pay the tax quarterly, and the price of cattle is reduced living scales. Where's he gonna pay from? And there's no regress, no hot meal, no sick leave, nothing. Women living in the country don't go to sick leave when they're in a different condition. She's got to work, she's got to go to the field, no one's paying her. If there's anything in the attic of corn or grain or in the barn to sell, we're fighting the white plague. Let me tell you, we have individual villages in Serbia where the last child was born four, five and seven years ago, and these people have conditions and bathrooms and roads, etc., but they don't want to live in the country. The cities will be filled with people who want to go out of the village, because nothing bothers him more to stay in the country than to go once a week for a bag to his father, mother, grandmother or grandfather so that he can live and help him with a parent who's left to live in the country. A unique Serbia will support this proposal and a set of laws and agreements. Any international agreement can only bring Serbia, and it cannot harm. I would like to congratulate Minister Vulina and while he was military minister and now as police minister, so is Minister Nedimovic. When he was a military minister, we kept some exercises, not to scare someone, but to see what Serbia has today from tools and what it used to have. We didn't demonstrate force, demonstrate power and threaten someone, but let's say you can't play with Serbia anymore and you can't attack Serbia. Serbia has never attacked anyone before, but has defended Serb hearths and it is only one past that will historically remain recorded, and today we are working with, here, as the sky above BiH will now protect our planes. They're good people. And not to share nations by belonging, as Serbia does not. There are good and bad in all these nations, but there are many more good people who care about working, making money, working together, etc. For example, I love going to Sarajevo, Bashharshi. That's where I feel like I'm in Jagodina, and nobody touches me. You know, it's something that's a tradition, where each of us used to be an Elijah, a singing contest. I went there often, since there were many good singers in Bosnia, of course in Serbia, but there were more singers in Bosnia than in Serbia. It's just that time is coming back. We don't have to call ourselves brothers, but that co-operation is no longer what it used to be. It is much better and thanks to the country's policy and resolution ministers, so each of Serbia's citizens wants peace and security. Peace is that he can live from his work, that no one touches him, that he does not lie down and stand up in fear that someone will attack him, because Minister Vulin or Nedimovic has said something that is harmful to that state. We don't deal with other countries. Even when someone asks us what we think, we say it in some way that no one can ever blame us. Serbia has a good future. Here's the vaccine. Careful, Montenegro that has entered NATO does not have a single vaccine. So they didn't give us vaccines that they love us, but that they need Serbia as a house on the road in the Balkans, they need Serbia, Serbia keeps peace in the Balkans. Serbia, when you look at it, is the only country where the euro rests, where it inherited a difficult situation in economic terms and that inflation on an annual level is very small. It's one of the motives for other investors from other countries to come. Imagine if someone told us 10 years ago that 60,000 Serbian citizens will work in German factories owned by Germans in Serbia. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, JS will vote for the proposal of today's agreements and I can freely conclude, as a man from the inside, as a man who greets 30 people every day, means every day I greet myself, I have a crown, so I'm not healthy with my elbow or my fist, but like this, I'm not afraid I'm going to get back, I'm going to have antibodies, and I'm not going to say I know best, but I'm in the field and I hear what people are saying. Now that they're listening to us and some others, how to recognize the five-member family that some opposition is going to bring him something if they're looking for an election ministry, and he says, what do I care, what kind of election ministry I'm going to have where to work, what I'm going to live from, what the price of electricity is going to be for me, etc. It is much easier for us not to deal with the opposition, but rather to deal with Serbia's progress, as if there were no, the results are visible, they can hate us, but the works are important that are visible at every turn. Thank you, dear ministers and ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-26-0.u2491	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. Minister Branislav Nedimovic called for the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-26-0.u2492	The President-in-Office, honourable MPs, I thank you for these topics that have been launched, although someone may say they have nothing to do with this agenda, but this is so important. Themes that were just said that I can't stay unspeakable and I have to tell you that things really stand. The fact is that Mr. Markovic said in a previous statement that there have been huge disturbances in the world food market and it is doubtless that this crown has taken the big wave in that segment as well. On the one hand, you have incredible leaps on the world's grain market, and on the other hand, that brings another problem, because there has been a lack of demand for certain goods, like beef, like pig meat. For evil to be greater, when demand falls, the price falls, and the inputs rise, as has just been said, regarding a specific example of corn. I will remind you only that last year, the government of the Republic of Serbia, just to bridge these urgent items, has several interventions with the purchase of cattle to preserve the entire market. We went so far at one point that we paid 2.15 euros as a state for a kilo of beef live scales to save the entire sector. What's the fact of the previous days, the last 10-15 days, there's been a price hike and they're now 1.95 plus VAT and they're expected to jump to around 2.10. What I'm worried about, like you, is the story with the Tombs, that's the story with the Pigs, and now I'm going to tell you one thing that's... We have indirectly disabled larger imports of live pigs, but what's the problem, and we've been thinking a long time about how to solve this whole story at all. Some people who sat here ten years ago signed a Stabilisation and Association Agreement. He predicted a gradual suspension of customs duties since 2009, then later years, but there is one interesting thing that we saw the other day. It's about baron products, pâtés, actually it's salami and pâtés, what goes the most, which is also closely related to meat. Imagine, someone took down a completely complete customs duty on it then and allowed goods from different areas without customs to enter this area and so damaged our food sector in terms of processing on the one hand, and on the other hand automatically pulled away a small amount of meat, tolls that would go into processing. We're going to solve it these days, we're going to run it, we've got tools that we can activate, and I hope that's how we're going to increase demand, and the whole problem that's happening on the world market is because of the situation in China. What happened in China? This African swine fever has occurred. They banned the import of pig meat, their biggest exporter was Germany. In Germany, an abnormal amount of pig meat appears, and it automatically, when it has nowhere to go, starts pressing space around it. In this way and in some other measures, we defend ourselves to preserve, watch out, in the EU at this time one or 0,95 euros in the price of customers. We have about 130 dinars, 135 plus VAT. With the measures we're going to do these days and the partial opening of this system "HoReCa", these are hotels, restaurants of complete space, I expect that by the end of February we'll have a price of about 150 dinars per passenger, plus state subsidies. Also, it is doubtless open new markets, a channel, for higher prices and we will work on it. There's one thing I'm trying to say right now, it's connected to your exposure earlier, it's about corn. Since I hear a lot of stories these days that the state is going to ban corn exports, they're going to do this, they're going to do it. For example, Russia introduced quotas on corn exports as one of the largest exporters and introduced taxes. If you want to export the goods, pay 45 euros per tonne for a ton of corn you want to export, to lower the price on the domestic market for livestock food. We're not gonna do that. We won't do it, there won't be any ban, because farmers have to make money at a age like this. We won't allow the situation now when it's a good price for us to take it down now. There's another danger that's going to come up, but it's going to be in about two to three months, it's about livestock food and the price of livestock, but we're going to intervene on the market and there won't be any big problems. He's got the tools he can do, it's not all about bans, and it's not all about taxes. I used an example of Russia, but there are other countries like that that do it. As for the Egypt you mentioned, we have been placing wheat for two years on the basis of the certificates we have managed to obtain, thank God, with the world's largest importer of wheat. Last year not as much as in 2020, sometimes not directly, there are indirect variations across some other countries, but Serbian wheat is there. I'll use it. Maybe I'll use it now. They won't take away my chair for evil. Yesterday, a man who deals in agriculture appeared in public, or says he deals in agriculture, originating in Triestenik. He says the state doesn't invest in agriculture. The state invests two and a half times more in agriculture than seven, eight years ago. I'll tell you, for example, on the particular case of this man who was the president of Tristenik Municipality, who doesn't mind taking subsidies for tractors, plastic subsidies, subsidies for who knows what, and also asking to be charged to different suppliers across the line. He singled out some 13, 14 million dinars while he was the president of the Trieste for Agriculture municipality. Today, when the SNS received the right of citizens and the responsibility to manage the Triestenik area, the budget is two and a half times higher. So, please don't just cheat on the public and grab the cornishon, because if you'd been to the Lady's and you knew where the Missiles are, you might have seen the pickles harvested. Unfortunately, the reality was in 2019 that labour force had to be imported to read cornishion, but that's the reality of the market. I think it is very important that we deal with facts and the state of Serbia has intervened so many times in the previous year and has allowed agriculture to grow by almost 5% during the Corona era. Don't have a dilemma, and thank you all for the support you provide to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and these laws, and the Resort Ministry, because you know that we are doing all of this for the sake of farmers, because everything else would be absurd and it would be pointless unlike some ten years ago, who apparently removed customs just to get their pockets, not to say anything else, to catch up on.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-26-0.u2493	Thank you. The People's Messenger, George Milicevic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-26-0.u2494	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. Dear Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Nedimovic, the Honorable Minister, Mr. Vulina, the honourable ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at the very beginning, I will agree with Mr. Markovic when he says any international agreement Serbia has signed can only bring good to the Republic of Serbia. Of course, the SPS parliamentary group, as well as the JS MP group in voting day, will support the proposed agreements we are talking about today. When it comes to concrete data protection that has been exchanged between countries in the context of political, military, economic, legal, scientific and technological and other purposes, it is important to point out that in the last decade this issue has become very important and enormous, because the development of new technologies has made access to personal and secret data much simpler, and thus the possibility of data abuse is increased. The problem of using personal and secret data is multiplicated, among other things, by the appearance of the Internet, e-commerce and electronic banking when doing certain services, the provision of certain services requires personal data that are very often underprotected, and are rarely misused. Also, the additional risk of using data that can be considered classified under the law is, of course, unfortunately social networks. So in a very short time, some data can become visible to the whole world without the owner's consent, whether it's personal or company data. The manipulation of personal and other data that have the status of classified data can cause inconspicuous and unsuspecting consequences for security not only of persons to whom these classified data relate, but may also have consequences for companies, as well as for national and national security, including, of course, monetary security and stability. Unfortunately, it's not an unorthodox case of incursion into banking data, vaults, and the hacking of high-level state institutions sites around the world that we're not even talking about. This global problem has been identified as a huge security threat and it's very good at the world level. The problem was gained in terms of the use and exchange of classified information in various security operations, so the need to introduce precise rules for the protection of classified information at EU level is recognised, so that in a way that the use and protection of classified information is incorporated into European legislation. In 2009, the Republic of Serbia, reminding me, passed the Data Secrecy Act and established a single system of determining the protection of classified information that is of interest to national and public security, to defend the country, as well as to our country's internal and external affairs. This law regulates a system of protection of domestic and foreign data, access to classified data, authority competence and supervision of the implementation of the Data Security Act, Serbia implemented European standards in its national legislation, and signed and ratified the EU Agreement on Security Procedures for the Exchange and Protection of Secret Information in 2012. In front of the National Assembly, right now, another Agreement in the field of the protection of classified information. This is an agreement signed between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, which we should ratify and thus extend the circle of European countries with which we have this type of bilateral co-operation. Of course, I don't want to talk about the content of the agreement itself. I'll just say that he's, of course, perfectly acceptable to us and, like I said, we'll support him. Speaking of data protection, Mr. Interior Minister, it is impossible not to look back today in Serbia at what, unfortunately, is a central topic, which is listening, listening to the president of the Republic of Serbia and his family. So, in Serbia there is definitely one group of people who, through listening, comes up with certain data, whether they are used for their own or for other interests we do not know, but they definitely believe that the laws for them in this Serbia do not apply. I have no intention of asking you, of course, about the details of the investigation, it's neither logical nor natural to talk about it. You've got a serious job ahead of you. I am fully convinced that you and your ministry will be responsible and seriously doing this part of the job, come to the truth, because the truth is the interest of all of us and the truth is Serbia's interest. What I want to ask you is to try, I know it's difficult, but to try to protect the family and, above all, the children of all of us who do our job in a certain way, in a responsible, serious and committed way, and we are chosen by citizens, to try to protect the abuse of children for political purposes. Today he was tapped, actually in the previous period, the President of the Republic. Unimaginable. His child was at stake. Probably photographed and filmed and whatever else he can do with it. So his safety was compromised. That can't happen. So a request to you - children, if possible, to protect at least children from the whole story, because, you know what, we have defined ourselves to be involved in politics. This quasi political elite, we don't have a problem with it, let's have a bucket of feces, but leave us families and children alone. Kids have absolutely nothing to do with this. Today is the President of the Republic, tomorrow it will be someone else and it must not be a norm of social behavior in Serbia. It is well known whose mantra is and whose matrix it is. It is well known who had just published through social networks, I mentioned social networks in the context of data protection, it is known who published photographs of politicians from the ruling coalition together with children. Then after that we have a tragic situation – they use the same ones, call the leaders, the self-called leaders, use tears and children for political marketing purposes. You know what, when I was going into politics, I didn't ask my Eva, who's 16, whether I should go into politics or not. They wanted to cause pity. They didn't, of course, succeed, and I'll tell you why. Politicians expect solutions, not pity, and if they wanted to change anything then they shouldn't have started that story, because that story was started the way I said and as I mentioned. Anything else, we would believe that they said publicly – sorry we attacked the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, that we physically attacked the chairman of the Administrative Board, that we physically attacked the journalist TV "Pink", sorry we broke into the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. You see, when it comes to breaking into Capital Hill, we condemn it, and when it happens in Serbia, it's the defense of democracy. It's not a defense of democracy, democracy is being held in elections through the will of citizens. So if they'd done all that, we'd have believed them, and this is how it's all about political fog and political marketing. I had to say this. There's one more thing I have to say. It is quite clear, so the media is writing, I have no reason not to believe, I just read and analyze, you are of course here to bring what is credible as a conclusion and I believe the Ministry of Interior and the competent authorities and the competent institutions, the media say that it was meant to serve some clans, but I have to say one more thing on behalf of the SPS group and we've already talked about it - definitely we're making one network in Serbia and masks fall slowly. They haven't fallen to the end yet, but they're falling slowly. It is definitely becoming clear that Serbia can co-operate with those that were unimaginable in the previous period that they can also sit together, let alone co-operate. What's the point? The goal is only one -- 2022nd year and the destabilisation of Serbia. The goal is only one -- how through the destabilisation of Serbia to come without a choice of power in Serbia. I'm sorry I got off the subject, but I just took advantage of your presence, and I had to ask for this, first of all, for the sake of the children. As far as the second Agreement is concerned, although the agreement signed with the Government of Serbia with the Government of the Russian Federation on co-operation in the fight against terrorism is on the agenda, I would like to remind you that we and the Russian Federation also signed an Agreement on the Mutual Protection of Secret Information and this significant Agreement was signed on 15 October 2014 at the time of their stay in Belgrade of Russian Federation President Vladimir Putin. It is one of the most important agreements on the exchange of classified information for the Republic of Serbia because the Russian Federation is a permanent member of the UN Security Council and its support and assistance as a traditional and great friend of Serbia is of invaluable importance in preserving the defence of our national and state interests. I would like to stress that the Republic of Serbia has a special importance, as you said, attaches relations with the Russian Federation, extremely good and developed bilateral relations in all fields, relations of strategic partnership, close relations between the two peoples based on traditional friendship, as well as cultural historical closeness, language, religion. Our relationships are an example of true and brotherly friendship, but also of mutual respect and versatile co-operation. The SPS parliamentary group is particularly proud of the good and intensive co-operation of our parliaments. I would like to remind you that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has signed agreements with both homes of the Federal Assembly of the Russian Federation, that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has a Commission for Co-operation with the Federal Assembly of the Russian Federation and that this is the highest form of bilateral co-operation that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has and it is unique in relation to only two states, according to Russia and China. The period behind us has shown that when it's the hardest, I mean a period of crown that unfortunately isn't still behind us, but hopefully the end is close, you can only rely on two things, these are your own resources and traditionally friendly states. We are also very grateful for the continued position of the Russian Federation on the subject of KIM, respect for the universal principle of international law, support for the Russian Federation's efforts to reach a sustainable compromise and fair solution that will be acceptable to both sides, support for the Russian Federation when it comes to attempts by Pristina to be part of some international organisations. In this way, in our opinion, the Russian Federation represents itself as a guardian, builder of a fairer international order based on respect for international law and respect for the general principles and objectives contained in the UN Charter. Today, we are facing an extremely important bilateral agreement with Russia, which should contribute to a more efficient fight against the greatest planetary challenge and threats to world peace, which is terrorism. The agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Russian Federation on co-operation in the fight against terrorism, which the National Assembly is to ratify at this session, was signed in Belgrade on 18 June 2020, and this agreement is an expression of the mutual will of our countries to step up bilateral co-operation in the anti-terrorism sector through the exchange of operational data, good practice, experience and expertise. Both Serbia and Russia as UN members want to boost bilateral co-operation in the fight against international terrorism as a growing global threat to their active participation, contribute to global peace and even greater global integration in the fight against this evil. Today's security challenges have become transnational, have become global, at the same time affecting more countries and regions, and overcome the frameworks of states, overcome regions, overcome the frameworks of continents. The fight against terrorism in the Republic of Serbia has been regulated by the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure. The government of the Republic of Serbia, I recall, adopted a National Strategy for Prevention in the fight against terrorism for the period from 2017 to 2021 with the Action Plan for its implementation. We point out that Serbia is open to co-operation as part of its potential in a global fight against terrorism where there is no room for compromise. We strongly condemn, of course, all the sights and manifestations of terrorism. Internationally, the Republic of Serbia is a signator of a number of conventions that regulate the repression and fight against terrorism, recognising the universal character of the phenomenon of terrorism and extremism and the necessity of continued and broad co-operation by the state in order to establish a common approach, the Republic of Serbia recognises the UN as a key forum for active engagement on this plan. It supports all adopted UN General Assembly resolutions on measures to prevent international terrorism, as well as all international communities, in order to combat this global problem effectively. The signatories are 14 out of 18 anti-terrorist universal instruments and are making maximum efforts to fully implement all relevant UN resolutions. We also support the principles of a global UN strategy to combat terrorism, in particular a segment relating to measures to boost international co-operation, i.e. the association of Serbia's national, regional and international efforts. We also support negotiations on a comprehensive Convention on International Terrorism, because we believe that the fight against terrorism and violent extremism is impossible without international co-operation, such as, among other things, which includes an effective exchange of basic data. I could certainly talk a lot about this agreement, but I don't have enough time. A few more sentences on the agreement that I consider also important, as regards the trilateral agreement signed by the governments of the Republic of Serbia, Montenegro and BiH, concern the transfer of responsibilities for the provision of air traffic services. So it is an agreement between the three neighbouring countries, which replaces an old agreement signed in 2000, which covered the issue of providing air navigation services. Over time, it was necessary, of course, to inspect the agreement and adapt to the new needs and to carry out air traffic in the airspace between Montenegro and BiH. What I want to take advantage of at the very end, because I still have very little time, I would take advantage of the opportunity to point to the importance of regional integration in all other areas, to remind myself of so-called. The mini Schengen, a regional agreement signed between the Republic of Serbia, Northern Macedonia and Albania, whose benefits will be felt by citizens of these countries, most importantly. In the modern world when the boundaries of movement, services, goods and people are free, it is certainly something that is the interest of citizens and should strengthen all forms of regional co-operation. We need to bring people closer, strengthen business co-operation wherever possible. Using the comparative advantages of each of our countries strengthens the economic potential, contributes to building a single market in the region, and thus strengthens the competitiveness of the region towards other markets and enables joint appearances in third markets. In that sense, so-called Mini Schengen represents the first significant step. This is certainly, I will agree fully, a visionary move and it is the first step in the regional co-operation of Balkan countries, which is now increasingly called the Western Balkans. Why am I talking about Mini Schengen? Because at one point, I think both BiH and Montenegro will become part of the Mini Shenghen. Given that time is running out, in the end I will repeat again, the SPS parliamentary group in the voting day will support the proposed agreements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-26-0.u2495	Thank you, Mr. Milicevic. The word is made by Minister Alexander Vulin.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-26-0.u2496	Dearly respected, of course, the more Serbia co-operates with other countries, the more co-operation with partner services is difficult, the safer we will be. No one should be afraid. There's always a question of why we do it, who threatens us, why would we accept other people's conflicts as our own? We don't accept other people's conflicts as our own. The policy of military neutrality fought by President Vukic and you have fought for documents that have defined and defined it is a policy that guarantees us that we can choose our friends and enemies choose us ourselves anyway, but it is a policy that does not prevent us from participating in the world's fight against evil. He who thinks that by neglecting terrorism, that terrorism will ignore him, not only has he sinned, but he has put himself on the side of evil. Don't fight evil is like you're on his side. It doesn't make any difference. So the agreement on co-operation with the Russian Federation in the field of combating terrorism is an agreement that helps us to be safer, helps us to be safer, to make a great superpower available to our intelligence capacities that we will never have and the knowledge that it collects all over the world, and we are only in the limited space of our country. So it's useful for us first and certainly that I'm grateful for your support. When you talked about social networks and talked about the security of our, your, all of our children, you know, I've long advocated that on social networks, with which a lot of evil and a lot of hate has taken place, to end anonymity. Anything you want to say, you sign it and there's no threat, there's nothing wrong with it. You know, if you're so much scum, if you're such a bastard that you can write for the three-year-old child of Alexander Vukic to feed her, then bastard, sign it, then be proud of how much trash you are, so your mother sees who she gave birth to, that tomorrow your child sees who his father was and what he owed Serbia. Sign what you're thinking. I sign every sentence of my own. Sign it, too. It doesn't matter if I said it in a microphone in front of the National Assembly or if I wrote a tweet on social networks, it's the same thing. That's mine. So if it's yours to tell his child that he's pasture, sign it. You know, they usually say you can find out anyway, you have a high-tech crime department, but it's not that we should spend the resources of the police on such bastards, but sign right away, and if that were the case, you'd see how many such cowards would go down less and how few there would be. Usually when the police bring them in, when they find them, or say it was an effect, or I was drunk or I don't know what I was doing, no one stands behind what he wrote, no one stands behind that nasty, stupid thing he wrote. So if he wasn't anonymous, he wouldn't have done it. I think it might be the only way. We will always, of course, seek and sanction and punish, but why, when we can very simply, in a simple way, solve this problem. Sign what you think, and that's it. I believe that our children, everyone's child, deserve at least so much that no bastard can write him to pasture her. So much we deserve and so much this country can do and of course it's not just our problem, it's a global problem, but we need to think about how as a Parliament, as an institution, as a system to confront such people, because this is the systemic answer to that. You know, the anonymity on social networks has led to the worst in man being free, the worst in man being something that can be public, without punishment and without conviction. I think it's a civilization thing to deal with it. A small family in Serbia, perhaps none, as Alexander Vukic's family knows what hate is and knows what kind of inhumans put their name in their mouths. It's not politics, you know, it's not a sharp and verbal debate in this high house. That's not an increased tone of argument. It's a primitive, disgusting hatred that will one day be read to that Vulcan. One day this little smart boy will learn to read and one day someone will read it to him. It can't be something good and it can't be something that's unpunished. It can't be. You mentioned here what's popular in our media called a listening affair. I can tell you, it's called an affair, it's not an affair. The affair is something that is unproven, an affair is something that may or may not be. The Ministry of the Interior, by order of the D.A.'s Office of Organized Crime, has conducted an investigation and what I can say is that I believe that in our investigation we've made the facts of listening unsuspecting. He's still in the D.A.'s office, qualifications, speed of further operations, and that's something the D.A.'s Office of Organized Crime will do in the coming period. I have great respect and confidence in Mr. Nenadić, who leads the course, that he will best interpret the facts we have provided him and that this will never happen again. Our public will, of course, be informed of every step, in accordance with the law, by no means different. What I as interior minister and someone who has formed a task force that has been investigating listening can say, is that this must never happen again and that such abuse of the system must never happen again, not only when it comes to President Vukic and his family, but any citizen of our country. This is the task of our entire system, to preserve the system from abuse and to preserve the system from people who can do such abuses. The motives of the investigation will say what it has to say, the competent judicial authorities will appreciate all of this, and what I can say is that President Aleksandar Vukic is involved in politics, not a businessman, not in any way in any way in any way in communication with some people he shouldn't. When you listen to him, you only listen to him for political reasons. It can't be anything else. When you listen to members of his family, then you can only do it from the lowest initiatives. You can only do this because you have a problem with the political stability in this country and the stability Alexander Vukic fought for. And he's as sensitive to his family as any of us. Of course, that's what gets him the most, and of course it hurts him the most. When you start touching it, you know why you're doing it. So it's early to talk about motives, but I can't imagine a motive that's not very, very malicious to Alexander Vukic and to Serbia, and that's what you're doing and that you're doing it. All I can say is that the Ministry of the Interior has done what the law requires it to do, that it has handed over all relevant facts to the Prosecutor's Office of Organized Crime and that we expect, of course, to further the position of the D.A.'s office. What I want to do one more time, this must never happen again. This must never happen to anyone again! Serbia is a serious country, a regulated country, Serbia is a law-abiding country, and therefore, when such things happen, what is good, is what is learned, recognised, and what no one will remain without proper punishment for their behaviour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-26-0.u2497	Thank you. For our children, the MP Marijan Rističević has the power of the parliamentary group, Aleksandar Vukic – for our children.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-26-0.u2498	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I was already talking about an agreement with Iran. It's a precious deal. Iran needs to be respected for another reason, which is that Iran has not recognised Kosovo, has not recognised a false state and therefore needs to be appreciated more. If we compare that to, say, Montenegro, which has recognised Kosovo, a false state, which was once the most prominent part of the Serb race and the Serb people. The wealth of a country soon will not be appreciated by the amount of gold and diamonds produced by the country, but by the amount of food and drinking water that the country produces or has the resources to produce. I think Iran is a grateful market, not only for plants, but for livestock production, livestock production for food products that this country can produce, and that exchange can be mutual. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the gentleman from Tristenik, the great opposition to the Wolf of the descendent of Jeremic, who directed his party several times, so I don't know if he was more in Tadic, Jeremic or who he had already parked himself with the political party he was carrying with him from one leader to another. He was paid 440,000 dinars for primary production in 2015. He was paid in 2016 for an atomizer of 88,000. In 2017, he was paid 385,451 dinar for the forged wire. He was paid 893,833 dinars for the tractor. For now, the fruit has been paid off to him by 354.600 dinars. So several million was won during the rule of the SNS and coalition partners. I'd like him to tell us how many of these subsidies he withdrew before 2015, that is, during the government where he himself participated. I believe your numbers are minor or almost nothing. He was getting subsidies in a completely different way. His father-in-law, who was in the Employment Office, transferred to contracts for human resources, to an association where he, his father-in-law and his wife, had transferred over 40 million to him and probably his subsidies to agriculture were not so important. Anyway, he gossips about the farm that gave him ten times more than his authority gave him. So much for the gentleman. Now I'd like to talk about an agreement with Russia, terrorism. Terrorism is violence or attempted violence in order to achieve certain goals. It can be because of separatism, it can have national signs, it can be religious, but I would talk about political crime as a form of terrorism. Terrorism isn't just violence, terrorism is a threat to violence. Let's go ahead and talk a little bit about this internal terrorism, how it's classified by the Americans, so let's see the political crime that's going on in Serbia from those who allegedly have some lack of dialogue. As far as I remember, all the conditions that Tanja Fajon delivered to us were accepted, not because she delivered them, but because we wanted to be open and because we took it off, we reduced the censorship to 3%. That didn't help. We remember all the threats of rape, I think she was a threat to rape the prime minister. A threat to violence is terrorism. We remember all the fire threats, so we remember how their activists threatened to put us in camps. Djordje Vukadinovic said we shouldn't be hanged at The Terraces, hanged by patriots, but should be hanged elsewhere. We all remember the threat of family and president of the Republic, and the President himself has been repeatedly threatened with murder, not only of him, but of family members. Let's remember the violence that was done. Let's remember the violence, as political crime against the president of the National Assembly, it was Mrs. Maja Gojkovic. Let us remember the violence against the President of the Administrative Committee. We remember the violence against the president of the most numerous parliamentary group here in the National Assembly. Let us remember trying to invade the National Assembly. We remember the invasion of the National Assembly, which the police prevented in the hall, so the invasion of the National Assembly’s hall happened violently. We remember the political violence that has been committed against me at the foot of the National Assembly, directly applied violence in order to intimidate not only the people, our political supporters, but the attempt to gain power in an illegal manner. It's terrorism. Russia and Serbia share in common, in the Balkans and Russia, some of the things that have been aided from the outside are happening, the forms of terrorism that happened in Kosovo and Metohija in our southern province, which have resulted in secession, or I will dare say by the occupation of the NATO Pact, which have taken part in our territory and granted to Albanian terrorists, who have previously declared themselves terrorists, but also later settled into freedom fighters, alleged freedom fighters for freedom and democracy. One of these forms of terrorism is in the Balkans and Russia, a struggle for freedom, and in Belarus, and in America it is interpreted quite differently. I believe Trump won the vote, but as Stalin said, it's not about who votes, it's about who counts. So I believe that Trump won the vote, and Biden is on the count, and what happened to us, no matter what I liked, we have to admit, and the social networks that are completely open in Serbia, let's say Bosko Obradovic calls for a military coup, calls for a coup, so he's done it several times, declares some rebellion and rebellion, executes some kind of violent act, happens to be breaking into the police station, seems to me in Luciani, we've had a break in RTS. These are all forms of political terrorism applied in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, with media sponsors in the form of Luxembourg media who allegedly re-emitting the Luxembourg programme here, and then as a programme from Luxembourg, you watch the transfer from nine cameras to Nikola Pasic Square to the National Assembly and more attempts to kill police officers. Every stone that is thrown and has the right weight, and there have been those who weigh a few pounds, is for me the attempted murder of cops or attempted serious injury, which has happened to individual police officers. Everywhere in the world, especially in America, I believe there would be an open fire on such a kind of protesters, or alleged freedom fighters. In Serbia, fortunately, the response of the authorities did not occur, but let's not underestimate those who call every day for some kind of violence. Today in the press, Dragan Gilas says, "The blood will fall." If a politician says there's gonna be blood, it's terrorism to me. The second cover: ‘Gilas is preparing street riots’. We've had more undeclared political gatherings where violence took place. Apart from breaking into RTS, trying to break into the presidency, we've had street reshuffles, carjacking, we've had an attack on construction workers, attack on construction sites, attack on communal workers. I ask you, is that some form of terrorism? The last of what I didn't like about Russia is the attempt to gather or gather support for Navaljna, or events that are currently happening in Russia, where we have absolutely no interest in getting involved in this kind of protest, and in particular to support protests against the Russian authorities that have allowed us to be a genocide people and to be grateful to the sky because they vetoed in the United Nations and prevented the Serb people from being a genocide people. The gathering is an even more tragic thing for me because it was carried out on the plateau in front of the temple of St. Sava, and the construction of the temple of St. Sava and its embellishment was supported by the Russian Federation. So it is extremely immoral to hold such gatherings and try to corrupt relations with those who can partially help Serbia, or that it is a defence. Dragan Gilasu is not the first time. I will now try to find the Depesh Wikilix, and his best man, Mladjan Djordjevic, who was his political deputy, so where Gilas was on the political line there was also Mladjan Djordjevic, from Tadic's office, who was a adviser to Boris Tadic for Kosovo and Metohija, who was also his business ally because he was co-founder of the "Darrekt Media". So they're trying to introduce themselves as friends of Russia. Let's see how much Dragan Gilas and his best man are friends of Russia. According to Deputy WikiLeaks, I have not read the issue since 21 August, which refers to the August 13th 2009 meeting, which Dragan Gilas held at the US Embassy, says this is how the deputy said: "In the course of his visit to the US Embassy, in talks with Ambassador Jennifer Brass, mayor of Belgrade and DS leader Dragan Gilas openly voiced dissatisfaction and criticism by Russian Ambassador Konuzin. Gilas immediately stressed to Mrs Bras that he has personal impatience towards Russian Ambassador Konuzin and that he will do everything in his power to boycott and reduce the importance of the announced visit by Russian President Medvedev to Belgrade and Serbia. Furthermore, in the dispatch they say – describing his attitude towards Konuzin he literally said that he felt disgusted. Gilas particularly assured the emissary that he and the DS are doing everything possible not to bring Serbia and Russia closer together and gave Mrs Bras assurances that this attitude is shared with President Tadic. The only two countries in the world that can help us with the external pressures our country has been permanently exposed to are Russia and China. So if someone treats Russia this way, if someone is trying to support the demonstrations of destroying power in Russia, he is not a friend of Russia, he is not a friend of the Serb people. Ladies and gentlemen, in another section I'm going to leave for the end of this session, I'm going to say a little more specifically about the Secret Information Exchange Agreement with the Duke of Luxembourg. I am particularly interested in this media mafia that supports all the forms of violence that are happening in this beautiful and troubled state of Serbia. Anyway, we don't need to defend power, we need to defend the state of Serbia and its right to exist. We don't have to solve other people's problems, we have to solve our own. We should allow differences between us, but these differences should not be shared. We don't need to go into conflicts with ourselves, solving other people's problems, we need to focus on our problems. In conflict with ourselves, we must be losing. We need to take care of the country's development and economy, because only the economy can get us out, that, compared to infrastructure, we raise investments, we raise factories, that these communications, that our goods travel through this infrastructure, our workers travel, our employees travel. We need to take care of ourselves, we need to devote ourselves to the quality of life of our citizens, to raising that quality, to being first in the region, and soon to arrive at other more developed countries in Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-26-0.u2499	Thank you, Mr. Risticevic. Any of the other authorised representatives come forward for a word? (No) We are moving on to the list of registered MPs. The first word has a National MP, Milija Miletic. The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-26-0.u2500	Thank you. Dear Chairman, respected ministers, fellow MPs, citizens of Serbia, I am Milija Miletic from Svrlig. It is the most beautiful municipality in Serbia located near the town of Nisa, it is the most beautiful city in Serbia. By the way, I am here in the Assembly selected from the list Aleksandar Vukic – For our children and I represent the United Peasants' Party. I will, as I have so far, support and talk about these proposals for an agreement that are on the agenda today. I'll refer mostly to agriculture because we're witnessing that when the most difficult thing is that there's agriculture, there's a farmer, because there's a farmer here and there's a country being defended and there's a country feeding. With this agreement that we are discussing today and talking about a related agreement between our country and Iran, it's something great for us, for our country, for our institutes and for all those who have ties to agriculture, because our quality products from our institutes, whether it's the NS seed from Novi Sad, whether it's Zemun Field, or some other institute, it's our recognizability that's been back 40, 50 years. These institutes always had quality products and their seed goods are now located, and there were more than 80 countries in the world. I think by confirming this agreement with us, we're going to allow normal co-operation with Iran, because in the past, we've had this co-operation and where our products are already functioning there, where good results are given, and I think that's the right thing to do. Otherwise, the Honorable Deputy Prime Minister and the Honorable Minister, Mr. Nedimovic, we had co-operation with you, we will also have in the next period and what we are doing now is really positive. With that, I'm going to say a few things that aren't exactly within this agenda, but about agriculture, it's about our farmers, people and all of our people living here in southeastern Serbia on that so-called. marginal areas or areas with difficult living conditions. Otherwise, back a few weeks ago, we had floods, back a few weeks we had ice fractures, where other than the power shortage problem in our rural areas, where very bad things were happening, some of our villages, some of the municipalities had a state of emergency, and people had damages, but they still haven't been solved yet, but that's going to be solved. I've always been a potentiator, because now in the Ministry of the Government we have the Ministry of the Village, where I expect that under this Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of the Family, these are all ministries of importance for the functioning and for the improvement of our villages. I think it's good to say just a few things about agriculture right now, because in those villages where the ice cream happened, where we had problems, we have big problems with orchards. Big problems with the orchards because a large number of trees broke from the weight of snow. I think in some parts of those areas, emergency situations have been introduced. I'd like to, I'd like to let you know, you probably know, because you're very informed, because you have a lot of information, that a lot of these orchards are in a bad situation right now. Some may have been insured because the state of Serbia has given them the possibility of insurance and orchards, cattle and all that matters about agriculture, but perhaps someone has not had the opportunity to provide it, and now large damage has been done to these orchards. It would be good for local self-government to go to the field, to see what damage it is and where an emergency situation has been introduced to provide certain funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget, to sort of repair damages for these farmers. Another important thing, today's agreement, our country of Serbia with the Russian Federation, related to terrorism, is to co-operate in the fight against terrorists. That's a big problem. It's all happening now, and it's going to happen, that our countries should cooperate with the Russian Federation. We are unrelated to this terrorism, we have had the same problems now in south-east Serbia and from floods, and from the icy, where a really large number of municipalities, a large number of people had problems, where they had no electricity, but there was a Russian humanitarian centre that at the invitation of local self-government, at the invitation of municipalities, came out to meet and provided a number of aggregates and all other necessary things. This is the co-operation of our country of Serbia with the Russian Federation, because when it is most difficult, there are people from our brotherly Russia, there are normal people from the EU. That's why I think we need to accept these agreements. I, as president of the United Peasants' Party, will support all these agreements. One of the important things is that also the parliamentary club where I am, academic Zukorlic has a lot of ties in Islamic countries, so that he can include and provide more assistance and greater co-operation with our friends from Muslim countries. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-26-0.u2501	Thank you, Mr. Miletic. There is a word, People's MP, Vladan Glisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-26-0.u2502	If you shut up, the stones will talk. This beautiful Bible proverb explains what kind of stone I am here that speaks of what you are silent about. The agreements that are mentioned here are passing, but are not paying attention to an agreement that is part of a serious strategy and concerns what we have to do with the NATO Pact and the EU. An agreement with the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, a small country that is at the heart of the EU, which is one of the founders of the EU but also one of NATO's most faithful allies. The agreement, in its reasoning, is a law confirming this agreement has, among other things, called for it to be another way to step up co-operation with the EU and NATO. I am talking about what you are silent about because I am not only the opposition MP of the Serb people in this House, but much more because I am the only MP who openly speaks against EU policy has no alternative in this House. I say, openly because I know that many of you, friends of the SNS, think what I mean, but because of the strong NATO structures at the top of your parties, you can't say that, because you respect party discipline. And because we all know that by definition of NATO's international law, soldiers in Kosovo and Metohija are an occupation force and because we know it's not your fault, but you inherited the NATO Office of Defense, so in the second part of the territory, NATO is a hidden occupation force. That's why every government since October 5, 2000 is here in need of co-operation with the occupier, and so is your government. I don't blame you for that. I am neither demagogue nor revolutionary adventurer, because I believe that by revolutionary adventure we have lost several million people in the 20th century. So I respect what you have to do, but what I don't vote for these laws and why I'm trying to wake you up from that silence is the fact that many things you can do can't be done and you can't do them. So the question arises, do we need an agreement like this before the NATO bombing-related co-ordination body and NATO aggression that has gathered, the body has gathered as a scientific team around Dr. Danica Grujic and has been waiting several years to work. In the previous government meeting, four of your ministries supported this co-ordination body but, behold, miracles, it happened that the president of your government, then and today, forgot to sign a decision that the co-ordination body would function and determine that what happened in 1999 caused the cancer epidemic in our country. Three times as many people in Serbia suffer from cancer as in other European countries. Not only did they target the impoverished uranium past all international conventions, but they were shooting at maps of Hazard, causing an ecological disaster because they were targeting plants of the electro-industry, oil and chemical industries. Today you are in a situation where, through "Free Europe", some European parliamentarians tell you that Chinese influence must be stopped in Serbia, because it causes ecological disasters. The same MEPs who haven't thought of apologizing for what they've done to their soldiers to the Serbian people in the past 20 years. That's why I'm talking and I'm trying to wake you up to do what you can do, to get your government president to sign a solution that will bring the coordination body back to life and determine on the scientificly inconclusive facts that we've been the victims of a genocide intention of this alliance with which we want more intensive co-operation and this agreement on co-operation with Luxembourg. There's one more thing I want to tell you, you have two million voters, you have 230 MPs, you have 60% support for the people who went to the polls. You have a historic chance to restore sovereignty to this people. You have a chance to pass a law of military neutrality that we keep forgetting to bring. You have a chance when you change the Constitution for judicial set of laws to put into preamble past Kosovo and Metohija and the obligation that military neutrality is an integral part of our strategy and our constitutional order. Thank you, if you can hear me.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-26-0.u2503	Thank you. The word is made by MP Aleksandar Martinovic, president of the parliamentary group Aleksandar Vukic – For our children, right to replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-26-0.u2504	I thank you, Mr. Orlic. I must say, Mr Glisic, all you are saying is in the past term, though not so calmly and so sophisticatedly, Bosko Obradovic, so he ended up with those who openly advocate Serbia's entry into the EU and NATO pact, so I'm afraid you're not going that way too. I can't answer all the lies and half-truths you said in two minutes, but I'll try to do it. You have one approach to the problem that your former party president Bosko Obradovic had, which is that Serbia is to blame for NATO's pact having done something or what the EU has done. Why would Serbia be guilty? Is it Serbia's fault that NATO bombed the then SR Yugoslavia in 1999? Is it Serbia's fault if a European official makes a statement that is not in the interest of the Republic of Serbia? You're talking about the NATO Army's occupation pact in Kosovo and Metohija. And you, like me, and all of us here, are in pain of the fact that in Kosovo and Metohija it is not only the Army of Serbia, but also, I must remind you that Serbia today, except for its Constitution, when it comes to fighting for Kosovo and Metohija, is still only calling for Resolution 1244. It is the only legal link, as the old Roman lawyers would say, "iuris vinculum" between Serbia and Kosovo and Metohija. According to resolution 1244, which says that the UN will be militaryly present in Kosovo and Meothia with, I quote, NATO's essential participation, that is, the UN Security Council's resolution. And as difficult as it is for us that NATO forces have on many occasions turned the head of terror that is happening over the Serb people in Kosovo and Metohija, I must say, I know that this is not popular, you don't have to say it, but I know that you think the same thing as I do, but I have an obligation to say it – that it is not such an armed force in Kosovo and Metohija, it is a big question whether a Serb would live there, with all their weaknesses. As for Chinese investments, tell me which Chinese factory under EU pressure closed in Serbia? Have you noticed that citizens of the Republic of Serbia are mass vaccinations by Chinese vaccines? So, how did we get under the pressure of the EU and NATO? I want to tell you, Mr Glisic, you've said a lot in an attempt to evaluate Alexander Vukic, SNS, and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, you're doing it more skillfully and more culturally than Bosko Obradovic, but your matrix is the same. You're mentioning some coordinating body that needs to examine the consequences of NATO bombing, so someone won't sign it, because apparently, according to you, we're a NATO pact, I don't know if he's in the O.R. Dr. Darko Laketic, I know that you weren't a national MP in the last term, but you should be a little informed about what we were doing while you were away, until you came here as a Bible prophet to explain to us now what we needed to do, and apparently we didn't, and we actually did that. In fact, Dr Darko Laketic, Mr Glisic, was elected here from Serbia's Progressive Party and our friends from other political parties, who supported us in this, to be elected president of the National Assembly Commission to examine the consequences of the bombing of the Republic of Serbia in 1999, with ammunition with poor uranium, Mr Darko Laketic and his colleagues from the Commission finished the job. We have established a very intensive co-operation with the Italian Parliament, and we believe it or not, and believe me freely, because I have no intention of lying to you, just from the Italian parliament, from a similar commission dealing with this problem in Italy, and it was about the problem of the mass disease of Italian soldiers who were in Kosovo and Metohija precisely from various types of tumors, that we have just received from Italians the most possible help and the most information about the terrible consequences caused by KIM, but also in other parts of the Republic of Serbia, where the NATO Pact in 1999, used ammunition with the impoverished uranium. I want to tell you, I understand your need for you to be the only patriot here, the only Serb, as you say, and the greatest Serb, and the only one who is against the EU, the only one who is against the NATO Pact, the only one who wants to restore Dusan's empire, and it's all nice, but I'm telling you that for 90% of the things you said, you're absolutely wrong.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-26-0.u2505	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Vladan Glisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-26-0.u2506	Thank you. Dear Mr. Martinovic, we do not understand each other. I know you're supposed to react to me, but at least listen to what I'm saying. So neither did I say that I am the only Serb, nor that I am the only patriot, what I said was that NATO troops are, at this point, in the territory of KIM occupation, by definition of international law. You're right when you say that in 1999, they were someone who entered together with the UN, but you forget that one fact happened in 2008, when a unilaterally declared quasi state in KIM, and supported by many states, among other things, and this Luxembourg, with which we sign the agreement. From that moment on, they are no longer legitimate representatives down there, any state that has supported the secession of part of the territory against international law, and there is a military effective force, is an occupation force, you as a man who deals with international law and a doctor of law should know that. On the other hand, I've never respected your radical past, I believe a man has the right to change his attitude. However, I don't know how you always hear the name of your party president in my speeches when I keep avoiding mentioning him, just because I don't want to participate in these games of the anti-vulcian opposition and the pro-vulcian movement that stands only behind the name and last name of a man, and around it gathers factions that are for NATO and the factions that are against NATO. Serbia needs a political option that will deal with essential topics, as I have just spoken essentially about the Co-ordination Body, which has been brought together by multidisciplinary scientists around Dr Danica Grujic, who is not only dealing with poor uranium, because Serbia is much more polluted by cancer because of the targeting of gambling maps and because chemical installations are being targeted. That's what you've done. I don't have time to say what good your authority and your party has done because I have a little time, but that's why I want to say what's wrong. I don't know how you haven't noticed the difference in my political address to you and other political opponents? It's not just formal, it's essential. I admit what's worth it, but what's not worth it has to change, and you're avoiding changing what's not worth it.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-26-0.u2507	Right on line, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-26-0.u2508	I'm really uncomfortable surprised, Mr. Glissic, how uninformed you are. We have introduced the principle of military neutrality into the Strategy for Defence and National Security in 2019, and in the Law on Defence, which we voted in 2018, and then you appear in the DSS in 2021, and you say that the National Assembly should pass a law on military neutrality, and we declared the Republic of Serbia a military neutral yet in 2018, or 2019, and not only formally declared it a military neutral, but we are indeed running such foreign policy that ensures Serbia that there is no master and master, military, political, or anywhere on the globe of the Earth, except in Serbia, which is the citizens of Serbia. So the fact that you're suggesting that we should bring something that we've already brought, it's happening to you for the second time today. I don't know, I guess you're out of shape. As for what you said - and what you are now ratifying an agreement with Luxembourg when Luxembourg recognised Kosovo, you act like Boris Tadic in 2008. Do you know where he demonstrated his power? Admitted both America, and France, and Great Britain, and Italy, and Germany etc. You know what he did? You remember, Mr. Glissic, Boris Tadic didn't banish anyone, he didn't say a word. A man escaped to Romania. He says he has an obligation to visit official Romania on the day Kosovo brought a declaration of declaration of independence, and his government, do you know who she expelled from all of these major forces from Belgrade? Ambassador of Montenegro, I think that Mrs. Anka Vojvodic and the ambassador of Macedonia were named. So are you. Now let's show force in Luxembourg. Imagine, Luxembourg is a member of the NATO Pact, and the NATO Pact bombed us in 1999, so what about us now to ratify anything? I don't understand what logic that is. I don't know if you've been informed that Romania, Greece, Spain, Slovakia are also members of the NATO Pact and have not recognised KIM's independence? They are also members of the EU and have not recognised KIM's independence. I want to tell you, Mr. Glissic, I understand your target group and I understand your political strategy, but I have an obligation to tell you that what you're doing is too unilateral. Some have done so before you and tried to gain political points and to be seen from the Serbian Progressive Parties as some NATO servants, as some traitors etc. I forgot to say one thing that's very important. You see, Mr. Glissic, you are making the same mistake the UN tribunal made with regard to Slobodan Milosevic. I've never been ashamed of being a member of the SRS and being a member of the Vojislav Seselj defense team. On the contrary, I am proud of this, because I believe that I did a useful job not only for one man who has been in the custody of The Hague tribunal for 12 years, but for one good thing for Serbia, because in The Hague tribunal, some wanted to admit it or not, in fact tried to judge Serbia, not individuals, and that all the blame for the fall of the former Yugoslavia was on the back of the Serbian people. We agree on that, but you are now doing one thing the UN tribunal has also done in the indictment against Slobodan Milosevic. Slobodan Milosevic, however he may have been, did not think of his rule as great, made many mistakes both political and economic, but Slobodan Milosevic never said or wrote that his political goal was to create a great Serbia, and he was accused in The Hague tribunal of being headed by a joint criminal enterprise aimed at creating a great Serbia, so he was in the joint criminal enterprise with Vojislav Seselj, Ratko Mladic, Radovan Karadzic, Milan Martic, and so Marko Atlagic, and is told to other known and unknown figures. So ask God who he wasn't in league with to create a great Serbia. You're only doing the same thing now compared to SNS. You say – your policy is the EU has no alternative. Here, I ask you, Mr Glisic, as we once proved in the SRS that Slobodan Milosevic did not stand up for big Serbia, I am now asking you to tell me which SNS official, whether a minister, whether a National MP, the President of the Republic, the current, former, did not matter, that the official policy of our party – the EU has no alternative. Do you know what that means in translation? In translation, it means that if Serbia does not join the EU, it will fail. Our policy is quite the opposite of that. We want to join the EU, but we are working so that Serbia has the strength to survive and if it does not eventually enter the EU, because whether or not we will enter the EU will, you will admit, depend not only on Serbia. This also depends on many relations within the EU itself. This policy -- the EU has no alternative, you could read it, possibly, in statements by Bozidar Djelic, Boris Tadic and so on. Boris Tadic liked to flirt with those years, so in 2004 he talked – we will enter in 2007, so in 2007 – we will enter in 2012, then in 2012, in the elections he lost – we will enter 2016, etc. When did you hear from Alexander Vukic, number one, that the EU has no alternative and, under number two, a year when Serbia will join the EU? It's not there, it doesn't exist. If you can find that for me, I will no longer be president of the parliamentary group, and I will not be a MP at all, because that means that I absolutely don't understand the work I'm doing.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-26-0.u2509	Thank you. The word is Mr. Glisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-26-0.u2510	Mr. Martinovic, I don't want to get into what we don't understand. Maybe it's a coincidence, maybe it's an intention, and I'm not going to deal with it at all. There's only two things I want to tell you. I don't blame you for your radical past. Among other things, in all those actions that you and I were in with the previous movement that I belonged to, we also supported Mr Vojislav Seselj and all our prisoners in The Hague not because we agree with their policy, but because we think the UN tribunal is not a tribunal, but a military police action against our people. What I'm trying to tell you is that I'm not part of the party that entered the coalitions you mentioned, that's when I parted with that party, and I am part of the movement that existed before and that I was wearing, founded and believed in it. What's important is that he knows our public, and it has nothing to do with your political past and mine, it's a matter of military neutrality. The declarations aren't enough. We based our story of military neutrality on one member of the 2007 Resolution, which was brought by the government of Vojislav Kostunica in much more difficult historical political circumstances than today's SNS government situation. It is true that you have taken over the state with much more depravity in the matter of sovereignty, but it is true that today, as we as a people, we have much more serious allies such as Vojislav Kostunica in 2007, so there was such power to push that story into military neutrality, but in one unmistakable way. Any story about us not having a law on military neutrality tells us that we have no serious intention of being militaryly neutral, because you know very well from international law how to become military neutral. You need to show serious intent through the law or, better yet, through the Constitution, and then go to the Security Council to be guaranteed that military neutrality. You can't do that based on some strategy or some point in some resolution. So I need you to, in addition to speaking marketing about military neutrality and what your authority and your president is doing and, it seems to me even to me that he has announced somewhere a story about it being, but don't hold my word, possible that since many of his media appearances I've mixed up, there will be some law on military neutrality. The law is needed, and it would be even better if we put it in the Constitution, because that would mean stopping this crawling intrusion of Serbia and Serbia into NATO.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-26-0.u2511	Thank you, Mr. Glissic. Perhaps you didn't hear well, Mr Martinovic had just pointed out that it was not a principle adopted in some resolution in 2007, but a principle adopted, incorporated into our laws, laws and strategies, but the laws since you spoke of it, which was voted by this majority to which you addressed in your first address, which you continue to address. So it's about the things we voted on in 2018 and 2019. Right on line, Aleksandar Martinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-26-0.u2512	So, Mr. Glisic, we are military neutral under the provisions of the Defence Act that we adopted in 2018. So it's not some provision in some resolution, like Vojislav Kostunica did. Let me remind you, in 2007 that resolution in the National Assembly, here we have adopted it, right here, although the Assembly was otherwise sitting there in King Milan, that resolution could not be adopted here either if there were no SRS MPs who voted for it, and Velimir Ilic came to the meeting of the National Assembly, so Tomislav Nikolic then said - you have a minister in the government, you now need to vote on military neutrality, and he came here as if he came under the tent, like, without a tie, with three buttons unbuttoned on his shirt, sweaty, etc. I want to tell you that we're doing a lot more seriously than the ones that you've convinced us are great patriots and great patriots. So, we're military neutral, we've cleared that up, and we're legal. I hope you understand that we are military neutral, not by some provision of resolution or strategy, but by law. There's one more thing I want to tell you. Unlike your Vojislav Kostunica, whom you have glorified as a great Serb and great hero, the SNS and Aleksandar Vukic authorities specifically, which you do not speak of by name and last name, but you know, you can read the lines and can be read between the lines. Less bright people just read the lines, and whoever's a little brighter, he can read what's written between the lines. So it's quite clear that everything you're saying should actually be a noose around Alexander Wolfich's neck. You see, unlike your Vojislav Kostunica, who was your political mentor, whom you looked up to as a great Serb, a great Orthodox, etc., the protector of the Serb people, someone who for the first time in Serbia's history, has declared Serbia military neutral, Alexander Vukic has not delivered anyone to The Hague tribunal. I can now list as many people as you want that Vojislav Kostunica of yours delivered to The Hague and not only delivered them, but delivered one by pulling him out of the hospital bed, in pajamas and in hospital slippers. The second was delivered by a half-dead man, the late General Zdravko Tolimir, by arresting him here in Belgrade, so he was taken by a skeleton, or a boat, over the Drina, and allegedly arrested in Republika Srpska. General Lazarevic, commander of the Pristina Corps of the Yugoslav Army, was delivered to The Hague in 1999 by telling him - either you will go to The Hague tribunal or we will do something with your family. So that they may soften a man, that they may do to him as if they were supposed to, you know what they were doing to him? You remember that very well only you won't say, then Velimir Ilic gave him the Octavia Shkod. Otherwise, General Lazarevic, whom we, these great traitors, we who want to crawl Serbia into NATO pact etc., we welcomed General Lazarevic at the Belgrade airport as a hero who defended the Serb people at KIM, and you did not. So General Lazarevic was welcomed at Belgrade's airport by Justice Minister Nikola Selakovic, not Bosko Obradovic, not you, not Dragan Djilas, or any of you. As a lecturer at the Military Academy, he's not currently in the O.R., Mr. Alexander Vulin, then the defence minister. Therefore, if anyone is clean when it comes to Serbian heroes defending the Serbian people, then it is Alexander Vukic, then it is the SNS. As far as the Octavia Shkoda is concerned, this is an example of how an elite Serb officer is literally led to humiliation. General Lazarevic, Mr. Glissic, until then, as humble as he was, he had no private car in his life. He didn't have a private car man, he was a general. And we remember many generals who had not a car, but villas on Dedinj, cottages at sea, free winters, summers, etc., so when they were to defend the state they swore to, they surrendered. They surrendered, so they were declared heroes here in Belgrade. One of them turned over 50 tanks in Varazdin. He was declared a national hero. And those who defended the people of Serbia, do you know what they did to them? They were sent to The Hague by the tribunal, and given to them an octavia. Well, do you want us to go back to that policy, send people back who knows where they're being tried for crimes they didn't commit, and give them the Octaves in return? Is that the patriotism you stand for? Is this the Serbian patriotism that makes you lecture us here and say that you are the only truly authentic representative of the Serbian people? What are we? Who do we represent here, the Chinese, the Russians, the Americans, who? We represent the Serbian people in the smallest way and at least as much as you, if not a thousand times more and a thousand times better. So, I just want to tell you, Mr. Glissic, don't bind us with the burden that others should carry, because everything you've been saying has been said and done by those who were in power until 2012. We beat them. We've sent such a policy into history. We have absolutely no interest in such a policy anymore. We are building Serbia as an independent and sovereign state that builds good neighbourly relations with everyone in its environment, with all major forces, including America and Russia, but carefully safeguards its neutrality, not only military, but also political, and thus we manage to attract investment from both the West and the East. If you find one country in Europe that went after the hand, which didn't have to stand under one boot or another, here I'm telling you again, if you find a country like that, I'm no longer the president of a parliamentary group, I'm no longer a national MP, because I don't know how to do that job.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-26-0.u2513	Thank you, Mr. Martinovic. With this exposure, we closed the last circle of replicas. Let's move on to exposure on the list of declared words. The word has been made by MP Alexander Mirkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-26-0.u2514	It is not easy to discuss after such a brilliant and reasoned discussion by Mr Martinovic, but I will try to continue this topic and these agreements in the same manner, the same spirit, so that, first of all, Serbian citizens who observe this transmission see that these agreements that are on the agenda today have the only goal, which is better tomorrow for all citizens of Serbia. As for the agreement between Serbia and the Russian Federation against terrorism, any agreement signed by our country is good and any agreement we sign can only bring good to our country, especially when we talk about such a sensitive topic as terrorism. Terrorism is a monster that no one is sure of. It's a topic that every country has to access as seriously as possible and a topic that everyone has to take care of if they're responsible for this job. I think it is a great honor and privilege for Serbia to have the opportunity to sign such an agreement with one of the most powerful countries in the world and not only when we talk about the experience the Russian Federation has, but also about the means they have, as well as the methodology, as well as the technology they use to prevent terrorist attacks and combat terrorism. What is very important to us is the fact that in this way we show that everything that is good for our country does not matter where it comes from, whether it is Russia, China, America, the European Union, it is absolutely less important. What represents for us the problem that is happening inside our country is the definition of terrorism and what is terrorism. Not so long ago in July, in front of the House of the National Assembly that we are in today, we had protests, which started out as some sort of rebellion, I don't know, because of some measure that was, like, all over Europe, and turned into lynching and assaulting cops who were just trying to maintain order. After these protests, more than 120 officers were injured. One cop broke both his legs. In those days, we had thousands of pictures and videos where some bunch of hooligans with rocks weighing from three to five pounds trying to hurt or get out of this police entrance. If you attack someone with such a pebble, how do you interpret it differently than attempted murder? Is it an attempted murder of a police officer who's only doing his job terrorism? Was terrorism when we had protests in front of the presidency, when he was a former MP, his name, Bosko Obradovic, was mentioned here, commanding a man – what does it matter, getting into that truck and trampling this? Is it terrorism, too, when you call for a truck to be run down by a cop or more cops trying to maintain order? Is terrorism also when it calls for the murder of the president, the legitimate president, the legitimately elected president of Serbia, and when it is kept silent for days by those whose followers call for it? Is terrorism even when it calls for the collapse of all institutions, the violent takeover of power, bringing in some experts who will solve everything in a brief process? Is terrorism what it is when for us MPs, representing the SNS, marking, marking the bandits we're going to hang from, and already looking for a place to build a concentration camp for all of us? I'm saying all of this for the simple reason that in July, we've been informed by some people that it's a peaceful protest, that a certain group of people, dissatisfied with the policies of the government of the Republic of Serbia, President Alexander Vukic, are fighting for some of their rights that are in no danger to them. They were peaceful protesters back then. But when the protests occur in America, it's better that all these people cry out that it's terrorism, that it's a terrible move by some terrorist organisations and race to condemn it sooner. Because of all of us here in Serbia, all we have to do is try to establish the same criteria and that what happened in America, if we're going to call it terrorism, then and everything that happened in July, we have to call it the same name. What I also want to point out, I am sorry that somehow everything we do in the interests of Serbian citizens and everything that just shows how much politics and the government of Serbia, but also President Aleksandr Vukic is directed towards the citizens' interest, always comes somehow under the bat of observation to find some last intention. So now this Agreement is bad because it's signed with Russia. I'm just asking -- what's wrong with that, and where does Serbia lose anything if we can get any kind of support and help in solving such a big problem and who is the world suffering from? One of the previous speakers in his speech used the term – Serbia received vaccines. Serbia did not receive vaccines. Don't let people from this House, who listen to this transmission, get the wrong information from the people they voted for and represent them here. Serbia has fought for each vaccine itself. In the race of great forces, as President Aleksandar Vucic would say, where everyone tried to grab every place and every boat for themselves, and that we, small countries, stayed on Titanic which sinks, Serbia won nothing, Serbia itself fought responsible policy by President Aleksandar Vukic and the Government of Serbia to allow its citizens to get this monster out of this as soon as possible with as few victims. That is why it is very important that we use the right terms from this place, so that citizens know that we did not get it because some Serbia is interested, because someone wants to bribe Serbia in this way. All that we have done, co-operated and these vaccines that we have today are all the fruit of good co-operation, mutual respect, respect, but also of a correct, responsible and fair relationship with all countries, both in the EU and China, Russia or other countries. I had to look back on that, because just today, 10,000 vaccines have arrived in our country, and these are numbers that some other countries, more developed, stronger than us, can't imagine. As for terrorism and this agreement, I'm going to finish, and I'm sorry Mr. Vulin isn't in the O.R., but I've also been given an answer to my question about the threats that have been referred to. The information Cabba Der provided to the Hungarian investigative authorities, where he said that he had received from two mafia organizations an offer to kill President Aleksandr Vukic. During that period when that information appeared none of the great human rights fighters, NGOs took seriously, as more of their own media, under the direct control of Dragan Gilas, sought to discredit the whole story, to degrade it. I wanted to thank Mr. Alexander Vulin for his quick response and that our Ministry of the Interior is taking certain steps in communication, asking questions, asking for information, because in this way we show responsibility, but also the strength of our country, we show that every citizen, even if it is Alexander Vukic, president of Serbia, has the right to live, has the right like all other people in our country, and no one has the right to endanger his life and his family just because he thinks otherwise than those who just want to return to power sick. I hope that in the coming period, we will have more agreements like this, that we will all together and as the Government of the Republic of Serbia and as the People's MPs, as the highest body, as the Serbian Parliament, will be able to provide our citizens with a better life tomorrow, a better life for all our children, for generations to come, because this is both politics and President Alexander Vukic and SNS. Thank you and live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-26-0.u2515	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Samira Ćosovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-26-0.u2516	Thank you. Dear President, honourable ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs, today we are discussing international MPs signed by the Republic of Serbia from several countries, and in order to regulate significant issues in international relations. Although these contracts have come a certain way since the negotiations, the adoption of the text and the verification of the agreement, the confirmation process is today ahead of us. before the National Assembly, after which they will become legally binding. The agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg on the exchange and mutual protection of classified information has arisen from the need to establish rules for the protection of classified information exchanged between them within the framework of political, military, economic, legal, scientific and technological or any other co-operation. By passing a law confirming the agreement, the Republic of Serbia shows its readiness to advance bilateral co-operation with Luxembourg in the security sector, with a mutually defined way of exchanging and protecting classified information. Furthermore, conditions are being created for more intensive and effective co-operation with an EU and NATO member state, which is important in view of the National Security Strategy, which defined Serbia's main aspirations and determinations of political and national security, such as improving relations with EU members and NATO partners. The adoption of a law confirming the agreement creates conditions of joint action against challenges, risks and threats related not only to the Republic of Serbia but also poses global challenges, risks and threats. Also, conditions are being created for more effective co-operation between the state authorities of the Republic of Serbia and Luxembourg in the areas of internal affairs, justice, foreign affairs, defence and security services, as well as co-operation with economic operators from another country's territory whose business concerns areas for industry and production, as well as the provision of services for the needs of the security sector. As for the Agreement on the Transfer of responsibilities for the provision of air traffic services between the Council of Ministers of BiH, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Montenegro, it is necessary to allow safe operation of international air operations across the common state borders of the countries mentioned in order to improve air traffic relations. The agreement is in line with international conventions, strategies, rules of the single European sky, as well as legal acts by the three states of Serbia, BiH and Montenegro. After 20 years of application of the first Agreement, the adoption of the draft air traffic law on the transfer of responsibilities to air traffic services will conclude a new agreement that will regulate the most important issues of air traffic between the three countries in a modern manner in accordance with the current moment. Today we also have an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on co-operation in the fight against terrorism. I want to point out that life is safe, life without fear of violence, crime and terrorism is a special quality. Security is a general good that must be guaranteed to every citizen of Serbia, regardless of social status and property opportunities. To ensure security for all, it is important to improve bilateral co-operation in the fight against terrorism. That is why the SDPS will support the draft laws on international agreements that are ahead of us today.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-26-0.u2517	Thank you. National MP Marija Jevdzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-26-0.u2518	Thank you. Dear President, honourable ministers, given the importance of the agreement on the agenda today, the JS parliamentary group in the voting day will vote for them and support them. As Minister Nedimovic himself said in his opening statement, we are a country of farmers, and JS President Dragan Markovic Palma, through his presentation, pointed out all the problems our agricultural producers face, I will agree with all of them, and I will also go forward in my presentation first of the bill between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Iran. Otherwise, for me, it is a fact that during the old Yugoslavia we had an exchange with Iran about a billion dollars surprisingly, and unfortunately today it amounts to only $10 million. We see that there is space here and this agreement opens a new market for our agricultural producers, above all for seed and seed producers, and this will be a great opportunity to place these products on this market, and we know that in over 80 countries, seeds are exported from our country. Everything the ministry of resolution, or the Ministry of Agriculture, as well as the Government itself, does to assist agriculture, above all, the agricultural producer, will always have JS support. The proposal for a law on the confirmation of the Agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Russian Federation, which refers to co-operation in the fight against terrorism, has a clear objective and the National Strategy for Prevention and Combating Terrorism 2018/2021 is in force. A National Plan has also been developed to monitor and detect early factors leading to radicalisation, all in order to improve the security of our citizens. The ratification of the agreement with the Russian Federation itself is another basis for strengthening the fight against terrorism. We know how important information is in this fight and by this very agreement we will be able to share, but also to collect information that is important in this fight because terrorism, unfortunately, is not only a single country's problem, but it's a global problem that, we're witnessing, is increasingly taking hold of. As for the Agreement on air traffic between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro, it is a document creating institutional conditions for improving air traffic relations between the countries mentioned. In practice, this means that the adoption of this Agreement contributes to the safe, orderly and rapid flow of air traffic. By the way, participants in Serbia-Montenegro flight control who won the "Single Sky 2019" award for a multinational project of common airspace in 2018, i.e. in 2019. So, this collaboration exists. I think with this agreement, we're going to strengthen it even more and further. I would certainly take this opportunity because I am talking about air traffic, and I would also commend the government, as well as the former foreign minister, and the current National Assembly President, Ivica Dacic, who, by quick reaction and co-ordination with "Er Serbia" within a short time period of time, brought back our people who, at the moment when the world pandemic was declared out of the country, were primarily students and students who were suspended from schooling, people who were on official roads, as well as other citizens who found themselves at airports around the world and in the general world chaos at that time managed to return them to Serbia, to return them to their homes. In your presentation today, Mr. Nedimovic, you pointed out that this government wants to encourage and further accelerate Serbia's economic development. As an emissary coming from Raška County, I must also commend the opening of the Morava airport in the Kingdom which will represent, I am sure, a great help not only to foreign investors who work and who employ our citizens in this area, but also to domestic businessmen who will be able to transport their goods more easily, but also to further develop rural, Banish, mountain tourism and areas. The start of work on the Moravia Corridor is certainly a clear message that Serbia wants to develop evenly and that we are slowly moving towards our country's decentralisation. I would only touch for a minute, as we are already talking about air traffic, and we are in the era of combating climate change and to point out, unfortunately, the huge pollution that air-transport itself brings. It's about 2% of the world's emissions. I believe that Serbia is actively taking part through the resolution ministry in solving this global problem. I mean, on the one hand, we need to preserve a healthy environment, and on the other hand, we need to improve people's lives, and that's certainly a big challenge for all countries, so that's for our country. I think we also hope that we have a plan to improve as best as possible and reduce the impact of air traffic pollution, and thus not endangering the operation of air traffic. Since I no longer have time, as I said at the outset, the JS parliamentary group will support the proposed laws in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-26-0.u2519	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Snezana Paunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-26-0.u2520	Thank you. Dear President, honourable ministers, fellow MPs, citizens and citizens of Serbia, we have before us a set of agreements that are important for the functioning of the state. They were discussed by the head of the SPS parliamentary group, Mr Milicevic. She's going to talk after me, too, so I'm going to look back on one of them, not because I think they're less important, but because we've shared tasks with each other. So the agreement between the government of the Republic of Serbia and the government of the Russian Federation on co-operation in the field of combating terrorism, the National Assembly today is due to ratify, otherwise signed in Belgrade on June 18th 2020. Before I even start talking about this agreement, I'm going to refer to what the definition of terrorism is, for the sake of the public. It is defined as a deliberate planned use of violence or threats that instill fear with the intention of threatening government or society to achieve political, religious or ideological goals. Mostly terrorist methods of violence are used in times of peace or during the war on the civilian population. Unfortunately, in Serbia, we also know very much what the definition of terrorism is and what it looks like in practice. When it comes to international relations with this issue of terrorism, they didn't always recognize it the way we did, because at the time we were victims of terrorists, they weren't, at least not to the extent that we are. According to global databases run by the University of Maryland between 2000 and 2014, more than 61,000 terrorist acts involving more than 140,000 people died. I don't really know if this treats the victims of terrorist attacks in the southern Serbian province. I guess not otherwise this number would be anywhere and where bigger. The truth is one thing, which is that Europe is at this point the most exposed continent in terms of terrorism and we hardly have a country that has not been affected by terrorist attacks in the last 30 years. So, in particular after 2004, a terrorist attack in Madrid took place in the unique space of the European Union when their activity took place, but it was strengthened to bring legislation and measures into line and the co-operation of police and judicial authorities in the prevention and fight against terrorism between members, and then, within the European Union itself, by creating a legal framework primarily in the fight against money laundering, which is financed by terrorism, as well as by the creation of Europol. So, Serbia is working on this plan with both the European Union and all other countries, but especially with its traditional friends, such as the Russian Federation, and this results in an agreement that I am going to talk about today. The agreement with the Russian Federation is one of the most important in the field of counterterrorism and it is an expression of the mutual desire of our countries to improve, primarily through bilateral co-operation, all aspects of the fight against terrorism, as the global problem that is the most serious threat to world peace. The agreement, which actually constitutes a legal basis for co-operation, sets out all aspects of co-operation between the two countries' competent authorities, starts with data exchange and experience of experts with anti-terrorism, using examples of good practice, up to participation in actions to prevent and prevent terrorism. Under this Agreement, the Republic of Serbia and the Russian Federation as members of the United Nations above all will make a major contribution to the international fight against terrorism. Somehow, a close link between terrorism exists when it comes to organised crime, which is often a material basis for terrorism, because terrorist organisations are mostly supplying their funds in an illegal way through money laundering from illegal drug trafficking, weapons or other smuggled goods to organ trafficking, and unfortunately we are witnesses as a state and as a people. That is why, apart from prevention and the fight against terrorism, it is also necessary to prevent all illegal ways of financing it, because it is simply the most effective way to prevent terrorism in general. This also confirms a traditional mutual trust, friendship, but also long-term co-operation in the security sector and this is almost an agreement of strategic importance for our two countries, especially for Serbia because partnership in the fight against terrorism with us, a friendly country of Russia, which has a huge defence potential, represents an additional security impulse. In order to remain faithful to myself, I must also point out a few examples that clearly indicate how dangerous terrorism itself is and how much of a monster it is. We had not so long ago, in 2014 according to the data that I have, the graphite on which it was written – Caliphate comes, no less than on the estate of the High Decani monastery, which was not only a disturbing message, but an open threat well understood by few residents, but also by the brothers of the High Decani. There's been a tradition since 1998, so there's been a tradition here when it comes to Albanians. At some point probably in their own need to eventually show, regardless of what the quasi states are willing to fight terrorists, there have been some arrests by the anti-terrorist police, they are probably called the self-proclaimed republic of Kosovo, so they arrested seven men on November 4th. I don't know what happened to them. They had been detained for 30 days, but claimed they had evidence that it was actually trained soldiers from a terrorist organisation that came back to Kosovo to recruit new fighters for what they call a high goal. You yourself, President of the Assembly, at a time when you were Minister of Foreign Affairs in 2015 when they insisted that they be admitted, or on a proposal from Albania, they should have been admitted to UNESCO, said it was just as if someone were asking that no less than an Islamic state be admitted to UNESCO and become a member of an organisation within the UN. In that sense, except that this is necessary for Serbia and that this agreement really gives an additional amount of security to the citizens of the southern Serbian province, I see it and I have the right to point it out, and I think it is important to stress that this global fight against terrorism should finally take on those contours that will not be a selective approach to where terrorists come from. What has already been said I will repeat, which is that the SPS Parliamentary Group will certainly support all the proposed agreements and vote for them in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-26-0.u2521	Thank you. Before the break, the People's Messenger Goran Pekarski.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-26-0.u2522	I'll be brief. Thank you, Chairman. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Minister, has been said a lot, so I will focus only on one item of the agenda, one topic, and it refers to an agreement signed between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation. This is point six, or the consent that the Assembly needs to give to sign such an agreement on the joint action against terrorism. Otherwise, the agreement was signed on 18 June 2020 by authorised representatives of the two governments. In front of the government of the Republic of Serbia, the agreement was signed by the then and current Deputy Prime Minister of the Interior, Mr Nebojsa Stefanovic, and before the government of the Russian Federation, the Agreement was signed by Sergei Lavrov and will take effect when all procedures are completed in both countries, and today it is time for the National Assembly of Serbia to agree on the agreement. It is good that we sign these strategic agreements with countries that are our strategic partners, and Russia is our strategic partner, and if nothing else, then the most important state partner is with us, or Serbia. The National Strategy of the Republic of Serbia from 2017 to 2020 states that Serbia is opposed to terrorism being linked to any ethnic or religious group and it says, it is our national policy to condemn all acts of terrorism independently of the facts of what circumstances, of what forces, where, when and how they were carried out. In my opinion, terrorism is not only when an individual takes a gun and goes and shoots and kills innocent people, or that terrorists are the only ones who sent them directly to do so, there are some activities that are dangerous, perhaps more dangerous than the perpetrators themselves. So, terrorism, if it didn't have strong political support, he'd probably cease to exist in the form that we know of, he'd probably just be held back at the level of smaller groups or some individuals. So those who support terrorist organisations, those who arm them, who finance them, those who represent some terrorists as revolutionaries or liberators, they step far into a terrorist act. In my view, those who recruit certain individuals to create crises, to create conditions of controlled chaos, to create and organise hybrid and asymmetric action, to destabilise certain regions or states, and they have stepped deep into terrorism, and they are all doing it to create some of their goals and destabilise the legally elected authorities. The act of terrorism includes the bombing of a country without UN consent. The terrorism is when you declare terrorists from Kosovo a Liberation Army, because that's how you send a message to other terrorists to support the pogrom, to support persecution, to support murders, rapes, and the killings of those children in Gorazdevec when they go swimming. It is also terrorism when an army of a sovereign country, I think of Iran, declares the legal army of a sovereign country a terrorist organization, and then you fight them in a completely different way. Listening to the president of Serbia could be part of a terrorist act. This agreement for Serbia is very good, because there are indications and indicators that people are lurking in our environment for fighting and are being led to fight on the sidelines of terrorist organisations, not only from our environment, but from our southern province, Kosovo is being recruited by young people. Otherwise, Kosovo is under NATO protection. Young people are recruiting, and they're taking off to fight for some terrorist organizations, and there are indications that there are camps a little souther down where they train. It is therefore good to have partners with whom we will exchange information, all in order to improve the quality and security of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-26-0.u2523	Thank you. Now, in accordance with Article 87. Rules of Procedure, I'm setting a break of one hour, which means we'll proceed at 15.00 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-26-0.u2524	We're going back to work. The word is made by Master Slavenko Unkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-26-0.u2525	The respected chairman, respected ministers, respected fellow MPs, is subject to an air traffic service transfer agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the government of the Republic of Serbia and the government of Montenegro to define the rights and obligations of contracting parties in the part of the BiH airspace. The objective of this Agreement is to enable the safe conduct of international flight operations across common national borders in the interest of airspace users and their passengers. Neither our country nor BiH nor Montenegro are EU members, but this time we are applying the European Parliament's Regulation on the provision of air navigation services in the context of the single European sky. The BiH Transport Ministry launched an initiative to bring the border of competence to provide air traffic services with the border of the Republic of Serbia. There is a need to remain in charge of providing services in one part of BiH's airspace, along the border with the Republic of Serbia, Serbia-Montenegro's Flight Control, and one part of the BiH Services Agency, respectively, would take over Serbia-Montenegro's flight control, i.e. SMATS. Otherwise, SMATSA is our home agency, one of the most important in this part of Southeast Europe. SMATSA has existed since 2003 as a control of the flying of Serbia-Montenegro's common state, and following the separation of Montenegro, an agreement was signed in 2012 on the joint co-operation of our two governments in the area of air traffic and confirmed continuity by providing services on the premises of these two countries. We know little that this SMATSA agency in 2015 was named the best flight control in the competition of 48 operators on the European continent. In recent years, it has been ranked at the very top of European flight control. This is the result of constant investment and modernisation of the system, as well as human resources. Just last year was really hard for all the airlines, for all the companies and agencies that deal with this area. The government of the Republic of Serbia adopted a conclusion a year and a half ago confirming the basis for negotiating in order to reach an agreement. Confirmation of the agreement will be a long-term legal basis for providing air traffic services in the part of BiH's airspace along the border with the Republic of Serbia. Serbia shows these agreements how much it cares about improving regional co-operation and how much it means that the whole region connects in every possible way, of course, in the interests of citizens. The best indicator is the initiative and launch of the Trebinje Airport project, where the holder of the job is Republika Srpska along with Republika Srpska. This year, the construction of this airport will begin and I hope that next year he will be in office and start transporting passengers and goods. I will remind only that the Republic of Serbia has allocated five billion dinars in the budget for this year for the Trebinje Airport project, and the total amount of money defined for this big project is 55m euros, which the Republic of Serbia has allocated to this project at a higher stage. It is not necessary to say how much this air bridge will mean between our people on both sides of Drina, how much it will mean for the people of eastern Herzegovina and Republika Srpska, the whole of BiH and the whole region. Trebinje will have a chance to become one of the most visited tourist destinations in this part of the Balkans and the realization of these projects expects economic growth and development, as well as the arrival of new domestic and foreign investors, as well as of course new jobs. This, besides Banja Luka Airport, will be the second airport in Republika Srpska and is expected to be more modern, modern and offer higher standards, and thus a sufficient number of passengers in the near future. All of this would not have been possible if the Republic of Serbia had not been economically and financially strong and stable, which has defined so much funding for building such a project during this difficult period. Only a strong and stable state of Serbia is a guarantee of the stability and security of our citizens throughout the region. The JS parliamentary group will vote in favour of this agreement, as well as any proposed agreements at this item of the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-26-0.u2526	Thank you. Dr. Muamer Bacevac isn't here. The word is Dr. Vesna Ivković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-26-0.u2527	The chairman, a respected minister, respected fellow MPs, respected citizens and citizens of Serbia, is today talking about several international agreements. Col. Djordje Milicevic, president of the SPS parliamentary group and our authorised representative after the search, discussed the agreements the government of the Republic of Serbia concluded with the Russian Federation, Luxembourg, BiH and Montenegro, as well as counterpart Snezana Paunovic, so I will not look back on these. I will talk about the draft law confirming the amendment of the International Convention on the Harmonised System of Names and Codes of Goods, and then on the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Second Additional Protocol of the World Postal Convention and, ultimately, on the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement on Co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran in the area of Plant Protection and Plant Quarantine. The Council for Customs Co-operation, which is in fact the official name of the World Customs Organisation, was founded in 1952 by 17 European countries. Today it is an international organisation that has 179 member states in its membership, of which 80% are developing or transitioning countries. These 179 countries make up 96% of the world's trade. Under the auspices of this organisation, 12 international conventions have been adopted and a large number of recommendations aimed at bringing customs procedures into line at international level and thus speeding up the traffic of goods between different countries. Yugoslavia became a member of the Customs Co-operation Council already in 1960, and in 2006, Serbia took over membership in this organisation as a country of Successor, i.e. a successor of the SCG State Community. Serbia is an active member of this organisation and is a signator of a number of international conventions related to customs co-operation. Cooperation with this organization is of paramount importance because of the fact that it is directly involved in creating an efficient customs environment. The common objective is to bring customs procedures into line, to simplify them, while strengthening the control of the traffic of goods across borders and thus to prevent cross-border traffic of goods without customs duties. The aim of the proposed amendments to this International Convention is to establish a more efficient procedure to facilitate the process of considering an important customs issue and to limit the possibility for parties to object to a maximum of twice in order to make decisions more effective. The experience so far in this segment has shown that in the case of disputed proceedings, the possibility of making more objections to the same thing, then answering the other party to the complaints often lasted long, which slowed and made the final decision-making process more difficult. Therefore, the solution proposed by the amendment of the Convention is in the function of more effective work by all members of the World Customs Organisation and each of its members in particular. Serbia's customs as a member of the World Customs Organisation uses valuable experiences and implements international standards in its work, which has improved our internal work as well. It should be mentioned that Serbia is also a signator of a specific regional agreement by SELEK, which concerns co-operation between customs and police authorities to prevent cross-border crime. The next agreement I'm going to talk about is confirming the Second Additional Protocol of the World Postal Convention. The postage tradition in Serbia is very long, more than one and a half centuries. Today, it is the headquarters of communication between people, and it is also one of the main actors of the technological, economic, economic and cultural development of the state and society. The history of mail in Serbia has had a long journey and mail has been transmitted in various ways. The World Post Federation was founded as a specialized United Nations agency in 1874, based in Bern, Switzerland. The then Principality of Serbia, although it was not yet a sovereign state at the time, was one of the 22 states signatories of the founding act and had already had decades of experience in the work of the post office. Today, the World Post Federation has 192 members, 29 of whom are industrialised and 163 developing countries. The World Postal Federation's goal from establishment to date is to improve co-operation on a multilateral basis, to successfully operate postal traffic and to contribute to the higher objectives of international co-operation in the economic, social and cultural areas. Confirmation of the Second Additional Protocol provides the right to universal postal service to all natural and legal persons at affordable prices, on equal terms in the single postal territory. This will improve the safety and safety of shipments of users and employees and will ensure respect for all international environmental standards. Finally, a brief agreement on the protection of plants and plant quarantine with Iran. The diplomatic relations of our country and Iran date back to 1945. Serbia expressed great gratitude to Iran for its principled stance and support for the preservation of Serbia's territorial integrity and sovereignty, despite numerous pressures to recognise unilaterally declared independence, so-called. the countries of Kosovo. Serbia and Iran have good co-operation in the area of economy, culture and education and strives to deepen the relations of the two countries and boost co-operation. Foreign trade trade trade is seen in the export of cardboard, corn, tobacco from Serbia, oil imports, oil, aluminium and other needs. Although there are some steps in co-operation in higher education, there is room for improving the co-operation of the two countries in the fields of education, science and technology, because these areas are of great importance, if not crucial to the progress of each country. The subject of the agreement with Iran that we are talking about today and which National Assembly should ratify is the protection of plants and plant quarantine. Plant protection, as part of agricultural production, is an important segment in increasing the yield and quality of plants and its products. The importance of the health status of plants is highlighted, especially the seeds and fruit material that are used for further reproduction, and thus the possibility of transporting harmful organisms is greater and with more dangerous consequences for plant production. One of the most important measures in preventing the spread of harmful organisms is the plant quarantine that exists in all countries of the world, which implies the isolation of plants and fruit material during a certain period of time when imports, or exports. Plant quarantines are also applied within the countries themselves, as they provide plant health and plant products. The reason for the existence of plant quarantine is primarily to defend the country's agricultural production, since the introduction of only one infected plant organism to harmful organisms can cause negative consequences for total agricultural production. Knowledge of the regulation regarding plant quarantine is essential because it prescribes rules of conduct when importing consignors from other countries. Serbia has a large number of bilateral agreements in this area because it protects our fruit material and plant production. It is important to note that we are a significant producer and exporter of fruit material in the fruit sector, so it is important to apply quarantine within our country to export healthy and safe fruit material. The Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group will support all proposed bill proposals in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-26-0.u2528	Thank you. The word has a People's MP, Bojan Bagica.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-26-0.u2529	Dear President-in-Office, esteemed minister, fellow MPs, ratification of the international agreement between the government of the Republic of Serbia and the government of the Russian Federation on co-operation in the fight against terrorism, we will confirm that we are fully committed to strengthening overall relations and strategic partnership with the Russian Federation, and that one of the specific objectives of this partnership is to strengthen co-operation in the area of security of the citizens of the two countries. What is extremely important is that this agreement will allow for a faster exchange of information, as well as exchange of experiences and practices in the fight against terrorism. What we have, as well as many fellow MPs in today's, but also in some previous discussions, pointed out is the fact that for many years the Ministry of Interior has been successfully following all the security challenges and threats that our country has been exposed to and manages to adequately respond to any kind of threat both to the security of the state and to the security of our citizens and their property. I would especially like to point out that, freely speaking, the maximum responsibility of the policy that all the competent individuals and state authorities have implemented from the President of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic, prime minister, the overall composition of the last two or even three republican governments, has led to more than a million migrants coming through Serbia, one of whom were members of broken terrorist organisations, and no moment has been questioned by the security of our citizens, while respecting the fundamental human rights of migrants. When we talk about the agreement itself, I don't think it's an excuse to repeat once again because of the citizens themselves that the essence of the measures provided for in this agreement is to look at the exchange of intelligence and security information that can enable the prevention of terrorist attacks, as well as to provide concrete assistance in the fight against one of the greatest security challenges in the modern world. I am more than convinced that this co-operation will be fruitful because both countries have a regulated system of security, a regulated database, and unfortunately a rich experience in the fight against terrorism. The Russian side predominantly in the Caucasus area in recent times and Syria, and ours both in Kosovo and Metohija, as well as in the space of the former state community. On this occasion, I would remind all of us of the presence of several terrorist organisations in Bosnia and Herzegovina during the war conflicts in that same space, as well as the existence of a unit called El Mujahidin, which has been part of the so-called war action all along. Bosnia and Herzegovina's armies. These terrorist units were mainly made up of volunteers from Islamic countries who called themselves mujahidins. Well, US diplomat Richard Holbrooke himself publicly admitted that the US administration at the time did not oppose the arrival of Islamic terrorists in Bosnia and Herzegovina and that it was a pact with the devil for the achievement of global political interests. We all know very well that the formation of Al Qaeda has contributed to America above all. For her account, Bin Laden gathered terrorists who, after years of fighting, forced the Soviet Union to withdraw their troops from Afghanistan. The war in Bosnia and Herzegovina restored the Alliance of Bin Laden and its sponsors, and the situation was similar, though in a small extent, here in Serbia, that is, in our southern province of Kosovo and Metohija, where mujahedins fought on the sides of the so-called so-called war. The KLA, a paramilitary terrorist organisation that was considered by the United States itself by March 1998 as its allies as a terrorist organisation, to become an air support for these same terrorists for a year in order to form the first drug-state on Europe's territory. Exactly, on the wings of the NATO alliance, we have reached the fact that Kosovo and Metohija, apart from becoming European Colombia, has become the largest terrorist recruiting centre in Europe. On this occasion, I cannot without commending what all defence and home affairs ministers have done since 2012, starting with the 2012 Ministerial term of the current president of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic, to this day, to develop and upgrade, arming and equipping primarily Serbia's Army, the Ministry of Interior and the entire security sector. I would also praise everything that has been done to improve the standards of security forces both through increased earnings and through resolving housing issues, since these people have endured the greatest burden both with their daily struggle and with their efforts to make Serbia a much safer and safer place to live. We expect them to be a guarantee of our security and peaceful life in the country in the future. In the end, I would like to add that I am sincerely convinced that such an agreement is really necessary to us, but we need more than anything else to co-operate with the state and the people who have not only been our sincere friend and ally for centuries, but for the last few decades, uncompromising fighters against global terrorism. We need co-operation with a country that, unlike some of the above mentioned, has never changed sides for its own political interests in this struggle, a country that has paid an extremely high price for this struggle. So I think we should mention dozens of deaths during two terrorist attacks on the Moscow subway in 2004, near a hundred deaths during the three terrorist attacks in 2013 in Volvograd or a similar number of deaths two years earlier during two terrorist attacks at Domodevo airport, as well as 300 innocent children and adults killed during the 2004 hostage crisis in Beslan. All this is a high price of uncompromising fight against terrorism that should be remembered and respected by the entire civilised world, as the same world should remember that alkaide terrorists did not cut off their first head in Iraq, either in Libya or Syria, but in Podrinj, Republika Srpska, when on Petrovday 1992, terrorists cut off, celebrating their crime as a trophy, wearing the severed head of Serb Dragan Popovic on the same day that their fellows and accomplices in a terrible crime took out the eyes of Judge Slobodan Ilic, or should remember that NATO pedestrians in the uniforms of terrorist liberation so-called. The Kosovo Liberation Army committed terrible crimes near the village of Klecka in Stari Grack, in the village of Livadica, in Gorazdevec, as well as in many other places across Kosovo and Metohija. In order to do everything to prevent any possibility of the life and safety of any citizen of the Republic of Serbia ever being threatened again, I believe that one such agreement is more than necessary and that is why I will support it as well as my fellow MPs in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-26-0.u2530	Thank you. Next reported is Justina Pupin Koscal.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-26-0.u2531	The Honored Chairman, a respected minister, respected MPs and respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I will address today's debate on the Law confirming the agreement between the government of the Republic of Serbia and the government of the Russian Federation on co-operation in the fight against terrorism. Although my colleague, Snezana Paunovic, of the SPS, has already talked about it today, let me say one more thing about this agreement. Terrorism is one of the biggest security challenges of the 20th and 21st centuries and is a very complex social phenomenon that is not easy to define, but it's also not easy to fight. Basically, terrorism is a Latin expression of terror, a terrorist, meaning horror, a great fear. We must in no way equate the concepts of terrorism and terrorism because terror is violence from the position of government, and terrorism is violence against one's authority. Of course, fear is one of the specifics of terrorism because every terrorist action aims to cause fear in a particular group of people. If we are trying to use the term of violence, by causing fear to define terrorism, it is not enough because terrorism is certainly a much bigger problem. Terrorism is always politically colored and represents violence directed against one's authority. He sends a dangerous message that anyone can be a victim, so unfortunately no country today is spared from the dangers that terrorism carries with it. For these reasons, all countries are holy and especially and organised to implement measures to combat terrorism. The Republic of Serbia as part of the world community, as a member of the UN and other international organisations, has harmonised legislation that enables effective opposition to this planetary monster. Serbia is a signator of numerous bilateral agreements in this area that improve co-operation with other countries, a significant link in organised counterterrorism. When it comes to our legislation, I would point out the importance of adopting a law on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing, because it requires a lot of money that terrorist organisations are supplying illegally, primarily through drug trafficking, arms trafficking and other illegal channels. Serbia has a National Strategy to prevent and combat terrorism, and the government adopted a new anti-money laundering and terrorism strategy for the period from 2020 to 2024. These documents found that prevention and the fight against terrorism are one of the external political priorities of the Republic of Serbia, so that all forms of international and bilateral co-operation in the fight against terrorism also arise from this strategic orientation. One of the very important bilateral agreements is exactly an agreement with the Russian Federation on co-operation in the fight against terrorism, which we are talking about today and which is the National Assembly to ratify. The Russian Federation, which is a traditional friend of Serbia, is our partner in the field of fighting terrorism. Both Serbia and Russia as UN members want to contribute to the global fight against terrorism, so that our two countries' bilateral co-operation on this plan is a significant step in this joint fight. This agreement sets out all forms of our co-operation, the authority of the authorities has been defined and measures have been established to prevent and combat all forms of terrorism that are skillfully adapted to the technological progress of society. An example of this is cyberterrorism. In the end, I would like to say that the SPS parliamentary group will support this agreement in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-26-0.u2532	Thank you. The People's Messenger Nevenko Kostadinov has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-26-0.u2533	Thank you, Chairman. Dear fellow MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I will refer to the Law confirming the Agreement on Co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran in the area of plant protection and plant quarantine. The conclusion of an agreement that regulates co-operation in this area is extremely important for both importers and exporters involved in this business and for the area of health care and prevention, which is very important for imports of plant origin goods, which often carries a risk to the health of the plant and animal world. The Agreement clearly defines all steps taken in the import and export process, thus facilitating the procedure for imports and exports themselves on the one hand, and the risk of the introduction of dangerous and harmful living organisms is reduced to a minimum, i.e. defining the process of examination, control and direct examination as well as the steps taken in the event of the occurrence of hazardous living organisms. This Agreement defines the phytosanitary certificate issued by authorised institutions, which serves as a accompanying document on the health regularity of plant material. Something that is not defined by this agreement, which I would like to point out, is the export of wood material or elements of wood material that are also of plant origin and which could be treated as such. Most often they can be wooden palettes, elements for wooden palettes and cut raw materials. Experience has shown that when it comes to exporting such goods, very often there is uncertainty in interpretation, especially if such material is subjected to heat treatment in accordance with the international ICCAT standard, when the tree is treated at 56 degrees Celsius for a maximum of 30 minutes. Very often, when exporting such material, and despite the fact that such wood material is accompanied by an official confirmation of an economic operator who has performed heat treatment, in certain countries when importing, in addition to the certificate mentioned above, it is also very often required to provide a fit certificate which is excessive in this case, but very often remains for the interpretation of customs and other services, so in one case it is necessary, and in the other case it is not necessary. I therefore stress that such agreements could and should define everything necessary from the accompanying documentation in order to avoid the inconveniences and problems of exports resulting from the interpretation of individuals. Furthermore, in my presentation, I would take advantage of the opportunity to bring some problems out of the area where I come from. I expected the minister to be present, but I will still take the opportunity to present the problem briefly. So it's a company called Progress, which was socially owned and recently bought by an investor. As I said, "Progress" has in the past dealt with animal farming, mostly sheep and goats, and the sale of meat and milk products. He was a supporter of the development of the Bosilegrad municipality. The company "Progress" did not survive the transition process. The privatisation process took a long time, and now that the investor has finally appeared and started to repair and repair the facilities, new problems have emerged. So, the social enterprise "Progress" in the past was given immobility to permanent use, such as pastures, meadows, forests, orchards and forest land on which the company in the past based its production, and the property was improved by maintaining, planting orchards and cultivation. Following the purchase of the social enterprise, there was a withdrawal of such a right of permanent use on immovable property, where the company was founded on production, where the exemption of parcels occurred after purchase, which are mainly agricultural land by culture, which is vital to the production process in the future, and thus the devising of the business of the business of the business of the business operator in the territory of the municipality of Bosilegrad. As a result, I, as a national MP, on behalf of my fellow citizens and on my personal behalf, address the Ministry of Agriculture with a request that if there is a legal possibility, the issues of property owned and used by the social enterprise before the sale, that these are returned to this company for use and that the conclusion of a new contract will be the subject of precisely all the immovableities owned by the social enterprise prior to sale, as well as possibly other immovableities owned by the Republic of Serbia, which are of particular importance for the development of agricultural production. Then inform the Republic Geodetic Institute to suspend the process, i.e. the process of changing the registration of rights of use from former users of the social enterprise "Progress" to the Ministry of Agriculture as a new owner. Furthermore, it is necessary to provide the investor with a guarantee that he will not be deprived by unilateral decisions of the property on which he bases livestock production, except, of course, the regulated cases. Therefore, I ask the Ministry to respect this request and to help all of us together to implement this investment in the middle of which there is hardly any interest of investors to invest their money here. According to investors, the Ministry of Agriculture through local self-government, through an auctioning process rents all the parcels that were or were still in the cataster registered on "Progress" in use, even plots on which farm and summer homes were purchased and led to "Progress". Note, if the former social enterprise "Progress" used over 5,000 hectares of meadows and pastures and over 400 hectares of fields and orchards, a new company without using this potential has no possibility of organising and raising livestock production. So you can't grow cattle without fields, meadows and pastures. So let's do everything we can to keep at least this investor who's already decided to invest his capital in our neighborhood, because it's of great importance to the whole region for a lot of reasons. Finally, to point out, in the voting day, I will support all the agreements and laws that we have on the agenda today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-26-0.u2534	Thank you. Next reported is MP Vuk Mircetic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-26-0.u2535	Thank you. Dear President, distinguished colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I have come to the agenda on the proposal for a bill confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on co-operation in the fight against terrorism. This morning, Minister Vulin talked about terrorism and said it was a global phenomenon that could appear and happen absolutely anywhere. This is our way of being part of this global fight against terrorism and participating actively, one of the priorities of the Republic of Serbia is certainly ensuring lasting global and regional stability. As far as the agreement is concerned, as regards the signing of the agreement itself, the agreement was signed by the recent interior minister of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Nebojsa Stefanovic and Russian Federation Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov, on the visit of Mr Lavrov to the Russian Federation on June 18th 2020. What is interesting is that just today Minister Selakovic said in an interview that Russia is our traditional friend and partner and that our friendship and partnership exceeds some mere political ties and that there is an interest, but mutual interest, that these interconnections are further advanced and further equipped with some new agreements such as this, but he also stressed that our relationships are very high-level. The Russian Federation has great knowledge and experience when it comes to fighting terrorism, so that we can, on the one hand, learn, and on the other hand, be able to pass on certain knowledge that we possess. A fellow MP, Aleksandar Markovic, as rapporteur of the committee, said and stressed that this agreement would allow a faster exchange of information in the field of combating terrorism, as well as exchange of experiences and practices in this area, which means it implies what is very important for the security of the citizens of our two countries. When it comes to intensifying co-operation between the Republic of Serbia and the Russian Federation through the exchange of operational information and these professional experiences, we must make it a point to simply contribute to countering the security threats that terrorism brings with it. I believe that the adoption of this law, hence the law confirming the aforementioned Agreement, will further improve Serbia to remain a safe and secure place for all of us, and that is exactly what President Aleksandar Vukic advocates, but also the Serbian Progressive Party. For all the above and for all that I have said, and for the previous speakers, I will support this bill in the day to vote, and I also call on fellow Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament to support this bill. Thank you. Long live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-26-0.u2536	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-26-0.u2537	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am taking another chance to warn of the possible violence of a group that considers itself to be opposition political parties. I think it's some weird family that's prone to violence and that's what I'm talking about political terrorism with. This country has been through two periods. One period was in the 1990s when we were threatened on the outside. The period after that was the period from 2000 to 2000 when they stole us from the inside, not only stole but stole, stole that they had no measure in it. So while they were in public affairs, they took care of their businesses, filling their pockets with 400,000 people. Today, these same people who have impoverished this country almost ruined even talking about military neutrality. We were military neutralists in their time. So, this country needs another period of peace to gain its political power through the economy, its international reputation needs to be further strengthened by its army, that what we earn, what the plow earns a sword can do. We need this period of peace, but I warn that those who have threatened us outside in the 1990s may once again have this kind of intention to try to destroy this country through political terrorism. Those who have this intention on the outside obviously have the support of those insiders who stole from us, and I believe that before the Belgrade elections, these outsiders who threatened us and those insiders who stole and stole and there are great indications that this will happen in the next period. In this connection, some activities should be taken, and Tanja Fajon, you certainly know, behaves as a sort of person and at some point seems to me to be the leader of this political group who is prone to various acts of violence and who threatens constantly with violence, so street violence, riots, wanting, above all, to win over a part of the government that does not belong to them, who do not have a foothold in the election of voters in the Republic of Serbia. I think that this is the kind of political terrorism that threatens us to escalate in some future period and I think that all colleagues here who are present should pay attention to it, and I will cut my discussion short, given that I have already spoken several times and that I want other colleagues to take advantage of the opportunity and say something more, because I see that Russia and Serbia will be almost in the same position and that those who do not want Russia and Serbia well when they want to harm Russia must first do so on the case in Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-26-0.u2538	Thank you, Mr. Risticevic. The word is Nebojsa Bakarec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-26-0.u2539	The Honorable Chairman, honourable fellow Members of Parliament, respected fellow Members, respected citizens, this extraordinary agreement with Russia is, of course, beyond necessary for its essence and for the very subject itself. So, like Russia and Serbia, it is exposed to foreign terrorism and internal terrorism. I think that's quite clear. So, for example, external terrorists in Serbia come from the Federation of BiH, and the best example of terror present at the Federation of BiH had a better example than the attempted murder of Alexander Vukic, who was then the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia in Srebrenica. This case of terrorism, terrorism, is not resolved at all, so. But external terrorists, of course, come from both the fake state of Kosovo and Croatia and Albania, etc. Of course, these external terrorists often have the support of extreme Islamic circles and of course certain foreign intelligence services. Cooperation will, of course, be mutually beneficial, because we have different information about these experiences with internal political terrorism. I would especially look back, and I am glad that more colleagues and our leades, dear Mr. Marijan Risticevic, have looked back on internal terrorism, and I would call it anarcho terrorism in Serbia. We have a very clear situation from 2018 until today that the extremism of the works of the opposition led by Đilas, Nogo, Mladjan Djordjevic, Obradovic, became increasingly pronounced and finally transformed into anarcho terrorism in July 2020 and we are all the subject of this anarcho terrorist attack was the state of Serbia and, above all, this assembly as its highest legislative body. The final transition to water anarcho terrorism took place in July last year. It's a school case of internal terrorism. I'll remind you of what was weakly pointed out. The competent security authorities then indicated the evident involvement of foreign services in these events. You may have forgotten that the foreign factor was involved. Testifies to the fact that there are a number of foreign persons, meaning a large number, more than 20 foreign citizens have been arrested in connection with attacks against the Republika Srpska Assembly and violent events around it and those from Israel, Britain, Tunisia, Montenegro, and most of them were from BiH. They also found adequate equipment and weapons that do not come from Serbia at all. Bosko Obradovic was then quite clear, since I do not know what hallucinations he had that would fall power in Serbia, he called for a coup. I quote Bosko Obradovic. It says – the whole of Serbia needs to head straight for Belgrade, now and it must never fall. Over. Srjan Nogo did similar to those of those days. He says, tonight, not tomorrow, to solve, the police and the army immediately move to the side of the people. Of course, Nogo, Obradovic, Gilas and their media, violent protesters violated the criminal law at the time, and it was a great deal against the head of criminal acts against the constitutional order and security of the Republic of Serbia, the head of the attack on constitutional order, the call for a violent change of constitutional arrangement, the association for anti-constitutional action. Threats of changes in the constitutional order on the street in blood and conflict have been present and have become a daily in Serbia for three years, and a series of people now prominent or perhaps unspeakable policies and outside politics have called for a violent change of government in Serbia, both in blood and in conflict. This was done by Obradović, of course Nogo, Jovo Bakic, Goran Markovic, Dragan Velić, Snezana Congradin, Sergei Trifunović, Mladjan Djordjevic, etc. I will remind you of what was other than terrorism, a violent invasion of RTS with the goal of taking up RTS and starting a violent coup. That's what they tried to do in front of the presidency. Of course, they didn't make it. Then they tried to break into the City Assembly with the same goal, and how strong they showed the fact that in this violent attack and terrorism, they were prevented by esteemed ladies, women from the SNS. They defended the City Hall. The same scenario then, in April 2019, was prepared for this Assembly, but failed to achieve it, but was achieved in July 2020. It's all purely terrorism. So, I will remind myself of those numerous death threats, the hanging of Ana Brnabic, Aleksandra Vukic, Vladimir Djukanovic, Serbs Filipovic and many others, and I will remind those threats to many women who are part of the government, the threats of rape that came from Ana Brnabic, Irena Vujovic and many others. Officer Dvere called for rape, quote, of all daughters and wives of influential SNS faces. It's a great friend of Boška Obradovic's. Obradovic and Dveri, let's remember that, committed a number of violent acts. They attacked and injured two journalists, attacked Maja Gojkovic, Aleksandr Martinovic and injured them, Maja Pejic. Srdjan Nogo called, wore a gallows, called for the hanging of Ana Brnabić and Vukic. We also remember the burning of books and the persecution of Goran Vesic from this same group of Gilas and Bastac. We also remember the physical attack, because it is all a trail, it is all terrorism, attacks on the SNS official and then a member of the Belgrade Council in 2019, Gavril Kovacevic, when he was seriously injured. One example of encouraging terror is threats, especially to Alexander Vukic and his family. I'm only going to make one of the many thousands of examples, because this man was an MP in this house, he was Vice President Dwri. So, in 25.11.2020, Srdjan Nogo openly called for blood in the streets of Serbia and that blood of members of the family of the name of Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic. He said exactly – his end will be very tragic, the path he took is tragic for his entire family, from Angelina, Angelka, to Vukan, Daniel and Milica. So, eager media attention, terrorist Nogo has named everyone who will get hurt by his hand, so Alexander, Angelina, Angelko, Vukan, Danilo and Milica. The only thing Nogo didn't say was how he plans to commit the crime, as Ustasha in Jasenovac, as Nazis in the concentration camps or as ISIS terrorists. A special example is also because it disturbs a large part of the public and conveys the media, it is media terrorism. I will only list an example of encouraging terror and targeting people are scandals from the front pages of the NIN, and Today, where snipers rodents Culibrok and Petrovic have published a series of photographs and cartoons calling for the launch of Serbian President Aleksandr Vukic. So, if this is all I've stated is true, they're talking and I'm going to give you three definitions of terrorism, here's how the UN defines terrorism -- crimes committed with the intention of challenging the state of terror throughout the public, a group of people or certain individuals for political purposes. All of this is present in Serbia, we see. Here's how NATO defines terrorism -- illegal use or threat to force or violence against persons and objects in an attempt to force or intimidate the government or society to achieve political, religious and ideological goals, because what terrorists were doing in front of the Serbian Parliament in July, rather than trying to achieve their political, ideological goals, the terrorist path, of course. One of the most respected experts in this area at all, Dr. Radoslav Gacinovic, according to him, stands in his textbook, what terrorism is -- it is an organized application of violence or a threat to violence by politically motivated perpetrators who are determined to impose their will on authorities and citizens through fear, coldness, defetism and panic. We have been present 100% in Serbia since 2018. Now I'm going to move on to a parallel from the United States. So, on January 6, we all know that, in 2021, there was a violent incursion into the Congress building, and as I condemned a fascist attack on this assembly, and terroristly, so I condemn and invade the Capitol Hill building. Unfortunately, in the course of the invasion of Congress, there were five dead, one part parallel, one policeman and four protesters. I will remind you that during several months of attacks on police and public order authorities in France during the course of, I think, more than a year, 30 of the least citizens of France were left without one eye, because they were hit with rubber bullets. And the result of an attack on the Serbian Parliament in July was 140 severely injured police officers during five days, and police in Serbia did not seriously hurt a single protesters in Belgrade, but they left and right, these anarcho-terrorists, clashed and hurt each other. As we know, from what I've said, Serbia has not divided society. Serbia is stable, unique, and the extreme minority has been tolerated, and we can even say both anointed and careful. Serbia is an example of democracy and citizen care. To stay that way, we need this anti-terrorist agreement. Just to remind you of what the intrusion into Congress has said to the new president of the United States Joseph Biden. I quote him, he says -- that you didn't dare call them protesters, that's vandal mobs, rebels, and the key thing, says Joseph Biden, domestic terrorists, that's the key thing. So, did Mrs Tanja Fajon hear that, and many others from the EU, who in July 2020 supported terrorists in Belgrade and attacked the Assembly and called them peaceful citizens, and in January 2021, only half a year later condemned the invasion of Congress as terror. Let's trust the President of the United States that incurring the most legislative body is domestic terrorism. We agree with that. As we can see, and with this end, terrorism involves not only murders, assassinations and bombs, but also what Gilas, Nogo, Mladjan Djordjevic, Obradovic and their followers are doing. Ending, Dostoevsky said nicely – tyranny is a habit that goes into need. Long live Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-26-0.u2540	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-26-0.u2541	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in many ways I fully agree with my colleague Bakarec what he has now said about both the former regime and Dragan Gilas and what forms of terrorism have been applied both to the President of the Republic and to the members of his family, but also to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, because their terror has all suffered, all who have politically disagreed with him, even if they were not prominent SNS officials. It was just enough that you weren't for them. If you're not for them, they thought you were against them. In this way, I guess, through that fear, they tried to cause riots, chaos, panic and thus achieve their political goals. It is fortunate that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia know who is thinking about the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and the state of the Republic of Serbia, so they have failed in these intentions, because the citizens have given their full trust to the president of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic and the SNS. All of these agreements may seem to be a mess, but if we look at who they are and for what purposes, we see one common line, which is that through these international agreements, the Republic of Serbia confirms its increased reputation in the international community and has been working backwards for years. I am absolutely sure that in some future we will have other agreements like this that we will conclude with many countries and international organisations thanks to the reputation of the Republic of Serbia, and the reputation is acquired by the activities of both the President of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Maybe someone will say that this story about terrorism and co-operation with terrorism has somehow been used too much to score political points. I can't agree with that. First, the very territory in which the Republic of Serbia, part of the world, is said to always have the aspirations of some centres that the political situation in Serbia is destabilising and that through the destabilising of the political situation throughout the region, because if Serbia is unstable, the region cannot be stable, it achieves certain political goals. We cannot and must not allow ourselves any mistakes that have been made by more powerful and larger countries than Serbia in their past. There are no good and bad terrorists. There are terrorists. The fact that they are dealing with some activity that is at the moment with the interests of some of the great countries does not mean that at some point they will not turn against the very country that supports them. Remember the Twin Tower in New York. There are no good and bad terrorists. Should Serbia share information? Yeah. First because of its security and its interests, and secondly that it contributes to the international community in the fight against terrorism, because other than these internal terrorists led by Dragan Djilas, Bosko Obradovic and clicks, there are far more serious and far better organised ones who do not think well of Serbia. Because, you know what, I might be immodest, but if it wasn't for the president of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic, Kosovo would have its independence rounded up today. Had it not been for the president of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic, the Dayton BiH would have ceased to exist. When the Dayton BiH ceases to exist, you already have violence in the neighborhood, violence that can be spilled here at any moment. And that's why it takes co-operation with all the services to preserve peace first here, the peace that is so much needed by everyone who lives here in the region. Peace that often does not know for the sake of political interests, the achievement of political interests, that it values individual politicians both in the country and in the region. You know, these would be whatever the situation in the country and in the region would be just to get the authorities, to get the state registers, and to get as rich as they got rich, because they didn't care about Serbia at the time, or its citizens, or Kosovo and Metohija, or the Republic of Serbia, or the Serb people living in the dispersion and in the region. During their rule, remember, many things are Republika Srpska, achieved by the Dayton Agreement, lost and led to its complete disappearance. During their rule, our autonomous province declared its independence. During their government, borders are set on the administrative line between internal Serbia and our southern province. What would they mind if we lost another piece of our territory or if we had the Flash, Storm, the Martian pogrom again whether in Kosovo and Metohija, do we in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Republika Srpska? Just for one good thing, let me say, working with certain services that have power, which have resources, we can, together with them, provide peace and stability first here. The Russian Federation certainly is one of those countries, and no one can say that they have a bad intelligence service and no one can say that so far we haven't exchanged information and can't have Darko Trifunović, is that what that self-proclaimed professor is called, what is it, that he's talking about how we here in July for Ivandan restlessness organized by the Russian Federation and that in this way he's embarrassing us. They organised the same ones that are not in the interest of Kosovo and Metohija staying in Serbia. They organised the same one that wants the Dayton Bosnia and Herzegovina and the survival of the Serb people in Bosnia and Herzegovina to cease to exist. There's no need for some self-relationship or for the fact that everything that happened in July of last year. It was an attempt at a coup, and we saw what the echo had on the international community, the minority Serbia has no right to defend its citizens. So we can turn exclusively to countries that want to co-operate with Serbia, on each issue and on security, and that some of the country's leadership in the region is blinded by some of their political ambitions or, worse still, by political survival, because they are the most dangerous, they are willing to politically survive anything and anything to do to maintain power. I've heard recently that Serbs are the bad people, that we're the worst people. So much better that we today confirm the Agreement on the transfer of responsibilities for the provision of air traffic services between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Government of the Republic of Serbia-Montenegro. You know what, someone may not like it, but we share the same space both Serbs and Albanians and Macedonians and Croats and Bosniaks, share the same space, live next to each other, and we cannot base our lives on each other's attacks, accusations and hatred. There's no such thing as luck for anyone. Not for any people. This is really one agreement that exactly what I'm saying right now shows that it's one right policy. As different as we are, we must learn to live beside each other. You know, for me, in 2014, 2015, it was funny for one of me, a serious country, Croatia, to close traffic between Serbia and Croatia. I guess they felt that they were unsuccessful because Serbia has growth in gross products and that at some point it will cross Croatia, and they do not think about that if Serbia has developed an economy, that the economy is something that does not know the borders, that it is overrun, that some of them and their economy and their citizens will benefit and that thanks to this mutual co-operation our citizens will better live and that only we politicians will be told who is better than who. This will no longer interest our citizens, whether Serbia is ahead of Croatia or Croatia is ahead of Serbia, because they live better. It's just one example of the crazy policies we've had. This agreement just shows that such policies need to be stopped and stopped. We also had a similar agreement with the Republic of Croatia about one part of the airspace. We can't not cooperate with each other. We cannot not exchange information, first of all, in the fight against organised crime and against terrorism. In the end, if you support someone, come back to you as bad. Just remember what it was like when ISIS acted in Syria, when they condemned Assad for excessive use of force, threatened military intervention, etc. Until what time? Until these same terrorists began on the territory of those countries to achieve their political goals and to kill the citizens of those countries. So, anti-terrorism co-operation should certainly be the first thing any country with which it can begin to realize, whether it is political or not at some point. It's first of all good for all the countries that co-operate with each other. Also this agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Serbia. I believe there will be more agreements between the whole region in the future, as we had mini Shengen. There will be more such agreements, which only confirms that the policy that Serbia is leading back, seven, eight years, gives the right results and that Aleksandar Vukic was right when he claimed that Serbia's strategic commitment to the EU is a membership, but that we will not give up even traditional friends, we will not stop developing good relations with the countries that our neighbours have, no matter what they are doing against us at that time. The easiest thing to do was to tighten relationships, to spoil the situation. Remember only by banishing our ambassador to Montenegro. Had it not been for this wiser policy, relations with Montenegro would have been quite different, and hence the difficult situation for our countrymen living in Montenegro. One such policy needs to be pursued and I hope that in the future we will have more of these agreements and that all of these steps in the future should be supported.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-26-0.u2542	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Ljiljana Malusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-26-0.u2543	Thank you, National Assembly President. Dear Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliaments, today I will talk about the bill to confirm the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on co-operation in the fight against terrorism. However, I do have to do a little self-exposure, because I have to congratulate the Government of the Republic of Serbia and Mr. President on the extraordinary pawning of foreign policy, because we today have over a million vaccines in Serbia. People, no less land, no more vaccines at this point. We'll get another 500,000 vaccines in a few days. Of course, I say when there's a million vaccines, we get them from China, we get another 500,000 from Russia. And then there's the Fitzer vaccine. We'll have two more kinds of vaccines. Citizens of the Republic of Serbia can choose. We're the only country in the world that's gonna have five vaccines. That's how it works. Well done. I am proud to belong to this group of Aleksandar Vukic – for our children, because that is the way it is. We work for the citizens, not as if the citizens used to work for Gilas and his click. It was a shame and it didn't happen again. One more thing, a 580m-euro Metro Building Agreement was signed the other day. In a few days, the first line begins to be built. That's how it works. The high-speed railroads are being built, six highways are being built, three are already in progress, construction starts in a year, two more days. Well done. As far as terrorism is concerned, terrorism is the greatest monster and cancer of this society. He needs to be radically eradicated, like any cancer. I just don't get it, because terrorism is violence, as a normal person, means it's not normal, it's a pathological person, it can kill thousands of innocent people? Unfortunately, terrorism has existed since there was a world and a century or there was and there was a being, but you can get in his way, I'm for radical. Which means the police and the military must, like it was in Russia, but we're going in a row, or whatever I say, because terrorism or terrorism, terrorism is what it is. What happened in front of our National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, that classical terrorism, was beaten up by over 150 police officers, broken legs, so is that how this democratic and beautiful country works? We were satanized for years, in the '90s, until almost 2012, and then we came to power by the ones we do, who we create, who wash the picture here, with nothing caused. What do you say for 1999? Because it's terrorism? Well, rather than terrorism, nothing caused the bombing. They say don't talk. Well, of course I'll talk. There's no telling how many people died, mostly innocent civilians, less than the military. It's terrorism. There was terrorism, I think, in the world today may be a little less terrorism than some in the last century between the '50s and '70s, where there were enormously many terrorist acts. It hasn't happened again, I'm just going to remember some of them, just from the piety to those victims, nothing caused. Guatemala, in 1968, an American ambassador killed in an assassination. Germany, we all remember, 11 Israeli athletes were killed during the Olympics. The Netherlands in 1975, hijacking a train, 11 oil ministers abducted in Vienna. Scotland, hijacked a plane, which, of course, disappeared without a trace. Tokyo, released toxic gas "sarin" into the subway, is not known exactly how many dead. New York, 2001, hijacked four planes, we all remember that well, I thought it was a science-fiction film, so when I realized what was going on, I wasn't well, 3,200 dead, those four planes, two directly crashed the Twins. With us, thanks to our services, I personally think they're working fantasticly, because I think every kind of terrorism is the failure of the institutions that should be guarding this country, but I think that really one form of terrorism was what happened in front of the National Assembly. Beslan, a hostage crisis in Beslam is the name of one of the most severe terrorist attacks that hit Russia in its history, remember, it began on September 1st, thanks to Mr Putin, the president of the Republic of Serbia was the end of the crisis, or a two-day terrorist attack. The first one started, the third one ended. Unfortunately, a lot of victims between that and the kids didn't happen again. Two of the most notorious terrorist organizations in the world of Al-Qaeda, unfortunately it has stem cells or anywhere in the world, even in 35 countries it has its refuge. And ISIS, we all know that what happened in Syria, has its foothold in Iraq, has in Syria, but unfortunately there's a part in Libya, something in Nigeria, there's a lot of them, and such a monster really needs to be contained in the root. As far as the Russian Federation is concerned, Russia, to me one of my favorite countries, I share people with good people and those who are not, but Russia is our standard friend throughout history, I grew up through their Beltrist, Russian classicism, romanticism, and we really have unbreakable relationships with them, there's a Slavonian soul. Everything's nice about them. They've helped us a lot. All you remember is that five million euros, we've received a donation to build the temple of St. Sava, and here's their vair is now building a sculpture of Stefan Nemanja, which will be opened tomorrow. If someone wasn't, they should visit, it looks magnificent. Stefan Nemanja, who is the founder of the Serbian state, is seen all the way to the Holy Sava, so Serbia is a beautiful country, and this agreement only means strengthening bilateral relations. Is it not good when Serbia has information? Information's half done. When you have information, you have everything. Data exchange. When you have a data exchange, you can arrest terrorists. Then you get to the one who's funding. It's mostly dirty money or money laundering. Data exchange, exchange of assistance, exchange of everything. Long live Russia and Serbia. I'll be happy to vote for all the agreements that are on the agenda. Long live Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-26-0.u2544	Thank you. The word has been made by the MP professor, Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-26-0.u2545	Thank you, President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Dacic. Dear Madam Minister, Mrs Matic, I am pleased that you are with us today in the National Assembly to discuss agreements that are on our agenda, agreements that will in any case affect the future and the lives of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. In terms of two, I can almost say that with certainty, a key segment, these are economics, of course, some of the things that will affect the opening of new jobs, the expansion of co-operation on economic and trade exchange and, of course, in the process of constant and permanent fight against terrorism, where our country is involved in various formats and in various forms with different partners. This time it is an agreement with the Russian Federation that we should vote for and ratify in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the Economic Co-operation Agreement that will affect better economic co-operation with the Islamic Republic of Iran. Prime Minister Nedimovic and Deputy Prime Minister Nedimovic spoke this morning in his address that in the 1980s, we had a trade exchange with Iran that was more than a billion US dollars and that these years, over the past few years, the trade exchange was about ten million dollars. This tells of, of course, how much space there is for economic co-operation, how much space there is for exporting our goods and services to a multi-human country such as Iran, which has about 80 million inhabitants, with which we have traditionally good and political and economic relations and how much opportunities there is to develop not only trade exchanges, but also to encourage tourism between the two countries, co-operation on the scientific plan, on education and all other aspects, where we can co-operate and, of course, to promote the co-operation of our state institutions, but also others. Of course, what is fundamentally important to mention in this domain is that Serbia is finally a very open country that takes priority and takes care of its own interests and its own national interests and that we are open to co-operation with all partners who respect Serbia, who respect Serbian interests and who want to work primarily economically with Serbia. That is why we have opened many doors, especially since 2014 Alexander Vukic became Prime Minister and in fact defined a whole new political and economic doctrine of our country. Given that our economy has been developing rapidly since then, that we are starting to implement economic reforms and that from that moment on, from 214 in addition to economic reforms, in addition to fiscal stabilisation and reforms in the sector, the state-run, of course, incentives to the private sector, especially the small and medium-sized enterprises, we have an enormous and dynamic inflow of foreign direct investment, which is crowned by having slightly more than 3.5 billion euros of foreign direct investment from different sides of the world in 2019. Of course, our closest economic partners are in the EU. It's Germany, it's Italy, it's Austria. For example, Germany employs in Serbia about 70,000 of our citizens, but we haven't missed one moment of co-operation with both the Middle East and the Far East countries, to strengthen our strategic partnership with the People's Republic of China, which is how much our citizens could see these days, and that in the end and senses, it has resulted in Serbia as a world ranking in eighth place when it comes to immunisation by the number of citizens who have been immunised about getting vaccines against Kovid 19. In this domain, we are the fourth European country after Iceland, Malta and the United Kingdom, and this now places us, in addition to one strong and strong economy, a tough economy that has managed to survive in the age of the major challenges that we have faced in the past year, given that, as in other countries in the region, the EU, it has threatened us with great unemployment, that it has threatened that many businesses, especially private businesses, close their doors, lock their workshops, factories here because of the inability to work normally and functionally, we have a situation, and I want to repeat it to our citizens and colleagues here in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, that no single investor, who expressed his desire in 2019 and 2020 to invest in the Republic of Serbia, that none of us has given up. No single investor has given up on Serbia because Serbia is a stable country, because it has shown that it is well worn thanks to the good leadership of President Alexander Vukic, as well as the entire Government of the Republic of Serbia with this crisis and how we managed to start the crisis in March of last year to provide sufficient equipment to protect our citizens, to protect our health workers, educational workers, those who needed the most and the protection, how we managed to provide all the supplies in trade operations, as well as to protect our citizens, and now with this mass immunisation we show in fact how much in this, as President Vukic said a few days ago - in this war that is being fought on a global scale, where simply big people don't care about small, unfortunately, we are a small country, but with a small number of residents, but we show how many partnerships we have made in the past few years, how much a vision of leadership, which the president of Europe has been able to make it possible for all of Europe, and for us to be able to move towards the people from this great growth, and to move into the very much into the future, so that we can be able to move into the futures, and to move into the future, and to move into the future, and to move into the new Europe. That's what the Serbian people, our people here in the Republic of Serbia deserve and that's what President Vukic has been pushing for all these years by saying about economic reforms, creating from Serbia the economic leader and economic tiger of this region in which everyone wants to invest, whether these are Chinese companies, whether these are companies from South Korea, from the United Arab Emirates, Bahrain or some other country, Iran, Israel, is absolutely irrelevant to us. We created such an atmosphere, and we made a country out of Serbia that is considered the country as the most favourable destination for investment, investment, life and what is called insemination of capital that is being invested here. I don't think we're even aware of the importance of this move and how important it was the day when the Air Serbia aircraft landed at the Belgrade airport, the company we all need to be here and in the whole country, when they landed with a million doses of Chinese vaccines. This was a clear indication that there is a light in Serbia in the tunnel, that Serbia is strategically thinking, that Serbia is working strategically, that Serbia will preserve the essence of the health system, that it will preserve its population and will do everything possible to make our economy progress. Who has provided this from all European leaders a million to seven million inhabitants? So we're the first country in Europe to start mass immunization. Little Serbia. Serbia, which many have absolutely failed to give up by 2012, Serbia, which has not asked for anything, has not asked about its internal problems, nor for the internal things it was meant to solve, and now based on communication, based on good relations, the strategic relations that Vukic had with President Ši, President Vladimir Putin, with Trump's administration, we have received Faiser's vaccines, although in very small quantities, we will also get Sputnjak vaccines, we will also get Chinese vaccines and this country, respected MPs, respected citizens, come out of the crisis in just a few months, we enter full capacity of work, production, investment, new jobs, encouraging small and micro-enterprises, encouraging young people who end their colleges and who are going to fight in the free market through their entrepreneurial ideas and business ideas and 20th of the year. In this area of the fight against terrorism, before I mention the subject, it is important to note that Finance Minister Sinisa Mali, three days ago, signed over with the US DRS Corporation, an investment incentive agreement that will only mean two to three months of new billion euros of incentives for our economy. Dear colleagues and colleagues, a new billion euros. I was asked today by an Austrian journalist – how do you plan to resolve the four billion-euro deficit you gave as an injection of the economy during the crisis and the state of emergency? So here's through these billions that will come from the U.S., through capital investments. We haven't stopped building highways for a moment. We haven't stopped building railroads for a moment. At no time did we stop building pipelines through the Republic of Serbia. No infrastructure investment has stopped and that is what will raise Serbia and give us one huge advantage and wind in the back to be the best not only in this part of Europe, not in this region of the Western Balkans, but probably in the whole of Europe when it comes to economics. As for the fight against terrorism, what I can definitely say is that Serbia has always been part of international coalitions to fight terrorism and that Serbia has always understood as one serious country, especially in the period from 2014 to today, how difficult it is to fight terrorism, how serious it is and perhaps what is the quality of politics and of this government and President Alexander Vukic that, of course, our citizens do not feel it in their daily lives and work, but huge work, huge effort on the foreign and geopolitical plan and the intelligence plan behind what we are today, which is this country, which is this city where we do today and the whole of Serbia is safe, which we can normally move, to work, to do, to do everything as we do in one normal and top security country. This is the result of an enormous effort and the creation of alliances with the world's most powerful forces in the fight against terrorism. We are part of a major coalition to fight terrorism led by the United States. We, of course, are working together in this domain with the Russian Federation and will gladly vote in favour of this agreement. The Russian Federation has always been a state that fought against terrorism and has always been one of the feathers in the fight against terrorism, perhaps one of the bravest countries that has never had a compromise and has never looked primarily at its interests in the fight. However, there are great challenges and great challenges will yet be, given that the threat of international terrorism is 100km from us or perhaps a little more. I have to remind our public that much more, say, about two or three thousand people from the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina alone fought on the side of the Islamic state, Al Nusra Fronta, Tahrir El Shama in Syria and Iraq and Sinai, and joined one of the largest terrorist organizations in world history. I can freely say that when they returned to their country of origin, that state at that state level did not really judge them, and did not define a clear legislation that would imply that they would never do so again, but were quickly released. That's why you have dozens of commanders in the Islamic state in different sectors from E-resour, to Ambar, Idlib, who are coming right from Bosnia and Herzegovina. These are people who live 100, 120, 130km from Belgrade, but live next to our brothers and our people, so, besides the Serb people who live in Republika Srpska and yes, I have to end up with one of the huge threats in terms of terrorism coming from Kosovo and Metohija, where the same dozens and hundreds of people went to war and joined the Islamic state and terrorist organisations. I think that President Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia managed to bring the main world players closer, in fact, to the danger and to pay particular attention to everything that is going on in Kosovo and Metohija, and that everything that has been happening there since the destruction of our cultural historical heritage, the destruction of churches, the persecution of monasticism, the persecution of Orthodox and Christian faith there, not only stands the political hatred of Kosovo Albanians towards Serbs living in Kosovo and Metohija and Serbs here in central Serbia, but it is a bit more pervasive and, of course, religious and terrorist aspects and motives. I think that particularly the Americans, especially this former administration, have taken this message well into account, given that Serbia has definitely had much more support over the past few years because of Alexander Vukic in this domain of defence of Kosovo and Metohija and the defence of its interests and the understanding of the international community that Serbia has legitimate and Serbian people have legitimate interests in Kosovo and Metohija. These are, of course, the basic messages, while I am safe and, behold, we will see each other, of course by the end of this year in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, that US President Joe Biden, at the invitation of President Vukic, will continue to visit Serbia, continue his old friendship and that all of this cooperation that we have with the People's Republic of China, the Russian Federation and the EU will continue and with the United States, will continue with such a massive geostrategic and foreign policy which for the ultimate purpose and, as you can see for the result, has a million vaccines, saved lives, new jobs, saving our oldest citizens, the massive organisation of vaccinations on all points throughout Serbia. Serbia is no longer divided, Serbia is united, and those who go out with these researches where they can't say, as Gilas said the other day, came out research, so Vukic has 37% support, and they have 34%, so I should know, let's say, as an educated man, that when you talk about some public opinion research, what the basis is to say who did it, when he did it, in what period, and none of them will say it. Of course, it's kind of a joke. I want to make a little fun of this difficult time and a hard time. We move on, continue to fight for the health of our citizens, continue to fight for the economy and continue to support our President, Alexander Vukic, in everything he leads us to. In all of his leadership in favour of our citizens, in favour of Serbia. Long live Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-26-0.u2546	I thank my colleague Marinkovic. The word is John Palalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-26-0.u2547	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Fellow MPs, Serbia has set a serious and regulatory and organisational framework for the fight against terrorism over the past few years. Facing both the conscious and the position where it is located and the threats that we can freely say in the previous decade, which were also exposed to European countries, but also Serbia itself, the current ruling majority that has been in power over the past few years, has brought a number of important acts, I am now talking about the normative framework and strategy, the National Strategy for the Prevention and Combating Terrorism, the National Strategy for National Security, but also legislative frameworks such as the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism and, of course, Criminal Laws. In a very clear and concrete way, these acts define both the concepts of terrorism and terrorist organisations and acts, procedures and procedures in the fight against terrorism, the competent authorities and all that is necessary to deal with this monster, which has been repeatedly repeated today that this is a deep-level evil. On the other hand, Serbia has set up clear and concrete bodies, strengthened its security sector compared to the period when it has done everything to ensure that both its police and its services and its armies are neither a factor nor a guarantee nor a recipient of the security of our citizens. All this is the result of a clear policy to finally build a modern, efficient, stable, strong state of Serbia in the interest of its citizens. The shift in political thinking has contributed to Serbia's security strengthening in this way and to its normative arrangement. It is certain that the challenges of terrorism when it comes to Serbia are multiple, but no doubt motivation for terrorist acts and the incentive to do terrorist acts in Serbia can come primarily for the reasons of separatism or the production of internal instability, because, by definition, terrorism is the ideology of violence, but it has a clear goal of changing state policy, by changing the acts on which it is defined or by preventing acts that would be clearly directed. There is no doubt that there are forces within Serbia, and beyond its borders that would like to disrupt its territory or challenge political instability and thus change the established political course that is currently being led by the Republic of Serbia, which contributes to its both economic and political and any other strengthening in the Balkans area, and thus strengthening the security of the entire Serb people in the Balkans area. In this regard, it is extremely important that we expand our partnerships in the fight against terrorism, and in this sense it is extremely important and ratification of this agreement with the Russian Federation. I want to point out a few things that concern our relations with the Russian Federation, because in previous days or weeks many in the Serbian public by representatives of the opposition, but of course by some representatives of the International Community have talked about what quality is and what meaning is and what is the goal of the excellent deepening and strategic relations between Serbia and the Russian Federation. I would like to say that relations between the Republic of Serbia and the Russian Federation and relations between President of the Republic of Serbia Alexander Vukic and President Vladimir Putin are the best possible thing that can exist at this time between the countries in the international community. These relations at such a high political level produced a number of co-operations in different areas that are of exclusive interest to the development of the Republic of Serbia and to the well-being of citizens of the Republic of Serbia and in the area of economic, energy, high-tech, defence and security areas, and here now and in the field of combating terrorism. These relations, so developed, so strengthened, are an important foundation and an important pillar of the independent and sovereign policies of the Republic of Serbia and hence come attacks on one side of this place call the patriotic individuals or organisations who want to present and treat them as worse, bad and that the current government is guilty. On the other hand, at the same time, representatives of the international community resent and attack the Republic of Serbia for having such stable, strong strategic relations with the Russian Federation. The goal of each and the other, although it acts paradoxically, because attacks from different positions are exclusively aimed at breaking and destroying the independent and sovereign policy of the Republic of Serbia, which is currently being led by the President of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandar Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and that Serbia is leaning solely to one side in order to weaken its position so that it cannot retain its independent sovereign policy and that it cannot, above all, protect the interests of the Serb people in the region. Our relations, of course, are also deepening politically, and strategically and economically, this has been contributed by excellent relations between the two presidents, but excellent co-operation now established at the level of mixed committees led by Minister Popovic, on the Russian side by Deputy Prime Minister Jurij Borisov, and in this direction is developing our economic and co-operation in areas that are of interest to both countries. Serbia is leading this policy of co-operation with the Russian Federation exclusively in our Serbian interest, because this is a way to ensure both our independence and our military strength and the better life of our citizens. In this regard, it is important to maintain such good relations, to deepen these relations on a daily basis, as should be deepened relations with our partners in the EU and partners in the United States, partners in the People's Republic of China, because this is guaranteed that such an independent and sovereign policy will contribute to both the development of the Republic of Serbia and the better life of citizens. It's not easy to run a policy like this. It's not easy to run a policy like this when different classifications are at work. People are also looking for different ways to ensure their security and their economic and political stability. It's Serbian politics. That's the kind of policy that's always been. It has always been a Serbian path to safeguard freedom, to build an independent state, to build a modern state in line with the interests of our citizens, to expand partnerships and friendships, to adopt advanced and knowledge from the world, but to always preserve its own heritage, to preserve always its own state and to preserve its own independence. Such a policy and the foundations of such a policy that we have today and which has always been a Serbian policy have long been established by the founders of our country, and it is our turn to remember them before the great holiday that we have tomorrow, the holiday of St. Sava, the Holy Simeon Peacekeepers, Stefan Nemanja and his son Saint Sava, because it is the only way for Serbs in this area to remain their free, sovereign, connected to the world and hopefully have a state that is in the interests of Serbian citizens and which is in the interest of the future of our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-26-0.u2548	I thank my colleague. The People's Messenger Ivan Ribaq has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-26-0.u2549	The Honorable Chairman, a respected minister, respected MPs, respected citizens of Serbia. Before I start talking about what's on the agenda, I'd look back on an event from a few days ago that made a pretty good and positive impression on me. Namely, I met a acquaintance who stopped me and said that he had applied by electronic means to obtain the vaccine, that after a few days he had been called, that he had left and that he was mildly delighted with this whole process of getting called and given at the end of the vaccine. In particular, he looked back and praised the kindness, preconcretion and maximum professionalism of these young people who participated in the overall process of administering vaccines. What's interesting is that this man was not until a few years ago a sympathiser of our party, that he had absorbed from voting in the last few elections, but that seeing the good moves draw this power in every essential sense decided that his trust and his vote in the next election to our party. That is why, because of this case and the sows of others in each next election, our party gets more and more votes and more and more support, because, despite some of the bad things that happen in every country, every political system, every country most developed, the people notices the sacrifice, the people notice the hard work and sincere intentions of this government to facilitate and improve the lives of our citizens on an internal and external political basis. Although our political inexperiences daily dispute every good move of this government, immediately seeking counterweight, for example, now it doesn't matter how many people are vaccinated, but that the lines in front of the Fair are either directly the President of the Republic because the British strain of the virus has come into our country, or because it interferes with the selection of patriarchs. Of course, he'll probably be charged with getting involved in the Roman Pope's election in a few years. Nevertheless, the people cannot be deceived and the truth cannot be sprayed in any way they want and as much as they want. The truth is next. It cannot dispute the fact that Serbia is the first country in the region to receive vaccines, that it is the third or fourth in Europe, and yesterday was the sixth in the world, according to the Oxford University, and that it is among the first to have the largest choice of vaccines, not like most countries, or the most developed in the EU and in the environment, which have only one. Finally, from neighbours of Croats who are not very inclined to praise us often, praises are coming, because they understand that we are incomparably more efficient and better in each segment of the fight against the herds of them, even though they are members of one of the most developed and wealthy political systems, such as the EU. And that, despite everything, we must stress that in addition to all these fights and all these good results, we continue to achieve extremely good results in the economy, such as bringing foreign investment in the middle of this pandemic. In health care, we increase salaries and pensions, keep every job, and realize decades of dreams, such as building that magnificent city on the river or starting to work on the subway recently. That's why everyone does their job. Let them complain, let them criticise, let them see that they humble and humiliate their country in every possible place, in every situation. This power will continue to combat the Kovids uncompromisingly, the fight for a better life for our citizens in every segment, both in economic and in health and in military and all other segments, not to mind, not to say their witty remarks to this government, which, even a small child no longer believes. Finally, as the great Russian writer says – if you go towards the goal and stop at every dog that barks at you, to throw a stone at him, you will never reach the goal, and our goal is modern, respected and strong Serbia, and we have long stopped walking to that end, we have already started to run. Yeah, I'm back on the agenda now. The draft law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation in co-operation in the field of combating terrorism regulates the forms of co-operation mentioned so as to enable them to fight terrorism more effectively in a way that guarantees them the preservation of sovereignty, security, public and other national interests of the signatories states. It is not necessary to specifically explain the benefits that the Republic of Serbia will have from this agreement, exchange information on the financial resources of terrorist groups, on types of weapons, ammunition, explosive devices used by terrorists. Then, the availability of information on the preparation of terrorist actions, operational data in order to deprive a person suspected of being prepared or involved in terrorist actions or financed by terrorism. All of this has special significance, given that our security institutions, in particular the Ministry of Interior and the Security Information Agency, will co-operate with, among other things, the Federal Security Service of the Russian Federation, the Ministry of the Interior of Russia and the Research Committee. There should be no special security expert to assess the importance of operational data that can be provided to our security structures by top-ranking security agencies whose international network and the use of technical resources guarantee quality and coverage of data, as we can see in Article 3 of the Agreement. On the other hand, the Agreement with the Russian Federation, which stands explicitly in Article 6, guarantees the protection of the national interests of the Republic of Serbia, which means that our security services can deny data that would be contrary to the security and national interests of our country. The Agreement provides that information can only be used for the purpose specified in the request, which is, as a whole, an agreement in accordance with international agreements and the UN Convention. The passing of laws confirming the agreement between Serbian and Russian security services and judicial authorities can only distract those political groups in Serbia who have already witnessed the promotion of violence for political purposes and who are already using certain methods of political violence and terrorist organisations, referring to threats to the highest state institutions, top state officials and calling for the collapse of the constitutional order, as Mladjan Djordjevic recently did, by saying he would forcely prevent all subsequent elections. Or we can read today in the press where Dragan Gilas calls for violent demonstrations that will certainly shed Serbian blood on the streets to provide illegal, irrational and lawless demands by the leader of the opposition. So this agreement will not be at will only by those called political forces who believe that they can only come to power through terror, violence and other subversive activities, in violation of the basic postulates of modern democracy, which are that power can only be seen in the elections. In doing so, they are not concerned that they are endangering the health and safety of their own citizens in this way, because we can see a clear causal link between the devastating attacks on the Assembly this summer and the second peak of the covid epidemic, second or third, do not hold my word. To avoid confusion, people who are seriously involved in politics know that neither the use of violence nor the use of terror can change the plebiscite support of the people according to that political option that guarantees the prosperity and sovereignty of our country. An agreement with the Russian Federation and similar agreements, however, can help obtain a clearer picture of terrorist organisations, those who finance them and those who domestically desire violence and other subversive techniques to prepare the ground for terrorist attacks and actions. I must stress that the agreement we are talking about, as well as other agreements, is intended exclusively in the fight against terrorism and that this is not about information in mind and for the purpose of political struggle within the Member States of the signatories, because this agreement in Article 7 is clearly prohibiting it. For this reason, I believe that our MPs should also vote for this agreement because it is in the interest of all citizens of Serbia, regardless of their national, religious and political membership. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-26-0.u2550	Thank you. The People's Messenger Milos Bandur has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-26-0.u2551	The esteemed chairman, respected ministers, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, has been said on the subject of terrorism and joint fight against terrorism. The global problem requires a global response, so that I see in this sense the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation, which is to be confirmed by law by the National Assembly. This is about the exchange of information relating to terrorism or terrorist financing, whether in the territory of potentially Serbia, Russia or some third country. Why? Because terrorism is a global evil and in any part of the world that there is a danger of terrorist attack, or action, it is necessary to respond in time. I am convinced that even now this line of ties is working, but that certainly the agreement and the law is something that gives a formal legal framework, as I am convinced that the link between terrorism and the financing of terrorism between almost all countries in the world, as well as those that have completely opposed political, economic and military interests. This is, therefore, about a single joint agreement, and perhaps, based on the time that we have devoted to this agreement today, it can come to the wrong conclusion that a broader and more comprehensive agreement is being reached. I want to point out that this is something that is perfectly natural, normal and that Serbia should have with other countries in the world, not just with the Russian Federation. That's, of course, the conclusion of what I've said so far, meaning my own personal attitude on that matter. Serbia has good relations with Russia in the sphere of security and internal affairs, and since I come from Nis, we have a Russian humanitarian centre that has been in existence for ten years and you are all aware, through the media we have been told many times about when various crisis situations occurred, beginning with the floods in Obrenovac and Serbia, that Russian rescuers came first and responded first, regardless of Russia and not so close, but the logistics centre in Nis made it possible for them to be first and to provide their assistance. I am well aware of the great resources that the Russian Federation is investing in the training of our staff in the area of emergency situations. Many of our members of the Ministry of the Interior from that portfolio, local self-government managers, all those involved in crisis management were mostly in education in St. Petersburg and Moscow at prestigious academics in the area, and this is a significant help. This agreement on the prevention of terrorism also provides for exchanges of experiences, which means education of personnel in the area. The two countries' military co-operation so I don't speak. We have all seen, or had the opportunity to hear many times in the media about military-technical assistance that we receive from the Russian Federation, and I am pleased that among the six points of the agenda, the largest number of speakers today had the need or simply felt the need to speak about this very agreement, which is actually the sixth item of the agenda, is at the end of the agenda scheduled for today. Probably because both Serbian citizens and MPs, as their authorised representatives, see everything about Serbia and Russia as important and important, as well as one such agreement that is completely natural, logical, normal and does not constitute an epochal masterpiece. So, support for the agreement, but that's something that's perfectly natural and logical. In addition to this point, there is a very similar item on the agenda, which is the agreement between our Government and the Duke of Luxembourg. I would say that this agreement, compared to this one with Russia, has a much wider belt, it is broad-ranging from the security area, it concerns the exchange of classified data from policy, economy, military, security, scientific and technological innovations, that is, science and technology, the purpose industry. What I'm saying is that he's actually bigger, no matter what a small country is, he probably has a small potential to contribute to some cooperation with us, regardless of the specific weight of the agreement. But it is interesting, again, that it is a country which is a member of both the NATO Pact and the EU and that the agreement with Luxembourg is actually emerging and stemming from such framework agreements as we have with both the NATO Pact and the EU. What I read in the material is that at the Office for Co-ordination in the Service of Security and Secret Information, a special register is formed for data coming from that side, and that in the competent authorities, which are the Ministry of Interior, BIA, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Mission to the EU, the NATO Pact, are formed under the registers of these data. As I was a little bit in favour of Serbia, not only with Russia, but also with other countries, signing agreements on the exchange of information related to terrorism, I also believe that, or I hope that this may have already been done, that what is now signed with Luxembourg and signed with NATO's pact has already been signed with Russia and China, or if it is not signed with them, because our neutral military position simply imposes one such way of thinking. Unlike many countries that have a relationship with terrorism, Serbia and Russia have pointed out that they have always had a consistent attitude towards terrorism. For us terrorists have always been terrorists, there are no good or bad. You're witnesses yourself, and the public knows that for many significant actors of the international political scene, you know, you have liberating movements, so when they start to oppose their interests, they suddenly become terrorists or vice versa. I'd divide terrorism, if you'd just let me do that part, into two parts. One part that has been induced by one decades of injustice in the world, international relations, in the degree of economic development, etc., which in some ways can be influenced by fairer relations in the international community, that it is diminished, tempered, etc., and the other with which absolutely no conversation, which is totally ideologically blinded and which, as weeds, needs to be ripped from the roots. It's about these two points of the agenda. Interestingly, here we have the Minister of Telecommunications whose area includes postal traffic, the point of the agenda concerning the ninth or tenth amendments to the World Post Convention Protocol is interesting. I am sorry, I think that we international MPs also have a "Post-Serbia" director, I think that "Post-Serbia" is a national MP, and we are sorry that she is not here today, because it is the agenda point of the company. For example, I didn't know that this convention, which today is actually over 100 years old, and that it defines that military prisoners are not charged with postage, letters go free, packages up to 5 or 10 kilos go free. By reading about the Convention, or this part of the agenda, one can learn some interesting details that, for example, he could not find elsewhere. Of course, I'd have something to ask the minister. There is something very unclear to me, that is, as I have concluded, there is some gradual increase in these prices of terminal services in 2019, 2020, 2021, 2022. So, according to RSD units, prices of terminal services grow slightly, where we probably stick to the principle that terminal services in international traffic cannot be more expensive than domestic traffic, that there must be a rule of price equality and that there is a rule of free transition. That's how I understand, you'll correct me if I'm wrong. What I'm about to say doesn't apply to the agenda, but we all say something that's on our hearts, not just the agenda points. I disagree with a colleague who spoke about the existence of a difference in the status of a MP this morning, in the sense of whether he is on permanent work or not at regular work in the National Assembly. The rights, responsibilities and obligations of the MP are defined and they do not depend on his formal legal status. No more MPs and fewer MPs. There are no MPs with more rights, responsibilities and obligations and MPs with fewer rights, responsibilities and obligations. Whether someone will receive a salary at the university or because he is a salesman in a shoe store and works with a private person will have to move on to permanent work in the Assembly, because simply a private person will not pay for someone who has become a MP and no longer works, it simply does not affect the rights, obligations, responsibilities and the work of a MP. So, I can accept only, and I'm glad my colleague was self-critical, in terms of criticism directed to his parliamentary group, which is that one part of the MPs really hasn't been coming to the National Assembly sessions since the beginning. One I once mentioned was said to have Covid. It's been months, this Kovid, we see, healed, was at the opening of some infrastructure facilities, but he's still gone. So if it was self-critical, then I support that self-criticism, and I think it should be self-critical. I am glad that here, on this side where MPs of the Serbian Progressive Party have no such cases and there is no such cumulation of obligations that people who have accepted to be MPs do not have time to deal with, some other obligations do not allow them to deal with, I simply say, I am glad to belong to this part here that does not have such problems. Indeed, once again, I would ask everyone else to consider whether it is correct that someone performs several functions, a dozen, and that he is the 11th MP, and that he does not come to the National Assembly and performs that function. It cannot be an exact claim that the MPs who are in constant work every day should come here, because when there is no session and there is no committee, there is a question of what they are doing here, or what they are looking for. Every MP should be in its midst, in his city, in his village, working with citizens, working with local self-government, perhaps working in his MP's office and being in the field, not in the National Assembly. Not the citizens of Vranj, Leskovci, Piroth to come here to us to bring us their problems, but we should be there. Thus, this morning’s monologue on the formal legal status of working relationship in the Assembly and the co-operation, or to say a volunteer, was not the point at all. If it was self-critic, I say, I'm glad you saw the need to direct criticism to your own MP group, or self-critics. I wouldn't add anything to these topics anymore. If there's a chance there might be a replica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-26-0.u2552	The People's Messenger, George Milicevic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-26-0.u2553	Since my former colleague, I don't know his name and name, I didn't remember, I looked back at my morning presentation, it's obvious that you didn't understand anything, that's the first thing. Another thing, frustrations towards individual MPs from the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group will have to be dealt with in another way. The fact that they're not here, they're not at work. The fact that you didn't realize I don't know if you didn't want to, it's now another thesis, another dimension. I spoke and made a parallel and a comparison between what was happening in the previous meeting, which is: that we had one part of the opposition here, which was in constant work, which regularly raised travel expenses, which regularly raised salaries, and did not find it appropriate to come to parliament sessions. Of course, it is perfectly logical that when there is no parliamentary session that MPs have no obligation to be in parliament and that it is not the only obligation for MPs to be in parliament, but to be among citizens and to talk to their citizens. So the bottom line is just the next one. When Parliament sessions are, it is perfectly logical for me that Members of Parliament who are in constant work attend parliament sessions, and everything else you have said, I do not know for what reason, but you will have the opportunity to present their frustration, which you are already not aware of how many times back, show when a colleague is present, and this colleague is not at permanent work in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-26-0.u2554	The word has been made by MP Boris Bursac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-26-0.u2555	Thank you. Dear chairman, honourable fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, let us get back to the topic. We are facing today a set of very important and constructive draft laws, and I would personally refer to the proposal for a law confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on co-operation in the fight against terrorism. The entry into the 20th century was marked by a series of terrorist attacks, primarily on U.S. soil, so that these attacks would then continue in Europe, but also in the rest of the world. As someone who has been dealing with this phenomenon for many years, I can freely say that the rush of terrorism has scared all members of the international community. Therefore, the start of a new millennium is marked by a globally widespread fear of international terrorism. From that moment on, international terrorism is becoming a security threat to every country's first order, regardless of its degree of military or economic development. Although terrorism is not a new phenomenon, unknown in the history of history, its modern forms have encouraged all relevant entities of international relations to deal with terrorism. In the wake of the tragic events here, first of all, from 9/11 to the recent attacks in Vienna in 2020, we can certainly say that there is no country on the globe of Earth that is immune to terrorism. The modern security moment is significantly more sensitive after the period of world wars and the bloc's division of the world because the risk facing countries daily is now characterized by constant threats from well-organised radical terrorist groups. So, modern terrorism undoubtedly has a global dimension, it's more and more common, actions are more brutal, very often with a fatal outcome, they're performed by very equipped and well-connected terrorist organisations. The victims are more massive, and the material destruction is increasing. Therefore, the need for organised and strong counterterrorism is growing, which is not an easy task. On the contrary, we can say that it is both more difficult and more uncertain than when it comes to traditional security threats and risks. Given that the EUROPOL report for 2020 is not yet completed, it usually ends somewhere in June, a previous report on terrorism in Europe shows us that terrorism has come to an end. In 2018, we have 129 terrorist attacks on Europe's soil, and in 2019, 119. If we take into account terrorism as a forest fire as fast as possible, and even faster, we must not wait for some 9/11, but we must put an anti-terrorist fight at an envious level in practice. This is exactly what this Agreement does. Therefore, the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on co-operation in the fight against terrorism in Serbia brings very important forms of co-operation, all in order to fight terrorism, and thus protect our citizens. These forms of co-operation are clearly defined in the Agreement and relate to the exchange of information on terrorist groups, their leaders, their members, as well as their activities, the exchange of information on the financial resources of terrorist groups, i.e. how these terrorist groups are financed, the exchange of information on types of weapons, ammunition, explosive assets used by these terrorist groups. Both Parties to the Agreement shall make available to each other the data, or information they possess, which may prevent certain terrorist acts from taking place. Both parties to the agreement shall make operational data available to each other which may allow the arrest of one or more persons suspected of being involved or may participate in a terrorist act or in some way assist. Both signatories of the agreement shall make available operational data on illegal arms, ammunition, explosives, toxic substances and radioactive materials. The two signatories of the agreement also co-operate in the field of professional training and education of persons participating in the work. Both parties to the agreement co-operate with each other to raise new security in the area of transport between countries and to that end take measures to apply and exchange relevant information. So this is an extremely important agreement for Serbia, because it aims to preserve our country's security, and therefore our citizens. That is why I, and hopefully my colleagues, support and we will vote as well for other proposals in the hope that they will be the support in the fight for strong and safe Serbia. Long live Serbia!
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-26-0.u2556	Thank you. The word has a national MP Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-26-0.u2557	Thank you. The Honorable National Assembly President, a respected minister, fellow MPs and MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, a peaceful, stable and safe Serbia is a prerequisite for the development and life of its citizens. Stability, security and security is a policy implemented by the SNS headed by our President, Alexander Vukic, but it is also a policy realised by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. With this aspect, I will talk about the proposal for an agreement on co-operation in the fight against terrorism, signed in Belgrade on 18 June 2020, and visiting Russian Federation Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov. I want to point out that no country in this world is isolated, not enough for itself, that terrorism is a global phenomenon and a threat to world peace and security for each country individually. In this respect, and the importance of the signed Anti-Terrorism Cooperation Agreement with the Russian Federation is also important and that it will be important and that the implementation of this agreement is precisely from the abstract of preventing possible terrorist attacks precisely from exchanging information on terrorist groups, on leaders, on the financial resources that these terrorist organisations have, the exchange of operational data between competent services, and the proposal for an agreement is precisely specified which services in the Republic of Serbia are responsible for implementing this Agreement. The agreement also details the exchange of information on curricula which educates staff to carry out these tasks, all in order to strengthen human resources in competent institutions, but also how important the exchange of information-analytic data relating to the assessment of the risk of terrorism is both globally and globally. In any case, the proposal for this agreement authorised authorities in the Republic of Serbia are the Ministry of Interior, BIA, the Ministry of Defence, the Directorate for the Prevention of Money Laundering, the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office, the Prosecutor's Office for Organized Crime. I would also like to stress that this agreement provides for the confidentiality of data precisely on the basis of an agreement signed by the Republic of Serbia with the Russian Federation on 16 October 2014. Terrorism is certainly a threat to peace and security throughout the world, but I must point out that the importance of this agreement with the Russian Federation is significant because political relations between the Republic of Serbia and the Russian Federation today are best compared to all previous times. I would like to point out that Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic, at the invitation of Russian Federation President Vladimir Putin, attended the celebration of the 75th anniversary of the victory over fascism, when in Red Square, along with Russian soldiers, followed by 75 soldiers of the Serbian Army, namely the oldest and elite units. It was the guards. Also, I would like to stress that the Republic of Serbia is a military neutral country. The strategic definition of the Republic of Serbia is the EU. Serbia is a military neutral country, but unlike those who have destroyed all the pillars of the state by 2012 in all possible ways, and among these pillars is the Serbian Army, since 2012, or after the fiscal consolidation measure, which was taken in 2014, there has been a strengthening of our armed forces in every sense, not because of the threat to anyone but because of the deterrence of the possible aggressor. As an example of our army's battle-over, as an example of equipment, will and desire for this call by our soldiers, I will single out the military tactical exercise that took place on October 10th 2020 on the Cave and where Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic personally attended. During this exercise, the exercise was conducted, otherwise 2,800 Serbian soldiers, but the most modern tools and weapons were shown, about 150 of them, among them 40 aircraft, or aircraft. At the time of those who ruled until 2012, it could only be a mental noun. The military had no weapons and weapons, and they had their military deadline lifted. At the time of the biggest natural disaster that hit the Republic of Serbia in 2014 in May, they did not even leave behind a boat to save people from the flood, as they sold the boats for 9,000 dinars. In contrast, today in the Republic of Serbia, thanks to the responsible policy of the President of the Republic and the Government, a responsible policy is being conducted to preserve the security, security and health of the people. The Russian Federation, of course, thanks to it for its principled position concerning the territorial integrity and sovereignty of the Republic of Serbia, especially when it comes to Kosovo and Metohija, of course, we owe more thanks to Russia's veto in the United Nations Council and thus prevented the state of Serbia from being a genocide, but in the fifth week of our fight against Kovid 19, 11 Russian planes provided assistance to the Republic of Serbia. In those planes, there were not only medical equipment, there were disinfectants, but what might be more important is that in these planes they also sent 78 specialists doctors who were helping our heroes, our doctors to fight for every life citizen in the Republic of Serbia. In the voting day, the parliamentary group Aleksandar Vukic – for our children will vote for the agreements mentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-26-0.u2558	Thank you. The People's Messenger Adam Shukalo has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-26-0.u2559	Thank you, Mr. President. Here, at the very beginning, I must say that I am very pleased that today we are discussing these agreements, primarily that we are discussing an agreement on the transfer of responsibilities to air traffic services between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Montenegro. I didn't just say that for the simple reason that it would sound like a floscule, but I really think it's good and positive that these interstate agreements, in this case three countries, sign such important agreements, and it's especially important how this agreement came about and how much time and wisdom was needed, but first of all, the reality to accept that something that is a life issue, a process question, a civilization question, normatively in terms of European normatives and all other acts that are needed to coordinate and all of this on the one hand, and on the other hand is life that takes place even in air traffic, in this sense of words, between these three countries. It is good that we are just signing this agreement that also adopts the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and, in this case, the Government of Serbia and the Government of Montenegro, and ratifying existing parliaments that are responsible for these things. It is precisely an indication that the state of Serbia respects the territorial and any other integrity of BiH-Montenegro and that resolving such issues, in which, if from only one point of view of this agreement, in those parts, for example, where BiH is unable to control its airspace, there is no problem with covering all the space together with Serbia, together with Montenegro, in the common interest. If, according to this analogy, we were to use an example for everything else, then the first thing that would be very important would be to say, that just as we are getting positive signals and initiatives in this case from Sarajevo, this initiative came from the Council of Ministers coming from Sarajevo, BiH, and here we are getting support and adoption here, so that when initiatives to sign the agreement come, different initiatives from Republika Srpska, which is an integral part of BiH, no one from Sarajevo or Podgorica dispute the issue and asks the Republic of Serbia in the position of hegemony, in the sense that it abuses certain interests of BiH or, God forbid, resources. I'd just like to ask two dipressions on this issue here. It is a strategic issue to build an airport in Trebinj, because we have heard many negative ones, to say, comments coming from Sarajevo, as if this is something that when we start from here, we bring bad Trebinj, Republika Srpska and BiH, as if Republika Srpska is not an integral part of BiH, so that is the problem. So when something is invested so strategically in Republika Srpska, in this case in Trebinje, and thus BiH, it turns out to be invested in another country. It is exactly the respect of both BiH and Republika Srpska and every city where such investments, especially the importance of Trebinje, are being launched and these initiatives are coming from Serbia. So we have to have a two-way street in this kind of story. We need to hear from each other, listen, not attack each other, so that the basic message that comes from Sarajevo these days is how to hate each other as much as possible. So we heard the messages sent by Bakir Izetbegovic, which cannot be commented. In normal, civilized parliaments, in countries that are considered civilized, what he said is unforgivable, unforgivable in every sense of the word. Never in Serbia has anyone ever said that, never anyone. And today, after so many years, and after the war conflicts that were in the 1990s, we have statements that practically led to bloodshed at the premises of the former Yugoslavia, especially BiH. I'm extremely happy for that very reason, because these questions are being settled. According to this pattern, if we talk rationally, we can talk about everything, including the state border on Drina, but we cannot talk about things that Bakir Izetbegovic is trying to impute Serbia as an obligation in terms of certain debts and everything else, that is a condition for future co-operation. Life goes on, business goes on. People dealing with business in BiH, Montenegro, who invest in different sectors, including in this sector that we are discussing today, the IT sector, for example, are doing whatever Bakir Izetbegovic thinks and what kind of messages he sent to Serbia. They get along well with us, they understand each other well, and they know which way they're going. Serbia is the engine of this region, Serbia is pulling not only the Republika Srpska but also BiH forward, and the messages coming from Sarajevo, messages coming from Podgorica, unfortunately, we still hear some, heading that way to stop it. Don't start the engine that Alexander Vukic started here in Serbia, which drags a complete region, to insert into those wheels, clips that look like some war games, some war flags, etc. And the second example I'm going to tell here is a great initiative, and in this case, not only an initiative, but we signed a Memorandum with the Republika Srpska government on the construction of three hydropower plants in the upper Drina area, as it is called, and it's a strategic project in this case. Again, in the same analogy, when we look at this, it is signed because competences in the area of concessions and water areas are within the jurisdiction of Republika Srpska, as an entity, which is why the Government of the Republic of Serbia initiated and jointly launched an initiative with the Government of Republika Srpska, and because, according to the Dayton Peace Agreement, it is according to the normity of Republika Srpska. If it were in the power of the Council of Ministers, which has extremely small powers, in terms of executive powers, it would be signed with the Council of Ministers and in this case Serbia has interest, but in this case normatively, constitutionally, however you wish it to belong to Republika Srpska. What did we get from this initiative, which is only in the first phase of 520m euros for construction? I have to say the capital historical project, primarily Buck White, which is being talked about, so I don't know, for at least the last 50 years and now we're finally moving into that kind of story and there are financial predispositions. We plan to build an airport in Trebinj in the budget, as if it were built on Mars, not in Bosnia and Herzegovina, not in Republika Srpska. Those who need to be partners in Sarajevo are telling us -- it's an attack on Republika Srpska, it's an attack on Bosnia and Herzegovina. It's not an attack, it's a co-operation. It's a co-operation that goes in that direction that we mean that what... When we help the Republic of Serbia, any municipality, but if we invest something together on the Drina, it's a common interest. How can this be directed against Bosnia and Herzegovina? So if we use this example here, the analogy for all that is so, and let not those who think that what is signed will be in some courts that fall again under political control. It is of vital interest for the citizens of Republika Srpska and Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Republic of Serbia, Montenegro to not launch these historic projects in the energy sector, but to live and to have the interests of both economic and financial both in terms of employment and infrastructure, both in the energy sector and in the other and third countries to work and to develop. So much for me.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-26-0.u2560	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Tomislav Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-26-0.u2561	Thank you. Mr President and the Honorable Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today I will talk about the bill on the validation of the Second Additional Protocol of the World Postal Convention, but first let me briefly refer to the history of the development of postal services in our country. The beginnings of postal services date back more than two centuries and relate to the need for safe and timely transmission of important messages from Serbian military leaders and rulers during the Turks. In 1805 during the first Serbian uprising, a network of letters was organised for the needs of the Serbian military and authorities, and in 1811, the first so-called. mezulanes for the transmission of oral and written statements for the needs of the State. That's too late. Today's mail. In 1830, the Sultanic Hatisherif of 29 August gave Serbia the authority to organise a postal service for its internal needs, and in 1840, it is a very important year, a public postal traffic is being established in the state of Serbia, when, on May 25th, on an old calendar, on June 7th, on a new calendar, the first post office here in Belgrade on Calemegdan, and that is also the day of "Post of Serbia", as a public enterprise that has marked this day for more than 180 years, as the day of its firm. The "Post of Serbia" today is the headquarters of communication between people and is one of the main holders of the technological, economic and economic development of our country and our society and it is today the largest infrastructure system in the state of Serbia. We should all be proud of one such institution that represents one of the symbols of the state of Serbia, but we should take care of its further development and its functioning. Speaking of "Serb Post", I would also like to commend her employees, especially mailmen, suppliers, counterers, they make up two-thirds of the total number of employees in this public enterprise, because during the pandemic, after employees in the health system and the security system of the Republic of Serbia, they are also heroes, because by their work and sacrifice, with their daily danger of their own health, they make a great contribution to society in general, because they are at the service of citizens and businesses in general. In 1843, the so-called so-called "Second World" was presented. It is the first legal act to regulate the principle of mail as a public service. In 1855, it is an important year for our country, because it is the year when the era of Serbian telecommunications was started, when telegram traffic is introduced, sending the first telegram from Kragujevac to Belgrade. In 1874 it was also a very important year, because it was the year when the World Postal Union was established in Bern and Serbia was one of the 22 countries that was the founder of this international alliance and we should be proud of this fact – a small country became the founder of such a very important world organisation. Today, the World Post Federation is a specialised UN agency with a mission to establish and improve international co-operation. It is not a political organisation that today numbers 192 members and does not deal with the internal issue and organisation of traffic in the area of the postal functioning of the Member States themselves, but all members are obliged to apply the World Postal Union regulations in international traffic. The basic principles of these regulations are the unity of postal territory, the freedom of postal transit and the uniform principles of tariffs for international correspondence services. The importance of respect for these principles was particularly important for our country in 1992 when the UN Security Council imposed sanctions on our country. I will remind you of one Resolution 757 that envisioned the full international economic embargo of our country and thanks to Serbia's membership in the World Postal Union, but also to respect the principles of those regulations, citizens were able to receive medicines, food, money and other supplies from abroad through postal services. The World Postal Federation and the Red Cross were one of the few international organizations that did not disobey the principles of their operation, and we thank them for that. The second additional protocol of the World Postal Convention contains common rules applicable to international postal traffic, as well as provisions relating to written shipments, packages. Changes have been made to the part relating to the calculation of terminal costs for bulked written consignments of so-called ‘. small packages. All Member States of the World Postal Federation are obliged to ratify the act in accordance with their national legislation. For our country, this means the adoption of a law confirming the Second Additional Protocol of the World Postal Convention here in the National Assembly. In the voting day, together with colleagues selected from the list Aleksandar Vukic – For our children, I will support this law so that this obligation of our country at international level will be carried out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-26-0.u2562	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Serbia's Filipovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-26-0.u2563	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, dear citizens of Serbia, these are, of course, as always in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, important topics for the citizens of Serbia. The agreement on co-operation with the Russian Federation in the fight against terrorism is particularly important for us, because we know the situation in the Western Balkans region, we know the challenges and dangers that lurk on us, and almost every part of this region: from Kosovo and Metohija, the karst areas, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Republika Srpska, one part of the Republic of Croatia, almost in all parts, the premises of the former Yugoslavia stand something that can be negligent, negligent or one bad relationship to wake up in who knows what. It is very important for this to have responsible people in charge of the country, not only politicians, but statesmen and Serbia are fortunate to have such a difficult security, dangerously challenging situation at the head of a statesman such as President Aleksandar Vukic. It is precisely thanks to the responsible policy, saved by Serbia and its citizens, President Alexander Vukic, based on the economy, peace, stability, responsibility, responsible policy, responsible for the citizens, but responsible for all those living in this region, because we are facing each other... That's why Alexander Vukic is a statesman, not a politician. That is why today in Serbia, he enjoys the support of 70% of Serbian citizens, because every decision that the state of Serbia makes is being taken with consideration, by considering what the effects of these decisions will be on all of our children in the decades ahead. We are not thinking from mandate to mandate, whether it will last two, four years, so in the short term, but long-term decisions we make as a state to reflect on the life of future generations in this region. In that sense, an agreement with the Russian Federation in the fight against terrorism, co-operation with a comprehensive one, is important to us. It is important that we exchange experiences with the Russian Federation, share experiences with that country which is truly friendly towards the Republic of Serbia, and which has proven this many times in the rich history of our co-operation. You have these terrorists, I said, on kim that threaten security. One part of BiH that calls again for some kind of conflict and we're used to all of that, I would say, for 30 years, and we answer peacefully. We respond to the roads, the highways that we connect people to, we respond to new schools both from this and the other side of Drina, the jobs both from this and the other side of Drina and by offering vaccines for people in Kosovo for all the nationalities that live there, and thus we show that we are responsible, that we really want true peace and co-operation, because that's the only thing that can bring us profit to everyone in this region. No conflict brought happiness to anyone, no country was richer and richer out of these conflicts in the 1990s. That's why we don't want it to ever happen again, and that's why we're running this, I'm going to repeat, responsible policy for our country. But there are those who don't want to. And the hardest thing for me is that it is just one part of the political scene, the opposition scene in the Republic of Serbia, led by a tycoon and a criminal, Dragan Gilas. I didn't say a few weeks ago that he's the head of a criminal group, but that he's an inspirer of criminals, mobsters and other tycoons and lunatics who attack the president of the Republic of Serbia on a daily basis, who threaten the security of the Republic of Serbia or who want to threaten it, who would want to bring down Alexander Vukic, to bring down the Republic of Serbia, and that we here must be the first pillar of the defence policy of the Republic of Aleksandr Vukic and the first pillar of the defence of the Republic of Serbia, to defend the interests of all our children who live here, to defend every school that was renovated in Serbia, to defend every hospital that was built, who say - they will bring it down. A memorial to Stefan Nemanja who will be discovered tomorrow in Sava Square. One of them said when they came to power to bring him down. Imagine how sick you must be in your head and say that you will tear down the monument to Stefan Nemanja. We owe him that monument for hundreds of years and now we're correcting all those things that we haven't been responsible enough for ourselves as a people to do before, to repay to the people who created this country, who made it, to repay our rich medieval history that we've forgotten at one point, which we've completely, I'd say, unfairly ashamed, pushed somehow, we won't mention it. Why not? We have one of the richest medieval history in Europe, perhaps the world. What do we need to be ashamed of as a people? Some say we're genocide. Who have we ever driven from the territory of the country where we live, which country have we ever attacked as the Republic of Serbia and Serbia in general? Who? Where? When? No one knows how to state this, but the support given by Dragan Djilas along with Jeremic, Obradovic and other scum he has gathered around him. Support because otherwise it cannot return to power in the Republic of Serbia but on the street. Then he came up with "the ministry to conduct the elections" knowing that it would not go away and that it could not go through in any normal state because there is nothing to find, invented a reason that there are no conditions in Serbia for some, as he says, democratic elections, as he sees them because they are democratic only when the mafia wins, to then organise chaos on the streets of Belgrade and Serbia, and said that it follows us if their blackmails do not, they will not talk, it is not until the dialogue, until the story is agreed. He doesn't want the mafia to deal with Serbia. The mafia is against Serbia and the attacks and the president and will attack both Serbia and the president in the coming days, weeks and months more and more. It is up to us to explain to the citizens what is behind this, what dangers are lurking behind this colorful lie offered by Serbia, behind these 1,000-euro salaries, I don't know what pensions, rich people, etc., it is they who have denied hundreds of millions to pensioners in Belgrade. Here, there is the head of the council group from Belgrade, Mirkovic, so he may explain more detail to you how it was, how many hundreds of millions remained in debt to pensioners in the City of Belgrade and how much pensions were at Serbia's level. How much are they today? The incomparably larger and 2025 will be even bigger. What was the minimum during Dragan Gilas, and what is it today? What was the average salary then, and what was it today? All of these are indicators of what it looks like when Serbia is run by the mafia and what it looks like when Serbia is run by a statesman like Aleksandar Vukic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-26-0.u2564	Thank you. The word has the People's MP, Ugljesa Mrdić.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-26-0.u2565	Dear President-in-Office and Honorable Representatives of the Government of Serbia, distinguished fellow MPs, these all agreements that are here today are just a confirmation that both the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the President of the State, Aleksandar Vukic, are taking care of the interests of Serbian citizens, because if we were not to have good co-operation with the world today we would not be able to have such good results in the fight against the crown of the virus. I'm going to take a special look at two agreements. First, the agreement on a bill to confirm the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on co-operation in the fight against terrorism. The Russian Federation is not for us for many years, but for many centuries a partner in all segments and for the fight against terrorism and for the fight against the crown of the virus, because that Alexander Vukic did not build good and friendly relations with the head of the Russian state, Mr Vladimir Putin, and that he did not build good friendly relations with China President Si Jinping, we would not have enough vaccines today. We wouldn't be eight in the world today as far as you're concerned with vaccination. If there were no good co-operation between the government of the Republic of Serbia and all the results of the government of the Republic of Serbia in the past eight and a half years and Alexander Vukic, which as the first vice president, later as prime minister and now as president of the Republic of Serbia, we would not have had good co-operation with the West and would not have obtained an American phaser vaccine. So these agreements, as well as some previous agreements, only say that the Government of the Republic of Serbia and President Aleksandar Vukic are leading one good and responsible policy, which is in the interests of Serbian citizens and which, at these difficult times, allows our doctors and healthcare professionals to have enough and vaccines and all other resources we need in the fight against the coronary virus. As far as the Agreement on the transfer of responsibilities for the provision of air traffic services between Serbia, Montenegro and Bosnia and Herzegovina is concerned, it is clear that Serbia is in addition to good policymaking, as regards good relations with world forces, taking account of regional co-operation and especially with those countries where the Serb people live, as is the case with Bosnia and Herzegovina and Montenegro. All those who criticise the construction of an airport in Trebinj, which is a strategic airport, do not want well neither Republika Srpska nor Serbia nor the Serbian people wherever they live. Since I was born in Trebinj, I can tell you what the people of Trebinj think of both Serbia and Alexander Vukic and Trebinj airport. They show great gratitude to the president of Serbia for everything he does for both Trebinje and Republika Srpska, and when you mention the name Dragan Gilasa, you know what they say to me? Grill, is that three in one? What's three in one? He managed to put three bridges in his pocket. It's Dragan Gilas, it's an alternative to Alexander Vukic's politics. The alternative is Vuk Jeremic, who knows what disaster he has made to Serbia regarding his agreements and agreements with Western centres of power. So we must always be aware that Serbia's policy can only have twice, successful and unsuccessful. The one who suggests Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic and their counterparts are unsuccessful, and the one who is concerned with the politics of Aleksandr Vukic and the politics of the Government of Serbia and the criticisms, the criticisms can only be unfounded as we have today had criticism of the opposition MP, but in order not to repeat myself, I am excellently responding to him and fully signing everything that our president of the parliamentary group, Dr Aleksandar Martinovic, the unfounded criticism of former fellow Members of Bosko Obradovic, the MP of the one who led the terrorist and fascist incursions to this wonderful building. So, dear fellow Members of the people, dear citizens of Serbia, of course I will support these agreements in the voting day because I have the first interest in the citizens of Serbia. When I say the interest of Serbian citizens, this means both support and Alexander Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, at these difficult times when all those who do not want good Serbia are attacking Alexander Vukic, following and listening to his family, threatening his closest associates and criticising both government ministers and MPs, and criticising all the good that in these difficult days and months in the fight against the crown of the virus is doing the Republic of Serbia led by Alexander Vukic. Long live Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-26-0.u2566	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-26-0.u2567	Dear President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Dacic, today my colleagues spoke very extensively about these agreements and immediately say that in the day of voting I will vote for these agreements and allow me to say a few words about the agreement between the Russian Federation and our country in the fight against terrorism. The agreement is in the mutual interest of two brotherly and friendly countries, both Russia and Serbia. This friendship has been built for centuries, cultural, historical, spiritual and anti-fascist relationships. The Russians settled in Serbia -- architects, scientists of various professions literally rebirthed Serbia and left an extraordinary trail making a major contribution to the development of science, universities, ballet, opera architecture, heraldics, if you will and comics. King Alexander Karadjordjevic was considered a friend of the Russians. Just with his support, Serbian patriarch Varnava opened the Russian House in Belgrade in 1933, the oldest cultural centre in Belgrade. I note, there are over 60 Russian homes in the world, Mr. President, but only the Belgrade Russian House is meant to associate Serbs and Russians. Some of the most beautiful buildings and houses in Belgrade were designed by Russian architects. By 1925 17 Russian schools worked in the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenians. Serbs and Russians as two peoples have never been in a war conflict. On the contrary, many Serbs, following a sign of Orthodox faith, fled from the 18th century uprising and settled two areas in Tsar Russia, Novaja Serbia and Slavnoserbia. Furthermore, Russia was the only foreign political ally of Serbia in the first Serbian uprising from 1804 to 1813 and helped us not only in weapons but also in diplomatic councils. Our Serbian and Montenegrin Petar II Petrovic Gossip is directed to St. Peter Cetinjski – pray to God and stick to Russia in 1833 in St. Petersburg for the ruler of Montenegro and Brda. A day after the Austrian ultimatum to Serbia on 24 July 1914, Serbian King Aleksandar Karadjordjevic asked Russian Emperor Nikolai II Romanov for advice, and he sent him a famous response, quoting: "Russia will not leave Serbia in any way," the quote concluded. Russia's role in World War II was immeasurable. More than 26 million Russians have given their lives for freedom from fascism, which have just built their lives into the foundations of freedom. For Belgrade's freedom, Russia has given over a thousand victims, ladies and gentlemen. Serbs and Russians are the people of the same root, the same blood, the same faith, almost the same letter and language, and it further connects and strengthens us. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the great Dositej Obradovic was the source of an attempt to start spiritual life in a Central European pro-Western direction. The file was, as you know, a Westerner. He spoke several Western languages, admired English culture. He claimed that English women are the best women in the world. But as soon as he moved to Serbia, after he was called by Karadjordje, who was prone to Austria, he said, quote: "Karadjordje, turn to Russia", finished the quote. Dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, honourable MPs, if the world's painting was removed from Russian painting, the world would be darkened. If Russian music were removed from world music, the world would be deaf. If Russian literature were removed from world literature, the world would fail. Dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the Honorable President of the National Assembly, but Serbs have also made a huge contribution to the Russian state, it is very important that I say no more than the Russians do to us. The Serbs hit the foundations of the modern Russian state, believe it or not. As you know, I'm not speaking in my head, I'm talking about this fact. Serbian Sava Vladislavic Raguzinski was the secretary of the Russian emperor, as you know, Peter the Great and Ambassador of Russia to China and has distinguished the Chinese and Russians. Isn't that right, honourable Members of the People? The Serb, Count Mihajlo Miloradovic, founded the Russian Intelligence Service, a miracle, and was the most credited in the defence of Moscow in 1812 from Napoleon. Of the 30 generals in Moscow's defence in Borodinska Battle, 10 generals were Serbs and Miloradovic had just saved, as you know, Moscow from Napoleon. The Serb, Count Marko Vojnovic, born in Herceg Novi, was the founder, believe it or not, and the first general of the Russian Black Sea fleet. Dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, here is how Serbs participated and struck the foundations of the modern Russian state. Very important. This co-operation has improved and led to the highest level of our President Aleksandar Vukic and Vladimir Vladimirović Putin in all areas. Let me just have a few sentences. President Vukic managed to return the 166th edition of Miroslav's Gospel after 175 years. Right, gentlemen of the People's Parliament? There aren't any of these from the opposition. They're watching from home now, but I'm asking them a question. Thanks to the efforts of our President Alexander Vukic and Russian President Putin, they contributed to the construction of the temple of St. Sava on Vračar, the world's largest Orthodox saint. Right, gentlemen of the People's Parliament? Rust Rukavisnikov is the author of Stefan Nemanja's monument to the medieval Serbian state. Thanks to the efforts of President Aleksandar Vukic, as well as your esteemed president of the Dacic National Assembly, the Serbs have not imposed sanctions on Russia. Right? The Russians prevented the UN Security Council from declaring Serbs a genocide nation. Is that how the honourable Members of the people are? The Russians have prevented Kosovo from being a member of UNESCO. Isn't that right, honourable Members of the People? Dear President of the National Assembly in last 2020 and in this current 2021, Serbia is fighting two wars. The first war against an invisible and unknown enemy, which is the Corona virus. The second war is a war against a well-known enemy of crime and the mafia. Both these evils and Corona and the Mafia have a lot in common. Let me just say four characteristics. Both these evils destroy every single individual, every citizen of our country and our society in general. Both of these evils affect our economy. Both of these evils spread fear and panic. And fourthly, both of these evils take the system back. The war against Corona was in progress, and Serbia entered the war against the mafia. And as you can see from day to day, it achieves certain good successes. Let me just say one thing. Five mob murders took place in 2020. And they were all lit up. Is that right, gentlemen of the opposition, who are now listening to this from your tans and houses? Thanks to the first-row minister, both Nebojsa Stefanovic and Aleksandra Vulina. Some opposition representatives, Mr. President, have joined against the citizens and the state of Serbia and are seeking solutions outside the Serbian state. As you know, I'm not going to say it by heart, but I'm going to give the facts. For example, Dragan Gilas in Serbia, Gilas, in Europe, Gilas, because there are two passports when he goes to Europe to be more European, then he uses the other one. He asked the EU to ban elections in the election of Aleksandar Vukic. Right? That's right, of course. Brussels has been asked to ban Serbia from holding both presidential elections and elections in Belgrade at the same time. Is it true or not, Mr. Gilashu? Dragan Gilas demanded that Vukic be banned from participating in the election campaign. Look at the miracles, and he didn't ask for Boris Tadic. He was looking for believe it or not, but probably no one in the world has come up on an idea like this, that RTS is being arranged by three ministerial assistants. That's what you heard and saw. The final Mr. President, it is untasteful and not a patriotic act to ask outside the Serbian state to regulate political relations in Serbia. It's not a patriotic act. No country in the world does that. Dragan Gilas wrote to Donald Tusk, the president of the European People's Party, and resented him for congratulating Alexander Vukic on everything he did during his term, wishing him victory in the June 2020 parliamentary elections. Is that right or not? Gilas had previously written to Sam Fabrizio, the head of the EU delegation in Serbia, and complained about the regime that allegedly harassed citizens and destroyed Serbia. In November 2020, Gilas, and for Europe, Gilas, the EU urged that the vaccination process in Serbia be carried out with vaccines to be used in the EU, believe it or not, but did so. Mr Gilasu, Gilasu, the position of all political parties should be to take care of citizens and the state of Serbia and that Serbia is managing itself, as Serbia now does under the leadership of President Aleksandr Vukic. And remember Mr. Gilasu very well. Alexander Vukic is today the last and only free ruler in Europe. Dear ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs Gilas aims to create an artificial crisis and new divisions in Serbia. Djilas, Tadic, Jeremic copy themselves, believe it or not from 5 October 2000. They are calling on and all of them are such a scenario that would result in a willing foreign factor, not the citizens of the Republic of Serbia bringing them to power on October 5th, and then, as then, they would rob Serbia and the country again into bankruptcy, so they would again ask Vukic to save the country from bankruptcy as they are now doing. And finally to remind them well and ask them. Twelve sentences, twelve questions, and they may answer, and Serbian citizens will answer very well. Who was the first of the presidents of the Republic of Serbia to mark NATO's aggression from political parties to our country? Let the opposition answer and let the citizens answer. Of course it's Alexander Wolfie. Who said first - I don't want to go to NATO? The citizens know that very well. Only Gilas and his comrades don't know. It's Alexander Wolf. Whoever first told the West won't stop me from working with China. Of course, Alexander Wolfie. And here was Ambassador Ostojić, who called me, six years old to represent a more fluent Russia or some kind of yellow people from China. He's not here today. Here he is on some TV every day. Who said first - I won't impose sanctions on Russia? Who said? Well, Alexander Wolfie. Of course, Ivica Dacic, who contributed as foreign minister. Who first raised Serbia's army to an envious level and destroyed it before? Of course, Alexander Wolfie. Who first returned 166 pages of Miroslav's Gospel from Sanpetersburg to Serbia after 175 years? Of course, Alexander Wolfie. Who today is the last free ruler in Europe? Well, Alexander Wolfie. Who first erected a monument to the father of the Serbian medieval state after 800 years? Alexander Wolfie. Who first implemented comprehensive reforms in Serbia after 30 years? Do you respond, gentlemen, from the opposition? The citizens know. It's normal for Alexander to be a wolf. Who in the last 30 years has built the most hospitals, health homes and clinical centres? Of course, Alexander Wolfie. Who built the most highways, roads and bridges since 1945 to this day? Of course Alexander's a wolf. Who is the most worthy of the Serbian rulers to build the temple of the Holy Sava on Vratar the most beautiful Orthodox church building in the world? Alexander Wolfie. Dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia have much to list. But since time is running out, let me say that this battle now being fought by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the President of the Republic, the fight against the Coronus virus, I want us to endure until the end. We're at home winning, let's not relax. Long live Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-26-0.u2568	Thank you. There are no more reports on the lists of parliamentary groups. Before concluding a single joint search, do I ask whether the words of the representatives, or the president of the parliamentary groups, or the authorised representatives, or anyone else who has not used his right? The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go. You have five minutes 45 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-26-0.u2569	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here we had our only objection to these agreements about the Duke of Luxembourg. So, about protecting classified information. So, I don't think some opposition people have even read the name of the law confirming the Agreement on the Protection of Secret Information between the two countries. With this in mind, I believe that the opposition MP is against the protection of classified information, which would lead to immeasurable damage to both countries, as well as to the state of Serbia. Speaking of classified information, probably our services are tracking the money laundering. As far as Luxembourg is concerned, it is the headquarters of a Serbian media mafia. From there, Tanja Fajon moves to protect herself, acting as political chief of the School and Gilas. In Luxembourg, United Media, Adria News, Darekt Media, the famous "Darekt Media Darekt Dragan Gilas and Mladjan Djordjevic" were registered. In Luxembourg, 30 channels are registered, fake, cross-border, which do not broadcast in Luxembourg. Apparently, they're not registered here, because the program is being re-routed from Luxembourg. No re-emissions without broadcasts. Broadcasting is a broadcast program for the general public. You cannot broadcast a program on your home computer or play it through a cable and call it broadcast. Broadcasting in terms of laws and conventions on cross-border television is the broadcasting of programmes for the general public. Such a programme is being taken over in Serbia at the same time, to be taken over in Serbia. This is considered a re-emitation and is not subject to registration in the Republic of Serbia. Sure, you know about "SNN", "BBS", etc., these are cross-border channels, real cross-border channels. We're dealing with fake over-recorded channels, and the authorities need to establish that, because fake cross-border channels can also serve to launder money. I just want to remind you that "N1" television has no PIB, no tax number. That's why there's no tax obligation to pay. TV "N1", Nova S", "Sport Club 1", "Sport Club 3", "Sinemania", etc., about 28 to 30 cross-border channels, fakes are not registered in Serbia, and are registered only fictitiously in Luxembourg. To me, the Luxembourg regulator, what REM does to us, sent a memo, answered my question – that they are registered in Luxembourg, but do not broadcast the programme in Luxembourg. Now I ask you, what is being re-emitting? On their cable, so on the cable of SBB School and Gilas you can definitely see these cross-border fake channels. They pay no one in the state of Serbia for REM, RATEL, SOKOJ, because, of course, they only take over from abroad at the same time and therefore allegedly have no tax number, pay nothing, etc., but we all know, especially after the direct transmission of nine cameras, that the programme is broadcast in fact from Belgrade and that New Belgrade, where it was ashamed and where the master of these televisions, is certainly not Luxembourg. Why I'm saying this has something to do with it, it's usually part of money laundering related to terrorism. When you get something from the bank, a memo, they're in line with the fight against terrorism and money laundering, etc., fill out a form. Now I wonder about Baškam Ulaj, who financed Yugoslavia's Cosic, and I have been asking myself that a long time ago, received 250,000 euros for the consulting services of an Albanian mobster, etc. However, the TVs it works for, Serbia pays nothing, but you have an even worse thing. Namely, on the cable of the SBB programs RTS, Pinka, etc. With national frequency, they're the most visible. Over 80% of the ratings are these programs, and the SBB doesn't pay them anything. It's like if I took my agricultural products out to the market and gave them up to a dealer, and didn't ask for any compensation for my products, or I couldn't ask for it, because then my goods won't be seen at the market. So the SBB is blackmailing channels with a national frequency, paying nothing to broadcast their programme, series, etc. But, behold, SBB pays its TV channels, whose re-emission owner pays in Luxembourg. Tax experts certainly know, and you who have dealt with any business, that a fictitious service cannot be taxed. I ask, what kind of re-emission service Solak and SBB pay for TV "N1! , “New S”, “Sport clubs”? So that's what they pay three euros per user, so more than one million euros per month for the programme they're allegedly re-emitting. A service which does not exist in Luxembourg is paid. There's no broadcast program, there's no re-emission, and then on the basis of that re-emission, there's a money laundering going on. This reduces the SBB's profits and thus shows losses in Serbia, which is why Serbia's state is being robbed. In this regard, regarding these classified data, our services need to check well, to check whether the programme is being broadcast, how much money comes out on fake media re-emission services, and that there is no re-emission in fact, this is about broadcasting in the Republic of Serbia. With these agreements we will continue to develop the state of Serbia economically, we must be worthy, committed, to spend time in work, effort, not on cafes and couches. There's no pearl in every shell. We've got to try everything. There's no pearl in every shell, but we certainly have to try to open it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-26-0.u2570	Thank you, but I didn't interrupt. There are no more registered heads of Parliament clubs or authorised representatives. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? The word has a minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-26-0.u2571	Dear Chairman, thank you for letting me speak to you. (President: We need a new system, this one is from before 2000. You're in charge of it. I know everything. We've made so much progress in technology, we'll do our best. The Assembly is a very important institution, and as part of the digitisation of our society as a whole, it will certainly be one of the priorities this year. I would just like to thank the honourable MPs and you, chairing today's discussion and the support provided to today's agenda and, in that sense, thank you again on behalf of all the promoters, on behalf of the entire Government, for supporting all the points of the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-26-0.u2572	Thank you. We hold you to the Minister's word, that we will be one of the priorities. That's a little disturbing, but, well, we accept that we're one of the priorities. With a little joke, it really is a technical problem, I don't know exactly what to say. We had in preparation this session a severe malfunction here and the maltene was questioned by holding a session due to the system that was made here, if I remember correctly before 2000. It's not our special wish, it's important that this system can work so that the Assembly can work. I made a little joke about your department, but anyway, thank you for coming. If you're going to promise anything else, I'm going to turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-26-0.u2573	Dear Chairman, given all that you have just said and the arguments you have made, I solemnly give the word that we will really give everything we have to support to inform this information system and be at the level that it deserves.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-26-0.u2574	Thank you. Since we've exhausted all the applications, I'm concluding a joint single search on the drafts of the law in paragraphs 1 to 6 of the agenda. We'll continue tomorrow at 10.00 hours, a motion to elect judges. Thank you. [[The session was suspended at 6:25 p.m.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the session of the First Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 12th Assembly. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 86 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the MPs' units. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, it is found that at this time 139 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that there are at least 84 MPs present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. We continue to work and move on to a common, unique search on the proposals for decisions set out in points 7 and 8 of the agenda. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that they have been invited to attend the sittings of Aleksandar Pantic, an election member of the High Council of the Judges and Natasa Djelic, head of the Department of Status Affairs of the Judges of the High Council of the judiciary. As you know, the total time for the debate is five hours and I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Articles 192, paragraphs 3 and 201, paragraphs 2 and 2 are replaced by the following: Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint single search on: a motion for a decision on the election of judges who are first elected at the judge's office and a motion for a decision on the election of judges who are first elected to the judge's office. These are two decisions, and I would like to ask the motionary, Mr. Alexander Pantic, election member of the High Council of the Judges' Office, to address you. Here you go.
