ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-14-0.u11421	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening the 12th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2021. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that 102 MPs attend the sittings. I remind you, Article 88 is Section 5. The Rules of Procedure provide that the quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the adoption of the minutes and the establishment of the agenda exists if a majority of the total number of MPs are present at the sitting. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., I ask the MPs to insert their cards into the parliamentary units. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 145 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly, within the meaning of Article 88(5). Rules of Procedure. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? The word has a folk MP, Jahja Fehratovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-14-0.u11422	Thank you, Your Honor. My question today is addressed to the Ministry of Education, which refers to the flat-rate and unfounded interpretation of Article 43. Law on higher education by the State University of Novi Pazar. On the basis of such a flat-rate interpretation, they denied students of this university the right to prayer space, although they have the right to do so according to the Constitution, according to what is a member of the 21st century. A constitution that forbids discrimination based on religious feelings. The state University of Novi Pazar is a place where many students, not only Bosniaks, but Serbs and all others, are studying. There are students, like all other citizens of this country, who have the right to live as they think is best, that if they think religious rituals should be performed, they should be allowed to do so. However, what it is is a decision by the state university is directly in conflict with the Constitution, with Article 21 that I have cited and is contrary to the practice of higher education institutions around the world. If we have, say, Cambridge and Oxford, which have chapels, if we have St. Petersburg, where there is a prayer temple, if we have in our country a prayer space in all possible institutions, here, even here in the Republic of Serbia, in the National Assembly, thanks above all to good relations and understanding between the rickets of the Academy of Mufti Zukorlic and the leadership of the Assembly, which President Dacic spoke about at the memorial, we will get a prayer space, which is a unique example throughout Europe, we should not allow students to also celebrate their religious rituals in such a way that it will be worth, i.e. Dignified, i.e. to enable them to be what their faith requires them to be, i.e. to perform their prayers in the time in which it is prescribed, i.e. in a space that's suitable for that. I think this is an interpretation given by the state university incorrectly, casually, and it applies in this Article 43. The law on higher education to organize, and this is not about organising, it's about meeting religious needs. Second, my question is addressed to the Ministry of the Interior, which refers to Article 21. The Constitution and other members who are positive for members of national minorities, which is reciprocal employment. We had a situation that in previous days, 15 new police officers, nine Serbian nationalities and six Bosniak nationalities, were hired at the New Market Police Administration. This also does not reflect a realistic picture of the proportion of population representation. Since we have had an even more drastic picture compared to national membership among employees, it is increasing further to the harm of the Bosniak people. Before that, we had different excuses for some of these candidates not meeting the conditions, but this is about ordinary cops, this is about officers, etc., and it was really an opportunity to come back, to bring about the situation that was found over the past decades, and to slowly return what is reality and what is the right of every citizen, especially in these environments where we have members of national minorities in greater numbers, such as Novi Pazar. There should have been a minimum of this reciprocity, if not more to be in a positive sense for Bosniaks, given the situation found. This is also one of the situations that is a little bit of a concern for the residents of Novi Pazar, because before that we had another republican institution, in the Tax Administration in Novi Pazar, that ten new workers were suddenly admitted and no members of the Bosniak nationality. These are issues that really need to be closely monitored and should be given the right to all those who have competences, who have relevant references to be treated equally on employment rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-14-0.u11423	Thank you. The word is Shaip Kamberi.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-14-0.u11424	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, my question today is for the minister of justice of the Republic of Serbia and the High Council of the judiciary. At a session held on 14 October 2021, following an ad published in Official Messenger No. 38/21 since April of this year, the High Council of the Court made a decision on a proposal for candidates first elected for the Presevo Criminal Court. Based on this decision, candidate Igor Nikolic, an independent co-worker of the Vranj Real Estate Office, was proposed as judge of the court. Nothing would be unusual in this person's proposal if there were not several persons of Albanian nationality from Presevo and Bujanovac with a completed judicial academy or a passed exam among the candidates for the Presevo Criminal Court and that it was not a mistrial in a municipality where Albanians account for more than 90% of the population. For the sake of reminders, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia in Article 77(2) provides for the right of members of national minorities to have appropriate representation in the employment of state authorities and public services. First, the general principle of recommendations from the High Commissioner of National Minority Lund notes that the effective participation of national minorities in public life is an essential part of a peaceful and democratic society. Experiences from Europe and beyond have shown that in order to improve this participation it is often necessary for governments to establish special solutions for national minorities. These recommendations seek to facilitate the inclusion of minorities in state frameworks and enable minorities to maintain their own identity and characteristics by thus improving good governance. The Ljubljana Guidelines, on the other hand, in the integration of different societies do not hold back on the mere support and recognition of minority culture, identity and political interests, but also recommend that countries ensure the establishment of communication and interactions that will exceed ethnic divisions. These guidelines suggest that national minorities not only need to exercise their legal right to participate effectively in the general government of the country, but also to be encouraged to do so, says Knut Volebek, a former senior commissioner of national minorities. Such a policy of employment in judicial institutions denying the right of Albanian personnel to be employed is not in the spirit of the constitutional provision, nor is it recommended by the institution of the high commissioner. The credibility of institutions depends on the trust that citizens have in them, and the trust of citizens in institutions in the middle of the national minority population depends solely on the participation of members of national minorities in the institution. Therefore, my question for the Minister of Justice and the High Council of the Judiciary is – when Albanian national candidates for the exam or completed by the Judicial Academy will be employed in the Criminal Court in Presevo, i.e. the General Court in Vranj, which covers the territory of the General Court in Bujanovac, in order to comply with the provisions of Article 77(2). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-14-0.u11425	Thank you. The word is Zoltan Peck. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-14-0.u11426	Thank you. In front of the SVM parliamentary group, I will question Finance Minister Sinishi Malom. My question concerns the issue of the level of development of municipalities in Serbia. Regional disproportions in the AP Vojvodina are further deepening due to the more intense demographic depletion of the entire area, a new feature of population processes, while in the past decades, the most prominent of the border municipalities has been exposed, today this trend is present across Serbia's territory. The differences between the municipalities of Vojvodina based on individual and synthetic indicators of development, income per capita, unemployment rate, road infrastructure construction and basic life standard indicators reach ratio 1:8. These differences are mainly about differences between city centres and other municipalities. The problems of measuring the degree of development of units of local self-government cannot be explained solely by economic indicators and simply interpreted through economic disciplines. The dynamic process and intense changes in the overall social economic and social environment have defined and multiplied the specificities of towns and municipalities in Serbia, making the process of measuring and interpreting each other's differences towards the degree of development a very complex problem. As a result, concepts of regional disparity measurements shifted from only economic and non-economic indicators. In 2015, the government of the Republic of Serbia adopted a new methodology for calculating the level of regional development. The reasons were essential, legal and methodological. The demands of a large number of local self-government units are fundamentally respected that it is necessary to access a new measure of the degree of development, as regional and local economic structures have changed after the devastating effects of the global recession. Legally because one of the essential provisions of the Regional Development Act imposed measuring the degree of development of municipalities and cities each year. Methodological – the process of determining the degree of development defined in 2009 was based on a dominant measurement of the economic dimension of development, which had a strong justification and valid justification given the current privatisation and transition process of Serbia's economy. The adopted new methodological process in 2015 was based on the creation of a composite index of development, i.e. on the measurement of five development dimensions - economic, social, demographic, educational and financial forces of local self-government units through representative and transparent indicators of different weights. Methodological solutions for calculating the degree of development of municipalities adopted in 2015 were compatible with European practice in this area, however, the government did not apply a new methodological concept between 2015 and 2021, but rather applied a list of the development of local self-government units from 2014 which used an old methodology to rank municipalities and cities. Mapping the degree of development of municipalities and cities in Serbia in 2019 was based on a established methodology adopted in 2015 with current data and latest demographic processes. Results of applying the new methodology for measuring the degree of development of indicators more significant distribution of the AP Vojvodina area. An unfavourable result is that half of the Vojvodina municipalities have been grouped in a group of underdeveloped municipalities. Generally the largest number of municipalities with the lowest average development is from Banat, and contrary to this, only two banana municipalities and the town of Pančevo are developed, while the rest are from Srema and Backa. Changes in developed groups show that as many as seven municipalities from the second one have moved into the first group, but that five municipalities and first group cities have slipped into the second. There are two municipalities that are even in the third group. It is important to point out that all municipalities that were ranked in third according to the old methodology are now classified in the fourth group of development. Since the level of development of local self-government is the basis for the distribution of non-purpose funds for local self-governments from the Republic of Serbia's budget, as we know from practice, that the degree of development is an important criterion in various competitions for the allocation of funds from various ministries, undeveloped municipalities have a higher priority in the allocation of funds. So my question is, when will a new methodology be applied to measure the degree of development of local self-government and when will a new list of local self-governments be established at the stage of development? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-14-0.u11427	Thank you. He's got a word, Diana Radovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-14-0.u11428	Dear President of the National Assembly, colleagues and fellow MPs, the public has been burdened in recent days by a social problem that we cannot be immune to, it is about social networks and their negative impact on social phenomena, especially among young people, which we are increasingly able to talk about. The dangers of the consequences of activities on social networks and content that young people are exposed to above all, we had the opportunity to see that they were devastating. The impact of these media is enormous, and young people belonging to the digital writing generation are exposed to the content they want to present in the desired light. This virtual world very often deceives young people, encourages them to think negatively, resulting in twisted consciousness, but also having negative consequences for their thinking about people, processes and phenomena. So young people lose their sense of real life, of the real world, and they're much harder to bear failure. This attitude of young people is also due to some distorted values offered to young people, primarily on social networks, but also through certain media. The value should not represent reality programs, the value should not represent programs where participants earn huge money, without work, but the primary value should represent work, creation and social behavior. In particular, there are increasing pressures and threats across social networks, via Twitter, Instagram, YouTube, Tik-Tok and other platforms for sharing electronic material. By way of comments, there are brutal threats and insults that cause great anxiety and fear to those to whom these threats are addressed. This brutality in threats goes so far that YouTubes and influencers, but generally all users of social networks and how they threaten and even die. We have witnessed in the last few months several suicides of young people that are due to threats and tremendous pressure on young people. My question is addressed to the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and it reads - how and how could the Government of the Republic of Serbia respond more adequately to this negative social phenomenon and sanction digital violence, whose consequences for young generations can be devastating? First of all, I think it is very important that such an initiative to solve such a serious problem comes from us, the young Members of the people, who have been and how we have been exposed to brutal violence on digital networks, that is, on all social networks and that our engagement and should be directed to support all those young people who are exposed to this problem. If we cannot root it out, then in the best way we can help them overcome and the consequences that leave them as little as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-14-0.u11429	Thank you. The word is made by MP Boban Birmancevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-14-0.u11430	The esteemed chairman, respected fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, my first question has been addressed to the judicial authorities of the Serbian state, it is very simple, and I am sure that all citizens in Serbia are interested. My question is: Is there justice, can someone protect these very citizens of Serbia from a handful of mercenaries who threaten the security of Serbian citizens on Sundays and take power in their own hands? Who gives for the right, on what basis and when will they stand in the way of mercenaries who are trying to bring unrest into Serbia, to cause unrest and to come to power in all ways, just not democratically, in all ways in Serbia? Which one of the judicial authorities will determine whether they are paid by Dragan Gilas, is Albin Kurti, is anyone third? I'm not able to, so, here, ask if anyone can determine who pays for causing unrest in Serbia? Here, you tell me, and I'll read it to our citizens, or announce for yourself who causes unrest and what money. We know that Dragan Djilas has taken 620m euros, he has money, he has sold himself out, he has betrayed the state, we know why and for how much, but for which money does the state issue Marinika Tepic, Vuk Jeremic, Nebojsa Zelenović, Čuta etc., etc.? At the same time, I ask the question is there justice for Dusan Prokic? Here's what democracy looks like in the work of these mercenaries. Dusan Prokic beats Dragan Milovanovic to death. Several metres from these events, since the attempted murder of Dusan Prokic, stood exactly one of the organisers of Nebojsa Zelenovic, a false Democrats, a fake fighter for green Serbia and a fake fighter for Serbian citizens. Is there justice for this man? Justice for Dusan Prokic is justice for all citizens of Serbia. At the same time, a question that had no answer, and it concerns events that preceded all of this. In this picture is Zlatko Kokanovic with an axe. It's Zlatko Kokanovic with an axe standing right next to Viola von Kramon. The question for independent media, which are independent, I just don't know of which, we know of who they're addicted to, did they see this axe, did any of the state authorities see this axe, was Zlatko Kokanović prosecuted and could anyone in the name of the state, in the name of the judicial authorities, ask Viola von Kramon what she was doing in Sundays next to Zlatko Kokanovic, while he was trying to fight for democracy in the Upper Weeks? Is there anyone who can examine why and in what way this man, Zlatko Kokanović, was not brought to justice, that is, no action has been carried out to determine what this axe is doing in Loznica, i.e. in Gornji Sundays? Do independent media see this invisible axe? Here, I'm asking the independent media, it's not a practice, but let them publish this and let them say there are no axes in this picture and there is no Zlatko Kokanovic in this picture, and next to it Viola von Kramon. At the same time, the question we didn't simply ask, and it is being raised as a consequence of all this, is it also how the state wants to fight and how will it fight against the abuse of democracy? How and how does someone from week to week deceive citizens from day to day, and when will they get in the way of lies? When will someone for a false lie, for misinformation and for the organisation of protests that can result only in unrest and can only have something that is not specific to this Serbia simply be processed? No one wants to support riots in Serbia at the moment, except for those who do not live in Serbia. To conclude, can anyone, on behalf of the judicial authorities, examine what money is issued and sold to the state, for which the money Nebojsa Zelenovic tells what she is talking about, what kind of money she is talking about, what money she is getting that money from, because every betrayal of Serbia is a crime that she must and deserves to be prosecuted? I expect answers from the judicial authorities, who and for what money are they trying to cause unrest? Of these riots, of course, will be nothing. The country's answer is clear. The answer of the President of the State is even clearer. Thank you both to the president and to the citizens who understood and understood the gravity of the situation and supported what President Aleksandar Vukic did. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-14-0.u11431	Thank you. Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, answer for word, we continue to work. The 8th Special Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 12th Assembly was delivered to you. As most of the total number of MPs attend today's session, I find that there is a quorum for the adoption of the minutes from that session. I would like to inform you that by verifying the tasks of the Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Affairs and Mandatory Immunities, it has been established that none of the Members of the Parliaments has delivered such a written note to that minutes. We're moving on to a decision. I am voting on the 8th special session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 12th Assembly, held on 30 November 2021. Please press the corresponding key. I am stopping the vote: total – 164, for – 156, did not vote – eight. I find that the National Assembly adopted the 8th Special Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 12th Assembly by majority. In the call of this session, which has been delivered to you, there is a proposal for the agenda of the session. Before the sitting agenda is established, pursuant to Article 92(2) and Article 93. Rules of Procedure, it is necessary for the National Assembly to decide on proposals for the completion of the agenda and on a proposal for a merger of discussions. National MP Selma Kučević, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure, he proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point – a motion for a resolution on genocide in Srebrenica, submitted to the National Assembly by MPs Enis Imamovic, Shaip Kamberi, Selma Kučević, Nadia Beqiri, Mirsad Kučević and Ardend Bajrami on 9 June 2021. Since Mrs. Kucevic is not present, I put this proposal to the vote. Please press the corresponding key. I am stopping the vote: total – 165, for – three, against – seven, did not vote – 155. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Marijan Risticevic, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure proposed that the session agenda be complemented by the proposal for a resolution on crimes in and around Srebrenica from 1992 to 1995, which was submitted to the National Assembly on 17 June 2021. Does Ambassador Risticevic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. Please press the corresponding key. I'm stopping the vote. A total of 167, for 11, against two, were not voted by 154 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Miodrag Lint, based on Article 92. The Rules of Procedure proposed that the agenda be complemented by a point – a draft law on the "Genocid of Serbs" Memorial Centre in the independent state of Croatia from 1941 to 1945, which submitted to the National Assembly on 26 November 2021. National MP Miodrag Lint, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-14-0.u11432	Thank you. In an independent state, an unremembered genocide over the Serb people was carried out. For this reason, I propose today that the agenda of the session be complemented by my proposal for a law on the Memorial Centre "Genocide of Serbs" in the independent state of Croatia. The basis of the genocide of Ustasha politics is best formulated by Mile Budak in his infamous formula that a third of Serbs should be killed, a third cataclysed, and a third expelled. The independent state of Croatia was the only country in the world where children's camps existed. In Stari Gradiška, Sisak, Jasenovac, Uštica, Mlaki, Jablanac, Jasterbarski, Gornja Rijeka near Križevci and Lobograd in Croatia Zagorje. In the area of an independent state of Croatia, there were more than 1,000 habitats that systematically killed the Serb people. I'll only mention the biggest of them. So, the Jasenovac camp complex, the complex of Jadovno camp, Gospić, Pag, then a large site where more than 30,000 Serbs were killed, Garavice near Bihac, then killed six thousand Serbs in Stari Brod, Milosevic near Visegrad, then about 5,500 were killed in Šushnar near the Sava Bridge, etc. With my bill, I define four objectives of the Memorial Centre "Genocid of Serbs", in an independent state of Croatia. The first goal is to determine the exact number of Serbs killed, the second goal is to keep a permanent memory of Serb genocide victims in NDH. The third goal, meeting the domestic and international public on the established facts of a report on genocide against our people in NDH and the fourth, the struggle for international recognition of genocide against Serb people in an independent state of Croatia. My bill envisions six units and five services as part of the Genocide of Serbs Memorial Centre in NDH. Units would be a museum, an archive, a library, an education school on genocide, the Institute of Genocide Research and the Department of Monuments and the victims whose goal would be to insist on setting up monuments and memorials at all those sites where the Serb people were killed in the area of an independent state of Croatia. Also, there would be a publishing service, a service for international co-operation, a service for general affairs, an information service and an IT service to deal with the list of Serbian victims and current activities. I propose that the NDH Genocide Memorial Centre covers a suitable space on the territory of the City of Belgrade, more specifically in the municipality of Novi Belgrade or the municipality of Zemun, on the left bank of the Sava, so in the area that was part of a genocide independent NDH. It is necessary for the City of Belgrade to provide a plot of at least six hectares and legal and technical conditions, and for the government of the Republic of Serbia to provide financial resources for the construction of the memorial centre facilities and the acquisition of immovable property and equipment. The memorial centre would have a memorial park where foreign statesmen would plant a tree to honor Serb genocide victims, and within the memorial centre, there would be a large monument dedicated to Serb genocide victims in NDH and a place where eternal fire burns. So, I propose that today's session agenda be complemented by a new draft law on the memorial centre of genocide against Serbs in NDH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-14-0.u11433	Okay, thank you. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I ask the messengers to plead. I am stopping the vote: for – 13, it did not vote – 152 out of 165 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this proposal. National MP Dr Aleksandar Martinovic, on the basis of Articles 92, paragraph 2, 157, paragraphs 1, 170 and 192, paragraphs 3, and in accordance with Article 157(2). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he proposed that one be carried out.) a joint principle and uniform search on: Proposal for a law on the rights of users of temporary housing services by the Government, a proposal for a law on the borrowing of the Republic of Serbia by the Bank of Intez a.d. for the purpose of financing the Ruma-Sabac-Loznica project, and a bill on the approval of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of India concerning the authorisation of members of the family of staff of diplomatic and consular representatives to deal with paid activities. Under 2.) Joint Single Search on: Proposal for a decision on the selection of judges first elected to the judicial office, Proposal for a decision on the selection of a member of the Visa Council of the Court of Justice of the Court of Justice, Proposal for a decision to suspend the role of the Public Prosecutor in the Main Public Prosecutor's Office in the Great Plan, Proposal for a decision on the termination of the office of the President of the Administrative Court, Proposal for a decision on the termination of the functions of two members of the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures and a proposal for a decision to elect a member of the Board of Governors of the National Bank of Serbia. Does the MP Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic want a word? No, I don't. I put this proposal to the vote. I ask the messengers to plead. I am stopping the vote: for 160, five out of 165 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. Since we have agreed on proposals for supplementing the agenda and on a proposal to bring the debate together, pursuant to Article 93(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I put to the vote a draft agenda, in general. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. I conclude the vote: for – 163, two of the 165 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly by majority of votes established the agenda of the 12th session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2021, in general. The proposal for a law on the rights of users of temporary housing services in social security, submitted by the Government, a bill on the borrowing of the Republic of Serbia to the Bank "Intez" a.d. for the purpose of financing the Ruma-Sabac-Loznica project, a bill on the approval of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of India on the granting of permits to members of the family of staff of diplomatic and consular representatives to deal with paid activities. Proposal for a decision on the election of judges who are first elected to the judge's office, Proposal for a decision to elect a member of the Visa Council of the Judges of the Court of Justice, Proposal for a decision to suspend the role of the Public Prosecutor in the General Public Prosecutor's Office in the Great Plan Proposal for a decision to suspend the office of President of the Administrative Court, Proposal for a decision to suspend the role of two members of the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures, Proposal for a decision to elect a member of the Board of Governors of the National Bank of Serbia. We are going to work on the established agenda of the session. According to Article 90(1), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I inform you that they are invited to attend: Prof. Dr. Daria Kisić Tepavcevic, Minister of Labour, Employment, Borary and Social Affairs, Siniša Mali, Minister of Finance, Tomislav Momirović, Minister of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure, Nikola Selaković, Minister of Foreign Affairs, Saša Stevanović, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Milana Rakić, State Secretary at the Ministry of Civil Engineering, Transport and Infrastructure, Marko Milenković, First Secretary of the Department for International Legal Affairs at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Biljana Zekavica, Assistant Minister for Labour, Employment, Boračka and Social Affairs, Ana Tripović, Director of Public Debt Administration in the Ministry of Finance, Jelisveta Članović, Head of International Legal Affairs in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Foreign Affairs and Public Affairs of the Ministry of the Ministry of Public Affairs, Public Affairs, Public Affairs of the Ministry of the Republic of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Bosnia and Social Affairs of Bosnia and Employment, Public Affairs of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Zagreb. I ask the MPs' groups, unless they've already done so to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 157(2) and Article 170(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint principled and uniform search on - a bill on the rights of users of temporary housing services in social protection, a bill on the borrowing of the Republic of Serbia to the Banca Intesa AD Belgrade for the purpose of financing the Ruma-Sabac-Loznica Project, and a bill on the approval of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of India concerning the authorisation of members of family staff of diplomatic consular offices to deal with paid activities. Before we move on to the debate, I would like to inform you that we will be working until 5:30 today, because of a session of the government scheduled for 1800 hours and the government's obligations, and that we will be working tomorrow, which means that if there are no amendments on Thursday, then tomorrow we will end the remaining debate and it will be voting day. Next week, we'll continue on Tuesday. I welcome Minister Daria, I wish her a quick recovery, and thank her for coming here to the National Assembly in addition to her serious injury. Please welcome her with a round of applause. The word has a proposalary representative, Minister Daria Kisic Tepavcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-14-0.u11434	Thank you. President-in-Office of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am extremely pleased to present today the proposal for a law on the rights of users of temporary housing services in social protection. The requirements for the adoption of that law stem from various strategic and normative acts, and above all the obligations arising from the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, which aims to promote, protect and ensure full and equal enjoyment of all human rights and fundamental freedoms of persons with disabilities, including the right to live in the community. Accordingly, in the Action Plan for Negotiating Chapter 23, the government of the Republic of Serbia has committed itself to adopting this law. The proposed legislation is part of a strategic solution to implement the transition from institutional protection to community life. Subject matter has been partially regulated in several different regulations, in several sectors, so that the need for this matter to finally be regulated in one place, one law in order to achieve the rights of users of temporary housing services in social protection. In particular, this is about the creation of a law governing the right of users of temporary housing services in social protection, as well as the rights of users of temporary housing services in social protection institutions which are in the process of deinstitutionalisation of principles, accommodation procedures, the process of preparation of users for life in communities located in institutions in the process of deinstitutionalisation, protection against abuse, exploitation and neglect, as well as other rights and obligations of users in the use of temporary accommodation services to provide conditions for life in the community, then the manner and treatment in incident situations of immediate danger to the life or safety of other users or other persons. The law should improve the position of users of temporary accommodation services without discrimination under equal conditions, with active, effective and informed participation of all persons involved in making decisions affecting the life and rights of users and in accordance with access based on human rights. The law should allow the protection of the rights of users of temporary housing services in social protection through continued training of users for independent life and full and equal participation in society and the achievement of social inclusion. This law ensures that accommodation services are provided in accordance with the will and desire of users, with respect for their life cycle, ethnic and cultural origin, life habits, development and other needs in everyday and other life functions. The accommodation is provided only as a last resort, i.e. a user who cannot be provided with a stay in the family, a daily service in the community or an independent life support service within the meaning of a law governing social protection. When deciding on the accommodation of users, the decision-making authorities are obliged to examine the possibilities to ensure the needs of users in another way, primarily by using daily services in the community, support services for independent life or by using other measures outside institutional support or protection. The accommodation is provided on the basis of the informed consent of the potential user. Services of accommodation in the process of deinstitutionalisation shall be provided in accordance with the best interests of the child, and in the case of adult persons in accordance with the will and wishes of the users with respect to dignity and application of the principle of decision-making without or with support. Finally, I would like to underline once again the importance of the fact that today we are presenting a bill on the rights of users of temporary housing services in social protection that should improve the position of users of temporary housing services in social protection without discrimination under equal conditions, with active, effective and informed participation of all persons participating in decisions affecting life and the rights of users. In accordance with the human rights approach, the Law should provide for the protection of the rights of users of temporary housing services in social protection through continuous and continuous training of self-life users and full and equal participation in society and the achievement of social inclusion. It is also important to stress that the law provides adequate and timely comprehensive protection and security of users with clearly defined rights and obligations of users, as well as the rights, obligations and responsibilities of service providers, in accordance with the will and desire of users, i.e. the best interests of the minor, with respect for his physical and psychological integrity, security, and in accordance with guaranteed human rights and freedoms. Indirectly, this Law will also affect entire families, close persons from the environment, persons located in social protection institutions, as well as employees of those institutions. The whole law contains a whole series of incentive measures, and restrictive measures are clearly defined to prevent any abuse and to apply only in situations where in a less restrictive way it is not possible to eliminate the risk to the life and health of users and other persons. The implementation of this law has no cost and will be financed from existing funds. Also, this law has no impact on the expenditures of other institutions. The adoption of the Law will not cause even the costs of citizens. Citizens will benefit indirectly from the adoption of this Act, as it will improve the quality of the provision of social protection services. The law also encourages the development of diverse and introduction of new social services in the community and inclusion in the field of providing services as many different actors as possible. The solutions offered also support family affirmation as the best example and best framework for the protection of sensitive groups, and encourage the development of social protection services in the community. The process of deinstitutionalisation and social inclusion will provide conditions for human rights to live in the community of social protection users. Territorial and sustainable development of services in the community is a prerequisite for success in the implementation of the deinstitutionalisation process. The adoption of that law will also have a positive impact on citizens and on those social groups that are in need of the use of temporary housing services in the establishment of social protection in a way that ensures the protection of the rights and freedom of users and the reduction of abuse and efficiency in work. Finally, I am convinced that this high and respected home, after the debate, will adopt this particular importance of the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-14-0.u11435	Thank you. The word now comes from the representatives of the board of directors. First, the chairman of the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds, Dr. Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-14-0.u11436	Dear President-in-Office, honourable minister, fellow Members, we discussed the proposal for a law on the borrowing of the Republic of Serbia to the Bank of Intes for a major project that I think we have been talking about for many years now. It is the Ruma-Sabac-Loznica Project, which has defined, in fact, the strategic goals of Serbia's development in infrastructure since 9 August 2018. And what Mr. Vucic says, that dreams create the future, it is obvious now that the future is at every moment of work, because the project that we are talking about today is, in fact, which today the Assembly is ratifying and confirming is a three-stage project. The total project is worth 476m euros. The first stage is, in fact, so-called. The loop at Ruma, or the Ruma-Sabac section, which should actually represent part of the E-70 highway at a total length of 21.14 kilometers, where the vehicle speed will be at that section 130 kilometers per hour. In the second phase, it will be part of the Sava, which will amount to 1,321 metres. The third stage refers to part of the Sabac – Loznica, which represents a fast traffic within 54.48km, where vehicles will be able to move 100km per hour. As you can see, such important roads should connect Serbia, both east and west, both north and south, and it is actually a hub that is very important for the north of Serbia. In a certain way, it will allow faster flow of goods and services, of course, and more GDP participation when it comes to infrastructure itself and when it comes to the high growth rates of our economy. This is in fact an indication that what started in 2018 with the Ministry of Construction, which is together with the "Corridors of Serbia" and "Azbest firm", which is a contractor of these works, today we have a section relating to 2021, a debt defined by the budget for this year and amounts to 14.9 billion dinars. That part of the loan we're talking about today should really end all of these phases relating to the implementation of this project, but that part of the financial that we were interested in on the Finance Committee shows that the loan is planned for the next 10 years, that it has a grace period for two years. So far, the loan has been withdrawn, over eight billion dinars, and we are now in debt for 14.9 that the loan is due until 4 January 2024, and payment means 1 August 2031. What is important to say is that the wars, when the loan is divided into 16 equal wars, and that the realisation of this project, given the great manuality and the infrastructure project, the compensation for the funds withdrawn is 0.3% on an annual basis. When it comes to interest, it is a three-month belibor and it is fixed meaning a 2% margin, and the loan is in dinars, which is of great importance, especially at the moment when you have many challenges on financial markets, when you have a certain inflation and I think it is very important that many credits are when and signed for the borrowing of Serbia were taken into account that it should be protected from any inflationary shocks and I think it is very important that in the voting day that we all really support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-14-0.u11437	I thank the Finance Committee. The word now has the deputy president of the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Poverty Reduction Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-14-0.u11438	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President of the Assembly. The Honorable Minister with his associates, fellow MPs and MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social inclusion and poverty reduction at his session discussed the proposal for a law on the rights of users of temporary housing services in social protection and unanimously adopted that bill and proposed its adoption to the National Assembly. Why? Because the law is absolutely in line, above all, with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, then with all internationally recognised documents, above all with the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, with the Convention on the Rights of the Child, as well as with the European Charter on Human Rights and Freedoms. What I'm trying to say is that this law first and foremost achieves a uniformity in the conduct of both institutions and institutions and service providers when it comes to the protection of the most vulnerable and vulnerable categories of population, which ultimately deals with this law. The aim is to achieve legal certainty and to allow equal enjoyment and full respect for all human rights and freedoms. What aphirms this law? This law, first of all, affirms the life of users in the family, but also encourages measures to develop social protection services so that, with the support of these measures, the user stays and lives in his local environment and in the environment that he knows. Also, this law puts a man, or user, first. How does he put it first? So the user in the entire process, from the first contact to the end of the service, must know. So the user must be fully informed. The user must participate in the decision-making process in an active way, not only through the provision of information, but actively, both from accommodation and through the whole service plan provided by the service provider. Finally, I would like to say that this law is also one of the strategic definitions of the government of the Republic of Serbia to improve social protection in line with respect for dignity, fundamental human rights, the social protection it deserves the 21st century. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-14-0.u11439	Thank you, and to the Labour Committee. Are any of the other boards of directors answering for a word? No, I don't. ) The word is given by representatives of parliamentary groups. The president of the party of Justice and Reconciliation, the United Peasant Party, MP Samir Tandir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-14-0.u11440	Thank you. Dear President, fellow Members and fellow Members of Parliament, honourable ministers, respected representatives of the ministry, I want to begin by congratulating to all citizens and citizens of our country the opening of clusters 4 in accession negotiations with the EU, and this is about Chapter 14 - Transport Policy, Chapter 15 - Energy, Chapter 21 - Trans-European Network and Chapter 27 - Environment. It is, I mean, a great recognition for everything that this Parliament has done and everything that the government is doing and evidence that our European partners really appreciate what we are doing. It is especially important that Chapter 27 of the environment, for we are very much talking about both the last months and the last years of this Green Agenda. I think we're doing a lot of work. The proof of that is that we're solving non-sanitary dumps. I think that all those mentalists, indeed, people who are truly into ecology, but also those who may be doing it with some political background, should be happy, because here we are, and our European partners are acknowledging our results, and in the next period we will talk more about this subject. What makes me particularly happy is this question of Chapter 15 of Energy. I think it's a vital question of life, not only when we talk about European integration, but I have to remind myself that I come from the Prepolje municipality, from the part of our country that we Bosniaks call Sandzak, and that from time to time, we survive in these winter months and a kind of rain. So we had snowfalls or accidents. What do you expect in mountainous areas in December of the month? And yet a great number of cities and settlements and villages and villages have run out of electricity. What the Justice and Reconciliation Party, as the strongest Bosniak party, is permanentally working with its partners, primarily with the strongest SNS party and as part of our coalition agreement, is a replacement of the high voltage and low voltage network. And I've asked the minister that too many times, and I know that's what this is all about. However, I must point out that the intensity of the works, the speed of implementation, replacements and high voltage and low voltage networks is insufficient, that the intensity must be increased, because here, for the weekend we have again a large number of settlements in the municipality of Prepolje, Pesterska visorvan, novovarognost, the edges of the town of Novi Pazar did not have a proper supply of electricity, some do not have it today. That's absolutely unacceptable. Why? Because high on the agenda of this Government of the Republic of Serbia is a balanced regional development, investment and return and retaining our people to live in the country, enabling conditions. There are no normal conditions for living in the country if we do not have electricity supplies neatly, there is no development of our agriculture unless we have an orderly supply of electricity. Also, it is clear that representatives of the Ministry of Infrastructure, Transport and the minister themselves are working hard. However, we must not let snow surprise us in December and indeed the situation on our Augustes on Sunday, in the part of our country where I come from, was pretty bad. I want to confess to local self-government, especially in Prijepolje and Sjenica, who have really given the maximum. I especially want to point out the Sjenica which has a budget in the blockade, which made a great effort to keep every village on foot and clear and that every house has a walking and clear road, because it is not the same to have winter in, I don't know, plain areas and survive the winter on the Cave or on the mountain of Zlatar, Podnik and other Sanjak mountains. This is one note, one condition from the field, a criticism that we have to act more up-to-date. I want to send my congratulations to the Ministry of Education, First Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Education Branko Ružić and Assistant Minister Elmi Elfić Zukorlic, because the Ministry of Education has made it possible for teachers, directors and professional associates who carry out teaching in the Bosnian language of the license exam, which they have passed in Belgrade so far, to do so now in schools of school administration in Novi Pazar. I think that's the way to go. That's one big step. I think that through dialogue and through resolving issues in this way we will improve our attitude towards minority communities and everything that Dr. Jahja Fehratovic mentioned today, I think that through dialogue on all open issues we should resolve. As for today's legislative proposals, I would like to point out that the MPs' Club of Justice and Reconciliation and the United Peasants' Party will support the proposed legislative solutions in the voting day. I want to use your presence to thank the Ministry and the Minister for solving the child's supplement problem for students of the Medres secondary school. It was really one misunderstanding and one problem, where it turned out that if he had good will, hearing, that he could get rid of it. That is indeed one positive signal for the representatives of our people. It may not have been public speaking, but I, as someone who graduated from high school, know what the problem is for those students and those parents. I want to thank you, and I know that's where the Prime Minister's office was brokered. This is proof that we can really solve all these open issues through dialogue and that this is the way to go. When we talk about the rights of users of temporary housing services in social protection, it is clear from the very text of the law, from the reasons that were very detailed, that we are working on a standardization of services for these most sensitive groups, that we are working on improving social protection, and that is something that should certainly be commended and welcomed. What I want to point out from the perspective of someone coming from the edge of the community is to commend the work of the House for faces distracted by the development of Tutin. A few years ago, the situation wasn't nearly as good as it is right now, but it's also proof that it's not an important position, but it's an important man who performs that position. Now we at the head of this facility have a young and very promising, agile director, who is really struggling to improve the work of this facility. I'm really appealing to the Ministry to help run this house. I know that in talks with previous Minister Zoran Djordjevic, it was agreed to provide funds for the construction of a new House for Persons Disrupted in Development in Tutin. Now I want to ask you how long it's been? Do you have budget plans for next year, do you think that way? And to appeal to you to see what we can do to help these people get adequate working conditions. Is the problem of dislocation from the mentioned position, because they are in town, so they might be on a periphery, where users themselves would be better suited? I want to hear your attitude on this matter. What we can call a particular challenge facing the municipalities of Prepolje, Priboj, Nova Varoš and Sjenica is that they do not have social protection institutions for children and old people, they do not have a shelter, which is governed by the local community. What I'm saying is that the Sanjak municipalities have, unfortunately, a pronounced migration towards Western Europe. In most cases, we have a large number of our parents, old people who stay home, carefree or simply because of age, can no longer take care of themselves. We also have a problem when we have children without one or both parents. And when we talk about these homes for that age, do we have to have in these municipalities, or does the ministry think that in the municipalities of Prepolje, Priboj, Nova Varosh or Sjenica, a home for old faces is being launched? Why? Because we have certain identity and cultural differences, and it is very difficult for those people in the middle of where I come from to agree to go to some homes in central Serbia or in the Belgrade area, etc. The differences are, simply, identical, cultural differences, it's a matter of nutrition, some of the issues of faith, etc. That's why I think that when we talk about the Gerontological Center in Novi Pazar and that institution, we should support it further. As for the loan for the Ruma-Sabac road, I would like to say that the Justice and Reconciliation Party absolutely supports the agenda concerning the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which concerns infrastructure. Every road in our country is very important. What we put a special accent on is the Milos Veliki highway, whose construction should go through the Sandzak municipalities towards Montenegro and the second leg to go to Sarajevo. This is something that we are working on with our partners from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but we also support this second part of the highway headed for Tuzla, Raca and then Belgrade. We believe that only by building good traffic and good infrastructure can we create preconditions for the economic development of all parts of our country, namely Sandzak. As for the Agreement with the Government of India, it is clear that it is about diplomats, their families. But I think it's a step in the right direction. With India, the former Yugoslavia had highly developed diplomatic relations. Together we are the founders of the Unclassified Movement. I think we've been pushing these relationships under the carpet for a long time, and that foreign policy that's experiencing expansion today, I think it's a good thing we're establishing co-operation with India, that it needs to be deepened. It is a huge market, especially a large market for halaal products, and the Republic of Serbia is a major producer of halal products. In the day to vote, our MPs' group of Justice and Reconciliation parties and the United Peasants' Party will support the proposed laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-14-0.u11441	Thank you. The president of the Social Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary group, MP Branimir Jovanovic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-14-0.u11442	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Minister, respected representatives of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues, I see the proposal for a law on the rights of users of temporary housing services in social security as part of an overall strategic solution. Decisions that mean that one law, a new law, is regulated by one area in a comprehensive way. I think this law in the first place highlights humanity and humanity. When I'm talking about this area, I'm going to highlight three sensitive categories of people who need this kind of help. These are children first, then those who have lost their roof over their heads and victims of violence who need temporary accommodation in difficult times. When a population category is at risk, housing needs to be provided through different types of programme. They should always be realised within the framework of competent institutions. Usually this type of accommodation is time-limited and has a specific purpose. In the context of a stop as a temporary accommodation, it is possible to achieve basic living needs and to improve the quality of life elementally. The most sensitive category we can talk about is children. That's what I was just talking about, I mentioned it. It is very important that at the age that is important for children, from four to 19 years of age, let us do so so that children are not exposed to the risks of life or even in some situations not to be exposed to street work. It is therefore important to meet the standards that apply, when talking about temporary accommodation, above all to maintaining hygiene, to provide clean and adequate shoes, clothes, shit and the like. However, it is necessary to provide support for users of such accommodation, to acquire the basic life skills they need to engage in social flows, to lead a normal life, i.e. to work, first of all, in the field of education with them in order to adopt new knowledge and to pay attention to their psychosocial needs, i.e. the psychosocial development of children. Therefore, there must also be a plan to meet the needs of users of this accommodation and all kinds of support, interventions to be implemented according to this plan. It is important that according to standards, an expert team of people who make and educators, psychologists, medical workers, as well as people who work on the ground. I must also point out the important role of society towards children who are victims of violence, neglect, trafficking victims, children without parental ageing. The role of society should be expressed when it is necessary to provide a model of temporary housing at child shelters. When they come out of these risky and crisis situations, the young population first comes to the shelter. The fact that the need to take care of children is such that it grows year after year and therefore has to work on it continuously. Today's bill shows how it should look in practice, we need to increase capacity, provide adequate space and, of course, adequate conditions for their accommodation. What can be done, what can be given to save children and to direct children on the right path? It's a quick reaction, identifying problems, applying protection measures and, of course, reintegration into the social environment. It is precisely in these situations that the state’s willingness to address sensitive social issues is seen and thus shows that society is solid and responsible for the most vulnerable categories of the population. When we talk about achieving any solution, it must be a long-term solution, a solution for all users of temporary accommodation, of course, with respect for their rights. This law is now covering this area. This excludes any kind of discrimination prescribed by the Constitution and by law on any basis. I will remind you that, in accordance with the Constitution, the right to social protection is based on the principles of social justice, humanism and respect for human dignity. The model of temporary accommodation, which has been said for a reason more and more over the last few years, I would say, especially for the last 10 years, are safe houses intended for women who are victims of violence. The role of safe houses should be to provide security and to remove victims of violence from the environment in which they were previously involved. Of course, the ultimate goal should be to return to normal social flows, to return to normal life and, of course, to continue life in circumstances where there is no violence. In such cases, procedures are envisaged to include and assist the competent services, primarily the Centre for Social Work, and with such support, the victim of violence is gradually encouraged to take the most important steps towards returning to social flows without fear of having a bad experience repeated. The humanity of a society is seen in relation to people who, due to different online circumstances, have lost their roof over their heads. They are most often in these situations without the means to live and it is therefore important to respect standards in shelters for the homeless, as emergency and operational institutions in the area of social protection. Users of these services are most often in a not-so-good state. Most often, they're in an abandoned state, sick, exhausted, starving people, and it's not uncommon for them to ask for help from a more demented and old person. In addition to accommodation, food, hygiene, health services, people often need professional help to resolve their status permanently. You don't just have to pull the line, you don't have to stop at it, you have to go one step further. Experts should try to find the cause that has led to the problem and the best effect is achieved when the cause that has affected such a critical situation is removed. By harmonising legal standards with international standards and by adopting good practice of international institutions, we show our willingness to always improve values that are characteristic of a democratic society. I will remind you that we have adopted the Action Plan for Negotiating Chapter 23, which concerns the judiciary and fundamental rights, and this document is of strategic importance in the area of protection and improvement of human rights. When drawing up this action plan, the recommendation of the Scanning Report was also taken into account. The report states that a law should be adopted to protect persons with mental disorders in social protection institutions. Members of the Social Democratic Party of Serbia will vote in favour of this bill, because we believe that it is aimed primarily at improving the position of users of temporary accommodation services and that it is possible to create better conditions by applying it, which will preserve the quality of life of users and prepare them for life in society, with respect for basic human rights. It also involves improving social protection services and, of course, the right to a dignified life. We will also support the bill on borrowing for the needs of funding two important projects - the construction of the Ruma-Shabac highway and the fast traffic station Shabac-Loznica. So, these 21km highways and 54km of fast traffic, however important they are for the Mačvanski County, the Sremski District, for Podrinje and Vojvodina, are so important for all Serbia, for all citizens of Serbia, because this route completes the network of highways in our country. We are in this way on one good path to complete a quality network of road traffic and we know how important it is for the development of the economy, first of all. Only these two relationships that we're talking about today, which are on the agenda, are such that they're going to connect one area that's gravitating about 600,000 people. It is a positive impulse primarily for businesses, because we all know how much infrastructure, primarily traffic, affects the development of economy, the development of tourism, or the improvement of all segments of our society. As I said earlier, the Social Democratic Party of Serbia MPs will vote on all proposals on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-14-0.u11443	Thank you. The word has the deputy president of the Single Serbia parliamentary group, MP of Life Starcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-14-0.u11444	Thank you, esteemed chairman. Dear Minister Tepavcevic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we are discussing the Law on the rights of users of temporary accommodation services in social protection, we are discussing the Law on the Road Construction Project of Ruma-Shabac-Loznica, as well as the Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of India on the granting of permits to members of the family of staff of diplomatic and consular representations to deal with paid activities. Apparently three completely different laws, which do not have much in common with each other, one from the domain of social protection, the other from the domain of infrastructure development and the third from the domain of bilateral relations between Serbia and India. When we talk about these three laws, I would still find something in common between these three laws, and that is, above all, that they are all in the broadest sense concerned with human rights, not only the Law on the rights of users of temporary housing services in social protection, which really concerns elemental human rights, but also the Law on the Ruma-Sabac-Loznica Road, which also concerns the rights of citizens, i.e. human rights, i.e. the rights of the citizens of Mačva, Podrinja and Sremje to develop their end evenly, as well as the rest of Serbia, equal regional development is one of the foundations of equality of all citizens of Serbia, but also the Agreement with India concerns the rights of members of family employees in diplomatic and consular representations, that they can deal with paid works. All three laws are important for improving the quality of people's lives. Also, all three laws show that Serbia today takes care of the citizens of Serbia, not only of the citizens of Serbia, but of everyone who lives and works in our country today. All of these are reasons why the Single Serbia parliamentary group will vote on these bill proposals in the voting day. When we talk about the Law on the rights of users of temporary housing in social protection, I must say that this law is in line with the established constitutional principles on equal rights of all citizens of Serbia, because it takes account, too, and I would particularly point out that it takes special care of vulnerable categories of the population and, of course, this law promotes social protection, or social protection policy of the state of Serbia. We in Serbia's Unity are particularly committed to improving the social programme and social policy, both at the state level and at the level of local self-government, and we are trying to show intensively everywhere that we have been recognised in the local self-government of Serbian citizens. So for the past 17 years, we have been recognized for being very intense about the good social policy that we have implemented in Jagodina, from which I, as a national MP, come, especially in terms of the old, sick, socially endangered, and we do so in various ways, in line with the declared goal set by Dragan Markovic Palm in 2004, which is that the local budget is spent by citizens rather than politicians. As for the Ruma-Shabac-Loznica project, it is worth 467.5m euros and has its three important shares. These are part of the Ruma-Shabac highway in the length of 21 km, the second section is the bridge on the Sava in length of 1,327 meters and the third section is the fast traffic Shabac-Loznica in length of 54.5 km. The traffic connects Srem and Machva, connects two districts that have about 600,000 inhabitants, but connects both Podrinje and western Serbia. The traffic station will only be a non-trafficking vessel for this part of Serbia, but will encourage further economic development of both Matches and Podrinj and Western Serbia, as economic operators will easily connect with significant and large markets, such as Belgrade and Novi Sad. And not only that, Srem is a zone where perhaps the most foreign investments are present, so by connecting Srema as an industrial but also agricultural areas with Machva and Podrinj, it will make both the Sword and Podrinje more attractive for foreign investments, i.e. Šabac, Bogatić, Loznica, but also Ljubovija and Baja Basta and Krupanj, and not only that, it will make more attractive and Semberija, the basement parts of Republika Srpska, Zvornik, Bratunac, Vlasenica and Srebrenica. It is our people on the other side of Drina, in the Republika Srpska we love and in BiH that we respect as neighbours should be respected. Serbia takes care of all citizens of Serbia, but also of the Serbian people, wherever they are, which is somewhere Serbia's obligation as a state, the queen of all Serbs. This is something Serbia can be proud of today, because I have to admit it has not always been in history and Serbia has not always treated the people of Machva and Podrinja well in history, and the Mačvani, Pocerci, have given much to Serbia. They've submitted great sacrifices. All we have to do is remember the genocides that suffered in 1914. Unfortunately, the term in the legal theory was not known at the time, and the genocide was done by the Austrian army or read better "Zagrebačka 25 and 52nd regiments of the 42nd Division". They complied with Austria's order to carry out a "burned space" action in Serbia. They did it. Interestingly, when researchers later asked, let's say, an old man in Machva - who was an army, he said: "I don't know which army it was, but I know they spoke Serbian." Nikola Pasic and Stojan Protic invited then the most famous European forensician, German at birth, Swiss by education, and later Serbian by choice, Archibald Rice, to pedantly, precisely, forensically determine the death in Machva. Archibald Rice also found forensic and picturesque evidence that 1,300 people were killed, injured, 116, 562, killed 87 children under the age of 15. Just one report, and I'll read it here, Archibald Rice says and speaks very vividly about everything – 345 men and 64 women were shot. Killed by a knife of 113 men and 27 women. Hanged by seven men and six women. Two men and four women had their guts removed. Cut noses in 28 men and six women. Sliced ears in 31 men and seven women. An unearthed eye in 30 men and 38 women. Cut skin on belts in 15 men and three women, etc. It is, gentlemen, only one German report from Archibald Rice on the genocide carried out by the Austrian army, namely the Croats who fought on the side of Austro-Hungarian side. However, what was equally a great tragedy, ladies and gentlemen, is that because of the idea of a great state, the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenians, Serbian politicians of that time and the reports by Archibald Rice, as well as photographs of Andi Barbie and Samson Chernov, who documented these atrocities with their photographs, left them in the archives. In this way they pardoned unforgivable and committed a great mistake and injustice. Serbia today does not allow itself to do so, but rather preserves and cherishes historic memories and can look everyone in the eye. Today, when President Milanovic refers to Jasenovac, Jadovno, when the murdered family is told – well, what he wants more, they get compensation and when he says it is an individual act, not a model of behavior, we must remind Mr Milanovic that we will never forget Jasenovac or Jadovno or Jadovno, but neither Mačva and Pocerina and the crimes of 1914, nor Flash and Storm, because the victims were our ancestors, because in the First World War alone, Serbia lost 62% of the male population from 15 to 50 years and 28% of the total population in 1914, and never on the side of the conquerors, never on the part of fascists. That's why Serbia and the Serbian people can look anyone in the eye and say -- my ancestors have always throughout history just defended their country and their people. That's why we from JS, and I'm sure most of you here, as I'm sure and most of the citizens of Serbia, will never give the right to those who are muddying Serbia, whether they are officials of our neighbours, whether they are domestic listeners of the West, such as Marinika Tepic, and here, dear gentlemen, and today we have an example that once again and constantly propose a resolution on the genocide in Srebrenica from some of our colleagues here, we will simply never give them the right to be, I say, these domestic or officials of our neighbours to mark Serbs as a genocide people, to mark the Republic of Serbia as a genocide or to mark Serbia as a fascist, non-democratic, because Serbia has never been and will be. After all, during those terrible crimes I spoke of in 1914, Serbs also treated the wounded soldiers of Austro-Hungarians, whom their comrades left to die in Machva. Not only did they treat them, they treated them and fed them, they treated them militaryly, with dignity and according to the Geneva Convention. Just because of such a Serbia and such Serbs at the birth of Germany, Switzerland's Archibald Rice chose to be a Serb after his education. It may be this today, this law on the Ruma Strip – Shabac – the Password way for us, the MPs, to vote for this law, to repay our old Swords, but also their descendants today for all casualties and sacrifices, and to get this highway and a fast track, or fast traffic, and thus to be connected to the rest of Serbia and the world, because they deserve it in every way. That Serbia is taking care of the end also speaks of the fact that Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic visited the Adriatic villages a week ago and talked to the local people about all the problems that have caused these people, from roads, to electricity, to the story of the Rio Tint they were upset about. By building this traffic station Srem, Mačva and Podrinje is waiting for a period of economic prosperity and development. The state of Serbia today behaves responsibly and does not deceive people like those who buy the country from farmers at a cheap price, it is then sold "Rio Tintu" for 717,000 euros, and then set out to organise protests alongside "Rio Tinta". If he's from both Gilas and his employees in a multi-party, there's a lot. They are the same ones who brought "Rio Tinto" to Serbia and gave all necessary permission to explore in the Adriatic. While they are protesting the EU's environmentals, the 4th Cluster opens for Serbia on the so-called 4. The Green Agenda, as a confirmation that the EU also believes Serbia is ready to meet all European standards on ecology. We are today, today Serbia has opened a Cluster 4 at the International Conference with the EU on the Green Agenda and Sustainable Connection. Within Cluster 4. Serbia will start negotiations on transport policy - Chapter 14, Energy – Chapter 15, Trans-European networks – Chapter 21, as well as Chapter on the environment, climate change – Chapter 27. At a previous Intergovernmental Conference held at the end of June in Luxembourg, it was found that Serbia has formally opened the so-called "new" methodology formally. the first, or fundamental cluster concerning the rule of law, the functioning of democratic institutions and economic criteria. As of today, Serbia will have two clusters, or 22 chapters of 33, which are divided into six clusters in EU membership negotiations. It is proof that these multi-comovers cannot, nor will they be able to stop the insolent Serbia in its development and on its way to the EU. To point out once again, our European path is not the way to crash into the EU, as they imagined it while they were in power. Our European path is persistent, thorough and consistent with the most important national and state interests. One more thing to point out, we are not doing it for the EU, but it is our interest, our primary interest to arrange our country as best we can. That is why the JS will vote in favour of these laws, as the JS is seeking to join the EU with its heads up. As Dragan Markovic Palma said, we advocate European economic values while preserving our tradition and culture. Serbia can only make the EU rich in tradition and culture, and the EU knows that well. For strong and unique Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-14-0.u11445	Thank you. The word has the vice-president of the National Assembly, MP Stefan Krkobibic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-14-0.u11446	I thank Vice President Yevdzic. Dear representatives of the ministry, honourable MPs, at the end of the previous week is around the world, and even in our country, a series of events marked International Day of Human Rights, and the proposed Law on the Rights of Consumers of Temporary Accommodation and Social Protection deals with the important aspects of this Corps of Human and Civil Rights. It is true that the adoption of this law is conditional on, among other things, the harmonisation of EU and Republic of Serbia's legislation in the process of our accession to the Union, but this topic in the field of social protection is primarily defined by law for our own, that is, the interests of the citizens of our country. This law defines and regulates the rights and obligations of persons involved in the temporary resolution of a situation in which a person in need of temporary accommodation of this type has been found conscious or unconscious if it is persons with reduced personal decision-making. These are the most common people with mental disorders, but also those with other problems that include the use of intoxicating drugs, for example. The particularly sensitive category of citizens concerned by this law are persons with disabilities, who need temporary accommodation in social protection institutions of this type. Otherwise, the law stipulates that the accommodation of persons in these institutions may be daily, or several days, and up to six months for minors and 12 months for minors. The basic problem, as we in the PUPS parliamentary group – "Tri P" understand it is to define the free will to stay in the institutions of this type. The law stipulates that a guardian, or another authorised person, may give consent to the accommodation of a person in an institution of temporary housing in social protection. We are convinced that persons who give consent to accommodation in such an institution, but also professionals of those institutions, will work in accordance with the proposed law and positive standards of good practice of human relations. The basic human right regulated by numerous domestic and international conventions and acts is that the right to freedom to decide is one of the fundamental human rights. However, if a severe mental illness does not allow the exercise of that right, it is necessary that at least two levels of social and health institutions decide whether a person with reduced freedom of choice is specific and whether, in that case, it is necessary for a professional person or persons to decide on the best conditions for the recovery and accommodation of those persons in social protection institutions. The bill envisioned different situations regarding the accommodation of persons in institutions of temporary housing of social protection. The PUPS Group – "Tri P" believes that the adoption of this law will create a good legal framework for social assistance for people who cannot deal with their own problems. Dear People's MPs, today it is up to the draft agenda and a bill on the borrowing of the Republic of Serbia to the Bank of Intez. A.D., Belgrade for the purpose of financing the highway project and the fast traffic station Ruma-Saba-Loznica. As you well know, as a party that advocates decentralisation, but also for demographicisation, demographic, economic and social renewal of Serbia as a whole, we in the PUPS believe this is a strategically important project for the Republic of Serbia. The construction of the Ruma-Shabac highway and the fast traffic station Shabac-Loznica is one of the priority projects of the Republic of Serbia in road transport, but from the corner of security empowerment of this border area of the Republic of Serbia, as it is a project that is important for the development, the integration of about 600,000 people in the Mačvanska and Sremski district, but also the integration of Podrinj and West Serbia with Vojvodina, as well as that part of Serbia with the region, particularly with Republika Srpska and BiH respectively. The PUPS parliamentary group – "Tri P" also considers it positive that the contractor of the project comes from Azerbaijan, a state that has not recognised the self-proclaimed independence of the false state of Kosovo. In addition, the president of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandar Vukic, thanked the country and its president Alijev repeatedly for his proven friendship several times. The PUPS-3P Parliamentary Group particularly wishes to commend that part of this contract is particularly important at this time when, even with us, it takes care of environmental protection in the construction of such large infrastructure projects that our country has committed itself to dealing with adequate attention and environmental care while carrying out operations on this road project, to ensure the rational use of natural resources and to implement environmental protection regulations. It is worth reminding again that the construction of the work on this project covers the construction of three shares, section 1 - the construction of the Ruma-Shabac highway, from the E-75 highway, to the bridge across the Sava in Sapac for a speed of 21.14 kilometers per hour, a width of 29 meters and a divisional island of four meters, a section of 2 – building a bridge across the Sava River in Šapac length of 1327 meters, including ramps. Stock 3 – construction of a fast traffic station from Šapac to Loznica length 54.48 kilometers for a speed of 100 kilometers per hour, a width of 19 meters and a divided island of three meters. By the way, the law on the Republic of Serbia's budget for this year has approved the borrowing for a project to build a fast-trafficking state road, number 21, Novi Sad-Ruma-Shabac and the first-class state road number 19, Shabac-Loznica. What we must praise is the fact that, in support of the increased use of dinars and the reduction of foreign currency risk, this debt is realised in dinars. Also today, I would also like to touch on the proposal for a law on the validation of agreements between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of India on the authorisation of members of the family of staff of diplomatic consular offices to deal with paid activities. This agreement by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of India recognises the need and interest of members of the family of staff of diplomatic consular offices of both countries to be authorised to engage in paid activities based on reciprocity in the territory of the state of reception. This is the first reason the PUPS as a party of socially responsible citizens will support this bill. The second, no less important reason why we from the PUPS parliamentary group – "Three P" will raise our hand for this agreement lies in the fact that the Republic of India is a proven friend of the Republic of Serbia and that as the most human country in the world, it is the most convincing majority of humanity that does not recognise the unilaterally declared independence of the false state of Kosovo. India voted independence in 1947, and our former joint state, Yugoslavia, was among the first countries to recognise the independent Republic of India in 1948. Then we established bilateral relations and began now a decades-long friendship between our two countries. After all, Yugoslavia and India, along with Egypt, are the initiators and founders of the Unclassified Movement, whose 60th anniversary of the establishment was marked right here in Belgrade a month ago. Who this agreement applies to. First of all, family members, members of the diplomatic consular offices of India in Serbia and Serbia in India, including spouses of members of diplomatic consular offices, single children of members of diplomatic consular offices up to 25 years old, as well as members of families with some physical or mental disability, which are part of the household of members of the diplomatic consular office. These members of the family of members of the DKP state are approved on the basis of the reciprocity that they are engaged in paid activities in the country of reception, in accordance with the provisions of the laws of the state of reception. This power to deal with the paid activity of sustainable admissions is in principle valid only during the mandate of a DKP member in the country of reception. These family members are subject to the fiscal regime, the social security regime and the state of reception control regime, when it comes to issues related to their performance in the country, and all in accordance with the 1961 Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations and other applicable international instruments. The area of employment of members of the family of the diplomatic and other staff of the DKP of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of India is hereby legally regulated for the first time since the two countries' diplomatic relations were established. A person who would be employed under this agreement would fall under the country's social security regime of admission regarding all issues concerning their employment in that country. It would also be obliged to pay all income taxes in the state on the basis of the work they carry out under this law. The authorisation to carry out paid work pursuant to this Agreement shall cease to apply immediately after the beneficiary of that authorisation has suspended the status of the maintenance person, the date of termination of the contractual obligations or, in any event, when the service of the person supported by that member of the family is completed. Why has this recently become a common international legal practice, the conclusion of bilateral international agreements which, on a reciprocal basis, regulate the employment of members of the family of employees in the DKP or missions in international government organisations? Among other things, because in many countries spouses refuse to leave their jobs to accompany a mate or a non-marriage partner who is a member of the DKP staff or a mission with international government organisations. The main goal of these agreements is to preserve the normal family life of the DKP and keep the family together, with the satisfaction of professional and economic preconditions for the functioning of these families. Experience has shown that the effects of the work of diplomatic and consular representations in the case of separated families are no doubt less than the effect of the work of those diplomatic and consular representatives working in the environment of their families located with them in the state of service. This is one of the important reasons why the PUPS parliamentary group - "Tri P" in the voting day will support this, but also the other two proposals that I spoke about today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-14-0.u11447	Thank you, Vice President of the National Assembly. The word has an authorised representative of the Socialist Party of Serbia, MP Radovan Arezina. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-14-0.u11448	Thank you, Chairman. Dear fellow Members of the People, Honorable Minister Daria Kisic Tepavcevic, I particularly respect your presence today, and I did not expect to do so again, and I must stress that. Although you at the ministry, as Secretary of State Zoran Antic, you're probably so in the cast together, that's what's going on, don't pass it on to the others. As an authorised representative of the SPS parliamentary group, I will, above all, refer to the proposal for a law on the rights of users of temporary housing services in social protection, which is a completely new legal act, as well as the proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of India on the granting of permits to members of the family of staff of diplomatic and consular representations to deal with paid activities. I am particularly pleased with the social protection law, because I think that every law adopted by this Assembly, whether it is good or not, is important for it to be adopted and, in practice, to enable users of social protection and those who need it most and that, as a society and as a state, we may also be able to establish some irregularities, illogicalities and change them in time. The worst part is we don't have a social policy law. My colleagues from the SPS parliamentary group will also participate in the debate. When it comes to the first law, it should be pointed out that for the first time outside the roof of the Social Protection Act, the issue of temporary housing of users of social protection services should be governed, and the reason is certainly to pay particular attention to this segment of social protection, especially from the aspect of the protection of human rights, sensitive categories of the population such as persons with disabilities and mental disorders, which are exceeding the users of home accommodation. The concept of temporary accommodation is developed as a new alternative form of housing in the social protection system, and it is a product of Serbia's strategic definition of the system of humanisation primarily by deinstitutionalising this kind of social protection, but also by shortening its stay in social protection institutions into social inclusion and the proactive role of the users themselves. Serbia draws this definition from the obligations that arise and from our path to Eurointegration, specifically from the negotiating chapter 23 - the judiciary and fundamental rights, which means harmonising our legal framework with the legal flows of the EU. The commitment suggests a number of recommendations from the European Commission contained in annual reports on Serbia's progress in Eurointegration, stressing the need for more active measures to improve the situation of people with disabilities and the adoption of a special law aimed at protecting persons with mental disorders in social protection institutions. In 2020, Serbia adopted a new strategy to improve the situation of persons with disabilities for the period until 2024, and in April of this year an action plan for the implementation of this strategy is also our obligation arising from international contracts, as well as the Law on Confirmation of the Conventions on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, which aims to improve, protect and ensure full and equal enjoyment of all human rights and fundamental freedoms of persons with disabilities including the right to live in the community. If we look at the state of the social protection sector, which refers to the accommodation of users with mental, intellectual disorders and disability, then we can conclude that it overcomes the classic home model of accommodation. The data suggests that there are currently around 20,000 persons in Serbia, both in the state and private housing sector, except housing, food and care, including activities aimed at developing and preserving the potential of users, which is an imperative of quality social life and community involvement. What is characteristic of classical home accommodation are both stereotypes and restrictions that do not allow the active relationship of users themselves and the affirmation of their abilities that can improve the quality of their lives themselves. Also, the resident social protection system itself, although it is making significant progress in providing quality social services, still does not have enough personnel capacity to provide full support to home accommodation users to engage in life and faster participation in community activities and thus experience themselves as useful members of society. Otherwise, household accommodations, especially those with intellectual and mental difficulties, stay long at home accommodations. They are sometimes ghettoized, unfortunately there are cases of inadequate relationship with these individuals, and there are cases where they suffer different forms of neglect and abuse. According to some indicators in Serbia, there is a long period of detention of persons in home accommodation. So almost half of the users have been staying for more than 11 years and 28% over 20 years. Given this data and no wonder that even 89% of users have no contact with relatives or maintains rare and unpredictable contacts with them. Only 6% regularly visit the family, while 5% meet relatives at the facility at least once a month. Many feel forgotten and left to themselves. It is precisely the length of stay in the founding indication of the extremely weak mobility of this user group of isolation compared to the rest of the community, which significantly dehumanises their quality of life. Modern democratic societies today are increasingly committed to the exercise of human rights and the rights of vulnerable and vulnerable groups, and the group of users of housing in social protection institutions certainly is. For these reasons, there has been a policy of deinstitutionalisation aimed at reducing unnecessary reception and long-term detention of persons in institutions, to prevent their social isolation and a totally passive relationship to their own life, rights and opportunities. What is characteristic of the current model of housing in social protection institutions of people with intellectual and mental disorders is to take away business ability and set up a guardian who can be a close relative, as well as a Centre for Social Work. According to the understanding implemented in a number of international documents, which we also commit to as a member of the UN and as a candidate for EU membership, it is primarily a medical aspect, as it is estimated, primarily a health condition, and not the sociological characteristics of a person, i.e. the possibility of social adaptation and participation in planning his own future, with the use of remaining personality capacities. As an alternative to classical home accommodation, the concept of temporary accommodation in social protection institutions is developed, which implies a short-term stay of persons in institutions, their treatment and rehabilitation or rehabilitation with compulsory training for return to the community and a wider society. For the implementation of this model, a significant assumption is the personnel and professional equipment of the Centre for Social Labour, as well as custody authorities, innovation of knowledge, multidisciplinary approach, promotion of new methods and models of working with the group of users of the accommodation services are a necessary condition. This also applies to social protection institutions, but also to other forms that are the most acceptable and closest to the family environment, which is accommodation in the foster family, and above all affirmation of the possibility of leaving these persons in the family environment. In doing so, it should be borne in mind that all categories of users cannot return to the family, and the foster care of people with intellectual or mental disorders in our society is not yet sufficiently accepted and needs to be socially stimulated and affirmed. What attention should be paid when it comes to this law are provisions relating to the mandatory consent of a person to be placed in an institution of social protection, regardless of the condition of his remaining working capacity. This is a significant newspaper in relation to the existing legal framework and practice that considered the protégé of the protégé with mental or intellectual disorders to be commercially incompetent, and thus unable to decide what was best for his life and his health. Now users will have so-called active legislation when deciding to stay in a social protection facility, whether it is an institutional or some other model of accommodation. So they will participate in making a decision on whether they want to be placed in institutions. Such a legal solution also applies to other users of temporary home accommodation, such as persons who suffer from disease of addiction and need to be placed in an institution for treatment, unless they are cared for in the social community. A law that is before us, otherwise defines three forms of temporary accommodation. It is the first home accommodation that is temporary and provides the user with housing and the satisfaction of basic living needs, health care, psychosocial professional support and development of social skills, the preservation of potential, access to education and other aspects of support to prepare for his return to the biological family, to go to another family, or to prepare him for a independent life or life in the community with support, in accordance with family resources, his needs and the best interests of the child, or freely expressed with the will and desire of the users. The second rest is accommodation as a short-term and occasional accommodation which is provided as a day-to-day weekend or several-day accommodation, for the purpose of supporting the user and his family, maintaining and improving the quality of life, with the aim of his staying in the family. The third form is accommodation in the shelter. This is a short-term accommodation for the purpose of ensuring security and finding sustainable solutions to crisis situations. All forms of temporary accommodation include major mobility of the social protection system, whether institutional or non-institutional form of accommodation. There, apart from the institutions of the social protection system, they play an important role both in the non-governmental sector and local community, which together need to provide an integrated approach to this human problem and show that society does not reject or forget those who need any form of social care. In the law itself, not to be read, I think the law is in principle very good, and at the very beginning I said necessary, but the principle of public work of the institution, i.e. the provision of accommodation services in Article 9, where the public works of certain institutions is spoken of. Since I come from Kladov and many of us are from small areas and are particularly targeted and are always under the press of centres for social work in small communities and there are a lot of problems, and when we accommodate certain users, not that we do not put them within our municipality, but that various forms of accommodation are somewhere outside the territory of our municipality, and sometimes a few hundred miles from Kladov or from other cities that are in Serbia. Well, I ask you in that report, that workers from the Social Labour Centre, who put a certain person somewhere, in the report on the work adopted by the local congregation, do this once a year, endure and look at the human resources, not only on human resources, I mean the professional structure of that accommodation and the conditions there, and that it is in the report, that local assembly committees have the opportunity to get to know their citizens with certain needs and in which institutions. That would be clear if you as a ministry, by the way, were brilliantly placed in Article 9. A statement of consent to the accommodation, in Article 15, second paragraph. This is very important for those who may look at this law from another point of view, which is not prone to the law and to solving social issues in the right sense and how it should be, which is: “A full-time user, regardless of the degree of business capacity, or the legal representative of a minor has the right to declare consent to the accommodation changes or withdraw at any time freely expressed in person. “ It’s a very important thing in this law, so nothing ugly can be objected to on some side. So here it refers to the fact that at any time, the user can give up that service and express his free will. Article 35 also states: "No restrictions on movement and isolation. “ It is therefore forbidden to apply all measures of coercion and treatment without the consent of a user, or legal representative of a minor. "In particular, it is prohibited to use a measure of restrictions on the movement and separation of users in a specially equipped room. “ This is great. These are some domains that should be respected in this law. In Article 38, here please, it means: “Inspective supervision in institutions and accommodations in the deinstitutionalisation process will be carried out as possible once a year. “ Try in every way that inspection supervision is not in its original sense inspection, that it be educational to those who work, because we do not now have so much in the country of expert staff on many issues relating to homes and the issue of social protection in Serbia. But through this educational, when they know that someone will come to them, that someone will look at the relationship, we will reduce the press and the isolated cases that and how the public of the Republic of Serbia is tangling when something unpleasant happens, which no one is normal, and I think that we are all here normal, like all the citizens of the Republic of Serbia who are watching this, and it's terrible to us, to avoid all these cases and the opportunities that can happen, sometimes by paying no attention, sometimes simply by rudeness or anything. So, I sincerely once again congratulate you on the proposal of this law and the Socialist Party Group will certainly give you support and vote for it. Another law I would refer to is the Agreement with the Republic of India concerning the granting of permits to members of the family of staff of diplomatic consular offices to deal with paid activities. This agreement is a continuation of the fertile, decades-old co-operation between India and Serbia and the former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, established during the period of establishment of the Unclassified Movement, when our two countries joined together in the fight against imperialism and colonialism, with the motive to preserve independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity. Regardless of all the challenges the modern world brings with it, Serbia and India have managed to preserve their good relations, which are traditionally friendly today. Official diplomatic relations were established in 1948, but with certainty it can be realized that relations between our two peoples have been dominating beyond the past. As one of the most interesting and significant examples of mutual relations and cooperation between individuals in the ranks of the Serb and Indian people, I would like to draw close to the close contacts of renowned Serbian scientist Nikola Tesla and the great Indian priest of the clergy of Svami Vivekanand. Tesla and Vivecananda have been intensively considering certain philosophical issues that have occupied them from a scientific and spiritual aspect, in order to reach findings enriched by the nobility of priests and the precision of scientists. As a witness to friendly co-operation among one of the most important representatives of our two people, today at the Nikola Tesla Museum in Belgrade are letters that Swami Vivekananda sent to his friend Nikola Tesla. At the initiative of the Serbian Embassy in New Delhi, Livekananda and Tesla found themselves on common postage stamps, published during the period of marking the completed seventy years of diplomatic relations between our two countries. The years followed by a number of meetings that undoubtedly contributed to strengthening bilateral relations, as well as a degree of co-operation on the international agenda. A visit to the Prime Minister of India at the time, today the President of the Republic of Serbia, Alexander Vukic, January 2017, to the first Deputy Prime Minister of the Government and Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Serbia Ivica Dacic in May 2018, as well as to the visit of the Vice-President of the Republic of India Venkaim Naidou to Serbia in September 2018, represent an undisputed and firm commitment by the two countries to step up bilateral dialogue and strengthen international political and economic co-operation. The Republic of Serbia and the Republic of India have repeatedly provided a hand of friendship through history, and good relations are reaffirmed by not recognising the independence of the self-proclaimed Republic of Kosovo by the Republic of India, allowing Serbia to continue fighting to achieve the goals of political integration without denying its sovereignty and territorial integrity, for which Serbia is eternally grateful. Special attention should be paid to the economic relations between our two countries, which are generally extremely good and which dispute their results with the belief that economic co-operation between the two countries cannot be significant if they are territorially remote. In the period January, November 2020, the trade between India and Serbia amounted to 153.63m euros, of which exports from Serbia were, unfortunately, only 9.3m euros and imports from India 146.3m euros, allowing us the possibility of even greater exports and the balance between these two data I made. The largest Indian investment in the Republic of Serbia is the construction of an IT park in India in which Embassy Group from Bangalovo invested more than 20m euros. Indian companies, the biggest interest has been shown in the tractor industry, which was confirmed in 2012 by the partnership agreement between Sonalik Group of the largest Indian exporter of tractors and Agromehanika from Bolec. It is worth ninem euros from CG Group India, invested in a company cut-off in Ruma, officially opened on 5 October 2017. According to the good relations between India and Serbia, they have reflected positively on all spheres of life, which is also the greatest goal of imperial diplomacy. I would end this exhibition with the findings of Ivica Dacic, the president of the National Assembly and the party to which I belong, that India will soon threaten China by the number of inhabitants, and I also hope that by following China, it will gradually develop and enter the ranks of the most developed countries in the world, thus allowing the friendly Serbian people to be next to Russia and China in the order of the most progressive or what not to say, and the strongest countries in the world have another ally and sincere friend of the brotherly Republic and India. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-14-0.u11449	Thank you. For our children, the National MP, Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-14-0.u11450	Thank you. The President-in-Office, the Honorable Minister, fellow MPs and MPs and respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, we have three legislative proposals before us today, and I will start from the first, and this is the proposal for a law on the rights of users of services, temporary housing in social protection. Serbia is at the very top of European countries in respect of human rights. This law in the field of social protection is about protecting human rights, protecting the right to dignity, protecting the right to autonomy, protecting the right to user involvement. This law, in fact, puts the best interest of social security users at the centre of attention. This law is defined as a user who has a temporary character, first of all, because the state is responsible, after the measure of financial consolidation, and on the basis of the Government's regulation of 2016, when the prime minister has just defined from the budget of the Republic of Serbia as a means for local self-government to develop services in the community and to enable those most sensitive persons belonging to the category of socially endangered persons to remain in their home, and to support social protection services that serve to overcome certain crises and difficulties they face, to meet in their local environment, and all in order to make them happy and more satisfied, and to enable them in full capacity, and based on their development potentials to be included in all life flows. This law puts a person at the centre of focus, a user who seeks a temporary accommodation service in such a way that from the very beginning the user must be fully informed, must receive from the competent authorities, above all, from the Centre for Social Work, but also from the service provider, all information relating to the length of its accommodation, on the possibility of re-examined to alternative forms of accommodation. It must also be taught about the right to appeal, the right to file complaints, the right to file complaints, must be taught about the rules of the home order and the way of the organisation in institutions providing social protection services, and, of course, only after that must the user wonders and he actually gives informed consent. The consent is based on all that information he has previously received, whether or not he wants to be placed in a temporary institution of social protection. What is also important is that this law recognises that the user has the right to designate a person of trust who will support him at any time in front of a social work centre or in front of a social protection service provider. It certainly is a newspaper, but certainly something that contributes primarily to a user who is temporarily placed in an institution. What I also want to point out is that the user has to be questioned regardless of the degree of business ability. Courts have one established practice to deprive people's business skills primarily based on medical records, including the social character of the business ability process itself. In fact, it mostly comes from finding psychiatrists as an expert and about what the user cannot, and not from the social model, what the user can, what the user can do for himself, what the user can do for his family, what kind of support he needs to be provided to function in his community and family, which are qualities at the end of those persons. I must also point out that this law and how it recognises and prohibits any kind of exploitation of abuse and neglect. They recognise the obligation of institutions to educate teams to prevent violence, but not only to prevent violence, but to meet users in a timely and adequate manner, how to recognise, how to protect and report violence. It is very important when it comes to women and girls that service providers are obliged to provide counselling on the reproductive health of women and girls, also to introduce them to how to recognise violence, how to react and how to protect them from it. This law provides complete health care to all users and, of course, it prohibits any type of forced examination, any type of coercive contraception and any form of forced pregnancy interruption when it comes to women. This law also recognises the incident situations, in fact, one of the incident situations is certainly a covid-19 when a number of users at one point could be at risk, i.e. life and health at risk. Incidental situations, the identification of these incident situations is very important from the aspect that the institution is obliged to immediately take all appropriate measures to protect the life and health of the users above all, but to make an official note at the same time and inform the competent ministry of work in order to take further adequate measures. Also, when it comes to violence, all the employees of the service provider are obliged to report any type of violence against users both to their manager and to the police administration, or to the public prosecutor's office, if there are elements of the crime and to the Citizens' Protector and of course to the Ministry of Labour. What I want to point out first is that this is the Ministry of the previous year, or you Minister, that you have visited the largest number of social protection institutions in which the users are located and in particular that you have visited, I mean all the institutions of social protection in which the children are placed. However, I would like to point out that the Republic of Serbia, by the number of children located in institutions, has at home the smallest number of children placed in institutions and is located at the very top of Europe. Only four years from 2015 to 2019, the number of children in social protection institutions has been reduced by 50% and that is commendable. I would also like to point out that, when children are up to three years of age, there is actually no possible accommodation in social protection institutions, except in particularly justified and adequately justified situations, because children, in accordance with the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, have the right to live first and foremost in their biological family, if this is not possible for some reason, it is mandatory for children to provide life and growing up in a family environment, or in another family. Of course, this is what makes it so-called. Standardized foster care and how developed in the Republic of Serbia, that a large number of children, who unfortunately do not have the opportunity to grow up in their biological family with their parents, are housed in these families and that a significant full respect for the right to live children in family conditions where science is and has proved that in such conditions progress and development of children is best. Also, I want to point out that the shifts are made when it comes to old people, which are related to family accommodations, because surely life in the family is the best, both for children and adults and old faces. What I also want to point out, and as regards the period during the Kovid-19 pandemic, I must point out that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is already on December 24th, when the first vaccines arrived in the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia is, of course, thanks to the government's responsibility, thanks to the President of the Republic of Aleksandr Vukic, along with Great Britain and Switzerland, one of the three first countries in Europe to start vaccination. I must point out that the priorities seen here in the sense that users in social protection institutions are being given tomorrow from the first vaccine on December 24th, and these are adults and old faces and vaccinations from the Gerontology Centre in Nis. I also have to point out according to the allegations that I have that 90% of the users in social protection institutions have been vaccinated, which is also important from the aspect of preserving their health, because the safety, safety and life of the users, when it comes to, are in the first place, and especially when it comes to such vulnerable categories. I would also like to point out, when it comes to strengthening the capacity of social security employees to fill 825 jobs since 1289 in 2020 and 22 more seats have been filled in this year. Of course, the Ministry will continue to work to strengthen human capacities, but I must also point out that the Ministry in co-operation with local self-government and how it has worked to improve infrastructure, and it also concerns facilities for the accommodation of users, but also facilities, i.e. social work centres in which employees are employed in accordance with the legal powers conferred on them by the Republic. One of the social work centres that has recently been opened, it is a social work centre in Cačka, and it is located in a new location, otherwise earlier working conditions in that social work centre, were completely unconditional, were located at three locations. I would also like to highlight the opening of the Centre for Social Labour, in Rakovica, and it is the fifth centre for social work, which is open in Belgrade. But what is significant from the point of view of users is that the state and how it takes care of the infrastructure, the objects in which the users are located. First of all, I would like to point out that the 2022 budget provides for a complete reconstruction of one of the oldest and most important social protection institutions, which is the Centre for the Protection of Children, Children and Youth, in Belgrade, in Zvecanska, which also has a mother home in its composition. Also, I would like to point out that the government has defined the means for a complete reconstruction of the House for mentally distracted persons in Kulina, located near Alexinca, means a complete reconstruction of the floor, walls, facades, roofs. Of course, the renewal of these infrastructure projects in which users live will improve the life of the users themselves will also affect the quality of service provision, i.e. the improvement of the conditions in which employees work. But I wanted to say something about these dedicated transfers. Why? Because the service of developing social protection in the community, in fact, recognized Alexander Vukic for the first time, at a time when he was prime minister, by a government regulation in 2016, began to identify the means of purpose, so that people in the category of the most endangered in his local community could use services. I come from the Municipality of Priboj, Priboj receives dedicated funds such as the previously undeveloped municipality, in the municipality of Priboj, 6 social protection services have been developed, and starts from the Hostage for the victims of family violence, through the gerontohomes, through the living rooms for children distracted in development, housing with support for young people coming out of the social protection system, living room for adults and old faces, emergency care, or shelter for the elderly, which is also important in these winter periods, when the area is mainly known to be curtaind, for several months, and then old, out of reach and those without family ageing, have the right to be situated naturally urgent about the cost of local self-government. I also want to say that a lot has been done on the plan to improve the material status of social security employees, as it is expected that social security employees' salaries will be increased by 8% compared to 2020, which is an increase in social security employees' salaries by 60%. But now I want to look also at the respect, that is, the disrespect and violation of human rights until 2012, carried out by tycoon Dragan Gilas. Dragan Gilas violated the fundamental rights of every human and especially vulnerable groups and violated the basic human right, the right to work of every man, leaving 600,000 people out of work, and thus their families without a basic existence. He broke it in such a way that the people who worked were not paid contributions to health and pension insurance, so their children could not be treated. He broke it by garnering millions of euros for the needs of the first reality he had introduced in Serbia, trading for seconds, and showing also a false contract to make the object of special social interest, i.e. an object for children. Of course, he crushed millions, and the children lost that facility. That Dragan Gilasu is not foreign to continue to take and take from those most vulnerable and most vulnerable shows that in the city of Belgrade, he has remained in debt to pregnant women and families of 400 million dinars, that he has remained in debt to pay for one-time cash aid, which is those who are in a state of social need and need funds for basic life supplies, he remains in debt of 120 million. That the situation was no better with his pal in Vojvodina also shows that Hetherland Castle, where Bojan Pajtic, was taken, of course, money, 157 million, and the Hetherland Castle remained only ruins. It is, by the way, an object that was meant to be designed for children distracted by development. What does this castle look like today? Thanks to the funds of the province's government, the castle is completely renovated, reconstructed and can now have 120 children from all over Serbia using recreational and other classes. Dragan Gilas violated basic human rights, the right to life and to exist, and that is also with a particularly sensitive social group, which are Roma. The Roma didn't have IDs, they didn't have medical books, they didn't have access to health and social protection. The Roma were completely invisible faces. Immediately after taking over power and responsibility, of course, for the exercise of power, the Serbian Progressive Party amended the law on extra-parnical procedure so that a large number, or the largest number of Roma, could come up with basic documents that allow them to continue to exercise their rights. Dragan Gilas violated Roma rights in the harshest way possible by putting them on buses and driving them across Serbia, mainly south. One part of these people also happened in Nis, otherwise, in a warehouse that was without electricity, without water, in completely inhumane conditions. Of course the Roma have sued the state and received compensation, and of course there is honor and cheek, and the honor and cheek of Dragan Gilas is gone, he should actually pay compensation to those Roma. How did he solve the Roma issue in Belgrade? By putting Roma in metal containers of 15 square meters, mostly six-member families, and never doing anything to get the Roma a decent home and roof over their heads. Only in 2014 when the Serbian Progressive Party took over power in Belgrade has the same issue been resolved. Dragan Gilas steals parents, or steals, steals parents of children in kindergarten by charging double the price of housing in kindergartens. Fifteen thousand parents sued and the City of Belgrade had to pay compensation, and 15 kindergartens could only be built in Belgrade. Social policy today, as well as all other areas of social life, is taking steps forward, taking steps towards a better quality of life for every citizen of the Republic of Serbia through equality, through respect for all human rights and freedoms. We expect the citizens of the Republic of Serbia to recognise the responsibility, recognise the work, recognise the care, recognize the work of Alexander Vukic, our president who works for the present, but also for the future of all our children, because this policy has no alternative. It is a policy that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia believe and will vote for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-14-0.u11451	Thank you, colleague. Since there are no more registered presidents, or authorised representatives of parliamentary groups, we are moving on to the list of speakers. The word is by Prof. Dr. Jahja Fehratović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-14-0.u11452	Thank you, esteemed chairman. Dear Ministers, honourable Members of the People, MPs of honor and reflection of the power of each individual but also of the system and of the state are seen in his relationship with the weak, according to the needy. Indeed, the social policy that is being conducted should be the main rapper for all of us in terms of how concerned we are and how concerned we are about the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. One of the institutions that is extremely important and has similar ones, so a total of nine in this country is the House of Persons mentally distracted in development in Tutin. It is an institution that is extremely important, which has its own accommodation facilities also for the opportunities of the entire region and which, as such, has the full support and attention of the ministry, which I thank this time. This is an example of how when you have a responsible head of an institution such as Mr. Omer Djondic and when you have coordination between the ministry you can achieve much. In the past four, five years, much has been achieved at modernising and restoring this House, but more importantly, we have managed to carry out all legal-formal procedures, making technical documentation, building permits to build a new complex from six to seven buildings on the Godovski road site, where the Ministry and the minister personally made a major contribution by seizing funds for this project. Of course, this is a project that we should be proud of and that we all need to work on together a lot more. This most difficult part of the job is done, but what is coming, which is the easy part of the job is to provide money, or finance to build this complex so that all these protégés really have that atmosphere and that concern that, perhaps according to what I had in mind of that kind of project is unique in Europe. It is something that is proud, to honor both the state and the ministry and it is something that should be a true picture and reflection, the care of the Republic of Serbia towards all those who need to be looked after or looked after by others. In that sense, I would like to say that we, as MPs, but as people, as citizens of this country, support all these proposals, support this social policy, express hope that, in continuity, everything that applies to and on social giving, for all those categories of citizens of the Republic of Serbia who need help from those who really need to be cared for by others to orphans, jets, to all those who are in any way threatened and who need the help of the Ministry and the Republic of Serbia to cope with all the challenges of life in the twenty-first century. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-14-0.u11453	Thank you, dear Professor Fehratovic. The word has a representative of the Social Democratic Party of Serbia's parliamentary club, Honorary National MP Jasmina Karanac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-14-0.u11454	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues, today we are talking about the rights of users of temporary housing services in social protection, namely the bill that regulates these rights. Who are the people to whom this bill applies? Consumers of temporary accommodation services can be persons with disabilities, persons with mental health disorders, persons who recover from certain diseases, adults and older people, children without parental ageing, then children and young people with developmental disorders, behavioural disorders, homeless people, victims of violence. All these categories are rarely able to require temporary accommodation through social protection services. When we talk about temporary accommodation, we must keep in mind that this is not the happiest and best solution. It is transitional, but as a short-term stay of those persons in institutions, it is necessary to treat them, some kind of adaptation, rehabilitation, all in order to return them to the community, or return them to normal life. These temporary accommodation institutions should enable users in addition to comfortable housing, hygiene, food, health and psychological protection and support programmes aimed at developing and preserving their abilities, potential, as well as support programmes to achieve full inclusion in society. What is seen as a problem is that users are often under-informed about their rights when they are placed in institutions of social protection, living conditions in them, as well as the possibility of leaving accommodation. This bill promotes their position through the principle of non-discrimination on any basis, which means that everyone, regardless of race, nationality, ethnic origin, gender, gender, gender, identity, sexual orientation, language, citizenship, property, age. Although, as I have already stated, temporary accommodation is not the best solution, it is sometimes necessary to protect those persons who cannot afford to stay in their own home and family until conditions are created for some other alternative accommodation outside the institutions. When it comes to adult, adult persons, they are informed of all conditions, procedures and rights during their stay in temporary accommodation, for which they advance their consent. That's what regulated the bill. The law stipulates that temporary accommodation of minors can be provided exclusively if there are particularly justified reasons for this, until conditions are created for other types of accommodation outside the institution, with the consent of a legal representative of a minor. Since accommodation in the facility is limited to a period of 12 months for minors, or six months for minors, it is necessary to create conditions, i.e. programs for training users for independent lives and full and equal participation in society. What we have to deal with and what are the biggest regrets is that there are too many users in one place, and accommodation facilities often do not meet standards and that children are rarely placed with adults. The fact is that there are large numbers of young people in institutions and that they often share space with adults, and most of them remain in institutions for the rest of their lives. In particular, care must be taken about protection against abuse and neglect. In Article 4, the Law stipulates that professional associates, professional workers, health professionals are obliged to make sure that the user is not abused by other users, employees of institutions or third parties and that, if abuse occurs, they are legally obliged to report it to the competent authority. Also, the institution is obliged to meet and educate girls and women on how to avoid or recognize and report violence and abuse in a reasonable and accessible way. Under the bill, housing users have the right to achieve civil, political, economic, social and other rights in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. This bill is in line with the European Convention on Human Rights and the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. As part of the EU accession process, the Republic of Serbia adopted an Action Plan for Negotiating Chapter 23 relating to the judiciary and fundamental rights which is a strategic document in the field of protection and improvement of human rights. What is also important is the proposal for a strategy where the institutionalisation that the Republic of Serbia needs to implement in order to reduce the number of persons using home accommodation services, especially children, and in this sense it is essential that, in addition to investing in institutions to expand capacity to build new facilities for children's accommodations, we try, Minister, to reverse these funds, to invest more in support of families, to provide them with conditions to keep the child in their home, to ensure that everything that should be available to the child is available to have adequate education, health care, in order to be able to spend time with other children. The family also needs additional support for working parents. Someone needs to take care of the kid, take him to school and bring him home. It is a task and local self-government in whose jurisdiction it is to provide financing for these services. There should be the willingness of the entire community here, but also the awareness of the need for this type of service, and in all respects of the welfare of children with difficulties, or disturbances in development. We must not reduce the problem to the fact that children of those families who do not have enough resources or children from the poorer municipalities end up in the institution and stay there for the rest of their lives. The separation of children from the family is not because the family does not want to take care of them, but because there is no way to keep them inaccessible and should not happen. That is why the proposal for a deinstitutionalisation strategy is a good and important part of social protection in order to reduce the number of persons placed in institutions. Here I must point out that Serbia is high on the scale of those countries in Europe that have the lowest percentage of children in institutions compared to the number of inhabitants and we must continue with this practice. When we take all of this into account and carefully analyze, we can see that Serbia is committed to improving human rights through its legislative and institutional framework. Of course, there's a lot more to be done, but this bill is a big step in that direction. What can't regulate any law and what, I would say, above all laws, and especially about social policy and social justice, if you will, and what the party I belong to is the Social Democratic Party of Serbia, Rasim Ljajic, is that we, as a society, must seek to restore values such as humanity, humanity, nobility, solidarity, compassion, because these are principles that we have to manage in order to heal and make public space and society in general. As a socially responsible party, the Social Democratic Party of Serbia, or the Social Democratic Party of Serbia parliamentary group, will support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-14-0.u11455	I thank the People's Parliament of Karanac. Next on the list is Honorable MP Nenad Filipovic, representative of the Single Serbia Parliament Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-14-0.u11456	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, today we are discussing for several reasons the Law on the Protection of Consumers' Rights in Social Protection, and I will discuss these reasons through the discussion itself, and now I would like to mention one, which is because the Government of the Republic of Serbia has committed itself to preparing such a law, and we here in the Assembly to discuss it, and in connection with negotiating Chapter 23 in Serbia's negotiation process towards the EU. As this law improves the position of users of temporary accommodation services, in Serbia more than 20,000, through the process of preserving the quality of life and the potential of the users themselves, as well as the preparation of the users for life in the local community, the Single Serbia parliamentary group in the day to vote will also support this law. Full inclusion in the society of these social groups cannot be fully achieved in home or residential institutions because its obstacle is the social community's own relationship with these users of such institutions, which is full of prejudice and stereotypes, and especially when we talk about people with disabilities. It is even more irresponsible to know that there are cases where such prejudices and relationships exist from representatives of public institutions. In many countries, the system of support and protection of disabled persons is being implemented precisely in the institutional environment, as is ours. Services in the institutions themselves are mainly not provided in an individualised manner. Users are mostly in social isolation, where the process of deinstitutionalisation is difficult or disabled, and thus the right to live in the community. The fact that most users are deprived of their business skills makes it significantly difficult to integrate them into the local community and precisely because of these problems in the institutional environment, there is a policy of deinstitutionalisation that provides alternative solutions to temporary accommodation. Deinstitutionalisation is essentially a process that should allow, above all, disabled persons to meet daily needs in their local communities, with all necessary assistance and support. So, in its natural environment. We all know that everything in society depends on the individual, so the man. What law is written and what law is proposed depends on man, that is, on people, and it is very important to say that the realisation of the law depends primarily on people. The law can be extremely good, but if there is no one to implement it, there is no meaning of people or they enforce it to an insufficient extent, that law will not be as we have suggested. Since I mentioned it, and I would mention two things here, deprivement of business ability as one of the main brakesters of integration in the local community, one of the essential elements affecting man's knowledge and his commitment to business is just an assessment of business ability. In addition to psychiatric expertise, a court that otherwise decides to deprive its business ability has the possibility to carry out other evidence of the user's ability to make decisions, i.e. participates in decision-making. So this is the only place you use that so-called. a medical model of ability, but not a social model. It is a good thing that professional workers at social work centres show awareness of the need for user assessment and according to this social component. But one is a goodwill and the other is realisation and reality, which is minor at the moment, because there is a lack of the social work centre initiative as guardianship bodies to re-evaluate business ability. Let's not look for an alternative to this in terms of system overload. the centres themselves, the lack of knowledge or the appeal to the opinion of psychiatrists, that only says that there must be one continuous professional training i.e. education of professionals in social protection, because when you have people with intellectual and mental difficulties that apriors are already "marked" instead of seeing what they are good at and what their quality is. Secondly, we here in parliament have constantly had reports from various ministries saying they have problems in the human structure, where, when we talk about the human structure, it's not just about high education, high professional preparation with certain experiences and knowledge, but about the staff structure with narrowly specialised areas, where drivers, plumbers, etc. You have such a problem here. Otherwise, in the explanation and analysis of the law, which I consider to be excellently done, almost all the necessary data can be drawn for today's discussion. Speaking of the subject of the people, it is not bad to mention that in 2020 until 1 March 1,289 vacancy, of which 343 professional workers in centres for social work, 796 who are financed from the price of accommodation, are mostly nurses, maids, chefs, etc. 105 health workers, of which 11 doctors, 92 medical technicians and two physical therapists. It is good that in 2020, 825 places were filled and 22 more in the first half of 2021. This is what we can see, as well as in the Ministry of Health, which at the beginning of 2020, did the same thing in the Kovid pandemic, employed a large number of people who were on temporary and occasional jobs, people who were at a certain time and people who were particularly volunteers, because they expressed their will to do the job. It should be known that this job can't be done by everyone. But, so people don't get me wrong, as we have in health care that not everyone can be a surgeon, someone can be an extraordinary health care professional, an extraordinary doctor, but can't be a surgeon, because it's not for that. Do we have people who can do the job because we see that there are people missing here who need to take this job out on their backs? Of course we have these people, and we have to hire them. We may have some problems with the defecologists, which are very few, but I think we can work on that too. I know that your goal is to solve these problems, but as in every sphere of life, we know that everything depends on man. You have people who, in a direct or indirect way, consciously or unconsciously, are holding back exactly what's good, because, we said, everything depends on man. I'm not saying this by heart, I'm saying it from a certain experience. In particular, it should pay attention to people, especially those who have had professional practice, who want to do this job, to work in those places. When I talk about this law, I have children to mention. The rate of children at home has dropped dramatically, especially in the last ten years, primarily because of the service of standard foster care. We have foster families that have two, three children, and it should be said that the state allocates the necessary funding for each child who accepts the foster family, but also behind the foster family. But that's why special foster care didn't come to life with us. Children and young people with developmental disorders are at greater risk of institutionalisation in this case. Can this problem be solved? Probably can, well, we have a chance to think about it, too, to solve such problems. Speaking of these financial resources, local self-government itself through socially responsible policies and the resources that will be allocated to these social groups will show a high degree of responsibility. One such local self-government is the city of Jagodina, headed by President Dragan Markovic Palm, who has been leading responsible social policy since 2004. Since we can talk a lot about this law and touch on many topics, such as, for example, the control of the work of employees in institutions, as well as the restriction of the rights of users, I would say that it is a good thing that a public debate was held from 28 April to 17 May this year, that five entities delivered their proposals, comments, opinions and suggestions and that some of them were accepted by the ministry. In any case, the Single Serbia parliamentary group will support these laws in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-14-0.u11457	Thank you, Mr. Filipovic. The next on the list is the honourable MP and president of the PUPS parliamentary club, "Tri P", Hadzhi Milorad Stosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-14-0.u11458	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, the honourable minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, is on the agenda of today's session to discuss the proposal for a law on the rights of users of temporary housing services in social security, which the government has submitted, and two other laws, one on the financing of one project and one law confirming the agreement. At the very beginning, I would point out that the PUPS parliamentary group -- "Three P" in the voting day will support these proposals and vote for them. We are today discussing a legislative proposal that we in the PUPS parliamentary group - "Three P" think should have been brought very early. Social protection may be at first sight not so visible, but certainly an important area of our daily life. We all know what we've been through in the past 30 and over years, since the collapse of one socio-economic system, wars, a large number of refugees, failed privatisation of social property, less and weaker family roles, the decline of birth and the increasing average ageing of the population. These are all factors affecting the growing need for services from the social protection system. Although this area is very complex and dissociative, it is mostly regulated through the various types of sublegal acts following the adoption of the law, although this practice can be justified by the fact that it is a complex area, which has to be very detailedly regulated in one professional way. We, on the other hand, in practice had an increasing expansion of needs and demands for the use of these services from all the structures of the population. This, on the other hand, has affected the increase in the number of subjects they provide, but I would not say that some average practice and quality of these services have improved. On the contrary, we have witnessed that news has appeared very often in the press earlier that some of the homes have been closed because they worked without permission or because there have been irregularities in their work or relations with their protégés. It must be acknowledged here by the restoring ministry that the continued efforts and efforts of inspection services have succeeded, however, in introducing this area to the greatest extent under strict compliance with laws and regulations, i.e. that these unsatisfactory cases are now far more rare than in some previous periods. This law aims to define these conditions by a more detailed law and thus improve at least one segment of the social protection system as temporary accommodation, to regulate the rights and obligations of the institutions and employees themselves more precisely, but also the protégé, i.e. the user of those services. In this regard, it is predicted that this law will apply when a child, younger, adult or older person is placed in a home accommodation or shelter in cases where it is not possible to ensure that he remains in his own home, family or other type of support service for an independent life. At the time of accommodation in these institutions, the person will be familiar with the duration of accommodation, software activities in accommodation, rules of conduct and the organisation of life in the institution, the right to submit complaints and the choice of persons of trust. For each accommodation will be requested written, i.e. free and personal statement by the user of the service. The accommodation will be suspended by the decision of the competent social work centre when support for life is provided in the community, the death of the users or at its own request. The bill further discusses a number of consumer rights, such as the prohibition of abuse, access to health care and information, the right to privacy, the maintenance of family life and information, and as the only significant obligation in Article 31 sets out a fundamental requirement to comply with the prescribed rules of conduct and the organisation of life in the establishment. In the event that the user is not satisfied with the way in which the service is performed or its position, procedural means in the form of complaints or complaints shall be provided to the responsible person in the institution. Finally, the ministry's obligation to prepare and adopt a sublegal act necessary for the application of the law in practice within nine months of the date of entry into force of this law. The second bill refers to the responsibility of the Republic of Serbia to Banca Intesa. Belgrade, and to the construction of the Ruma-Sabac-Loznica road project. This law provides for the state to borrow a loan to the bank of 14.9 billion dinars that the state will return to 16 months of war after the three-year start, so that the deadline for repayment of loans would be August 2031. During that time, it is planned to build a full profile of the highway on the Ruma – Šabac section and a fast car with separate lanes in both directions on the part from Šapac to Loznica. I think this investment is quite justified, given that a good part of the existing highways in this direction passes through populated areas or is inherited by an earlier route in the corners of a small radius, which necessarily requires a reduction of speed and an increased risk of a variety of accidents, while at the same time it is a flat-rate area where there are no too many major obstacles to building such a traffic station. It remains that we hope that this investment will end within the planned deadlines and for the benefit of this region, but also for the wider communities. The third law on today's agenda represents a diplomatic-legal formality and refers to the approval of members of the family of the diplomatic-consular representation of the Republic of India to have the right to deal with paid jobs in Serbia, which is a mirror of the good relations we have with this friendly state. The same ratio of reciprocity will be enjoyed by our citizens of these categories in India. Dear People's MPs, our MP group, PUPS – Three P, thinks it is of great importance for all of us to make the social protection system as neat as possible and to be as functional as possible. We can't be happy when we see how much the powerless world is looking for and enjoying these kinds of services, but we all have to work to make their number as low as possible, and that the quality of services in these accommodation facilities is as good as possible. Although there are no direct points of contact at first sight of today's agenda, I must note that where roads are being built, infrastructures are being arranged and investments are coming in, where the economy is being intensified and every other type of activity has life, while there is less need for social protection services, old and powerless accommodations. Our party and our President Milan Krkobic have long understood and are working on a balanced development of infrastructure in our villages and in our cities. Therefore, the PUPS Group – Tri P in the voting day will give its support for the adoption of these agenda points that we are discussing today. Also, the PUPS parliamentary group – Tri P will support other proposals and legal solutions discussed at this session in the voting day and vote in favour. Dear friends, distinguished citizens of Serbia, dear minister, I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-14-0.u11459	I thank the president of the PUPS parliamentary club, Tri P, Hadji Milorad Stosic. Next on the list is Honourable MP Josip Broz, representative of the SPS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-14-0.u11460	The respected chairman, a respected minister with associates, respected fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, is on the agenda of today's session, among other things, and the agreement between the government of the Republic of Serbia and the government of the Republic of India on granting permission to members of the family of the diplomatic and consular representations to carry out paid activities. I will refer to this agreement, because it represents a continuation of the extremely good decades-old co-operation of our countries. Serbia and India are geographically very distant, divided by more than 5,000 kilometers, but we are also bound by strong and strong political, friendly and economic ties that are further strengthened by the establishment of bilateral relations in 1948. What binds us even more strongly is the fact that our two countries were the founders of the Unclassified Movement. India, a country that freed itself from colonialism in the middle of the last century and became an independent state, is today one of the world's most people with about 1.3 billion inhabitants. The Indian economy is one of the fastest growing economies in the world and the fifth largest economy in the world. One of the key developments in Serbia and India's relations, but also the crucial moment in the process of creating the Unclassified Movement, as well as the formal form of co-operation between the non-Block states, presented the trip of SFRY President Josip Broz Tito to India at the end of 1944. The high degree of respect and respect that Josip Broz Tito and Dzjaharlal Nehru expressed to each other later will prove to be a significant cohesion factor in the bilateral relations between Yugoslavia and India. It is also important to know that Tito was the first president of a European state to which the Indian leadership invited guests after gaining national independence, giving him the great honour. Also, as another confirmation of the exceptional relations between Yugoslavia and India, another July 1956 event was to be singled out when Tito and Nehru and Naser met in Brions where they adopted the Brion Declaration, which was essentially the first multilateral document of the Movement of the Unclassified. Five years later, in September 1961 in Belgrade, the first summit of the Unclassified Movement was held, which confirmed once more by the friendship between our two peoples in front of the world's public. What effect India has had on the development of this movement is the fact that Indian Prime Minister Nehru is responsible for his name, which also outlined the main principles of the Movement. These principles are also principles of the UN Charter, and these are: mutual respect for territorial integrity and sovereignty, mutual non-aggression, equality and mutual benefit and peaceful consistency. Unfortunately, today many have forgotten these principles that we have fought for with our anti-fascist policy and struggle in World War II. The movement still plays its part in the world's political scene. This is confirmed by 120 members and 17 observers, including Serbia. We are proud that just two months ago, we successfully organised a jubilee 60th summit in Belgrade, with more than 100 delegations from around the world. Serbia and India's relations have been further intensified over the past few years after several mutual visits at the highest state level. Serbia today is the only country in Europe that has abolished visas for Indians, which has increased the number of their tourists in our country. On the other hand, India provides selfless support in the fight to preserve our sovereignty and territorial integrity. Respecting international law and thanks to similar views of global problems, India has not recognised independence, so-called independence. "Kosovo" and voted against joining the fake state in UNESCO. India and Serbia have increasingly developed co-operation in several different areas. In India, which represents an amazing market, we export apples. We work together on the issue of plant quarantine, and there is room for us to export other agricultural products and for co-operation in the field of plant tourism. Many industrial companies invest their resources, and are particularly interested in the tractor industry. Three Indian tractor brands are produced and concluded in Serbia. It is also good to remind that the largest Indian investment in the Republic of Serbia is the construction of an information and technology park in Serbia. India also has an extremely well-developed pharmaceutical industry and is currently one of the world's largest vaccine manufacturers against Kovid-19. For the adoption of an agreement on the agenda, there is a mutual interest of the countries, especially given that the practice of concluding this type of agreement has become increasingly significant in the modern world, and the benefits are multiple. The purpose is to limit certain privileges and immunities for members of diplomatic staff when performing other paid jobs, which are not directly related to their diplomatic service and the Vienna Convention on diplomatic relations. Also, what this also wanted to achieve is that members of diplomatic and consular staff are given the opportunity to be accompanied abroad by family members, thus allowing normal family life to be preserved. Our parliamentary group will vote for this proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-14-0.u11461	I thank the honourable People's Messenger, Joseph Broz. Next on the list Aleksandar Mirkovic, representative of the "Alexandar Vukic - For Our Children" parliamentary club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-14-0.u11462	The Honorable President, the Honorable Minister, the Honorable Members of the People's Parliament and fellow MPs, taking into account that the Minister himself in his opening statement said a lot of what I was planning as well as the representative of our parliamentary group, Mrs Milanka Vukojicicic, I am forced to correct my presentation a little bit and adapt to not repeat myself. Certainly, what I want to point out at the very beginning is the fact that today we have very important laws, which once again show how much better Serbia's economic policy is today, much better quality, but also how much better Serbia is today. When we talk about this, we cannot look back on the fact that this financial situation has occurred in our country solely because of the responsible policy of President Aleksandr Vukic and that financial consolidation that took place by the arrival of the SNS to power in 2014 and 2015. In addition to this, the fact that we have more and more foreign investment from year to year and that wages and pensions are constantly growing. I think that we have also made a number of points during some previous discussions to the importance of economic stability for the quality of life of citizens in our country. I would only bring out a few data that will confirm this, which is the fact that in the first 10 months of this year we had as many as three billion and 140 million euros of foreign direct investment, which is a huge number and which only shows that Serbia is after 2012 and 2013, that period when no one wanted to invest in our country a single euro, today we became the most interesting place for investment, both from the east and the west. What's interesting to the citizens is the fact that even at the time of the pandemic, which hit the whole world at the time of the crisis, our country continued to be built, to build, but we also continued to create factories and new jobs, so, not only did we prevent the growth of unemployment, we also opened 60,000 new jobs, which is a kind of success. However, when we talk about all this data, we cannot help but notice that no matter how many Serbia has recorded good results and progressed in every respect and sense, there is one part of the people in our country who are minorities, but somehow the most extreme in their demands and in their actions that represent the former DS regime, who are in every way trying to make these results a challenge, but also that some kind of exposure of any kind of untruth and lies throw mud or lies at everything that has been achieved. Today's laws, again I say, I'm going to have to do a little bit differently to approach my presentation, show only that everything that's well said here today is not good for them and they'd sort of do it differently. It is not disputed to have a different opinion and to see things differently, but it is controversial when you have a lesson and a lecture, people say, held by those people who haven't done anything about it. If we're talking about social policy laws, the respected minister, you've been hit for some time by people who have done everything contrary to the wishes and needs of Serbian citizens. There are no examples or legal solutions that have not been criticised by former DS representatives, led by Dragan Gilas, but somehow we have not come up with any concrete ideas or what they would do better. I think Mrs. Vukoicic set an example of Heterland in her presentation, but that's not the worst they've ever done. It's certainly a drastic example, but you've had such examples all over Serbia, but you've also had something even more scandalous, where you directly abuse your official position, at that time Dragan Gilas, had the use of the needs of children for the sake of personal interest and the creation of your own personal empire, business, of course. What's this about? For people who come from Belgrade, but I believe for those people who come from the interior, the pioneer town is not something that is unknown and everyone knows where it is. However, the pioneer town has become popular in the last fifteen years, so almost, let's say, maybe twenty, because of an affair that will long remain remembered, and I hope it will also get a court epilogue. In 2005, Dragan Gilas was already a DS official. During that period, I think he was also head of the Belgrade-based DS board, thus directly affecting everything that is happening in the City of Belgrade, which his colleagues would say, "Nothing can happen until he sees it or does not sign it." It is interesting that in 2005 and 2006, by creating his business empire, he started a scandalous project and brought into our country something everyone is criticising today, and among these strongest critics is he, and that is the reality program. In those years, the reality of the "Great Brother" appeared, and a small door was introduced to something that has been spread on many channels today, but it has a very bad influence from my personal point of view and from my personal point of view. What's this about? In 2005 and 2006, they came up with the idea that in the pioneer town, pay attention, since there is plenty of space untapped and easy to control because there is a Pion City public enterprise in Belgrade, they decide to build some sort of assembly facility there. The installation facility is built by the company "Emoushn", a miracle in which it is co-owner and Dragan Gilas. The object is the size of 1967 square meters and what's interesting is that I put a special accent on without any permission. Without even a single piece of paper there, they're starting to build that facility. After they have completed the facility to move forward to achieve their goal, they realize that they are facing a problem that they cannot obtain permission and all the necessary contracts unless they somehow define it, which will be acceptable to the citizens, and what they will somehow be able to justify. How they could not get permission to reality the program or an object that would serve the reality program, the peak of brazenness and hypocrisy goes because they stress that this facility is necessary for a children’s resort. Imagine, the Big Brother’s house in that first step is announced as something where there will be a children’s resort. After completing the facility itself and when it was necessary to rent that space, they come to an even more scandalous idea, that I am an object that already exists physically, which is equipped and in which cameras are placed for surveillance 0-24 hours because such a format is "Great Brother", they come to an even more scandalous idea where they define this contract as an object for the living room of children. So, in the opinion of Dragan Gilas and his papers, the living room of children is the house of Big Brother. Those who remember that time and who remember or who were once only 15 minutes away to look at what's going on and what's going on, know how scandalous and inconceivable something like this is and how much this is an affair that has certainly marked Dragan Gilas, but will follow him as long as he is in our country's political life. That there was also income which is the main saying and the fact that for the monthly lease of these 1,967 square meters his firm paid, be careful now, the price of 416 euros per month, which is about 0.2 euros per meter square, so now you see how much income he made there, and not all of it just add that many others have produced from this reality program, so where the advertising space and it is again where Dragan Gilas was best, which is selling seconds on various televisions. This is all because of you, respected citizens of Serbia, because today when we talk about social policy, when the minister here today exposes and explains this law, you have some people who have found it appropriate to criticise this, although I really don't see anything here disputed in this law, which is more and more commendable, but these people, when they were able to do something for our country, for our city in this case Belgrade, have done nothing already personally for their own pocket and for their business empire. I hope by my own admission when this topic was activated a few months ago the only explanation for what I've said today was that Dragan Gilas didn't have a firm, be careful now, but that his company was co-owner. So I don't see any difference, but the essence is the same. By misusing the official position and the possibility of a leverage of power that he had in his Democratic Party, then later in the City of Belgrade, Dragan Gilas did everything to fill his own pockets and to take advantage of the position he had to benefit from state resources for his personal interests. As for the law on the construction of our country, I will take a brief look at that, although I think a lot of things have been said. Serbia today is a country that, if, as a large number of citizens left in 2012 and 2013, if you were to return to some parts of our country today, you would find it difficult to recognize. Serbia is a country where roads and railways and fast traffic are being built today. Serbia is a country where schools and homes of health and hospitals are built and Serbia has become a country of one general construction from the far north to the far south or east or west, however you want to define it, there is not one place in our country where something has not been built. In addition to this, the best information is provided if we already stick to highways that by 2012, we built only 65km of highways in the Democratic Party regime and that is a question of what quality. During the SNS government, primarily responsible for President Alexander Vukic's policies, we have so far built over 350km of highways and are currently building 370km more. I'd like any of the representatives of the opposition or these people who claim to return to power today with some kind of violence and blockades, to find me at least one country where they can find such or similar data. If you only consider that we are building 10 highways today, that during the Democratic Party regime we were unable to turn 10 local communities annually, it is clear how much SNS and President Aleksandar Vukic's policy is subordinated and primarily concerns the better life of Serbian citizens. You know, with new highways, with high-speed railways and fast traffic, investment comes, because that's how you connect every part of our country, and it's normal to have such a leap of foreign investment when everyone in our country sees a reliable partner today, but first of all sees responsible people and sees a government that keeps its promises and wants to make progress with all Serbian citizens in every way and in every sense. Unfortunately, we had an ugly period until 2012 and 2013, when investors were conditioned to what percentage of the money would remain for those in power and who thus determined and budgeted. I am convinced that the development of our country will not stop here and that Ruma – Šabac - Loznica is only one in a series of projects that we have started so far, we have achieved, but also a promise and a provision for what we will accomplish in the next period. As counterpart Milanka Vukojicic noted at the beginning of her presentation, I will finish with this, Serbia will choose between the future and the past on 3 April to give us all an assessment of who it is and how it worked in the previous period. I am convinced, if it is taken into account, and I am confident that again on the other hand the citizens will do so, about the future of our country and the future of every man, his family and all our children, that the support of the SNS will not be left behind. But what I want to draw attention to is once again the fact that today's people who represent an extreme part of the opposition serve false, false and various radical methods with the desire to cause chaos in our country. In this chaos, they see their chance to pick up some cheap political point, but to take the street to power. All I ask is that all citizens of Serbia do not fall for such a thing, that they do not buy these provocations and that, patiently, for perhaps three or four months, as long as we have until the elections, wait, think and determine who has worked for their future, for their interest, let them decide, on 3 April, on their conscience and on their wish for a better future and their children. My personal opinion is that the SNS will win convincingly because if we follow President Alexander Vukic's policies and we keep the promises we make, but we share the values, as well as the vision he has, I am confident that we will build an even better and better Serbia for all of our children and generations to come. Thank you and live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-14-0.u11463	I thank the honourable MP, Alexander Mirkovic. The next on the list is United Peasant Party representative Milija Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-14-0.u11464	Thank you. Dear Chairman, honourable government representatives, fellow MPs, citizens of Serbia, I am Milija Miletic, and I come from Svrlig. It is the most beautiful municipality in Serbia located near the town of Nis, which is the most beautiful city in Serbia. By the way, here in the Assembly I represent the United Peasant Party, and I have been selected from the list Aleksandar Vukic – For our children. Like my colleagues who spoke before me, I will talk about a very important point regarding the help of the socially endangered. This law gives that possibility because it is very necessary. In a period behind us in areas such as Svrljig, Bela Palanka, Gajin Han, a large number of municipalities that are one of the poorest municipalities in Serbia, municipalities that have a large area, where there are a very large number of old people, they need accommodation in some exceptional situations, so that this law is adapted to such municipalities, such environments. There are opportunities to help both young children and those full - time citizens who need it. This is very necessary to do as soon as possible, to make this law, to be one of the solutions that we will be able to help people when it's the hardest. Otherwise, when I speak here, I speak as an experienced man who's been on the ground since 1987 when I started working as a veterinary technician, when the villages were strong, where there were young people in the villages, where every man who lived in the country was a good host. Now our times have changed, our villages have been devastated. A large number of young people left these villages, never returned there. We now have the opportunity to provide young people with houses, to buy houses, to create families there, to provide the conditions better for the lives of those young people who would return, and normally to be given the opportunity through the help of the state for every newborn child, and we are specifically in Srlig at the time I was president of the municipality in 2011 and we were giving each marriage community 50% more funds for those who live in our villages. I think it was some beginning of something to stimulate the marriage community, to stimulate the birth of children, to provide young people with better conditions and to stay there, but as time goes on, there is a smaller and smaller number of these young people. Now we are through the programme provided by the state of Serbia, the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Family Care, and everyone here who is here we want at all times to provide even more funding for the future period, that young people living in these villages stay, to create families, to provide them with living conditions, to be about the same conditions as those living in cities. The big problem with these environments, such as Svrlig, is a large number of old people, and we need to help these people through the Geronto-home program. There is a competent Ministry of Labour and Social Policy very active. I expect that in the following year and in the coming period we will provide funds to increase resources, to be present throughout the budgets of the Ministry and the budgets of local self-government, that it can be fertilised and that these geronto-home women can be present throughout the year, that they can help any man who needs help to provide help. Dear fellow MPs, citizens of Serbia, once again I will support the bill's proposals as MP and president of the United Peasants' Party because these laws give you the opportunity to provide better and easier assistance to anyone who needs it. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-14-0.u11465	I thank the honourable People's Messenger, Milija Miletic. Let's move on. The word has a representative of the SPS parliamentary club, the distinguished national MP Jelena Mihajlovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-14-0.u11466	Thank you, Chairman. Dear fellow Members of the People, the respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I wanted to participate in today's debate and within the agenda of the Law on the Rights of Consumers of Temporary Accommodation Services in Social Protection, because the topic of social protection in general is as important as any topic, because in the focus of the social protection system, man, individual, his fate and health situation, and the focus of the social protection system must be on the individual that needs to be supported and as a state, we must do everything that is necessary for all citizens of our country to have the same chance of growth, development, education, employment and health care without exception. The law on the rights of users of temporary housing services in social protection, which is set out in the Code of the roof of the social protection system, should have a purpose in regulating the way users of temporary accommodation are entitled, in improving the position of users through the process of preserving the quality of life and the potential of users, as well as in the process of preparing them for return to society and their normal functioning within society, which must involve life without discrimination and on equal terms with all other members of society. The reason for the adoption of this law, and in addition to those concerning the regulation and way of achieving the rights of users and improving their position, is also the obligation of the Republic of Serbia to adopt this law and the resulting obligations in direct connection with the Action Plan for the Negotiation Chapter 23, Section - Fundamental Rights. Of course, it is understood that, as a serious state, we must carry out our commitments and we will execute them, especially as a country that is on the European path and in the process of joining the European Union. We are a geographical state of Europe, and that we are not now going into the details and scientific facts that say that the first European civilization is created in our spaces and that our system of social protection is our backyard and our home and within our house we ourselves must discover its shortcomings, we must promote it ourselves, we must work on the prevention, maintenance and improvement of the system. We must be sure that we are doing a good and real thing and our society and all of our citizens are the ones who must be satisfied with our results in this field, because as I have already said in the focus of the social protection system are men, women, children as individuals and families as pillars and the basis of every society and every life and every destiny is individual stories that need to be approached with a lot of empathy, love, care and desire to help. When we talk about this, party colour is irrelevant, party and political interests must be secondary, because the topic of social protection is very sensitive and complex. The institutions they work in the system have a huge responsibility. The ministry that needs to be provided with supervision also, and employees within the social protection institutions are working extremely hard and very often is also very dangerous work. Therefore, the focus of social protection must also be on users, but also on persons in charge of customer care. Both must provide quality conditions for stay and quality conditions for work, but also the feeling that neither one or the other are alone and left behind in their own problem. Of course, when we talk about employees in institutions, we're saying that they're honorary professionals who do their job with a lot of patience, love and effort that should be approached by such an invitation. The law we are discussing today provides for different situations in which the temporary accommodation of users of a social protection institution is necessary, provides for rights and obligations, but also assigns supervision to the resolution ministry and determines the criminal measures that will punish the person or institutions who in any way violate the rights of the user. What is essential with every law that is passed, as well as with any document, is that the paper endures everything, and respect for that paper is essential for the functioning of the system or the area that the law must regulate. Floscal that the law is necessary to respect is not only a floscule, but in this specific case, when we talk about social protection as a human idea, the idea of solidarity and empathy, the law should rather be treated as a work guide, because as I said we will start from the assumption that honorary individuals and professionals are working in the social protection system, and strict provisions for them to do their job that is difficult, I do not think they are necessary if they love and approach each user individually and with full attention and a desire for the situation to be realised in the best interests of the users. Of course, we are also aware of the fact that not all individuals entrusted with the care of social security users are committed to their work in the way in which such a call must be approached, and in such situations space is opened to make mistakes because of the work of an individual and sometimes, perhaps often, to make mistakes. Of course, we're people, we're all wrong, but when it comes to someone's life, the crisis situation they're in, someone's mistakes that can be and bad judgments without bad intentions, they cost someone the whole stage of life and the time they lose is irreparable. It is therefore very important that the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs, as the Ministry of Social Protection, take all steps out of its jurisdiction to make sure as a society that all institutions are doing their job well, even if this involves an audit and a deeper analysis of all the suspicious cases with which the public also has the opportunity to get to know each other from time to time through the means of information. I want to look at children and young people as users of the social protection system a little bit more closely, and therefore I want to underline a few important things that concern the above. So we have a chance to find out in public through information funds about certain cases of child abduction, their accommodation or foster care, while problems and crisis situations in the biological family are resolved. Certainly, it is absolutely necessary to protect every child who comes from a troubled family in which he suffers violence of different kinds from parents of alcoholics, junkies, abusers, but not all cases of children are placed in the foster family of such a type. For many, it turns out that poverty is the reason. We all followed the case of a father who was taken from three daughters, who spent five or six years in foster care while he was trying to get on his feet, find a job, and provide them with conditions for decent growing up, which were according to his statements, and that every girl must have her own private room. I can't go into the details of this case and express my views, because I'm not familiar with the facts, but still now that the girls are back to their father, the question that floats is next -- would the case be solved in this way and the children returned to their father if it wasn't for the public being involved, that there was no public pressure, and in the end the film that the father's story screened? This case may not even be relevant. These cases may be a percentage of the statistical error, but each case is someone's life and the time of children with parents and vice versa, who is lost, who can make up and throw up. Whether someone was responsible for potential misjudgements and decisions to take children and house children into foster care if the Center for Social Work could play the extended hand of the family, which, according to its purpose and the powers it should have, and could help the family overcome the crisis without taking away children for such a long time. There may be many more cases like this, but for the public, for the citizens and for us MPs, countless questions are raised. Do social work centres do the best they can? Should their working conditions be improved? Has anyone in the center ever made a mistake and sinned about someone's fate? Is it in a situation where it is found that the family has no financial opportunity to support the child and live in classified poverty, as a state and society we can do more, to help them more, to help them with concrete funds? This is where we come to the children's housing topic in the foster home who, by their decision to take care of the child in a crisis situation, not only helps the child and the biological family, but also helps the state with their human decision. It is natural for fosterers to receive their compensation for 24 hours of challenging and difficult work to take care of a child in crisis, with the view that the state should consider the possibility of increasing these fees, if we consider the difference in the country's giving when the user is staying with a foster parent or institution which costs the state much more. The additional amount in addition to the foster care that we issue as a state for the maintenance of children located in a foster family, which is between 30 and 36, perhaps 40 thousand dinars, is an amount that could be of enormous importance and help the biological family if the reason for the separation of children from biological parents is negativity because of the inability to find or for some health reason cannot carry out their work. Another question is whether the funds paid to those foster parents by the state, let's say those girls that were taken away for five years, could have been paid to their father and thus solved his current financial impotence, since at the end of such a long process, it was found that children could still live with a biological parent? I suppose that experts and employees at social protection institutions work with maximum commitment and effort, but, given the sensitive work that they do, there is a need for monitoring and revision to be carried out in a more frequent period, not only when there are crisis or incident situations, but rather as a prevention that would encourage institutions to work better and in the best interests of users, not in certain cases their own, which can cause reflection on the potential abuse of the child's fostering process, and thus to throw bad light at institutions and a complete system of protection, which is all together, when in connection with such a sensitive topic, it is ungrateful to think that it is possible to happen. I am not an expert who should tell experts how to do their job, but I am sure that all relevant facts in each individual case must be analysed and taken into account, all circumstances, all shortcomings, but also the benefits of a child's life with his biological family and in the community where unconditional love is born with the arrival of this world. It's December, it's closer to the holidays, and I want to share with all of you and the public my personal experience that I gained through cooperation and association with the users of the Children's Centre in Belgrade. Many times we hung out, played, sang, talked and braved, and once we chose the most beautiful letters to Santa Claus written by children users of the shelter. I say kids because they're so old, but by the wishes of Santa Claus, it's concluded that they're small, mature and serious people. They want Mom to settle up, get Dad to get a job, get Santa to do everything he can to keep his brother and sister apart if he goes into foster care or Santa, if he can, find good and nice foster parents for them. They want to go home, they want to live in the family. They're the ones who focus the social protection system, them and their biological parents. We who are here today discussing and passing laws, all institutions, all employees in the social security system, all of us exist because of them. It is important that as a society, we focus more on supporting the biological family, strengthening the institution of family and community, and not putting on the pillar of shame and shame of those parents who choose to leave their child in an orphanage or give up for adoption because they cannot feed him, but rather by preventing him, by timely reaction and supporting the family together. It is also important to teach all children and young people, as well as all users of the social protection system, that there is no shame in being poor, there is no shame in losing a job, there is no shame sometimes in life to fall and be defeated. The measures to support the birth of children announced are an extraordinary decision that will encourage young people to decide on a child's birth step, with such measures as short-term potential to escalate the number of social security users in the future, and therefore it is a good time for the social protection system to go into the prevention and preparation of supporting socially endangered families and single parents, but to consider as a state the option of long-term and stable support to families that could be in the form of support of entrepreneurial ventures or agricultural land, and what not to be in line with the support competition for the purchase of rural houses across the country. Of course, social protection users are not only children and young people, but a large number of adults and pensioners are registered in the system, and it is therefore important that social protection institutions work their jobs properly in each individual case. One example of negligence and the absence of its obligations is the centre for social work in one town of western Serbia, which in the process became the guardian of the immobilized lady in the home, since she had no family of her own, and as the guardian of whom her pension regularly arrived monthly, who had the obligation to regulate the monthly expenses for her stay and care in her home, which they did not settle, the home threatened the immeasurable lady with an outcast until her cousin arrived from America and with legal help managed to resolve the situation, so that the lady could stay in the home uninterruptedly. There are a number of such examples, and therefore monitoring and control of work and establishing stable institutions is necessary for quality provision of social protection and security for all its users. I will take advantage of this moment, when I mentioned pensioners as beneficiaries of social protection, to refer to some of my previous statements concerning the participation of the pension fund in some of the major state development opportunities projects, such as Gerdap 3, whose beginning of the realisation was announced for the year 2022 with the allocation of billions and 500m euros in the budget for next year. If the pension fund becomes co-owner of a project of such capacity as Gerdap 3, related to the production of green kilowatt energy, whose price in the future will only grow if we take into account the global energy market, the state could spend an annual allocation of around 600m euros, which could be invested in both the social protection system and other sectors important for the quality of life of citizens, such as health, education, culture, etc. Also, in this way, pensioners would be able to continue to grow pensions, because about 300,000 pensioners, about 21% of all pensioners at the state level, who are now receiving pensions between 10 and 15 000 dinars, could have a more significant increase, and thus, the privatisation of the energy sector, which is expected from international organisations, and yet the benefit of our national goods and our energy companies would remain in the hands of our people. The state exists because of the people, not because of the people. It is the state that must assist and provide its people with basic existential dignity, education and primary health care. All levers of the social protection mechanism, the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs, the centres for social work, courts, experts, institutions and all others involved in the system must function and breathe as one and work in the best interests of every child and every citizen of our country. With our desire, vision and engagement, we must deny Shakespeare who says that when we are born we are crying because we are a fool on a big stage, and create this world as a place where each individual will exercise his right to dignity and existence, regardless of occasional life crises and downfalls. Serbia can and must be a country of equal people and chances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-14-0.u11467	Thank you. Honorable Members of Parliament, in accordance with Article 87. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I now set a break of one hour. We'll be back in 15 hours and 10 minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-14-0.u11468	The honourable MPs continue to work in the afternoon part of the session. The word of the People's Messenger is Ivan the Fishman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-14-0.u11469	Thank you, Chairman. Dear citizens of Serbia, distinguished fellow MPs, as Mr. Darko Glisic said a few days ago if we hadn't built so many highways, we wouldn't have anything to block these environmental rebels, but there is no roadblock that will be able to stop Serbia from moving further across our country to a number of roads like those we're talking about today, the Ruma-Shabac highway and the fast traffic Shabac-Loznica. Namely, this is one of the most important projects of the Republic of Serbia, because it is important for the development and integration of 600,000 people living in the Mačvanska and Sremska district, as well as for the integration of Podrinja with Western Serbia and Vojvodina, as well as for the whole region, especially with BiH. Dear citizens, it is not essential to be in charge in the pre-election year to raise wages and pensions to collect cheap political points. The point is, some of our predecessors did it. The bottom line is to be in charge, making a healthy economic base, for something that will benefit our people and the state, and that's exactly this highway, so I don't see any reason not to vote on the bill of this loan in the voting day. I'd like to say something else. There are a lot of politicians on our political scene, a lot of political manipulations, and there are few statesmen. We saw one a week ago when he went to our people in the Upper Weeks to hear what was killing him, and then a few days after he had done the manners of a serious statesman, after he anticipated all the demands of the citizens and analyzed them, he made a decision to withdraw the laws that he saw were partly controversial, I say, in part. We have seen that what is in the interest of the citizens of the Holy and for him and the SNS and has shown that he is ready to take over on his back, not his mistakes, and he is making a move that is characteristic of decent and serious people who are not only thinking about their good, but of the good people above all, and as long as these are done by serious statesmen, political manipulators are acting diametrically out of it, and now I'm going to make this an example. In fact, Mr. Dragan Gilas gave an interview directly on his portal a few days ago, which I would refer to briefly. The opening part states that it promises victory in the upcoming elections, which you will admit to respected citizens very ambitiously, but everyone believes in what they want and no one can take it away from them. Then, he states, despite the most intense campaign of satanic campaigns by the government, he still believes in victory. Well, I'd like to ask you, Mr. President of the Freedom and Justice Party, what kind of Satanization is this? Is satanizing or simply clearly verifiable the fact that companies owned by you during your stay in power made a profit of several hundred million euros, and before and after that almost nothing? Was Satanizing or the fact that you were in America with your contemporaries and that you humiliated and insulted your country and your people, Mr. Gabriel Escobar? Did Satanizing or the fact that Mr. Gilas said Serbia's greatest economic success is bringing Rio Tint and how does he even have the nerve to appear at protests against the company? Is it Satanizing or the fact that only a month of calling on citizens to disobey the state of emergency that this government has introduced to save the lives of our citizens during the pandemic of the covids? Then immediately after a few months, after a month he accused the same authority of being autocratic, of being fascist, of not introducing an emergency. Is satanicizing or the fact that Mrs. Tepic, who led the list, is it not difficult to assume that with him at the head of that list, she probably wouldn't have passed the censorship, that she was making up affairs with narcotics in chickens and embraced and supported by that bully who tried to kill the man who was driving the bagger, calling him a national hero? Is Satanizing or the fact that the fist of the Freedom and Justice Party, Mr. Brian Brkovic, the grandson of Jevrem Brkovic, was indicted in 1991 for dissipating national hatred against Serbia and the Serb people after which he fled to live in Croatia and calling himself a Dukljan fanatic, that he gave 100 euros to anyone who appeared at a rally in Belgrade, what is the testimony of a student? And now he has to say what's good for Serbia and the Serbian people. I would simply point out and ask the question, whether it was also satanicisation or the fact that he left a 1.2 billion-euro debt to Belgrade after the bossing of the same, not to mention affairs like the Boulevard of the Revolution, the container affair, or a bridge on Ada that has been paid more than half of the Moravian Corridor that builds this power. Whether Satanization or the fact that the fees for using the kindergarten were twice as large as they were supposed to be or that 30 trams took 80m-euro loans and trams that cannot be driven along existing tracks. Did Satanizing or the fact that DS owed a prominent political figure in the Serbian political sky buy a debt of 49 million dinars for 38 million, and then at an interest rate of 18%, put into bankruptcy? Did Satanizing or the fact that he was using the mass of our seduced citizens gathered by Mr. Savo Manojlovic not now mobilize them to vote for his list, since he has now become, to God's environmentalist? Your Honor, I may not understand very well, I may not be political enough, but where do you see any satanicism here? Everything I've listed, and what you're saying is that Satanization is clearly verifiable facts, and there's nothing personal about it that's directed to you. And to see the difference between satanicization and facts, I'll give you the following examples. Satanizing is when a direct program swears on a mother to the President of the Republic. Satanizing is when tweets are written with a desire for the family of the President of the Republic to be found in a shaft, like Gaddafi. Satanization is when it calls for urinating on the graves of members of the SNS. It's satanizing when it's threatened to cut ladies' hair. Satanizing is when a cop is told – you know who I am and what happens to you when I come to power. Satanizing is when a child is not allowed to go to your game, they weren't on the cover of your tabloids tomorrow, as if that child had any influence on the political decision of this country or is in any way an actor of public life. Satanizing is the people of our people you call credential sandwichers when you say you're going to spill our blood on the streets. Satanizing is when five heroes went to the presidency did not provoke the president of the state, no matter who he was, as an institution of the president of the state to provoke him to fight and thus send a picture to the world to act like Bushmani, with all the respect of Bushman and anything else. So don't confuse this people with your empty flossules about godly Satanization and moaning over your destiny, you'll have time to moan over it after the election is over because you will face the painful same thing about the support you enjoy with our people. Another thing I would like to say, and I mentioned earlier when I said that our citizens were seduced by fighting for a healthier Serbia. Dear citizens of Serbia, here are just a few guidelines you should consider before you bring your opinion on the regularity and essential concern of modern environmentalists for healthy Serbia. First ask yourself a question, why exactly the ecology as a topic? Well, because they don't have or will ever have one result that could be compared to this authority in any area. Secondly, ask the question of what is the plan and programme that would offer Serbia in the next election and you will see that it is not there. When did you finally hear from one of them, besides brutal criticism, some constructive proposal on how to improve and improve life in Serbia? Thirdly, this authority has done more than a number of others before it and today invests 250 percent more than previous authorities have invested. It is very easy to check the quality of the air today in Bor, and what quality it was during the last government, how much water flow was cleaned up then and now. It is easy to compare how many wastewater processing plants have been built, dumps and all other ecological parameters have been removed, and you will see that it is incomparable. Finally, the opening of Cluster 4 relating to the Green Agenda is the best confirmation of what I've just talked about. Fourth, why is the ecologicals just a few months before the election? Well, it's because in no other way would you be able to mobilize a larger group of citizens, because when you place such a simple story in public, people who don't take into account all these facts get scared, come out on the streets believing that something bad can happen to them. Fifth, look, respected citizens, who are the organizers of these protests and where they're funded from. Absolutely all of them are financed from abroad, such as Mr. Manojlovic Sava, who said that he was saddened that he was not arrested during these protests, although for this act he met absolutely all the conditions with the aim of making it possible for some evil to make it easier for him to take over power or these eco-commands like Mr. Cuta, who is now outraged because he did not get permission to build a mini power plant, so now that no one else is doing it. Ask yourself, respected citizens, a question whose interests they work for when they receive funds from abroad and whose interests would they work for if they came to power, and lastly, what is the goal of these protests? Don't be naive. If you take into account all this detail, you will see, respected citizens, that the goal is to escalate the conflict between the same people, to have some tragedy that would lead in an unholy and decent way to a new October 5th and a replacement of the current government. There's nothing to do with ecology, and don't succumb to that cheap trick. I'll keep your attention, respected citizens, for a few more minutes with another topic, which is another in the Corps of those who want to weaken this ruling nomenclature. In the last few days, Mrs. Jelen Trivan, the chairman of the Serbian Film Centre Management Board, has been poured out the salves of the most rude insults and non-gentlemenic attacks which, not without being founded, but have nothing to do with the truth and are the fruit of personal dissatisfaction of certain actors in the field of art who publicly and clearly, unhinderedly say that their aim is no art, but only that Aleksandar Vucic comes down from power. The first thing is very annoying, it is that the political debate uses data "ad hominim" that have nothing to do with what a person does, as Mrs. Trivan has some fictional information that has nothing to do with her public activity, but concerns private life, which I find inadmissible. I've been talking a lot about my political inexperiences now, and I've done nothing to offend or say anything personal, but to have exclusive regrets about their policy which I think is the path to Serbia's collapse and the betrayal of its vital and national interests. However, to get back on the subject, ingratitude is the greatest Serbian trait, 100 times do, once not, it is able to hate you, to be so bitter that it hates both you and the state and the whole world. Give a thousand times the money to make movies, once you don't, because some other movie at the competition was better and that man will see you as the biggest enemy. Now we see here that the environmental command of Chuta is not now an expert in ecology, but a multipractice, so it's also understood in art, it's understood in movies and it accuses Mrs. Trivan of not giving money to make certain films. Although some of these distinguished artists I mentioned use such a sentence in condemning this authority that it is sincere to me that God has given them so much talent in art that I sincerely admire and respect, when he has taken away their decency and education, when they are willing to, in addition to the disgusting words that they give to this authority, which I do not wish to quote out of respect for this high House, to invent and to be arrested during these protests, even though they were not. So I've been using these few minutes to point out a few facts that need to be known. First, the members of the Serbian Film Centre Management Board work without the compensation that Shutta wanted to kidnap and give to the artists. Secondly, the results of Serbia's Film Centre, with Mrs. Trivan at the head, are the same as in any area in which this government has been in charge as the fact that more films and series are being recorded now than in time since Tito's rule, that earlier in the Serbian Film Centre, the previous authorities invested 600,000 euros annually, today being invested by 11,000,000, that the audience visiting cinemas and watching domestic projects during their government was around 7%, today was 45%. "Dara from Jasenovac" is the most visible TV format in history, that the film "Tom" has crossed 1,000,000 viewers and that two of our films will be on Netflix, the world's largest film network. The only thing that seems to be the problem behind the ecological one, and now we see behind the artistic film commando, Shutu and similar to him, is maybe that the Serbian Film Centre has begun to revive our history, our suffering and suffering through the same way to present to the world what all Serbs have been going through, and what has been pushed under the carpet for decades. This is how "Dara from Jasenovac" is recorded, "The Storm", "Košare", is recorded "Hallyard" and many other films and series with national topics. But, gentlemen, all of you who do not respond to the fact that there are people who love their country, who love their people and their history and don't feel ashamed of it and who would rather push it into the hands of some white-world powers who would be working with it, I must disappoint you, Serbia is under the leadership of the Serbian Progressive Party and the president defined its direction towards a better, happier and safer future. That our people do not fall for your cheap political tricks, you will see soon after 3 April, and that will hopefully be a step towards putting a lock on your parties, movements and initiatives, or that you are already calling those organizations whose sole goal is to earn some foreign dollar or euro, no matter what they sell because of whether the cheek, whether the state or your own people. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-14-0.u11470	Thank you. The word has a folk letter from Svetlana Milijac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-14-0.u11471	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. Dear Minister, honourable fellow Members of the People's Parliament and People's MPs, distinguished citizens of Serbia, I will begin my presentation today by quoting the president of Serbia, Mr. Alexander Vukic, who said: "We are building, connecting, freeing ourselves from loneliness, distances and boating without perspective, aware of how much every step, every mile means to this country, to every man in it, to his future and his freedom. “ Today, we have the Law on the Borrowing of the Republic of Serbia at the Bank of Intesa AD Belgrade on the agenda for the purpose of financing the Project ‘Ruma – Shabac – Loznica’. What our citizens know, I am sure, is that this is the goal of the vision of the modern and decent Republic of Serbia headed by Alexander Vukic, except for increasing the standard of living of its citizens and investing in health, especially because of the pandemic caused by Kovid19 disease, and investment in road infrastructure, i.e. investment in roads. The development of a country is measured by a network of its highways, and with each new km growing and quality of life for Serbian citizens, the economy and tourism of our country are growing. New roads mean more than just reaching a specific goal faster and safer, they mean much more, they mean attracting new investments, networking Serbian citizens, they mean economic and commercially and economically connecting the Republic of Serbia with neighbouring republics. Aleksandar Vukic has gone hard and courageously towards developing Serbia over the past few years, with the help of all citizens, as citizens of the Republic of Serbia have given Alexander Vukic confidence. Today Serbia is building ten highways and fast roads. I would ask the camera to zoom in on this picture, where our citizens will be able to see what the roads in Serbia look like today. The whole of Serbia is networked by highways and fast traffic. Today we are building them ten: the Frushkogori Corridor, the tour around Kragujevac, Kuzmin-Sremska Raca, Preljina-Požega, the Moravski Corridor, Surcin-Novi Belgrade, the tour around Belgrade, Sector B, Pozarjevac-Gradište-Golubac, Nis-Pločnik and Ruma-Shabac-Loznica. Aleksandar Vucic succeeded, as Serbian citizens are now arriving from Belgrade to Cacak in an hour and 15 minutes, citizens of Nis reach the border with Bulgaria in exactly 50 minutes and to the border with Greece in less than three hours. He did it because he doesn't make false promises. He succeeded because Serbia today is richer for the highway "Milos Veli" from Belgrade to Cačka, via Obrenovac, Ub, Lajkovac, Ljig, Mine, Takova, Gornji Milanovac to Preljina. Now we're building the Preljina-Požega highway. He succeeded because this highway "Milos the Great" is 120 km long and this time it is connected through the Surcinal loop to Corridor 10. What citizens need to know, I believe they know, but we need to remind them, is that Corridor 10 is only finished after 50 years. At what time? In the time of Alexander Wolf. And not only Corridor 10, along the east side of Corridor 10, along the southern leg of Corridor 10, we have a Y leg in the north of our country, and that is the bypass around Subotica to the border crossing of Kelebi. Alexander Vukic made it because other highways started. These are: The Moravia Corridor, which is 112 km long and which connects the east-west direction, i.e. connects the E-75 highway, the European highway, which goes from Norway to Greece and the Milos Veliki highway, which connects seven major municipalities and cities with over half a million inhabitants. The Ruma-Shabac highway with fast traffic Shabac-Loznica, which is on the agenda today, is 77 km long, of which is 22 km freeway and fast traffic 55 km with bridge across Sava in Šapac. This is one of the priority road traffic projects of the Republic of Serbia, since it connects and strengthens 600,000 inhabitants of this area, the Macvan district area, the area of the Srem County, connects Podrinje with Vojvodina on the one hand, and is connected to BiH on the other. For this, respected Serbian citizens, the SNS led by Aleksandra Vukic fought for a stable and economically strong country, which will attract new investments, building highways, which each dinar will invest in a new kilometer of highway. Aleksandar Vucic, respected Serbian citizens, is building highways, and Dragan Gilas, respected Serbian citizens, is blocking the roads. Gilas is blocking the highway illegally and unconstitutionally. You're so-called. The peaceful protesters were beaten by citizens who were in their way. And then the Gilasovites swear on democracy. It's not that, respected citizens of Serbia, democracy. This is called bravado, and by the definition of hoolocracy, it is an attempt by the rule of the mob or mass to influence constitutional authority. I wouldn't even call this a hoaxcrat. I would call this atrocity, because pride, the respected citizens of Serbia, is what the Gilasovites are doing. Pride is when you don't allow and block roads, bridges, intersections, when you beat up people who want to get through, when you're destroying their cars, and when you don't let people bring their children to a specific destination, whether it was school, whether it was kindergarten or it was a hospital, or a doctor. Now, that's pride. And it seems to me, and I am sure, that on April 3rd, Serbian citizens will be able to identify who is building Serbia and that it is Alexander Vukic and can recognize who is destroying Serbia and wants it bad, which is Dragan Gilas with his camel. Therefore, respected citizens of Serbia, we will fight and win, for better Serbia, for the future of all children and big steps to build more miles of highways. Lived the Republic of Serbia headed by Alexander Vukic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-14-0.u11472	Thank you. The word has a national emissary, Vesna Knezevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-14-0.u11473	The President-in-Office, the Honorable Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, is now on the agenda of an important law whose adoption is one of the priorities of the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs. The public debate on the draft law on the rights of users of temporary housing services was conducted between 28 April and 17 May this year and all interested parties were able to deliver their proposals, suggestions, initiatives or comments. At a session of the Committee on Labour, Social Affairs, Social Inclusion and Reduction of Poverty, held on 2 December 2021, whose member I am, the draft law was discussed in principle, as well as the Information on the work of the Ministry of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs for the period from 1 July to 30 September 2021. This law improves the position of users of temporary accommodation services under equal conditions, with active, effective and informed participation of all persons involved in decision-making concerning life and rights of users. The protection of the rights of users of temporary housing services in social protection enables continuous training of users for independent life and full and equal participation in society and the achievement of social inclusion through the deinstitutionalisation process. The municipality of Titell, from which I come, had until a short year ago a contract with a shelter within the House for the Old in Vienna. In the meantime, this type of service has been abolished, so that this law will allow for easier and faster care of users who, within a short period of time, need to provide temporary accommodation for families and individuals who are in social and life problems and difficulties, provide the necessary assistance and support to overcome them and create conditions for them to meet the basic needs of life. The municipality of Titell as a socio-responsible self-government, despite its third category of development, with a modest original budget of only 528,601,927,00 dinars making a major contribution to improving the living conditions of all citizens in a difficult economic situation, but not forgetting the youngest, nor students, students, pregnant women, maternity parents, the oldest category of the population. For this financial year, we have allocated a total of 77 million 221 thousand 260 dinars from the budget, and over ten million dinars have been allocated to a social work centre whose department is in the Title. We pay one-time support to families for the first child of 50,000 dinars, and for the second, third, and each next, 30,000 dinars. We're also refunding prenatal screening. We allocate a million and 200,000 dinars for financing 100% of the cost of staying third, fourth and next children in preschool for a full day and half-day stay, and 33 million dinars are allocated for the transport of primary and secondary school students. Their transport is free of charge. For the "Red Cross", we have defined 950,000 dinars, and two million and 900 for logos, escorts and the cost of transporting students with disruptions in their development. We scholarship 30 students, and these costs are three million dinars. We're also working with the Refugee Commissioner, so we've provided 12 million 590 thousand dinars to buy houses for families of internally displaced persons. What I want to point out is the fact that the municipality of Titell does not have its own social work centre, but that all activities are carried out within the framework of the Centre for Social Labour for the municipalities of Žabljaj and Titel, the Department of Titell. On this occasion, I ask the Ministry to help us establish a Centre for Social Labour of the municipality of Titell, whose work would require two or three more perpetrators, because the number of users in our municipality is very high. We have over three thousand users on record, with this number covering both financial assistance and other person's care, training for work, housing in social protection institutions, foster care, custody and other law rights. Ten of our foster families are housed 16 children. We have an employee of only three workers, who despite a large number of cases and users, work hard and give their maximum, in order to safely and responsibly carry out trusted tasks, and believe me, they are overloaded. What do we, like the titel municipality, have to do with the Frog? We don't have anything. We don't have any touch points. We are 40 km away, a supervision is performed by a worker from the Frog, who comes weekly to Titel, all solutions, all beliefs and decisions are made in the Frog, so that objects are constantly circulating and traveling on this route. All this indicates that it is necessary to establish a social work centre in my municipality, hire more professionals, in order to satisfy the needs of users even more efficiently and more effectively. In the voting day, I will support the draft law on the rights of users of temporary accommodation services in social protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-14-0.u11474	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Dr. Ugljesa Mrdić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-14-0.u11475	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Mrs. Kovac, dear Mrs. Kisic Tepavcevic, distinguished fellow MPs, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, of course I will support all proposed laws in the voting day. Everything that I agree with in these proposed laws is detailed and completely brilliantly explained by my colleague, Mrs Milanka Jevtović Vukojičić. Its presentation, as well as the presentation of my fellow MPs who spoke today about these laws from the parliamentary group "Alexander Vukic - For Our Children", speaks of Serbia as a country of results. Earth results in all areas. Serbia is being built, Serbia is being built, part of Serbia is connecting with other parts, modern highways and roads as far as rail traffic is concerned. Also, all the financial arrangements that are being concluded are in the interest of Serbian and Serbian citizens, and no one is doing better in the region than Serbia. This best shows the results regarding the concrete fight against the coronary virus. Over the past and over this year we have seen how someone can, and in this case Serbia, best to fight and when it comes to this monster regarding the crown of the virus, and how it protects the entire population. On the other hand, we have a policy of those who don't care about the entire population, we have a policy of those who are disturbed by all these results that we are talking about today, and that is certainly Dragan Djilas, Marinika Tepic, Vuk Jeremic and their counterparts. Their names should be announced every day, in order for Serbian citizens to see clearly what is good and what is bad for them. It is good that all this is done by Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and all that they offer to the citizens of Gilas and his fellow citizens is bad. Those who offer, in part, had opportunities to show and show citizens, which is when they were in power until 2012 in Serbia and by the end of 2013. As they destroyed Serbia, as they destroyed Belgrade, they can write not feletons, but books and make films, and probably one day movies about their criminal activities will be made. It is interesting that they use every opportunity, using every moment to win some political point with Serbian citizens, because they are nervous because there are just over three months left until the parliamentary elections, Belgrade and presidential elections. So the previous two Saturdays, and even during some other days, tried to abuse protests of works of citizens, which were 31 thousand in Serbia, 4.150 in Belgrade, those last Saturday, and this Saturday far less, tried to get political points along with false environmentalists and show citizens that most people are against the politics of Aleksandr Vukic, which is not true. Not only did they appear at these protests where both those who gathered did not want them, but they together with their mercenaries, and not only from Serbia, but from the region, tried to protest the omasses, which they failed, and tried to cause easy and serious physical harm to those citizens of Serbia who were passing through, and they succeeded. We had a chance to see the video. We had opportunities to see photographs of a group of Gilas' mercenaries brutally beating Serbian citizens who were guilty of wanting to pass. Isn't it one of the basic human rights in Serbia, isn't it one of the fundamental rights of freedom of movement at all? According to Djilas, Marinika Tepic and their comrades, citizens of Serbia, who do not think like them, have no right to freedom of movement, have no right to protect their family either, and we see it best according to the continued threats sent over the past week towards President Aleksandr Vukic and members of his family. To what extent is this their madness that if someone stands in the defense of President Vukic and his family and the Serbian government and SNS officials, and he is exposed to the worst possible threats, we, among other things, have had a threat addressed to both the presidency member and the SNS chief of the Information Service, Vladenko Malovic. She was threatened by a haircut. Whoever subsequently stepped into the defense of Vladka Malovic and was exposed on social networks to the worst possible threats. That's their policy. So our policy, SNS and Alexander Vucic, is that Serbia is being built and built, to take care of all citizens of Serbia and vital national and state interests, and their policy is to destroy and destroy everything that Alexander Vucic has built for the past nine years, so that they do not want citizens in elections, but the will of the streets, and not all the streets, but the works of the street in a violent way, with the help of some foreign intelligence services and forces and the centres of power of their, tycoon and criminal associates, come to power and teaching, mildly said, to steal and kidnap from Serbian citizens. What do we have on this other side, on this side of us, actually on this only possible normal side? It is that side of Serbia's majority will. We have the results. We have results that Serbia is leading the best possible regional policy in its newer modern history, and perhaps in its history at all. Perhaps the best in all history of Serbia and the Serbian people. We have a situation where Serbia shows concrete results regarding respect for the region's policy of peace and stability. We are trying to have good relations with all the countries we are bordering with, and especially with those countries in our environment where the Serbian people live. They have also never been better, and this has been discussed at the beginning of today's session, they have never been better in Serbia's history of the rights of national minorities in Serbia than they are today. Chuck, I wouldn't even say national minorities, I'd use a different term. They're our brothers and sisters. So in Serbia, both Serbian and Bosniak, Hungarian and all other peoples only need to respect the Constitution, only the law needs to be respected, it is only necessary to respect Serbia. One of the biggest crises in Europe, in addition to this health crisis where Serbia has responded well, and according to indicators is either the first or the second or third in Europe, we have an announcement that has already taken effect on the energy crisis. Thanks to our President Aleksandar Vukic's personal support, Serbia will come out as a winner of the energy crisis as well. Let's move on. Serbia is on a clear European path, on the way to European integration. Here, we've also been commended by the EU. So there are no areas where Serbia led Alexander Vukic shows no clear results, but not clear results only in theories, but clear results that we can see in practice. Shall we talk, Madam Minister, about the resources you run? Best possible results. Shall we talk about health care, education, education? Are we going to talk about building kindergartens, sports stadiums, primary and secondary schools? Shall we talk about energy and mining? Are we going to talk about built-up cars, the results in the area of infrastructure, construction, economy, economy? We are the best in the region everywhere, and among the best in Europe. Are we going to talk about a financial policy that, according to indicators, is the best in Europe in the past year? No country in Europe has such a leap in wages and pensions as Serbia has. We've shown that we can. When? When is the hardest, when is the crisis we can? Why? Because Serbia is leading a responsible policy. He's running a responsible policy because he's running that policy that's best, which is our President Alexander Vukic's policy. In doing so, our president has every day the need to account for Serbia's citizens. Why? Because he's the president of all citizens and the people chose him. When a problem arises in any part of Serbia, Aleksandar Vukic goes on the ground, leaves and talks directly to the people. What's the problem, is that wrong? It's no good. We're changing, we're moving on. What's the next problem? That's what we're changing. What do you miss here in this village? We miss the way. You'll have a way. Promises, follow the implementation of promises and welcome a concrete result. It goes to the citizens of Serbia to say – if we have promised, have we, have we fulfilled, have we. Are you satisfied, my dear citizens? They say they are. Now, that's the president, that's politics. It is the implementation of responsibility, and the most important word, in my opinion, is responsibility in politics. The government of Serbia and Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic also have responsibility. Of course, those who are irresponsible, those who do not think well of the citizens of Serbia, those who do not want the results for the common good, for our country, but who want the results only for their own pockets, of course that they do not respond to this policy and that now they are using every possible opportunity, every possible reason and reason and not relevant to do any harm not only to President Vukic, but also to Serbia. Because they realized that if they attack President Vukic and his associates, the citizens are aware of the truth and are jumping our president's ratings. Because the people love the truth, the people love the results, the people love the responsibility. But then they started -- let's knock Serbia down a little bit. Let's take down Belgrade a little bit, take down all the cities, let's block roads, traffic, let's do damage to both Serbia and all the citizens, and then challenge the interest of the international public, so that we can try to bring down Vucic to bring them to power. I have to remind you, last week at my colleague and friend's session, the president of our parliamentary group, Dr. Aleksandar Martinovic set several great examples of what I'm saying, and I would single out one. During a red beret protest, a former special op unit, it seems to me that it was in 2001 in the fall, a single lane of highways was blocked. So, not one side of the highway, but three lanes, and I'll be corrected by Dr. Martinovic, there was only one tape blocked, and that was one tape blocked for several hours. The then Serbian government, the then ruling coalition, then called the DOS's parties a coup. They called it a coup, as one traffic station, so no longer as they did last Saturday, but one part of a traffic station in one part of Belgrade was blocked. They called it a coup. What do we call what they're doing now, if they called it a coup? Their explanation was because they had ordered the special ops unit at the time to arrest the Banovic brothers, on suspicion that they were serious criminals, and it turned out that then the leadership of the Ministry of Serbia had deceived the unit to arrest people to extradite them to The Hague. I don't justify any form of protest at the time, not now, of any part of the highway, but I say that they then called it a coup, and the SNS, when it was building opposition protests, seems to me February 5th in Belgrade, i.e. A major rally in Belgrade in 2011, it seems to me that the second one was 16 April of the same year, the same spring of 2011, was here in front of the Assembly of more than 100,000 citizens. No broken jars, no offended cops, no incidents, no curses, everything went peacefully and with dignity. That's the difference between us and them. When I say us, I mean not only SNS, but I mean absolutely majority Serbia. When I say them, I mean those who have kidnapped and want to kidnap from Serbian citizens, they are Gilas and his fellow Members, who like to behave arrogantly and to use all violent illegal methods to harass Serbian citizens. Fortunately, it is the people who decide, and the people will show it to them on April 3rd next year in the elections when we all look forward to what is in the interest of all citizens of Serbia and our country, and that is the victory of the best policy in the recent modern history, which is the policy of our president, Aleksandr Vukic. Long live Serbia!
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-14-0.u11476	The word has a folk MP, Olja Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-14-0.u11477	Thank you, Honorable Chairman. The Honorable Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, is ahead of us today a set of draft laws, and I will look at today's presentation on the proposal for a law on the borrowing of the Republic of Serbia by Bank Intes, a.d. Belgrade, for the purpose of financing the Ruma-Shabac-Loznica project, based on a long-term investment loan contract. The construction of the Ruma-Shabac highway and the fast traffic station Shabac-Loznica is certainly one of our country's priority projects and is very important for the development and integration of about 600,000 people in the Macvanska and Sremski district, but this traffic is also important for Podrinje, western Serbia with Vojvodina, as well as for the connection of the part of Serbia with the region, especially with BiH. Only the performance covers three shares. The first is the construction of the Ruma-Shabac highway, a length of 21.14km for a speed of 130km per hour and the estimated time of construction is three years. The second section includes building a bridge across the Sava River in Sapac, 1327.5m long and construction time also for three years. The third share of construction of a fast section from Šapac to Loznica is 54.58km long for a speed of 100km per hour and there is an estimated time of construction of four years. With the 2022 budget, which we recently adopted here in the National Assembly, the state has allocated never more capital investment funds. The capital budget for next year is 7.3% of GDP, or 485.6 billion dinars. It will continue with major infrastructure projects that encourage economic and employment, as is this project we are talking about today. There is no strong economy and strong economy without highways, high-speed railways and investment in traffic infrastructure, and we have recognized that from the very beginning and recognized it, so according to this, since SNS came to power, we have completed many projects that were launched decades ago. Many projects are still being done today, and many will only be launched in the next period. Dreams come true, we have networked Serbia as we can see, and today every part of Serbia is developing and progressing evenly. There are currently 10 highways being built in Serbia and a fast traffic station. Despite the global economic crisis and the coronary virus we have not stopped, we have already continued to build and build, and that trend will continue for the next and all years ahead. In addition, it is working on reconstruction and modernisation and railways across Serbia. I'll just point out that the reconstruction of the Nis - Dimitrovgrad railway is also envisaged, which is very important for my district, besides, of course, all others that work across the country, because it's important that people travel from one end of the country to another in a very short time, but we'll also be networked with the region. By investing in road infrastructure, Serbia is increasingly attractive for foreign direct investments. In addition to the crisis due to the coronary of the virus, no investor has given up investing in Serbia, which means that our country is putting people's safety to invest their money right in our country, which makes us an absolute leader in the region. It means new factories, new jobs and salaries for our citizens. We managed to keep the unemployment rate from 2019, although much more developed countries have faced mass layoffs than we have, our country has managed to resist, and this has certainly contributed to major aid packages for both citizens and businesses and financial resources for the sectors most affected by this crisis. In addition, it continues with a further continued increase in public sector wages of 7%, in the military and social protection and health care of 8%, as well as pensions that will be higher by 5.5% as of 1 January, followed by one-time cash assistance to our oldest citizens in February of 20,000 dinars. In addition to many plans and projects, the state also reduces the level of public debt next year, which by the end of the year should be about 56.5% of GDP, below the Mastricht level. The state is now in charge of smartness, not as before under unfavourable conditions. Some of these debts we managed to pay off, and we've already returned the country to stable economic feet. As I said, we will continue to work and further progress, which certainly means investing in infrastructure and building roads, but unfortunately we see that there are people blocking those roads. If we exclude people who were really concerned and wanted to warn us about the lack of law, which was the president himself, but we all listened and accepted because the people's opinion was important to us, the others made it impossible for people to move freely, and we saw that there were also physical accounts and insults in some places, and they were there with only one goal, and that was the destruction of Alexander Vukic. The people remember their rule very well. The employees of a company with a well-known boss don't care how the citizens live. We could see that while they were in power when the factories were closing down and leaving people on the street worried about how to survive and feed the family, while they were filling their accounts around the world. They do not care about any picture of Serbia that we send to the world. They're not interested in the environment, they're not interested in the issue of environmental protection, because nature isn't stored on the streets, where we've seen torches burn and leave garbage behind, but with serious work on it. Hundreds of wild dumps have managed to clean and rehabilitate this government in the past months alone, not to mention the construction of sewage infrastructure, waste water treatment plants and many other projects, environmental protection projects and for which the state has allocated hundreds of millions of euros. As a confirmation of work for a better environment, the very important news is also the opening of Chapter 27 under Cluster 4. They don't care what people think, how they feel, they just find the subject they're trying to manipulate people. Of course we all want clean water, air, land, but that's not what you get on the streets and overnight because it's a decades-old problem, it's what you get by working on it, and one of the three priorities of this government is exactly the topic of environmental protection, and this government, along with the Ministry of Environmental Protection, has the most worked on it. Until a few years ago, the same "Rio Tinto" in a position they brought to Serbia was good. Now they go out into the streets against him as Aleksandar Vukic goes out to people to discuss their problems and let them know that after all the risk assessments at the end of the day, the people will plead and give the last word. All they care about is getting back to power, preferably on the street, and no choice, and they don't care if it's the will of the people or foreigners or foreign embassies, which they're asking for help, but it's past the time when it was forced. Now the will of the people is respected, and the power comes exclusively in the elections. The only thing that matters to them is what they see as their ultimate goal is the state register that is now full, and when they left power not only was it empty, they left us in debt and so to speak on the brink of bankruptcy. It is the only goal they are trying to reach in every way possible, to step over everything and everyone, but to that end, to continue to rob their biggest obstacle is Aleksandar Vukic. We're not going to be hesitated by false environmentalists to fight and work in the interest of the people and the states they robbed, and now they'd like to continue with it. We saw how they pictured Serbia the day after. They'd arrest, lynch, cut and hang anyone they didn't like and talk about publicly and threaten. A decent Serbia is ashamed of all attacks. A decent Serbia does not support violence, destruction and blockades. A decent Serbia supports work, effort, construction, progress and further development, and therefore we will support all these laws accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-14-0.u11478	Thank you. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-14-0.u11479	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, of all the proposals, I am of course supporting the highway between Ruma and Capac and the fast traffic from Zapac to Loznica. Anyone who had a chance to travel that section saw that the road leading from Ruma to Capca and to Capca to Loznica was full of populated places to go and it's very difficult to cross those 77 kilometers unless I'm wrong. Construction is very demanding and requires resources, but since we are famous for building roads, some are known for blocking them. The bridge in Sapac should be 1.3km and I don't know how Zelenovic or some future Zelenovic will manage to block such a modern traffic station. So, those who didn't build anything, those who didn't have an economy, those who almost had an ecological state because none of the drives worked, in Serbia by 2012, they smoked two factory chimneys, who had a chance to go through all of Serbia, they almost had their own negligent and ecologically pure state today turned into a crowd of road robbers who, along with shouts -- mother-in-law, beat up passengers, I guess, show those peasants in Sunday how worried they are about them, take and beat up someone on the highway with shouts -- mom, you peasant. Speaking of these peasants, maybe he has more reason to block the traffic, but that doesn't occur to them. They may have more reason to protest since, say, the price of mineral fertilisers has gone three times, since the crop needs to be done, since the wheat must be saved, and today you need 500kg of fertilizer for a hectare, and 500kg of fertilizer costs 500 euros. So it largely collects the sowing and one kilogram of fertilizer is almost worth three loafs of bread. It's very hard to do business, it's very hard to start production in agriculture. By the way, agriculture is one of the biggest environmental pollutants in the world. It is very difficult to deal intensively with agricultural production at these prices, as it is almost impossible only for mineral fertilisers per hectare to provide 60,000 dinars, plus seeds, plus diesel, plus plant protection products, so it will take over a thousand euros to start production on one hectare of agricultural land. Of course, it doesn't come to mind that we go out and block highways, because that's us, that's the difference between civilization and savages, that's the difference between what they say -- lax and elite in Belgrade that gives itself the right to terrorise passengers, and no one in traffic on roads has gone, as they won't go through this traffic when we build it, which has 54 bridges and is very demanding. So no one thinks of going on a trip just like that, they're very rare, so someone who has time to lose three hours. Usually people are on their way to do their job, to do something, and now imagine when someone takes two or three hours of your life by blocking you on the highway or in some regional and magistrateal direction, he has given himself the right to restrict and take the liberty of the other on behalf of his freedom. So, those who work under these circumstances, especially farmers row upriver, don't have time to rock the boat, they usually do that, the boat swings those who don't row and we've had a chance to see them, not only on Gazela, not just on the highways, but we could see them in a edition of which there were and how violence and anyone who prevents freedom of movement by me organizers should apply Article 133. A criminal code that says - who interferes with freedom of movement or prevents it will be punished by prison for up to a year. Also, there is a Transport Safety Act of Article 98 that says – every foot that gets on the highway, and now thanks to God there are many built and much more will be built than has been built so far, every foot that gets on the highway will be punished up to 40,000 dinars, so that's the Traffic Safety Act on the Roads, or a prison sentence of up to 30 days. I ask the judicial authorities, the courts for violations and other jurisdictional courts to punish road robbers, and to protect innocent passengers and to apply them, and there is a sign that this has already begun, that the provisions of the Law on the Security of Transport and the provisions of the Criminal Code are applied to those who have been allowed to have certain freedoms that cannot be limitless and cannot be limited to the freedom of others who have dared to abuse freedom for those who have gone on the road to do something. I repeat, no one has the right, imagine now that you're being restricted and locked in a vehicle for two, three hours because there's a Gilas, or some Cunti, or some Sava, who cares about showing their political power. On the roadways, one builds roadways, the other blocks them. On roadblocks, we can see different phenomena. So we can see NGOs, unregistered in fact political parties that registered as NGOs, as associations, NGOs, in fact anti-government organisations that missed an opportunity, or membership, to register as a political party, couldn't collect 10,000 signatures or for a minority party a thousand, but were smuggling with three members. Such unregistered political organisations, which are financed by Rok Feller and by some other foundations, foreign donors, have given themselves the right to express their political desire on the highways, and have been financed from the outside and intending some of them, as "we do not strangle Belgrade", have already gone to elections, intend to go to elections as political parties. Let me remind you, that political parties are forbidden from financing outside, and those who are some kind of parapolitical organisation, who pretend to be some NGO, are actually classical political parties, receive money from the outside and go to the polls. It's unacceptable for me. Such unregistered political parties on the road organise undeclared gatherings that are not reported in accordance with the law, which is also a violation, as each gathering must be registered five days earlier. So we have unregistered parties that organize unregistered gatherings and then finally we have a media sponsor. These are unregistered political parties, fictitiously registered in Luxembourg. We had a chance to see that there were some kind of promoters of these various roadblocks. We could see this, as we couldn't see yesterday's protest in Luxembourg that was on a Luxembourg street where television and reportedly Luxembourg police missed the opportunity to show us how protests containing no roadblocks were suppressed in Luxembourg, but were not reported in accordance with the law and the Luxembourg police, with the help of the Belgian police, are water cannons and police in Luxembourg with the help of the Belgian police. So, in order for the laws to be implemented, the state has to show power, the power to enforce the laws of the state makes it a state, and I think that in some of the following events, if that happens, the state demonstrates the seriousness and suppresses the demonstration, that is to say, the action of road robbers. These unregistered televisions at unregistered gatherings, which are organised by unregistered political parties, have noticed that they are actively promoting, as they have here in front of the nine-camera assembly, promoting the attack and pounding of cameras, the National Assembly by beating up police officers from whom some have sustained serious injuries. I'm not for some kind of excessive violence, but the state is some kind of force owner and the law of the road must be contained by law enforcement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-14-0.u11480	Thank you. The word is Ljiljana Malusic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-14-0.u11481	Thank you, Vice President of the National Assembly. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before I go to my presentation, I will primarily support my colleague, Mrs Malovic, who is most deeply offended, because the tweet was clearly threatened, which means – if you think what I don't mean, you'll be cut to the head. Which in translation would mean, you will be humiliated. Here, I'm the first to answer for that haircut. Shame on them! You can imagine what kind of man that is, which is a profile of a man, a man. They used to burn witches just because they thought differently, and they were doctors and they were above time. They'll be pissed off at us. So what was referred to Mrs. Malovic is something that could be in the middle category of violence. We've been beaten here. Mr. Marian almost died if it wasn't for party colleagues, they would have killed him. They shot Mr. Martinovic, ripped off the jackets, spit on us. The insult? Well, it's like a good day to him. But we will beat them, gentlemen, because we have the results of the work, and they have nothing. There! To push us, to spit us, to make us, to say - to belittle us. They can't humiliate us. A man can only humiliate himself. All you remember is how they threatened us as far as the Minister's concerned, that she'd be raped? Well, that's an unprecedented case. They bulldoze our president's kids every day. One, two, third child. They bullied his parents. He's being bullied, too. He'll be pissed off. They'll piss us all off. Well, you know why they're gonna hang us? Because that's the only way they can come to power. They don't have results, work results. They don't have anything. They don't have a program. Only violence, violence, violence. When we look, in some ways, and it's a good thing he's in front of the election right now, they're showing their true face. Just remember Mr. Gilas who, when the police stopped him, said, "Come on, get out of the way and swear, which I will never do in this National Assembly in this high house, because it is an honor to be an MP here." He also said you'll remember me when I come to power. Well, is something like that supposed to come to power? This is a decent Serbia. As my esteemed colleague Mrdic put it, there were 100,000 people on this SNS plateau and SNS supporters without any broken jars, no one was injured. That's how it works. I'm going to talk today, of course, about infrastructure, because I don't think there's any investment for us without infrastructure, there's no better life for us. Last year alone, foreign direct investment was 3.6 billion euros. Every year we make progress thanks to good, organised work, thanks to Serbia that is making progress. We're a stability factor in the region. We're a respectable force today, just because we run a wise policy. We're working. This is where it works, this is where it's built. We today have over 67,000 construction sites in Serbia. We've hired a building. This is where it's built, this is where it's done. We hired over 250,000 people, and they fired 400,000 people in 2008. And not only that, they fired 1,000 judges, so we had to refund debts, 43m euros to those people who lost their jobs. Do you know why? Well, just because they weren't loyal authorities, like Judge MM, that I wouldn't give him popularity, because he's pretty hated in the people, and you know why. Because he let go of the gjilan group, the same group that cut and roasted the Serbian breast. It's the one who's got something ugly about everyone, only about himself nice, so he's running for president. And not just him, but everyone who was in the opposition. I wish them luck, and I want them to come to their senses and start creating a program and get that program out, so maybe people will give some percentage to them, which I would love very much. Because here, there are 200 MPs from the SNS alone, and I'd like it to be a charm, to discuss it in this high house, because that's what it's all about. But if they continue with the violence, I don't think they'll ever enter this high house. Let me carry on with the infrastructure. The loan approved for the trip of Ruma-Shabac-Loznica is 14 billion and 900 million dinars and is of paramount importance. In three stages, a construction project was built. The first share will be the Ruma-Shabac highway, and the second phase will be the bridge that will be built on Savi in Šapac. The third phase of construction will be a fast-track to Loznica. This is extremely important for this entire county. So 600,000 people will be networked. It will primarily connect the Mačvani District, then Sremski District, Podrinje, western Serbia with Vojvodina, as well as that part of Serbia with the region, especially Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is of paramount importance. In Serbia, capital investments are under way, but before I go about it, I just have to say that it's designed and it's going to build another thousand kilometers of highways. I'll give you a tax on what's going to be built. Ten highways will be built. I have to make a parallel there. By 2012, the opposition built as many as 65km of highways from 2000 to 2012, and we built over 400km of highways from 2012 to 2021, so in nine years. Currently, 250km of highways are being built and another thousand will be built. That's how it's done, gentlemen, and I'm sure we'll see the results of our own work on April 3rd. Now, next to this highway and the fast section, the Fruskogorski corridor will be built from Novi Sad to Ruma 47.7 kilometers, then Kuzmin-Sremska Raca 18 kilometers, Požerac-Velika Gradište-Golubac, then the fast traffic along the Danube to the Fast Palanka, with the arms towards Kladovo and Negotina, the Moravski corridor from Pojat to Čačka 110km, then Nis-Pločnik, Lajkovac-Valjevo, Preljina-Požega, Surčin-Novi Belgrade. Belgrade-Zrenjanin, Zrenjanin-Novi Sad, the highway of Vožd Karadjordje, will be built, which is a merger from Mladenvec and Lazarec in Arangelovac, then via Raca towards Despotovac and from there to Bor. There will also be the construction of the Pogorjevac-Boljari shops etc., etc. Dear gentlemen, apart from building highways, we have two capital projects. These are the metros, which finally came to life and started to be built, and after 50 years of story and one of the most beautiful promenades in this part of the world, which is "Belgrade on Water". Just remember what it looked like when the construction started, when it was all about the project. Some ducks immediately appeared, and who knows what other animals -- we're not strangling Belgrade, Belgrade's beautiful and like this, what do we need it for? Remember what that part of town looked like. There was a cemetery of old ships, a snakefish. No one was allowed to pass by at night, the conclusion was until two, three afternoons, until the next day. Prostitution and drug abuse. And today is the most beautiful part in this part of the world, the most beautiful promenade. All those who say it's wrong to walk, gentlemen, believe me, whenever I can go there. Besides, the most exclusive neighborhoods in the world are right on the water. Well, look at Paris, look at London, look at Budapest. The most expensive and exclusive are right on the water. The parliament of Great Britain has just entered the Thames, two metres in the Thames. As far as further investment is concerned, Serbia is moving forward, Serbia is a very respectable country and Serbia will already be the favorite destination for all people in the world in a few years. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-14-0.u11482	Thank you. The word has a doctor, Dr. Ilija Živić.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-14-0.u11483	Dear citizens, Madam Minister, respected colleagues, by passing this law on borrowing, which we are considering today, we will enable the construction of a highway connecting as many as 600,000 people, who have been waiting for decades. Many have promised this time in previous years and decades, however, no one but the Serbian Progressive Party and Alexander Vukic moved beyond the promise. With this construction of the highway, we keep our pre-election promises, unlike Dragan Gilas, who used pre-election promises only to cover the people's eyes, while he existed on a richer day. By building this road, we are not only connecting these 600,000 people living in Serbia, but we are opening up a new stock and enabling co-operation between companies in Serbia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, which has a lot to do with raising standards. That also reduces the number of unemployed on both sides of the border. I just want to remind respected Serbian counterparts and citizens that today the number of unemployed is two and a half times smaller than during the rule of Dragan Djilas, Marinika Tepic and Vuk Jeremic. One of the reasons is that we have built and built a large number of highways of bus, regional and other roads for a short time. What is extremely significant when we observe this contract, is that I noticed that borrowing is done in dinars, which was unimaginable during the rule of Dragan Gilas. I'll remind you that during the rule of the so-called yellow dinar regime, it was more than 50% weak, and that kind of thing was really unimaginable at the time. Unfortunately, apart from this constructive and state-run policy that we have, we have the policy offered by Gilas, Marinika, the so-called environmentalists, their co-workers who support roadblocks, roads, roads that are there to connect, not to separate people. In this way, they want to classically abuse a large number of Serbian citizens who were on demonstrations of so-called environmentalists, who tried to take credit for Marinika and Gilas. All of us here know, like most Serbian citizens, that the ultimate goal of both the silent and the marine and the jilas and others that organise so-called ecological demonstrations is not to make any environmental reasons, but to come to power without a choice, with the help of a foreign factor, who would have put them in power the day after the elections, for which they would have announced that they were not legitimate, that there were no democratic conditions or that they were stolen. Of course, such a policy of bringing to power without a choice certainly includes the conduct of violence and riots on the streets and it is some scenario that we must fight here, as MPs of politics, and security services in its own way in accordance with the Constitution and the law. But what can happen, as an adverse reaction to the action of so-called environmentalists, is the development of a radical anti-technological movement, which is far more dangerous than radical eco-golism or green anarchism, and this has happened several times in the world as a result of such moves, such environmentalists and environmental demonstrations. The beginner of all was the most famous domestic terrorist in the United States, University Professor Theodorka Kachinski, to whom the authorities of the United States were pressed by his blackmail and bomb threats to Washington, were forced to publish in "Washington Post" his manifesto against technological progress, his manifesto named - Industrial Society and his future. The athentic manifesto has influenced the formation of several serious anti-technological radical organisations and even a serious terrorist group in Mexico called ITS. I know that many of you are going to sound like I've gone too far or this is too rough or too harsh, but my obligation as a safety professor is to distract you and draw the public's attention to the model I recognized. It is especially important that this model recognises the security services and the political summit itself. Look, we already have several radical groups today that have come from so-called random and so-called demonstrations that have occurred spontaneously and these radical groups can make a serious problem for us as a state and slow down some foreign investments that we care about, because without foreign investment, we can't move forward, we can't go any further simply. Already in the protests, you have people who oppose any kind of technological progress. They carry transparency against mines, against "Electroprived Serbia", against wind parks, thermal power plants, telephony, EPS and everything else. On a large number of billboards that I could see in Belgrade, the smaller ones, which you can see in the streets, there are signs -- electricity kills and the text below accuses "Electroprivred Serbia" of using electricity, using coal to kill Serbian citizens. In addition, there are some public figures, such as lawyer Gajic, who is demanding that the Serbian government undertake not to open any mine in the next 100 years. You already have the beating of innocent citizens at protests by people who have taken too radically for environmental protection. If you look closely at the footage, and you will see that in these ecological protests other than the people whom Marinika, Gilas and the others paid to come, there are some people who have just radicalized themselves and for whom ecology has become a question of life and death. In addition to people who are paid to act as environmentalists, you will see people who think that other than environmentalism is a matter of life and death, you will see that there are people who prevent people from going through, people who have forced mothers to carry children across the Pančeva Bridge, over Brank's bridge in their arms. That is why, as a responsible authority, we must not allow any citizen of Serbia to be the victim of demonstrations, which have begun any occasion and it is therefore important to tell citizens what is behind the so-called ecological protests. We need to talk to the people, and that is true, and to draw attention to the attempts of Dragan Gilas and his mentors to cause chaos and riots in Serbia. Such a picture is eager to see the mentors of Gilas, Marinika, Šute and others abroad, who want to stop the progress of the Serbian state at all costs, have not tried to throw us on our knees and thus prevent us from supporting our people living in Republika Srpska, Montenegro or Kosovo and Metohija, especially because they all know that today's Serbia led by President Aleksandar Vukic will never allow any new "Storm", this will never happen again, not while Aleksandar Vukic is president and therefore full support for state policy and the construction of roads and stability of the region and President Vukic. Long live Serbia! Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-14-0.u11484	Thank you. The word is Vladica Maricic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-14-0.u11485	Thank you, Vice President of the National Assembly, Mr. Orlic. Dear Minister, honourable fellow MPs and respected citizens of Serbia, today we have three very important laws on the agenda. The first law is in the field of social protection, it is the Law on the rights of users of temporary housing services in social protection. It is a service already provided in the social protection constitutions in Serbia, and we now regulate the rights of users of these services by sectoral law in the way that it is regulated by European conventions and many international agreements with which Serbia is a signator. In my town, in Nis temporary accommodation service is provided by the Dom for Children “Duško Radović”, specifically providing home accommodation service and shelter service. The quality of their services and you and the minister have repeatedly convinced yourself of the quality of their services, as well as the well-being of management and educators, staff, during the crown crisis, during the state of emergency, during the pandemic of the Coronary Virus. This group of services includes, services – a break of accommodation or how a break from parenting provided by the “Mara” institution is known in Nis for credits during emergency conditions awarded by the President of the Republic and followed by construction and reconstruction so that it can provide even better and better quality temporary accommodation services. What's characteristic of these services we're discussing today is that they're of a temporary nature. When it comes to adult faces, it's up to 12 months, and when it comes to minors, it's up to six months. This service, i.e. the detailed regulation of this service, will allow the further process of institutionalisation of the social protection system, i.e. all those who for some reason cannot function independently in society, the family environment, or with the application of some other social protection measures, no longer need to be placed in an institution, no longer applying a permanent solution, but the service of temporary accommodation with a constant evaluation of the impact and measure, the possibility of reviewing it and replacing it with another, less restrictive service. I look forward to it every time, Minister, when you are here and not on the agenda we have laws in the area of reform of the social protection system, they were sectoral laws, like this one today, whether reform of the system law, the Social Protection Act, which I believe is coming because the existing law comes from 2011 and is passed in completely different socio-economic and political conditions. Why do I say it in different political conditions? Well, because it began to apply, in April 2011, exactly 13 months before those crucial elections in 2012, and it was brought by the yellow tycoon-jilasian-Tadiæ government to somehow buy social peace. We remember that at the time the minimum was 150 euros, that the average earnings in the Republic of Serbia were 330 euros, and that unemployment was recordable, as much as 26%. Under these conditions, they wanted to provide all these unemployed persons with such income, to calm down social rebellion and social unrest. We remember that at that time in 2010 and 2011, dissatisfied court workers cut their fingers off and they were thus trying to buy an election victory and cheat on Serbian citizens. Of course, in the 2012 elections, Serbian citizens did not allow themselves to be deceived, they chose the future, they chose new jobs, they chose the growth of standards, they chose new highways, they chose everything that today resembles our president, Alexander Vukic, and SNS policies, both on the international scale, on the national plan and on the local plan. SNS policy is felt in every village in Serbia, in every village, in every suburban settlement, in every smaller or larger municipality, in every city. As for the other laws that are on the agenda today, other important, not social but economic law, is the Law on debt for the Ruma-Shabac-Loznica highway project. The project consists of two parts. From the construction of the highway between Ruma and Šapac and the construction of a fast traffic station between Šapac and Loznica. This is one of the ten infrastructure projects of highway construction and fast traffic that are being realized in Serbia in December 2021, which is the Fruskogorski corridor, this is the road that we are discussing today, Ruma-Shabac-Loznica, that is Kuzmin-Sremska Raca, that is Preljina-Požega, that is the Moravski corridor that will connect south-east with the south-west of our country, especially important for my citizens in Nis and for all people in southeastern Serbia, it is Surčina-Novi Belgrade, it is a bypass around Belgrade, it is a highway of Pozharjevac-Big Gradište-Golubac, it is a bypass around Kragujevac, and of course the construction of the highway from Nis to Merdar, the first phase of Nis-Pločnik, which is recently started, which means the road of Kosovo's regional and the city of Zagreb, which means that allows to the city of Kosovo. I would have told you all that during the weekend, three days in my town, in Nis, President Alexander Vukic was staying, and this visit is especially looking forward to me. What makes me happy? Well, I'll be back in recent history, in October 2016, when Aleksandar Vukic, then as Prime Minister with the entire government, stayed in Nis for seven days. This October 2016 represents, in fact, a milestone for development, both Nisa and Nisavski County, and all five districts in southern central Serbia. They were then placed in the focus of development. My city has received three new factories since then, soon to be fourth, and that is seven factories since 2012. He received the completion of the Clinical Centre, which invested around 50m euros, which began back in 1970. It was this University Clinical Centre in Nis that was the backbone of the fight against the crown of the virus, against the pandemic, both southern and eastern Serbia. So, areas with about three million inhabitants, my city, after that October 2016, received a science and technology park in which about 21m euros were invested along with laboratory lamelas of the Faculty of Electronics. Also, on a recent visit, last weekend, Aleksandar Vukic pledged to build a fast track from Nis to Belgrade and Nis towards the Macedonian border. He promised to complete the Nis-Dimitrovgrad railway electrification project, which is particularly important, because one of its stages is the removal of the railway line from the centre of Nis which divides the city into two parts. He also promised to build a magnificent stadium in Chair. We know that the previous yellow power in the construction, i.e. the reconstruction of only three stands of the stadium invested about 12m euros, had no more than fourm euros to invest in its completion, in the reconstruction of the Western tribune, and now President Aleksandar Vucic announced that the complete reconstruction of the Cair Stadium would be invested around 60m euros, making the Chiir Stadium a capacity of 20,000 seats and meeting UEFA four standards and being a venue for the maintenance of many international representative matches, as well as the qualification games for many championships. The third law we are discussing today is a law that treats families of diplomatic representatives of the Indian Embassy in Belgrade. India is a very important partner for us, India is one of the backbones of BRIKS countries, India is increasingly present in the Asian Pacific region. It is a nation that grows up and is slowly following the People’s Republic of China in development in that part of Asia. For us, India is important because it is one of the stakeholders in the construction of a large chemical center in the port of Prahovo in the Danube. What sublimes all of these laws into one, which is why I, as well as my colleagues from the legislator group Aleksandar Vukic – for our children in the day of voting with pleasure to vote for them, is exactly the policy of President Alexander Vukic. We reform the social protection system in order to provide those most needed with adequate social policy measures. We continue to develop Serbia by building highways and we continue to build and develop Serbia's international reputation in the world. Long live Serbia! Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-14-0.u11486	Thank you. The word is Anna Beloica's folk emissary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-14-0.u11487	Thank you. Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, respected representatives of the government, respected citizens of Serbia, the price of success is hard work, commitment to work and determination to win or lose the task that was in our hands. We figure it out in time, and we try to fight every day, work for the benefit of all our citizens. The laws we are discussing today in this high House are in favour of this and represent the paradigm of the policy that the Republic of Serbia is today leading with President Aleksandar Vukic and represent the paradigm of the policy that the Serbian Progressive Party is today also leading, which is certainly a policy of prosperity, success, improvement and a better standard of living for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. In my presentation today, I will focus on the draft law on borrowing the Republic of Serbia for the purpose of financing the Ruma-Sabac-Loznica Project, which is extremely important for several reasons. First of all, this ensures a direct impact on each individual in the Republic of Serbia, and on the other hand some economic benefits are being achieved. In this way, by building every new traffic station, each new highway provides for the inflow of new investors, new jobs are opened, stability and peace are achieved throughout the region, and what is most important is to accelerate and increase living standards for all citizens of our country and ensure economic growth and the development of the entire Republic of Serbia. The construction of the Ruma highway – Shabac and the fast traffic station Shabac – Loznica is one priority project, since it connects over 600,000 people in the Mačvanska and Sremski district, i.e. West Serbia connects with Vojvodina and secures the integration, generally speaking, of the entire territory of our country with the region, i.e. Bosnia and Herzegovina. So, by building new highways, we are making more security for our citizens, and as I have mentioned, there is also the attraction of new investors, so it is expected, therefore, that the industrial zone in Šapco will provide new jobs by opening new factories, primarily due to the proximity of the highway, due to the proximity of Belgrade, and of course, to the airport "Nikola Tesla" and that we will thus speed up the accelerated growth and development and this part of the Republic of Serbia. The commercial contract on the design and construction of this highway was signed in 2019, with Azerbaijani company Azvirt, and this is a 467.5m-euro contract. So it's a 50-mile-long highway and there's three parts of the highway. The first section of the highway is Ruma – Šabac in the length of 22 kilometers, and the second section is bridge over Sava in length of 1.3 kilometers and of course, the third section is a fast traffic from Šapac to Loznica in length of 55 kilometers. At this point in the Republic of Serbia, as many as 10 highways are being built, and it seems to me that we are the only country in all of Europe, and I guess in the whole world that has managed to build as many as 10 cars at the same time in these crisis and difficult times. I will take the opportunity to remind all citizens of the Republic of Serbia that at this point we are also implementing a project to build a Belgrade Metro, and this is a project that our citizens have been promised decades ago, and it seems to me that no one has managed enough strength, courage and energy to deal with the realization of this project itself. I will remind the citizens that in a very short time period of record time we have managed to build three new birds of the hospital, that we have set up a cornerstone for the construction of a brand new vaccine factory, where our Serbian vaccines will be produced, that we have managed to provide significant investments in all spheres of social life, beginning with education, culture, ecology and all other areas, and yet we have managed to preserve economic activity even during the pandemic of the coronary virus and that we have also made it possible, therefore, to achieve this economic stability, which is of great importance for our country. The budget rebalance reduced the level of the fiscal deficit from 6.9%, as originally planned, to 4.9%. Also, we managed to reduce the level of public debt from 60% to 58.2% of our GDP. What I would point out is that with the new 2022 budget, we managed to raise salaries in the public sector and pensions, and all these are the results that we leave in the amannet for all new generations to come. At this point, the SNS is writing new pages of history, but it bothers those who are fighting the interests of their own people, who are fighting their own country, against the interests of their own state, because they are aware of one fact, which is that every result that the SNS achieves will defuse their dirty political struggle for power. Why do I say dirty? Because, esteemed MPs, in this political struggle, no funds are chosen. There's something that's sacred to all of us, and it's certainly children and family. We are witnessing that the children of Alexander Vukic have been going through the media fungi and mud for days, that they are being targeted at the head, that members of his family are being criminalised, dehumanized, and only for one purpose, and that is the violent overthrow of Alexander Vukic from power. We could see that these days some quasi-ecological protests are being organised by those people who brought "Rio Tinto" to the Republic of Serbia, who are fighting so hotly today. These quasi-ecological protests are organised by those who have sold their property, their private property to the same Rio Tintu for huge sums of money, for the amount of money that today the average citizen in the Republic of Serbia can only imagine and dream of it. The same ones who were in power in our country by 2012 and who could not provide jobs or basic existential conditions, let alone take care of ecologicality, environmental protection or clean air. We could see terrible scenes, where violent protesters stopped cars, car columns where sick little children were, that parents carried the same children in their arms to the first medical station, to the first medical facility, to the first doctor, to stop the synergy of patients whose health deteriorated from minute to minute without having the opportunity to pass those violent protesters. Every honest and honest citizen who wanted to stand up to these violent protesters ended up either with his head broken or with his eye ripped out, or with a broken windshield, a burning car, or at least depraved, and humiliated. I want to, respected citizens, from this place to tell you that all environmental requirements are met by Alexander Vukic, fulfilled by the SNS, and on the street you still have those violent protesters who think that the street in the Republic of Serbia will define politics, who think that the street will be the one that sets up or overthrows someone from power. Also, on behalf of all SNS women, I want to tell all those people who are threatening us one very important thing, which is that we are not afraid of their violence, their insults, their threats, their scissors, their machine guns, or anything else, just because we have one single goal, which is to fight for a better, brighter and more modern future for all our children. As a representative of honest, decent and decent citizens from this high house, I want to condemn violent and uncivilised behaviour that restricts the freedom of movement of all decent and honest citizens and for the sake of only one single goal, and that is, I repeat, the violent overthrow of Alexander Vukic from power and the acquisition of cheap political points. I also want to tell them that they always keep this thought in mind when they want to go out on the street and break their heads to their own citizen, that those who die with honor remember a thousand years, and those who live without honor, forget their own children. Smart enough. And we'll definitely see each other on April 3rd at polling stations, when we're going to fight you fairly and exclusively with paper and pencils. I don't think you'll be worthy of us then. Serbia, under the leadership of Alexander Vukic, will continue to fight for improvement, for prosperity, and we members of the SNS will continue to dream of great works, because we are just writing new pages of history to them. Every great dream begins with a dream, and we have come to know ourselves and we see that we have enough strength, energy and patience to change Serbia and make it a better and better place to live and that it is just as lofty, decent and just to leave all the new generations to come. Long live Serbia!
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-14-0.u11488	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Milimir Vujadinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-14-0.u11489	Thank you. I'm going to try to be as brief as possible and be as perceptive as you are often, so that our colleagues have a chance to say a few more on the subject of these laws. Dear Minister, I would like to welcome you to this honored home. Honestly, when I saw you this morning, I wasn't very informed about all the events and the injury you're carrying, I thought you might be one in a series of those who have survived beatings around the Republic of Serbia these days. But your presence, and in such a state of health, speaks of responsibility, above all, of government towards this respected home and towards the people of the Republic of Serbia, but also in the region. Therefore, a special thank you for being with us today, first of all, as a representative of the government. Dear colleagues and respected citizens of Serbia, here, December 14th, it is a great day for the Serbian people in the Balkans. In 1995 he was signed in Paris today, after that parade was made in Dayton, the Dayton Peace Agreement was signed in Paris. It also put an international verification of the existence of Republika Srpska, which was founded shortly earlier in 1992, and the Serbian people received some kind of state-run framework via Drina. Much more this event than the day of Republika Srpska's formation. After centuries, our people through Drina received a framework in which they had a serious political influence and which bears a prefix of Serbian, and every time we know through the breaking historical moments when the Serbian people did not have such a state-of-the-art framework, it tragically passed. The Republika Srpska is still fighting today for its survival and preservation of what are the assets of the Dayton Peace Agreement. Republika Srpska and our people, today I particularly apostropherate Republika Srpska, but there is also our people in Montenegro and other countries of the region, but the Serbian Orthodox Church everywhere in the region is struggling hard to preserve identity, and in matters of politics, to preserve the currents of Dayton and the Constitution and the laws of BiH, and thus to preserve our people in Republika Srpska and BiH. As you know, the Republic of Serbia is one of the signatories of this peace agreement. I think it is also clear to the birds on the branch that only strong Serbia can be a guarantee of the survival of Republika Srpska, but also a guarantee of the survival of our people through the Drina and the region in general, that only such Serbia can guarantee that what happened to us in various pogroms such as the "Storm" or the Martov pogroms, the action "Cagal" and the various others that were both in the last and some previous wars taken against our people who lived over the Drina. Only strong Serbia, as a signator of the Dayton Peace Agreement, and led by a strong Serbia, after decades, a statesman whose political vision and political action has long overcome the definition of politicians. A man whose political action is also aimed at preserving what is in Serbia, but also at preserving what is happening to our people in the region, and above all at preserving peace, which is the most important liquid of all of us living in these areas. To bring down Republika Srpska, which in the last days as never before since the signing of the same Dayton Peace Accords, has been facing pressures, means first of all, to bring down Alexander Vukic and bring down strong Serbia. That's the way to bring down Republika Srpska. The events we have in the past days in Republika Srpska, i.e. the last months and events that have taken place in Serbia in recent weeks are also closely linked, identical. Anyone who closely monitors political events in Serbia and Republika Srpska will easily draw that conclusion. In addition to the coup against the state and attempts to weaken it, the Serbian Orthodox Church and its clergy are on a serious blow, believe it or not, and in Serbia. In addition to the huge media link that has survived SPC in the last months and weeks, primarily its patriarch, a serious incident occurred in northern Serbia on Saturday, so-called. The blockades, where a priest of the SPC survived a serious lynch. It's about a man who is the father of ten children, one of the most famous humanitarians in northern Serbia, and the whole event took place in the presence of his two underage children. To make things worse, this same priest was dragged, after the event, through the media mud of the Gilasov media, I guess, by the example of what they are doing to the Serbian patriarch and SPC. What is very important and what institutions should do at this time is that, first of all, I am thinking about the prosecution, well studying this event and taking all the necessary measures to get the laws back to the streets of Serbia, and that all political and social actors in the Republic of Serbia, so if you want and the wider, condemn and fence from these events, because I am afraid this can become a form of behaviour when it comes to the SPC and that it can become something common, and we are witnessing how this can be done, if we observe events in the region, especially events and the relationship to the SPC in Montenegro, but also the relationship to the SPC in the good part of BiH, above all I am thinking about the Federation and in the good part of the Republic of Croatia. What can we do about those of us sitting in this respectable home? Exactly what I think will happen tomorrow, at least I hope tomorrow will be a voting day, what we can do is support these legislative proposals, which we and the SNS MPs will certainly do. If you ask me personally, it would be my special pleasure to support this law regarding the financing of the road infrastructure project from Ruma via Šapac to Loznica. In addition to being a serious link between Vojvodina and those wonderful people living in the vicinity of Loznica, in Jadra, Radjevina, this is one serious connection of the north of Serbia with Republika Srpska. A serious connection between both Sudotica and Novi Sad, if you will, in the end, with the south of Republika Srpska, along that highway that is already being built through Serbia and leading to Visegrad, i.e. Sarajevo. That, dear fellow MPs, is what we can do and what we, as MPs above all SNS, will do tomorrow. We will help these laws, which are the subject of today's debate, and as far as I'm concerned, this one, with the greatest satisfaction, vote and thus help our president, who probably, historically, is one of the people who is helping our people in the region most at this point, especially when it comes to Republika Srpska. For today, the city of Belgrade has also signed an agreement on financing projects in Banja Luka worth three million euros, worth six million marks. I don't remember anyone in Serbian history, but really, when I look at her far back, he's been helping our people through the Drina. I don't remember anyone building buildings for money from Belgrade. These were mainly facilities and projects financed from then-Primely Vienna, Istanbul, some perhaps from Berlin, but this is a historicly important and crucial moment. What we're going to do is we're going to help in such a business, first of all, the one who makes such a political decision, the president of the state, Alexander Vukic, which is also helping our people, whether he lives on this side or on the other side of Drina. In that sense, I'd like to conclude, in the day of the vote, which I assume, Mr. President, will be tomorrow, to support these laws, and this one with special pleasure. In the end, lived Serbia, lived Republika Srpska, lived our people! Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-14-0.u11490	Thank you. The word is Maria Todorovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-14-0.u11491	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, distinguished citizens of the Republic of Serbia, are ahead of us with a bill on the financing of the Ruma-Sabac-Loznica project. The construction of Serbia continues. Another project of vital importance is being realized for our country, which will completely change the image of our country. Serbia will be networked by highways and fast traffic and will be a completely unrecognizable country by the end of 2025. The Ruma-Shabac-Loznica road will be a new blood stream for our country, because we will function faster and easier in terms of roads, stripes and bringing new investors. The traffic will be reached on the highway from Novi Sad, via Fruška Gora, to Ruma, 45.4km long, so that the largest city in Vojvodina will have the fastest road connection with western Serbia and Republika Srpska, respectively, with Bosnia and Herzegovina. The Ruma-Shabac-Loznica route, 77km along with the Fruskogorska Corridor, will represent a new traffic network of 122.4km in total. The new corridor from Belgrade to Sapac will arrive in less than 40 minutes, and from Belgrade to Loznica in an hour and 15 minutes. Serbia's progress is seen at every step: highways built across the country, then factories that our president opens almost every week throughout Serbia, new jobs, new hospitals, numerous reconstructed hospitals, scientific and technological parks, new schools and kindergartens. Today, Serbia can boast that as many as 10 highways are being built on its territory and that more than 1,200km of fast traffic is being designed and operated. For the Rasinski district is certainly the most significant building of the Moravski Corridor that will connect Pojate and Cačak, i.e. connect Corridors 10 and 11 and then network over half a million people. They will network telecommunications devices on the highway itself, as this will be the first digital highway in our country and certainly the most modern highway in Southeast Europe. Contrary to this image of Serbia, we have a completely different picture of our country. Today we have those fake environmentalists who on Saturdays are harassing citizens on the streets. We have people who are really concerned about the environment and we have these fake ones trying to minimize the results of President Alexander Vukic's work and the media under the control of Dragan Gilas who are trying to impose a theme that everything that has to do with President Alexander Vukic is the worst. Kobajagi Ecology, and behind it a political marriquelluk and an attempt to deceive citizens. Another, I would say, in vain, desperate move by political losers gathered around the idea of being well-paid servants and obedients no matter how contrary it is to Serbia and its citizens. Their violence and hate speech have been seen over the past years and there are no longer enough reactions from reasonable people who want to live in decent Serbia where women and political insinuators are not targets but a strong reaction from institutions and sanctions. It's the only way no one will ever think of threatening and scaring anyone again. Threats cannot replace politics and the programme, nor can they stop Serbia's further development. It is a sad thing that fostering hate and violence against everything that has to do with President Alexander Vukic is the only policy of the rest of the DS. Neither will the Serbian people allow the scenarios they came up with with their mentors, nor will the Serbian president give in to blackmail and street politics, so they too will not implement their ideas in action. To all who reach for extreme and illegal means of expressing political dissatisfaction, we recommend that Serbia is a democratic country in which the government will be elected in the elections and whose progress and development will not stop an aggressive minority. The people will show it to them very quickly, in the April elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-14-0.u11492	Thank you. The word is from MP Zoran Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-14-0.u11493	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, we have important sets of laws ahead of us. As in the previous period when we discussed and these laws will make a very significant contribution to the further development of the Republic of Serbia. First of all, I would like to turn to the proposal for a debt law relating to the construction of road infrastructure, i.e., concrete financing of the Ruma project – Šabac – Loznica. Already, my distinguished colleagues have said a lot about the benefits of realising this project itself. I would point out that only the territory of Serbia that this road infrastructure connects includes around 600,000 inhabitants. What is very important is that we continue to connect the areas of the Republic of Serbia. As we have said, this is about connecting the northern part, i.e. Vojvodina with central and western Serbia, and what is very important is that we connect with our brothers in Republika Srpska, which is clear evidence that we are looking not only at our own interests in the realisation of the initiative that President Vukic launched with his colleagues from Northern Macedonia and Albania when it comes to "Open Balkans" or "Open Balkans", for whose call continues to be made by BiH. The road infrastructure itself we're going to build, i.e. fast traffic and highways will allow us not only to travel better and more efficiently from one part of our country to another and to learn about the beauty of Serbia, which are truly immeasurable and large, but also further development of our economy, economy, tourism. I will point out that each of these investments that are being realised is also pulling new investors, opening economic zones, opportunities to expand existing investments, as my dear colleague Maria mentioned, we can say, for example, from the Moravia Corridor. Whenever we go through and go to Belgrade or we go to Cačka we see clearly how far I am this Moravia Corridor progresses, how much the outlines of that highway are increasingly visible. Remember only in 2019, at the end of the year when these works are started and when it is faster – better is Alexic, a person who is otherwise a court-confirmed liar and who is racing with his colleagues and comrades who will more, faster and better lie, immediately came to that place, took pictures and said – no more machines, the machines are just set up for painting. Unlike his boss and boss Dragan Djilas's policy, together with Jeremic, his other marketing-based counterparts, and of course as far as the problems in the Republic of Serbia are concerned, they are clearly the strongest. They think the number of likes is some measure of their strength and popularity. Unlike them, the policy of Aleksandra Vukic and SNS is not based on marketing, based on concrete results and work. We could see that clearly both last weekend and last weekend, even every day of work. While you had these false environmentalists on one side, people who were paid by foreign organisations to bring unrest into Serbia and clearly show that they are not aimed at protecting environmentals, environmental environments, nor are they interested and concerned about citizens, it is actually only the goal of taking down Alexander Vukic and they return to power to rewind the game of 619 million. You had a chance to see President Vukic, who was visiting Serbia's areas with his team, who was on a three-day visit to Nisavski County last week, where he spoke to representatives of local self-government, where he spoke to citizens, had the opportunity to see what these problems were, which will continue to be handled in the development of this environment. Of course, Serbian citizens had opportunities in direct television transmission to see and how our military has been modernised, as it has been improved and that there really is no segment in life, the Republic of Serbia which has not been promoted in the previous period since the SNS came to power. Like I say, it's not our marketing policy. Our policy is concrete, therefore, and I say that I am proud to see how far the Moravia Corridor is progressing and that we will really start the next year that first section that goes from Kruševac, i.e., specifically Makreshana to Pojat, open up and thus achieve the decades-old dream of our "Charapana" to be directly connected to the highway, to have a direct exit to the highway, but not only that result. The result will also be the economic zone that will be formed and opened near Ćićevac, Kruševac, and as the highway continues to be built towards Trstenik and Kraljena, so we will also have an area near Trstenik which means new jobs, which means new investments, which means investment for the arrival and opening of new factories that will contribute to further development of our economy, an economy that is based on knowledge, in which our young minds, our young powers will be employed and the results will continue to develop our economy. Certainly what I love and advocate, which is that the picture always says more than a thousand words, that is my colleague who, in her address, has shown, but I will take the opportunity. This is one publication that has the opportunity for Serbian citizens to see, which clearly shows the result of the work of SNS policy, Aleksandr Vukic, and this is a map that only shows currently in this year how much it is done in the Republic of Serbia, that it is about ten highways, the fast traffic that are being done, and this is a picture of Serbia that will look in the next period when these projects that we started and when we start new projects will continue. As I said, it is not only a story of connecting various parts of Serbia, but also of connecting in a region where we will have more connections between us and our neighbours such as Romania, such as Hungary, like BiH, or Republika Srpska. It's not just about road infrastructure, it's about the developing railway infrastructure. It is also an investment in education, in health care, investment in ecology, where in the coming period in many municipalities we will start with the realization of a project to build sewers, a wastewater treatment plant. I am truly proud as Charaphan that in Krusevec we have one of the most modern wastewater treatment plants that will be a model model for building other factories throughout Serbia. As I said on these weekends, we had the opportunity to see two different policies, on the one hand President Vukic's policy, which has results, which is a policy that represents the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, what they need, and on the other hand we have this policy of the tycoon opposition that only knows that it spreads hate, is to block Serbia. That's what my colleagues and colleagues were talking about, where their initial goal and the reason for those blockades was supposed to be, environmental protection, when all those demands they made were met and realised and we here in parliament voted in the amendments and additions to the legal solutions they sought. They discovered their true face that we were talking about, that they don't really care about it, but they only care about spreading that hatred, they only care about how to put Alexander Vukic away, because he is their main obstacle for them to come to power, but they forget that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia are the ones who decide which policy they want, who want to represent them to implement that policy, and in order for you to even be able to go to elections, you have to have some plan and programme to offer to the citizens. Their plan and program doesn't exist in fact. They have that famous phrase for the day after, which I like to say as some Hollywood blogger or title in which they can only promise to continue that heist they did and realized by 2012, when in the elections they were prevented by the same conditions that they had brought, which they were not doing. We will see whether they will go to the elections at all on April 3rd and which of them will go to the elections, because certainly all the requirements agreed in these talks at the party level are respected, will be implemented. The conditions will certainly be much simpler, more favourable for them, and for us, of course, much harder, because they will have the opportunity to come up with a double number of signatures of support, than it was in the previous period, but it will certainly be the citizens of Serbia who will, through the pen, make the decision they want to see in Serbia, whether it is the policy of the future, development and prosperity or the policy of turning back, robbery and destruction of the Republic of Serbia. Speaking of the opposition, what really impressed me today on their part is the statement by Vuk Jeremic, the famous foreign minister, who asked this stupid question to the International Court in The Hague, who said that there are problems in Serbia when it comes to protecting the environment, will resolve that they will take away property from those who robbed Serbia. I am particularly interested - will they go by taking away the property of Dragan Gilas, or will they take away their property that he has acquired in various criminogenic ways only to take away himself and then cash in, in order to resuscitate these alleged consequences? It all seems to me that neither is taking away property for the sake of the Serbian citizens' interest, but the race between these tycoons who will raise more money and, of course, the results of these blockades will see, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, only be one way to measure each other who has a higher percentage of support, which is also small, miserable and barely about censorship. So on April 3rd, as my esteemed colleague Ana Beloica said, citizens will show with pencil and paper what policy they want, and I think what we had to see in 2012 so far, and this trend that exists clearly shows that they want a policy of prosperity, development and progress of the Republic of Serbia, offered by President Aleksandr Vukic's policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-14-0.u11494	Thank you. Since we said it would last until 5:30, I would ask you to forgive the minister when she comes out at 5:30, and now she has the word Veroljub Arsic, because I don't believe he will finish in six minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-14-0.u11495	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I also respect Mrs. Minister's reasons. Don't worry about anything, Mr. Dacic. We have enough experience to know that the congregation is not always in that work, as we expect and how we would like it. Today we need to point out a few things about the legal proposals we are discussing. Many of my colleagues talked today about this loan, i.e. the borrowing of the Republic of Serbia to finance the Ruma project – Shabac – Loznica. It's certainly one of the projects that's very important, especially for those people who live in the area. However, what my esteemed colleague, Živić Ilija, said – for the first time today we are discussing a loan that is not indexed in any foreign currency, it is not in euro, nor in dollars, nor in Swiss francs. This is a loan that's in dinars. This certainly adds to the fact that the Republic of Serbia wants to deeurise and that it is the most important currency in the conclusion of the contract, whether they are business, commercial, whether they are other financial, in dinars. One more thing says how far Serbia has advanced, and that's when you look at interest. The interest consists of the fixed part and the variable part. The fixed portion is 2% and is increasing by the six-month belibor, which at this point amounts to slightly more than 1%. That means that the annual interest on this loan is a little over 3%. To explain to Serbian citizens what this means, during the former regime and authorities of Dragan Gilas, Solak and others, it was not possible to make such a loan not for the dinars, it was not possible for the euro. The interest rate at which the Republic of Serbia was then in debt was over 7% in some contracts, over 7%. What does interest depend on? The amount of the interest rate, i.e. the creditor, determines the interest rate level in proportion to the risk of whether the borrower will be able to repay the loan. The greater the risk that the loan will not be returned to that loan is greater. That's what banks and all other financial institutions think. This is just an example of how the Republic of Serbia had trust with financial institutions both international and domestic during the authorities of Dragan Gilas and Solak. So we then had interest that was over 7% not dinar but indexed in euro. Let's not talk about other things. Now we have a dinar loan for one infrastructure project, it's not a small amount of money, which still has no certain risks. You have no risk of course differences, they are not included here. So, absolutely all the values that the state needs to have when it takes one of these credits are predictable and controlled by our country, or we have influence, not control, but influence with certain legal solutions, procedures conducted by the National Bank, protection from inflation, etc., which is the obligation of business banks. What else does it matter? We had a few days ago the opening of a series of infrastructure projects, including the construction of a fast traffic station between Pogorec and Golubac, now we see another infrastructure project that we give consent to, or guarantee from Ruma-Shabac-Loznica, but it should be pointed out that, since the power of SNS, the president of Serbia, and former Prime Minister Aleksandar Vukic, we have completed some projects that we dreamed would ever be completed, which lasted several decades. First of all, that's where I think about the Corridor 10 project, the east leg, the south leg, we have now the Moravia Corridor that's working, we have Milos the Great highway. These are all very important infrastructure projects. Some of my colleagues were talking about modernising the railways. So we're trying to get through the traffic infrastructure whether it's a passenger, whether it's rail, to try to create as much economic environment as possible for Serbia's further development. Of course, whenever we do that, we will have those who are in every way trying to make all the results that Alexander Vukic has, and above all, the Republic of Serbia in a certain way minimise. A few days ago, the president of the Republic of Serbia visited Nisavski County, including a tour of certain military units, talked to soldiers, their elders, and it seems to me that one of the things that hurts most in the former regime is the modernisation of the Serbian Army. Well, they even go to the point where certain data are falsified or not presented as it really is and how it really should be. We have that unfortunate former Chief of Staff, Ponoš, who says, claims that every foreign ambassador looks at his interests and that Serbia under Alexander Vukic gets what remains of those foreign ambassadors. I could accept it if someone else said it. But if that's what Ponos says, the Chief of Staff who was appointed by the foreign ambassadors to be Chief of Staff, then we really have one serious problem in his mental context. That's what the Chief of General Staff is talking about, which extended tire resources on planes so Sutanovac could see Serbia out of the air. Some laugh, pal, but it's true. The military-technical institute extended tire resources on planes so that Ponos, Jeremic, Sutanovac, Gilas Serbia could be seen as destroying it from the air. If it was happening to someone else, it would be a mockery, but it was happening to us, it's more like crying. Then they found even various parainstitials, parasindics, which will distort the image it really is in Serbia today. Here, now you have some Serbian Military Union, right? They made a statement, they attacked that President of the Republic of Serbia Aleksandar Vukic worked in Nis and they say this literally - the salary of a soldier in 2008 was 40,000 dinars, today it is 56,000 dinars, and it is not true that wages increased 75%. If that's what we're talking about from the time of old Yugoslavia, the big ones, we can compare the salaries and see what it was. But this union that's supposed to be military, I don't know first whether the military can have unions, but here's a hypothetical to say that it can, which doesn't say what salary it was in 2012? In 2008, Ponoš came to be Chief of General Staff, leaving the post in 2012, and they thanked the citizens of Serbia, they told him – no more destroying this army. The Serbian people love their armies, they've always been with their armies, because the army was with the same people, so the army has been invincible throughout history. What was the salary in 2012? Well, the same 40,000 dinars. What was the euro in 2008? Seventy-eight dinars. What was he like in 2012? One hundred eighteen dinars, 119.80 dinars, actually. Well, when did the standard of living lose members of the Serbian Army, during the rule of Alexander Vukic and SNS or during the rule of the former regime of Dragan Djilas, Solak and that unfortunate pride and that lost Wolf Jeremic? Why doesn't the Serbian Military Union say so? What's twisting the facts? And because they were servants of the Torah, and Gilas, and Jeremiah, and the rest of them. Apparently they're dealing with some union fight, I'm not interested in it. I am interested in the way that Serbia is going, and the path that Serbia is going is no longer the road to ruin as it was by 2012. It seems to me that the former regime is the most troubled that Serbia is now beginning to advance as a state. I've already spoken several times, but the former regime can't beat Alexander Vukic if he's finished Corridor 10. The former regime cannot defeat Alexander Vukic if he works "The Iron" in Smederev. He can't beat Alexander Vukic if he's working a copper mine in Bora. The former regime cannot defeat Alexander Vukic if "Linglond" opens in Zrenjanin. The former regime cannot beat Alexander Vukic if the state no longer owes itself on enormous interest on the financial market, but in dinars. He cannot beat the former Alexander Vukic regime that reduced the unemployment rate from 28% to less than 10%. The former regime can't beat Alexander Vukic when we inherited the state of GDP was 33 billion, and today it's over 52, 53. He can't beat the former regime then. Then you need lies, you need a twist of facts, you need young people who don't know what Gilas was like when he was in power, who don't know what kind of traitor Vuk Jeremic was when he was in power, who don't know what kind of incompetent chief Ponoš was when he was in charge. They are trying to avoid the ignorance of these younger people, the lack of their life experience to show that they were better in Serbia during their rule, when over 600,000 people were out of work. These aren't the results of some pride, they're not the results of giving you the right to hope for some election victory. Then you need those to block the highways, supposedly an ecological protest. They block and build a tire factory. But you know exactly where the Russian capital is, where the Chinese capital is, we're going to make roadblocks, where the Western capital is. I don't want the West to have any kind of blockade, that we understand each other. We won't, because there's a danger of being denied our support, that in some strange way, even by violent means, we may come to power. Here, these are the policies run by the former regime. These are the policies that we will have the opportunity to see more and more in the next period and more and more will be expressed. They will try in every way to find any reason to make life a little worse, not to the authorities in Serbia, but to the citizens of Serbia, which only shows what they were and how much they cared about Serbian citizens while they were in power. We don't want their results. It is not the result of the Serbian Progressive Party and Aleksandar Vukic's 600,000 people without a job, but Gilasov, Jeremic, Solakov. It's not the result of Alexander Vukic losing our national currency over 50%, it's just the former regime. We'll always point that out. We're talking about some 14 billion dinar loan. That's over a hundred million euros. We're going to build a Ruma-Shabatz-Loss. It will take us five, and maybe six of these loans, to pay off the money that Gilas took from Serbian citizens, from the Republic of Serbia's budget. That's the difference between us and them. When they say the public debt of the Republic of Serbia is growing, it is not growing, the public debt is falling. The state makes more money. The state has a better economy. The state has more employees. Her employees receive higher salaries, not only in the holding, but in every part. We have a greater opportunity to finance our development faster through loans and raise wages further, but on sound grounds. These are our results. What are theirs? Like I said, 600,000 jobs lost. They didn't make one meter of it. They didn't open any factories, they closed the factories. They didn't make any hospitals. No clinical center was built. No home of health was built. We'll always fight them. Such must never come to power in Serbia again. They can't. They can make it up, they can lie, they can do as much as they want. As much as they are able to lie, they must know that we love Serbia much more than they can lie and that we will always have more energy to preserve Serbia from such thieves that have ruined us and reversed us in the past 12 years. If they don't believe it, they'll see for themselves on April 3, 2022. The Serbian Progressive Party will have reasons, I'm absolutely sure, to celebrate, and they will again seek some leads to block something again, close something again, start something up again, so they can steal something again.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-14-0.u11496	Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer declared for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principle and uniform search, I ask if the Presidents, or the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, or someone who has not used his right, want the word? No, I don't. I thank you. I am concluding a joint principle and uniform search on the draft laws referred to in points 1, 2 and 3 of the agenda. We'll continue work tomorrow, 10:00 p.m.
