ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-07-0.u9588	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the First Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2021. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs of the people, I find that the sitting is attended by 89 MPs. In order to regularly determine the number of MPs present in the O.R., I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the electronic unit. Thank you. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 98 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that at least 84 MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request an explanation, or a notice in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? The first word has a National MP, Milija Miletic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-07-0.u9589	I thank Dr. Orlic. Dear colleagues, citizens of Serbia, I will, as I have so far, ask a few questions concerning our very people dealing with agriculture. First of all, I would like to thank our Minister of Agriculture, Mr Nedimovic, who, along with his Cabinette, finally managed to provide conditions for exporting chicken meat to the EU. That back 30 years wasn't possible. It is a big thing for all our chicken producers, for all our livestock farmers, and it is expected very quickly that in the coming year, in early 2022, they will have the opportunity to provide exports and for pigmeat, which means that our producers, and our agricultural producers, will be able to export their products that are quality, healthy, to a large European market. But one of the important things that every kilogram of chicken, pork to be exported, sold, is very important that this part of the previous is done in the best way, to be favourable to our producers, which means that food for that animal, for those cows, for our sheep, for those pigs, for that cattle, is, as we say, very good quality. It should therefore also be cheap or provide greater subsidies to make each kilogram cheaper, so that it can be more competitive in European markets. The data I have on concentrates given for the production of chicken, for the production of veal, for dairy, that the price of the concentrate is back five, six months rising close to 50% depending on what it is. I think that because we now have a chance to export to the EU chicken, I hope that there will be pork, to find the possibility of providing as much subsidies to these producers as possible, with a special emphasis on those people living in these marginal areas, in undeveloped areas, because it is God-given for humans to deal with livestock, production and pigs, and sheep, and cows, and chickens, and calves. On the other hand, we need to secure larger subsidies. Another important thing is that subsidies are regular. When we apply to our manufacturer, that farmer to process the application and to provide it with funds by the end of that year, because we have a situation where there are many years of not paying off subsidies, and now these people have provided funds, provided concentrates, and the price of the concentrate has jumped, they are in charge and now they sell their throats. That's why I think it would be good to increase the amount of subsidies, but subsidies to be regular and to pay off to every man, but in the first part to make it worth it to people who live in these mustache areas, people who live in undeveloped areas. It's very important to us because it's a chance to develop agriculture and the only way. One of the most important things I would like to say specifically is to give my support to our Minister Loncar, the man who runs the Ministry of Health, who, by his work, by his engagement, along with all our doctors and sisters at all times helps our people to get out of this difficult situation, out of this situation. Great support to the minister, great support to our doctors, sisters, all those involved in this difficult situation to protect and save every human life. One of the most important things for all of us is vaccination, vaccination and vaccination. Vaccinate to save lives and thus have the opportunity to move forward. I'd like to ask another question. We have a situation, specifically here in Belgrade, "Slavija hotels". It is a hotel complex located in downtown Belgrade, which has over 120 workers who have not used any funds so far, it is state property. They did not have the opportunity to use the funds that the state gave for each bed, for each room, and on the other hand all those doctors and sisters who come here to Belgrade to help in this difficult situation, they have the opportunity to sleep in the hotels of Slavija and to be for the purposes of all of our people living here in Belgrade. I think we would have had the opportunity and the need to provide hotels with "Slavija" with the same conditions as private hotels, that they can overcome this difficult situation because when it's the hardest they're here to help our people. In particular, it is now about our medics who are here helping Belgrade treat people and fight the pandemic. Once again, distinguished colleagues and friends, I think that the state of Serbia and our president are doing the best they can, and once again I call on everything to do the vaccination, because it is the only salvation to fight the pandemic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-07-0.u9590	Thank you, Mr. Miletic. The word is from the vice president of the National Assembly, Marija Jevdzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-07-0.u9591	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear People's MPs, your question today in front of the Single Serbia parliamentary group, on the basis of Article 287. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I give the Minister of Health to Zlatibor Loncar. In Serbia, as in Europe, every sixth couple has a problem with conception, i.e. a problem with sterility. Up to now, more than 8,000,000 babies have been born into the world through out-of-body fertilisation, according to European society data on human reproduction and embryology. It is commendable that Serbia is one of the few countries in Europe that finance an unlimited number of attempts at fund spending for the first child up to 43 years of life. Until that year, women, if a couple doesn't have any children, and there are medical indications for out-of-body fertilisation, couples have the right to apply through the RFZO for out-of-body fertilisation. There are commissions that they must pass, and there are currently six state and eleven private clinics in Serbia that can choose, and that is certainly a great support for all couples who are struggling with sterility. However, the problem that arises, which may be insufficiently known to the public, because it is not sufficiently referred to as primary sterility, is secondary sterility. He's become a common problem for young couples. How common this problem is is the data that out of 50 daily phone calls to the national number for out-of-body fertilisation 15 is related to secondary sterility. Secondary sterility is a problem when couples get their first child by natural means, and in the meantime, a health problem arises in men or women and can't naturally get a child, and the Fund doesn't recognize them as such because they got their first child by natural means. Despite medical documentation that it is not possible to conceive naturally, the extraterrestrial Insemination Fund cannot, under existing provisions, help them expand the family. The only city to step up on this issue is the town of Belgrade, which made a decision about a month ago and allocated about 30,000,000 dinars to help about 100 couples who had already become parents naturally, and now because of secondary sterility they must have an extra-body fertilisation to have another child. However, one city in Serbia is not enough, the state must stand behind this problem, the fund must stand. If we know that about 100,000 babies are born in Serbia less than 70 years ago, that only seven municipalities in Serbia have a positive natural growth, that every day we hear one difficult data, which is that every year we are getting smaller and that about a city the size of New Vienna disappears annually. And no matter how much the state helps the financial families with the children to give birth to the first, second, third child, we should also recognize the problem of couples who want to expand their families, and because of the emergence of secondary sterility and the fact that the first child was given by natural means are not visible to the existing health system. Every decision we make here in the Assembly is being implemented in order for Serbia to be a healthier and better place for our children to live and care about birth is the strategic goal of this government, but also of all of us. For the United Serbia, preserving the Serbian family is a priority, as the family is sacred and without a healthy family we cannot talk about any segment of society. Our direct struggle is to eradicate the white plague, to give birth every year to more children, to the fact that by 2050, we will be below six million being just a statistical mistake. For this reason, today I am asking the Minister of Health Zlatibor Loncar – is there any possibility of finding means to help couples who are unable to expand their family because of secondary sterility, which is what they want? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-07-0.u9592	Thank you, Mrs. Yevdzic. The word has the vice-president of the National Assembly Stefan Krkobibic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-07-0.u9593	Dear Vice-President Orlic, the honourable ministers, the honourable MPs, are expecting regular presidential, Belgrade and elections in several other local self-governments, as well as very likely extraordinary elections for MPs for the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. It also started the process of applying everything agreed in the dialogue between the authorities and the opposition with the intervention of the President of the Republic, i.e. the facilitator role of the President of the National Assembly and representatives of the European Parliament. The majority of the agreed deal is primarily about satisfying the interests and ensuring that political parties are more equal, both the authorities and the opposition. Our main issue also has a previous issue with the Government of the Republic of Serbia – whether, in order to implement the agreed dialogue, it will address any changes in the part of the electoral legislation, such as this. Done last year when the electoral censorship was down from five to three percent, also legaled, and through an election process in 2021 and a positive discrimination of a less represented gender in parliament? If the answer is positive, the PUPS Group ‘Tri P’ considers that electoral legislation should be amended and complemented in the direction of ensuring the rights of persons with disabilities, to be elected and equally represented in the highest representative body at the state level, as well as by local self-government authorities. Some laws partially regulate the rights of persons with disabilities, but especially in electoral legislation, there is room for improvement. Article 40a(1) The law on the election of MPs has been defined that there must be 40% less than the gender represented on the electoral lists and that there must be two less represented genders among every five candidates on the list. Although the percentage of people with disabilities in the total population is much higher, this legal solution is a major improvement compared to earlier solutions. According to a 2014 study by the Republic Statistics Institute, people with disabilities in Serbia are not yet sufficiently represented in both economic and social terms. To remind ourselves, people with disabilities are defined as those at greater risk than the general population in experiencing restrictions and obstacles in performing specific activities or restrictions in social participation. Problems of persons with disabilities were recognised by the UN, which, in accordance with the principle of social inclusion and equal rights of persons with disabilities, in 2006, introduced the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, which established the intention to change the way disability is observed essentially, and thus all legal systems of policy and planning relating to treatment, rights and the position of persons with disabilities at national level. In 2007, the Republic of Serbia signed the convention, which became part of Serbia's legal system, and adopted a strategy to improve the position of people with disabilities. The World Health Organization estimates that there are currently more than one billion people living in the world with some form of disability, which accounts for about 15% of the world's total population. The Special Report of the Commissioner for Protection against Discrimination is dedicated to the observation of discrimination against persons with disabilities. In Serbia, it is estimated that people with disabilities account for about 10% of the population in the Republic of Serbia, between 700 and 800,000 people. All research emphasises that the position of women in the overall population of people with disabilities in the Republic of Serbia is more visible than men's positions, which means that, with all the imbalances and disadvantages of the status of persons with disabilities in the Republic of Serbia, women with disabilities are further in a more unfavourable position in terms of education, economic activity and general economic and social situation. The total number of voters in the Republic of Serbia is slightly higher than six and a half million, from which we conclude with persons with disabilities who could be elected to the authorities of local self-government units or in parliament account for 12% of the electoral bodies. Given the current number of 250 MPs, if we would like persons with disabilities to be properly represented in this highest state home, it would also be necessary for MPs to be at least the same percentage of people with disabilities, i.e. to have 30 persons with the status of disabled persons in the congregation benches. My question for the Government of the Republic of Serbia is whether amendments to the Law on the Selection of National MPs and the Law on Local Self-Government would be possible for the provision of greater representation of persons with disabilities in the bodies of the legislative authority and local parliaments to be included in electoral laws already for the elections that await us early next year? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-07-0.u9594	Thank you, Mr. Krkobaci. The word has the president of the SPS parliamentary group, Djordje Milicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-07-0.u9595	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Orlic. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, before I ask the question, if I may, I would refer to the question asked by my colleague Krkobic. It is justified and such a question already exists, but we, a colleague, are not going to implement that part of the dialogue that is being conducted on the second track, but we will implement all that has been agreed with European parliamentarians, and the other part of the dialogue with political parties that do not want to talk to European parliamentarians is still under way. Here we have, you know, that rule of chat and house. So nothing's over until it's over and the moment the whole proposal and the set of measures to improve electoral conditions are defined, of course we can talk about it then. This, of course, implies a certain legislative activity, because certainly everything that has been proposed by the European Parliamentarians and what has been accepted and what will be implemented involves legislative activity and certain amendments and amendments to the law here in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. So it was during the first phase of inter-party dialogue. Nothing malicious, just so you know that such a proposal already exists. My question is for today next. When it comes to our European path, Serbia's definition is quite clear. Our strategic goal of becoming an EU member is to meet daily, transparently, harmonising a complete legislative framework with EU law, but also by implementing a number of infrastructure and other development projects that bring Serbia closer to the European family of people. Also, all the activities of the state in the foreign policy plan and at regional level are evidence of our firm determination to essentially introduce international standards in all sectors of life, not only to meet EU requirements, but especially because citizens deserve a better life, and our country is better international position and better international reputation and image. On this, our state leadership, our legislative authority, whose representatives we are, and our executive powers work daily. Serbia has also strengthened economic and political, has become a factor of political stability in the region and is the driver of many affirmative regional initiatives that should contribute to the peace, stability and economic progress of the region. One of the most important regional initiatives is certainly the mini Schengen, for which the name is now used – the open Balkans, in the opinion of the SPS parliamentary group a visionary move. Serbia has also signed numerous bilateral agreements with neighbouring countries, notably Northern Macedonia and Albania, for the sake of regional integration and intensifying economic co-operation in the region. So the three states have been defined. We don't want to look into the past anymore, we want to look into the present and the future, in the interests of our citizens. So Serbia is an integral factor of the Western Balkans, no matter how many in the environment it bothers. Serbia's progress is evident not to all. That is why we have obvious attempts to sabotage our European pathway. On the other hand, the best news for Serbia is not coming from Europe. The dates of our EU accession are constantly moving. At the latest EU summit with the Western Balkan countries, held in Slovenia in recent days, we have been told that the perspective of entering the countries of the region, and thus the Republic of Serbia, is in the EU 2030. It is about the perspective of enlargement, not of creating EU accession. In the Declaration adopted yesterday, 6 October, at a summit in Slovenia, the EU reaffirms its unequivocal support for the Western Balkans' European perspective. To remind you that this same formulation was contained in the 2003 Thessaloniki summit Declaration. The impression is that we were in the same place we were in 2003. If not, and that Serbia today is completely different from Serbia in 2003, it is clear to all of us, but we are constantly under new conditions and are asked to meet specific requirements that have not existed for any other candidate country, nor exist today. The European Union is obviously vulnerable when it comes to the Western Balkans and cannot yet offer objective and acceptable solutions. In this regard, and on the occasion of yesterday's summit in Kranj, Slovenia, I would like to ask the government of the Republic of Serbia a question. What is expected of the EU summit with Western Balkan countries, held in Slovenia? Is it expected that the EU is more objectively looking at developments in the region, pressures that are being put on Serbia and sabotaged regional initiatives that Serbia is launching, which should contribute to the integration of the Western Balkans and, above all, strengthen economic and political ties in these areas, which is all a prerequisite for European integration of the Western Balkans? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-07-0.u9596	Thank you. Do any of the other MPs want to ask for an explanation? The word has the People's MP, Ugljesa Mrdić.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-07-0.u9597	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers Mr Dmitrović and his associates, honourable fellow MPs, today on behalf of our parliamentary group "Alexander Vukic – For our children", I have two questions. The first issue concerns the malfeasance and business of Dragan Gilas and his associates, and what the competent institutions have done regarding the investigation of all the malfeasances that Dragan Gilas made while he was mayor of Belgrade and while he was minister and while he was leading the so-called. The People's Office of the President of the Republic of Serbia. I would also like to remind myself of the 619m euros he took from Serbian citizens, his accounts abroad. The investigative authorities have determined that he has accounts in Mauritius, Switzerland and many other countries and exotic places. To explore to the end how much money he took and how, as far as the Adi Bridge affair is concerned, and as far as underground containers are concerned in Belgrade and the destruction of the business of the company, i.e. city public enterprises in Belgrade, and all those other malfeasances that allowed him to acquire 619m euros. I understand the anxiety of Dragan Gilas, my neighbor from Vračar, although he has several dozen apartments in Vračar, both he and his brother Gojko, and so on in other luxurious places in Belgrade, in Dedinj, etc. I understand his anxiety because he can no longer take away from the citizens of Serbia, but I also ask the competent state institutions to investigate all the way to the end, so that people like Dragan Gilas can not be taken away from Serbian citizens again. Second, my question to the competent institutions, both in the country, and they will have to do so with certain world and European institutions, i.e. research institutions, which concerns Dragan Šolak and the business of United Group. These days, both Dragan Gilas and Dragan Solak, I understand and why they show anxiety because they are aware that they cannot return to power, that the people will not. The people will not be in control of the kidnappers. Just to remind why Dragan Solak is now attacking "Telecom Serbia", attacking "Post". Whatever he does, a good public enterprise does something good for the citizens, such as Telecom, immediately Dragan Solak and Gilas show nervousness. They are not responsible for strengthening state-owned enterprises or institutions. That is why they are bothered by Aleksandar Vucic and you from the Serbian government and us MPs. How much Dragan Solak is able to kidnap, we have had the opportunity to hear from my fellow Members of Parliament, and I just want to make some details about the financial business of Dragan Šolak and United Group, and I would like the investigative authorities to do this until the end of the investigation. So, Dragan Solaka's "United Group" in 2019 owed 2,10 billion euros, in 2020, to four billion euros, and today the total debt of the United Group, Dragan Šolak, the main partner of Dragan Gilas, is 4.352,482,000 euros, so 4,35 billion euros, is owed by United Group, Dragan Šolak. Now, that's why both Dragan Gilas and Dragan Solak are nervous today, and that's why they need investigative authorities in both Serbia and Europe and the world to explore all of this so that everyone knows who they are and what they are, how capable they are. They're capable of kidnapping, they're capable of debt, they're capable of putting millions and billions in their pockets. But that is why, fortunately, they are not able to come to power in Serbia, because the people will not. But, on the other hand, citizens not only of Serbia, but of citizens across Europe and the world must know who Dragan Solak is and who Dragan Gilas is. Therefore, the investigative authorities are in charge of the move and, of course, we expect the reaction of certain international police institutions and certain prosecutors and, of course, all other investigative authorities where these Gilas accounts are located and the seats are both "Multicoma", and "United Group". I believe in state institutions in the Republic of Serbia and Serbian citizens believe in state institutions in the Republic of Serbia. That is why I believe that I will get answers to these questions and that the citizens of Serbia know why they are nervous Dragan Solak, Dragan Dilas and their employees, Marinika Tepic and their partners, such as Vuk Jeremic, because they are angry with Serbia, angry with Serbian citizens, are angry because they cannot come to power because Serbia will not, and Serbia has repeatedly shown that it wants Alexander Vukic and his associates, they want them because Aleksandar Vukic is leading our Serbia into a safe future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-07-0.u9598	Thank you. Since none of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, answer for word, we continue to work. In accordance with Article 27 and Article 87(2) and (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that today we will be working after 1800 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to pass laws on the agenda of this session as soon as possible. We continue to work and move on to a principled search on the sixth item of the agenda - Proposal for a LAW ON THE AMENDMENT OF THE MARRIAGE ACTIVITY LAW compliant with Article 90(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that they are invited to attend: Maja Gojkovic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Culture and Information, Radomir Ratko Dmitrić, Minister of Family and Demography and Daniela Vanušić and Radovan Jokić, Deputy Minister of Culture and Information. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately, with a number of MPs. In accordance with Article 157(1) of the Treaty, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a principle search on the draft law amending the Law on Museum Work. Do the representatives of the motionor want a word? Minister Radomir Dmitrovic spoke of the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-07-0.u9599	I'd like to say that this is about the following changes: Art. 1st and 2, in the Law on Museum Action, Article 49 paragraph 3 states: "The director and acting director of the museum can be the person who meets the conditions laid down by the provisions of the law governing the field of culture", and Article 2: "This law shall take effect on the eighth day of publication in the "Official Messenger" of the Republic of Serbia and shall apply from 17 October 2021". Here, Madam Vice President, that's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-07-0.u9600	Thank you. Do the officials of the committees want a word? The word came from Sandra Christmas, chairman of the Committee on Culture and Information. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-07-0.u9601	Thank you, Your Honor. I will briefly inform the MPs and citizens of the Republic of Serbia about the amendments to the Law on Museum Action and the course of the session that dealt with this topic. First of all, I want to say that museums have always been in the service of humanity and its prosperity. The museums have always been the site of new ideas, the centre of research, the seat of scientific and other cultural activities, and the educational and place that depicts historical and social flows, which are subject to changes, the place where we actually show this also when we adopted this Law on Museum Activity in April of this year, we preserve the tradition, the cultural values of our people and, you will agree, from the arrival of SNS to power and from, as is the Minister of Culture, Mrs. Maja Gojković, we seem to have apostrophe and that everything that is extremely important for the preservation of our tradition and the values of the Serbian people and that we have somehow revived this segment and the museum's work that seems to me was both devastated and neglected. The adoption of this law and the Government and the Ministry of Culture and Information recognized the importance of preserving cultural heritage, and the amendments to this law have led to the harmonisation of the Law on Museum Activity with the Law on Culture, in the work relating to the conditions to be met by the Director and acting Director of the Museum. In this way, we show once again that the establishment of more efficient procedures and improvement of exactly and legal regulation is a permanent process in which we work daily, focusing all attention on the implementation of ideas and objectives in the service of law, justice, justice and truth. Certainly, Serbia's cultural map is enriched by the opening of two major museums - the Museum of Contemporary Art and the National Museum. Also, the Belgrade City Museum received a new building after 118 years of its establishment, and the History Museum will be moved to the former Main Railway Station building, which was renovated as a monument to culture. The "Nikole Tesla" Museum, which also exhibits cultural goods related to the life of our greatest scientist, will move the government of the Republic of Serbia to a thermal power and light plant building. Through such important projects, some of the main priorities in our political action are seen, which is to protect and preserve Serbian identity and culture, as I said from the beginning of my presentation, and to implement the strategic objectives of the cultural and cultural policy of the Republic of Serbia. The Committee on Culture and Information has proposed that the National Assembly accept the proposal to amend the Law on Museum Action, so that I also invite the MPs to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-07-0.u9602	Thank you, colleague. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The vice president of the National Assembly, Dr Muamer Zukorlic, called.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-07-0.u9603	The Honored Chairman, Vice-Presidents with an associate, Honored Vice-President Kovac, Honorable Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, we once again have one of the laws that treat the field of culture, this time the Museum's Labour Act, the truth with minimal intervention in terms of changes and additions that regulates the more efficient appointment of a more quality administration, or museum leadership, which should certainly be supported. However, when it comes to cultural laws, with respect for the importance of concrete change, i.e. legal changes and additions, the Law on Culture, or the Law on Culture, is always more than just intervention in the regulation itself. The topic of culture, i.e. cultural laws, is an inexhaustible topic that no matter how much we deal with here, we will certainly not spend all the material in terms of the need for importance, and even the necessity of stronger, more significant and better treatment of culture from all positions, and especially from the position of our Members of Parliaments of the highest legislative and supervisory body in this country. So museums are one of the most prominent or most diverse aspects of culture. So, by the quality of the museum, you can actually assess the eliteness of perception itself, but also actions in relation to the concept of culture in one country, or in one society. That country, that people, that nation, that community, that society that has the capacity to raise, maintain and edit good museums actually shows the potential and capacity of elite in terms of perception and organisation of cultural institutions. However, the very role of the museum is to safeguard and secure opportunities, i.e. to ensure the visibility of museum exhibits that represent a testimony to the existence of a people, a culture from the past, whether it is about exhibits that speak of extremely high cultural moments, details, actions and products from the past, or that they are objects, or exhibits that testify to the elementary way of life, i.e. the culture of life from the middle or far past. So that's what the role of the museum is and it certainly has its meaning. One aspect of the museum's importance is to witness the existence of a nation, a culture in the middle or far past, which is very important for building and preserving self-awareness about itself, whether individually or collectively. A man or community is like a tree to the extent that they have deep and strong roots, to this extent they will have the capacity and potential to grow to height. Not only are they growing and developing and giving fruit towards the height, or towards the goal, but what is even more important than the growth itself, is the strength of keeping under various lateral winds and storms. Because a tree can be as big as a strong tree, strong branches and strong structures, but if the tree has no strong roots, the first wind, and especially the strong storms will rip it out. That's right with the people, that's true with culture. If she doesn't have strong roots, strong foundation, she won't be able to make it. If you take into account the powerful states that have been growing throughout history in our either wider spaces or around the world, you will find a very clear distinction between what were the living empires that lasted for decades, or centuries, hundreds of years and what were empires trying to do. So by analysing these phenomena, you'll simply see a significant difference. Those empires that were able to be established, to be established and to survive, definitely had strong roots, primarily in culture, and then managed to establish quality civilization or quality pillars of civilization in that culture. While those others, I say, empires in an attempt or systems established by force, we have instructed examples such as the Avaris, such as the Huns, such as the army or empires in the attempt of Genghis Khan, or Mongol, so at that moment they were the most powerful military formations, but they were unable to establish themselves. They had insufficient overall maintenance potential, and the key deficit was actually a cultural root or cultural pedestal, i.e. a cultural foundation. While those other empires, such as Roman, such as Osman, and Austria, etc., along with a very good military organisation and an organisation that regulates the civil aspect in terms of civilization, you will find a very strong cultural rooting. So that's the legality of both empires and great nations, but equal or same is also the principle of legality for smaller peoples, smaller communities and smaller societies. Only if you have cultural roots, you have strong cultural roots, or you have a tradition in quality culture. So then you have the opportunity to actually build other segments of your maintenance and your future. The role of the museum in this context is to actually be or secure testimony, a testimony about dating from the middle or far past, and in addition, not only in this principle of testimony, but what is very important is that on the basis of the museum exhibit, education dynamics can be maintained, more precisely the dynamics of the education of young people above all, but also of all citizens who can build a real awareness of themselves, or of the past, but more specifically about rooting themselves, their own culture and their own people. However, if one nation only focused on aspects of culture that treat the past, it would risk a kind of deformation in cultural orientation. That is why it is very important, in addition to this orientation of conservation, to say, cultural heritage from the past, whether it is cultural and historical monuments, whether it is museum exhibits, whether it is still a matter of maintaining the dynamics of archaeological research through which new knowledge will take place, and this field is also unsanitary in addition to decades of research, and our localities have many still unexplored potentials where it is necessary to encourage and encourage competent, primarily professional organisations, but also all others who need to give them support and logistics to continue with greater intensity regarding archaeological research. I'm saying, if you just stay focused on the past, there's a certain deviation of passivity that would result from passiveity in two directions. One way would be to passivity in cultural production for the future. So what is today called cultural heritage is a product, a cultural product of our ancestors. They built it, built it, produced it and left it, and now we owe it as their generations, their successors to keep it, to remove it from it and to use it in terms of improving memories and awareness of ourselves, but also about the education of our young generations about ourselves and our own culture. However, the second risk of focusing solely on the heritage of the past, the cultural heritage of the past, is in fact that it will ignore what is the real role of culture. The real role of culture is actually defining the pattern, the cultural profiling of our children, that is, our man. It's the central role of culture. In relation to this central role of culture, it can be said that all these other reflections that we are dealing with are important, but they cannot possibly replace the central role of culture, which is to define, and then dynamicize the pattern, the cultural pattern towards which a young being is formed, a child, and later a man. What should be the most important topic, though not on the agenda of the National Assembly, but above all on the intelligence agenda in this country, intellectuals, all profiles, scientists, writers, artists, philosophers, is actually some sort of, let me say, redefine the approach to culture. I think in this respect we're in a kind of confusion, the truth is no wonder. And it's not just our country ahead of this confusion, not just our region, but maybe even here in the Balkans we have the most material and to say, some more juice, on which we can relive a correction, a healthy relationship to the concept of culture, but not just a concept, but a healthy relationship with the dynamicization of the role of culture in our lives, so in the rest of the world, in that most developed part of the world of Western civilization, and there's confusion even greater. There is a complete disorientation about the understanding and dynamicization of culture in personal family, collective lives, and therefore there is not a small number of philosophers and writers, who today write more and more on the topic of post-cultural society in the West or the Post-Cultural Society in the West, where we have a kind of desert idea, a sort of desolation of inspiration from art to other segments, access to culture and especially that living part of culture. In order not to get into this, and given that we, the peoples of the Balkans and in this country still have, to say, the potential and the juice in terms of reviving a healthy relationship in culture, or, according to culture, we need to update these topics, we need to raise as many votes as possible, as many calls, and even screams, pointing to the importance of defining, but also to the dynamics of the cultural pattern. Now, why don't you go ahead and analyze your children, who you are and how you are, or how we raised you, and you'll often ask yourself when you're not doing everything right in that education -- whether I was wrong, where I was wrong in my education, whether I was actually able to raise my child properly and whether I was successful in that. Of course, a key aspect, or an initial aspect of the formation of a cultural pattern and its dynamicization is happening and will always occur in the family, whether it is preserved or not, in both cases the reflections on the child will be very pronounced. A particularly important period or moment regarding the formation of a cultural pattern and its dynamicization in the education and formation of a person is a school. That's why only those nations and nations who knew how to find both the principle and the dynamics between culture and education were successful. Please pay attention to this attention, only those nations who have managed to establish and preserve the line between culture, cultural institutions, the overall approach to culture and education have managed to maintain their nation, their people in cultural health and cultural vitality and dynamics. Where we have, unfortunately, we have not preserved this step, especially because of wandering through the second half of the 20th century, through the domination of this activity and more or less aggressive antitheism and ungodliness, there we have lost the trail that we should have walked through, and then the additional disorientation through the entire chaos of the 1990s, then all that in the womb, or the negative occurs brings us so-called. transition. So we have one too long period of 70, 80 years of disorientation. We have to face it. We have to look at it. That's the danger we need to know and confess and look into her eyes. It's the only way to believe it. If we accept by instinct, culture is the maintenance of what we've found, removing the dust from what our ancestors have done. Now, we're like something valuable, we're like something in culture, there's a little something out there, theater, movies, shows, little business, little culture, little pseudo culture, a little quasi culture. On the other hand, if we also experience education as a recycling of what is already a common matrix with all these prisms, the poisonings that come from different corners of the games that children place on various mobile phones or computers platforms, to all the new problems that we are facing organisationally, and if we successfully treat it as good when we start in September, well, there are no strikes, or just that we are, we somehow manage to get through the dangers of the mosquitoes minimally. This is all necessary, this is all good, but it's not enough. There is no successful role in education without a clear, strict, organized and high quality track between culture and education. If we can restore the health of the circulation there, that vascular system has failed us because of all these burdens of the historical-ideological that I'm talking about. Let's get him back. This country, this people, these peoples of different confesions and cultures in something the same, in something related, in something different, but they have the potential for this, but they have to wake up intellectuals, writers and thinkers, they have to talk. I can't be satisfied that they stay on the gigs, in class and in the practice of their own statuses. Having this in the water certainly to make museums and museum exhibits significantly get on dynamics and importance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-07-0.u9604	Thank you. The word has the deputy president of the Single Serbia parliamentary group Life Starcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-07-0.u9605	Thank you, Vice President of the National Assembly, Mrs. Yevdzic. Dear Ministers Mitrovic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we are considering the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Museum's Labour Act, the law that we passed on 16 April 2021, which is due to enter into force on 17 October 2021. The changes are small, as you Ministers have said, changes in Article 49 paragraph 3 which defines the conditions for the selection of directors and executive directors of museums, the change is small and we are harmonising this law with the Law on Culture. I say, the change is seemingly small, but for us from the Unique Serbia, it's very important because it's about museum management. I'll try to explain in this presentation why it's important. Of course, the Single Serbia will support this bill in the voting day. Namely, the museum is a non-profit permanent institution in the service of the people and its society and its development. The museum is open to the public, an institution that collects, preserves, investigates, communicates and exposes material testimony to man and his surroundings, and is now very important, for study, for education, but also for entertainment. The first writings on the art collection of valuables collected in war raids have appeared from a period before the new era of 1176, from the city of Suzi, then Mesopotamia, that is, in the area of today's Iran. There were palaces, mentioned in Old Greece in Persepol palaces full of exhibited treasure materials, as well as the art sculptures of Old Greece, which were occasionally opened and exposed to the public during some celebrations. Yet museums of today's type appear for the first time during the Renaissance, in Italy. Let us say that the collection of Lorenzo the Great in Florence is called the Museum of Codex and Art Relics, and since the 16th century this interest and interest in collecting buildings has been growing and galleries that preserve works of art appear. Museums can be artistic and scientific. They are scientific archaeological, historical, ethnographic, natural, technical, military, criminal, etc. These are artistic ones that contain collections of paintings, sculptures, graphics, objects of applied art, etc. By their character, structure and territorial competences can be national, can be traditional, can be urban, etc. What's important is that the museum's work is very widespread in the world, and it is given a lot of attention. This makes some museums like the Louvre, the Metropolis, very much visited. The museums are trying to attract visitors in different ways. In this they often use modern technologies, such as Internet presentations, social networks, three de technology, and this latest, you art technology, or virtual reality technology, and everything they do to bring their treasures closer to visitors. However, among the employees of the museum work, it is often thought that it is an elitist activity, which it is and should be, even if this activity is closely linked to scientific activity, which is also supposed to be what it is, but somewhere our workers in the museum work often refuse to be marketing managers and to make their marketing performances work harder to increase the visit of our museums. I believe that such an approach must change, and perhaps today, as we discuss the amendment of this part of the Museum's Labour Act, where we are talking about management, the selection of directors or executive directors, it is a great time to discuss it, because museums also have a cultural but educational role. Museums play a role in creating and preserving identities, both national and local. After all, museums also play a role that may not be the most important, but it is not irrelevant, which is the role of tourist attraction. All these roles and all of this are united in the work of museums and none of these roles will be achieved and fulfilled if the museum does not have an audience. It's just like when as a customer you have a lot of shops around you and if you have a store that doesn't have any marketing performance and activities in that sense, you'll hardly get into it. You'd rather go to those others who have elaborated marketing activity. Of course such a family will go bankrupt over time. The museums, of course, won't go bankrupt because they don't have visitors and the JS is against this neoliberal understanding of the functioning of such important institutions as the museum. The museum must have its founder. The founder must take care of the museum. It is not a commercial part and a commercial role of the museum most important and important anyway, but we need to find ways to increase the visit of our museums and that is, above all, the role that must be played by the management of museum institutions. That's why I said at the beginning that for us from JS this change is very important and that we should discuss it today. Of course, it is necessary to introduce a complete marketing approach. That doesn't just mean advertising. In the first place, marketing is to form a product that is interesting for visitors, who will be interested, who is attractive, but who will not raise visitors, and then to present the product well. For example, a Louvre annually visits 10,200,000 people, a Chinese National Museum visits 8,600,000 people annually, a Metropolitan in New York posts with little seven million people, but that does not mean commercialising these museums and does not mean reducing the value of artistic, cultural and any other value of these exhibits and these museums. On the contrary, everything else. That's why there's a lot to be done for the promotion. We in Serbia, somewhere I have found information, we have between 180 and 200 museums and we must really make these museums not only bear witness to our history, culture and art, but active participants in this promotion. I am an MP who comes from Jagodina and I am particularly proud of the city that has three museums of good, quality museums, two of which are very specific and famous and unique in Serbia and thus recognized in the world. They are the Museum of wax figures, the Museum of naive and marginal art and the Museum of Deviation. The wax museum in Jagodina opened in 2008. He is one of six such museums in Europe and the first and only in Serbia. The museum visits about 50,000 tourists a year, primarily student excursions, because the tour of the museum is a unique and very attractive walk through the history of our country, from St. Sava to this day. The museum complements new wax figures every year and here, on October 5th, on the day our Serbian heroine Milunka Savic retired, we brought a new figure, the figure of Milunka Savic, into the wax museum. It is about our Serbian heroin, Balkan and World War I, which was wounded nine times, which lived, according to one data, from 1890, on the second data from 1892 to October 5th 1973, the woman most decorated in the history of Serbian warfare, who hid her sex to participate in those wars. He carries the Order of the Legion of Honor, the Karadjorjev stars with swords and the only woman bearing the French medal War Cross with the golden palm branch. Figura is the work of vakars, painters and costume designers Marijana Pejkić, Ljiljana Vejvodić, Snezana Simonović and Tatjana Stajic. As I said, the museum is being enriched every year with new figures, so I was hoping that Minister Gojkovic would be present, perhaps it is time to think slowly about some new, larger space, since the contents of the Museum of wax figures are being enriched every year. The Museum of naive and marginal art is a specialized institution, unique in our country, with a special programme of museological protection, works of naive and marginal art, through activities of collection, systematicisation, through museum documentation, study, exposure and publication. It was founded in 1960. His first name was the Gallery of Self-Taught Artists, and since 1985 he changed his name to the Museum of naive art, which changed his name to the Museum of naive and marginal art. It is unique in Serbia, one of several in the world and very well known and visited. The collection of this museum is of international character. The number of more than 3,000 works by 350 artists from the 1930s to the present day has been represented by all artists of naive art from Serbia, via Montenegro, Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina and other countries in the region, as well as Germany, Italy, Cyprus, Slovakia, Belarus, etc. These include representative works of our world classics of naive and marginal art, from Janko Brašić from Oparic, through Martin Janos and Jan Sokol and Anujka Miran and Maria Balan. As for the Foreign Museum, it grew up to be an important institution of culture in Jagodina, but also in the whole of Pomoravlje, which collects tens of thousands of valuable objects of natural, archaeological, historical, ethnological and artistic character. It was founded in 1954 and since then on the collection of antiquities collected by the famous Jagodinian professor at the then teaching school Dusan Vukičević Duja and this Zavičavna Museum is located in the building of the former Sokolski dom, which also allowed the building and monument of culture to be set up a permanent exhibition of exhibits and gives each visitor a unique opportunity to learn in one place about the life and work of people in the area of Pomorja. There are over 50 collections in the fund, and most of the Neolithic and Neolithic plastics, famous in the world, glass collections, because the first Serbian glass factory even existed in Jagodina since 1846, the collection of numismatics, the legions of academic painters in the 19th and 20th centuries, etc. Resume in the end. Today, we are changing the Law on Museum Activity in a work in which we are harmonising this law with the Law on Culture, and it concerns the necessary conditions to be fulfilled by the Director of Museums or by acting Directors of Museums. In order for museums to achieve their role and mission of cultural, educational, mission of guardians of national, regional and local identity, it is necessary that the director of the museums of basic conditions that we prescribe today also has management capabilities that bring our museums closer to the widest spectrum of the population. Today in the era of information technologies, in the era of virtual reality and 3D technology, in the age of when, thanks to the powerful means of communication, information becomes available in real time, in times of social networks, it is very important that our museums take advantage of today's and our museums and their rich treasures and deposits to bring not only Serbia, but the whole world. In that sense, we in the Single Serbia are looking at these amendments and additions to the Law on Museum Action and these are the reasons why we will support this law in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-07-0.u9606	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Samira Ćosovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-07-0.u9607	Dear Ministers, a respected co-worker of Culture and Information Ministers, dear fellow MPs, the Museum's Labour Act has been arranged to protect the use of the museum building. It has been in force since April of this year, and this is the first time that the area of museum activity has been defined by specialized law, since the museum's work so far has been regulated by the 1994 Cultural Goods Act, which, by its character and general regulation, regulates general and common issues of the protection of cultural goods. Given the socio-political changes that occurred during this long period of three decades, as well as the terminology of the previous law, it was necessary for the Ministry of Culture and Information to accept important jobs such as the adoption of the Law on Museum Activity. The aim of the law is to systematically improve the area through strengthening museum institutions and approaching European practices by introducing the most modern museological standards, from the prescribed conditions for the establishment, preservation, study, protection and representation of heritage. Also, this law allows the establishment of a high-quality and stable museum network of Serbia, linking institutions and encouraging the education of museum experts, to create conditions to improve the entire museum profession in Serbia. The museum's work law has been in force since April, and will begin on 17 October this year. However, there must be an earlier amendment concerning the need to comply with this law with the Law on Culture in the part of the law which regulates the conditions to be met by a candidate for director and acting director of the museum. The Law on Culture found that candidates for directors of cultural institutions must have a higher education and at least five years of experience in culture. I think this is a good solution and it is very important for the directors of cultural institutions to be appointed candidates who have had contact with culture and have a sense of culture. It took five years of experience in the profession before, so some cultural institutions directors were away from culture, had no sense of culture, so they may even have worked contrary to the interests of cultural institutions. In addition to the conditions laid down in the provisions of the law governing the field of culture, the Director and the Executive Director of the Museum may be a person with a professional examination and at least five years of work in the museum's work. When we discussed the Law on Museum Activity in March this year, I pointed out that this could in practice be a serious problem, especially in smaller areas. Namely, in a situation where there are no new employment and the old man is retired, it means that the election is narrowing down and some museums would likely have a situation where all the members in the law governing the appointment of directors cannot be respected. Here I especially think of museums in the interior of Serbia, therefore, in smaller areas. To make the museum work truly progress, it is not just a good law that requires young professional museum personnel to carry an important part of the work in the field of archaeology, conservation, ethnology, history, etc. Unfortunately, the ban on public sector employment has led to a lack of museum experts needed to improve museum work. In some previous exhibitions, I spoke about a museum in Prepolje, which was founded in 1990 and is territorially responsible for the municipalities of Prepolje and Priboj. Also, he is the winner of the 2012 European Museum Forum Special Award. However, the museum lacks professional workers, so instead of four professional workers, only two are missing archaeologists and curators, so that the museum can perform its primary work quality. The difficult employment of such professional associates is a serious difficult environment in the regular performance of this cultural institution. Therefore, the ban on public sector employment and the reduction of workers by natural outflow reduce the number of museum experts. Also, the narrow selection of high-level museum workers also poses a special obstacle to the selection of directors and appointment of museum directors. I believe that these problems must be overcome during the future, in order to allow for the smooth implementation and improvement of the museum's work. I hope that the changes that we're adopting today are a good signal that the government is thinking in that direction and that it recognizes this problem that culture institutions are facing in smaller environments. Strengthening cultural institutions through facilitating the employment of experts will significantly contribute to the preservation of cultural and historical treasures in all environments in which the lack of sufficient experts prevents more extensive work on its collection, preservation, representation. Since I come from the municipality of Prepolje, I want to take advantage of the opportunity and express my gratitude to the Ministry of Culture and Information, which has made the right move by choosing Prepolje as the venue for the event's central event "Days of European Heritage" in our country. Thus, a small municipality, known as the unique multiethnic environment and the end of an extremely rich cultural heritage, hosted a great cultural event. "The Days of European Heritage", as a joint programme of the Council of Europe and the European Commission, are marked in 50 European countries with the aim of bringing the wide public in all European countries closer and making cultural heritage available and to highlight the unity of the diversity of the common European heritage as one of the most characteristic factors of European identity. "European Heritage Days" have been organised in Serbia since 2002, and since 2003, under the auspices of the Ministry of Culture and Information, since our country joined the Council of Europe. This year, Prijepolje was honored and pleased to host a central republican event programme. I think that Prijepolje has been recognised and recommended for households on the very subject of this year's "European Heritage Days", a cultural heritage for all the ol-inclusives. In Prijepolje he learns very quickly that diversity can live in harmony, whether it is religion, culture and architecture, folk customs, dishes, clothing or some other segments of everyday life. The House of Culture in Prijepolje as the institution of cultural and artistic work in the municipality of Prijepolje proved to be a great host and thus justified the trust that the Ministry of Culture showed him. I think this example can serve as an incentive in the further work of all cultural institutions in smaller Serbia and encourage them to organize large and significant events in the future and not necessarily limit their ambitions from a small environment. I would once again express my satisfaction and gratitude to the Ministry of Culture, which respected my March suggestions, when I noted that the Law on Museum Action, along with a number of good solutions, contains fewer weaknesses that will be removed by adopting these changes. Given the importance of this law and the improvements that bring about these changes, the SDPS parliamentary group will support the draft law amending the Law on Museum Activity in the day of voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-07-0.u9608	Thank you. The word is from the People's Messenger Nandor Kish. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-07-0.u9609	Thank you very much, esteemed chairman. Dear Mr. Minister, the Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, at the very beginning of my presentation, I would like to stress that the SVM parliamentary group will support the amendment of the Museum's Labour Act in the voting day. As I have spoken in one of my previous exhibitions about the importance of culture for national minorities, I think it is very important to stress how much we care about culture and how we can cultivate a culture of memory through the work of museums from our environment. The proposed amendment to the law is technical and, as we have heard, serves to bring the Law on Museum Activity into line with the Law on Culture, and it is as far as the director and the acting director of the museum do not have to own a professional exam, such as the current provision, but that the director and performer of the duties of the museum director must have a higher education and at least five years of working experience in culture. The SVM parliamentary group accepts this change, as it contributes to simplifying the procedures for calling a contest for the museum director. As I mentioned in my previous presentation, there are 1,49 museums established by the Republic, autonomous province, local self-government, but there are also private museums in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. I would like to draw attention to the fact that there are only 54 museums on the territory of the AP Vojvodina, and of 54 institutions in five cases is the founder of the AP Vojvodina, in seven local self-governments. Among the museums in the territory of the AP Vojvodina there are several who are of particular importance to national minorities, therefore those who are declared to be of particular importance to one or more national minorities under the Law on National Minorities Councils. I would like to point out in particular that the Law on Museum Activity is fully in line with both the Law on National Councils of National Minorities and the Law on the Jurisdictions of the AP Vojvodina. The statutes of six institutions state that these museums are of special importance to the Hungarian national minority. They have very good co-operation with the National Council of the Hungarian National Minority. These museums are the City Museum in Subotica, Vienna, Novi Sad, Zrenjanin and Sombor, as well as the Vojvodina Theatre Museum. The National Council of the Hungarian National Minority is among the founders and museums of the Municipality of Backo Topol. Someone would think that the significance of these small museums is not great, since they do not own large museum buildings or a large exhibition space for exhibiting their exhibits. We in the SVM feel that we must never forget the smaller museums. As in the case of other museums, it is among the usual museum activities, for example, the Museums of the Municipality of Backo Topola include the collection of buildings from the environment, its archiving and organizations in the exhibition, but it does not cover half the daily work of the museum, because on the other hand it performs an extremely significant educational work in terms of the dissemination of information on history, on the way of life in the past, preserves, shares and conveys information about individual surrounding cultures. In addition, workshops are often organized for students to bring young people closer to the work of museums. Another major potential museum is that, besides other interesting values, it is part of the offer of tourist attractions of local self-government. In the SVM, we believe it is of utmost importance for national minorities to be able to contact the institutions that cultivate the culture and identity of national minorities living and living in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. We hope that in the future, the level of co-operation will increase and that the Law on Museum Activity will allow for easier and better management of museum networks, so that we together can preserve the diversity of cultures in the territory of the AP Vojvodina. I would take the opportunity to mention that a strategy of the Hungarian national minority theatre is under way. A recent idea has been formulated to develop a medium-term strategy of Hungarian theatres through the co-operation of Hungarian theatre directors in Vojvodina. The aim is to meet the objectives of these theatres, promotions, as well as to identify the needs of them. In this part of SVM has taken up the position of mediators and, together with the National Council of the Hungarian National Minority, provides assistance in drawing up the plan. We find it significant that through cooperation, solutions will be reached that will serve the audience in the best possible way, because ultimately the satisfaction of viewers is the most important. Once again, I would like to stress that the SVM parliamentary group will support the draft law amending the Law on Museum Activity in the voting day. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-07-0.u9610	The word has the vice president of the National Assembly Stefan Krkobibic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-07-0.u9611	Thank you, Vice President Yevdzic. Dear Ministers, good day once again and welcome, to your esteemed associate, also the esteemed Vice-President Kovac, the honourable MPs, the current law was passed not long ago on 16 April of this year, and in force soon, but on 17 October, and it is therefore very important that before the law begins to apply Article 3 in Article 49. Before the law was passed, the museum's work was not regulated by a special law, but by a law on cultural goods, which was still only a general regulation governing the common issues of protection of all cultural goods. Therefore, the Law on Museum Activity provides for conditions and methods of implementation, as well as structures and organizations exclusively for museum activities, as well as for the work of museums, as well as for the use and processing of museum buildings and the management of museum documentation. The reason for amending the law is the need to comply with this law with the Law on Culture, and in the part of the law that regulates the conditions to be met by the Director and acting director of the museum. Thus, the Law on Culture found that candidates for director of cultural institutions, so museum directors, must have a higher education and at least five years of working experience in culture in general. On the other hand, the Law on Museum Activity in Article 49(3) found that the director and acting director of the museum’s duties, in addition to the conditions laid down in the laws governing the area of culture, could be a person who has passed a professional exam and at least five years of work in the museum’s work. This amendment to the Law on Museum Activity regulates the misunderstanding by amending Article 49(3) in accordance with the solution set out in those provisions of the Law on Culture, avoiding, in practice, problems relating to the application of different laws in the selection of museum directors. All other conditions for the selection of candidates for director of the institution shall be laid down in the statutes of specific, in this case, museum institutions. This amendment to the Law on Museum Action, which I hope we will all support – director and acting director of museums can be a person who meets the conditions laid down by the provisions of the law governing the area of culture. It is important to remind once again that this meeting of the National Assembly is the first time in our modern and parliamentary practice to vote on such a crucial act, as is the Law on Museum Activity, which in the most direct way legally justifys those elements of Serbian, state and national identity, such as our national and state-of-the-art history and traditions. A party of united pensioners of Serbia, as a party that respects the assets of all our people's liberation wars, is proud that part of the ruling coalition in Serbia in the year in which the President of the Republic of Aleksandar Vukic, along with the patriarch, Serbian Mr Porfirija and BiH presidency member Milorad Dodik, agreed to build a space sanctuary, a large memorial centre in Donjo Gradina, Republika Srpska where the complex of the Ustasha camp Jasenovac was once. We look forward to being able to visit the Belgrade City Museum in two or three years' time in its new monumental space on the corner of Resavska and Nemanja Street. We expect that the promise of our top state leadership will be fulfilled very quickly and that in the Sava Square in the 19th-century former railway station building, behind the monuments of the founder of the medieval Serbian state, Stefan Nemanje, we will receive a medieval Serbian museum. We are heartily behind the initiative to build a memorial centre for all Serb genocide victims during the 20th century, which would be our "wall of wages" like the one in Jerusalem, which would namely include all those killed and killed by our countrymen from the First, through World War II, to the wars of the 1990s, and who would at the same time be a memorial and museum and educational centre that the generations that come never forget the victims of their famous ancestors. So once again, I point out the importance of the Museum's Labour Act, which in one part defined and so on. "moving cultural goods", museum items and registered elements of the immaterial cultural heritage, as good for the general interest in the Republic of Serbia, which enjoy special protection established by law, and the activity of protecting the museum building and the immaterial cultural heritage as a work of general interest for the Republic of Serbia. Otherwise, the museum structure according to this law consists of museum objects, objects or groups of objects which, independently or jointly, have a special feature of meeting social, historical, artistic, cultural, scientific and technical development, nature and its development, whether they are organised in museums or not. The museum structure is protected by law regardless of whose ownership or possession it is, or who it is. The law also provides for the organisation and coordination of museum work in the Republic of Serbia to be carried out through the affairs of the museum council of the Republic of Serbia established at the central institution and through a network of museums made up of central institutions, parent museums, territorially competent museums and other museum records museums. Our National Museum is the central institution of museum building protection, which also runs the central register and the register of cultural goods of exceptional and great importance in the Republic of Serbia, determines cultural well-being of great importance, proposes well the importance declared by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and participates in the development of a strategy for development of cultural goods protection institutions in the Republic of Serbia. While on the other hand, the parent museums carry out their original museum work according to the type of museum building and personality of performing museum work, professional training of employees, as well as available museum documentation and equipment for work. In order to effectively protect, use and present museum buildings, all museums are connected to a unique information system for museums in the Republic of Serbia. In the end, let's remind the citizens, and all of us, forgetful, that last April we're a member of the 90s. The law on museum work has voted on the obligation of the National Museum in Belgrade to change its name in a name that we will all be proud of, which is the National Museum of Serbia by 17 October 2022. In the voting day, PUPS "Tri P" parliamentary club will support this legislative proposal. I thank the Minister. I thank the Members of the People. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-07-0.u9612	Thank you. The word has a national emissary Jelena Mihailovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-07-0.u9613	Thank you, Chairman. Honorable representatives of the Government, fellow MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, as explained by the amendment of the Law on Museum Action, and as fellow MPs have already said, the reason for the adoption of this amendment of the law concerns the need to bring this law into line with the Law on Culture in the context of the Act which regulates the conditions to be met by the Director and the Executive Director of the Museum, and in order to specify and prevent different interpretations of the provisions of the Law on Culture and the Law on Museum Action, in members concerning the election of directors and executives of the Directors. The provisions of the Law for selecting individuals to the mentioned functions are clear. Candidates must have higher education, as well as at least five years of work in the culture sector, while other conditions for candidate selection are determined by the Statute of each institution individually. What is the essence of any competition in which the leaders are elected, whether a culture institution, or a museum that we are talking about today, or any other institution or institution or state function, is that we must build and strengthen the system of values and choose the best individuals in each choice or at least do it in the best knowledge and skill. We need to be smarter than any law, give the right individuals a chance at their right positions, and consequently, if there's any need to improve legal frameworks. I am always pleased with every new session where we can talk about topics related to the cultural sector, and it is an extremely important activity of the Ministry of Culture and Information, headed by Minister Gojkovic, because that the Ministry is not agile and consecrated, and that it does not bring these proposals to the National Assembly for consideration, I fear that when we talk about the country's relationship with it, it would be in a seal from which, in a picturesque way, sometimes a little bit more, perhaps even more persuading and reminding us that as a society, we need to focus more on it and define ourselves for the course that our cultural capital would increase and continuously increase in terms of awareness of participation in cultural life, the development of cultural needs and habits, as defined by sociologist Pierre Kurds. This process must be done continuously and resolutely and in this process, as well as in every other segment of life, work and policy, the key word is consistency. As today's agenda sets the topic of museum action as a topic of debate, museums as Timekeepers are an inseparable part of the Corps of a society, state and its history, but also of all events and times that have passed on certain spaces. Time as a provision is proof that we exist and that someone once existed before us. If we were to remind ourselves again that the first European civilization came from the space of our Serbia or that or that the sacred monastery Hilandar was founded nearly 800 years ago when some of today's great powers were not even close to its present sovereignty, that Serbia was a country of Nikola Teska, Michael Pupina, more detailedly spoken of by his descendant, a Member of Justin Pupin, that 17 Roman emperors were born in Serbia's territory and that today our country's soil is kept by many undiscovered treasures, both from the Roman period and from all other centuries before and after Christ, which are witnesses and evidence of civilization on our country's territory, we would once again confirm that Serbia is a rich country, but that wealth is not and can't always be material. Our wealth is our centuries of existence, and because of the soil that remembers 1,000 years before Christ, we are obliged to take care of the heritage that we have been given to guard. Museums as cultural institutions have exactly the role of Timekeepers, and because of all of the above, we do not have the luxury and justification to close museums, to renovate them for decades, it is necessary to focus all available resources on creating and multiplying cultural capital. In this context, I must stress the importance of the reopening of the National Museum, the Museum of Contemporary Art, as well as others in the territory of the state, which will certainly serve as a good example in trying to start other renovation projects as soon as possible to lead to their opening and giving to our citizens, but also to foreign visitors for use. Given that the budget has already been prepared and rebalanced, as well as the draft budget for next year, it is a great time to take advantage of the opportunity and to point out that I am convinced that, above all, the Ministry of Finance, but also the Government will recognise the fact that the situation in culture, which means that 1% for culture should be new normal and meaningful, but as in my previous presentation in this high home, I have cited and overcome in the year and years to come. In Serbia, 149 museums were registered, 65% of which were opened between 1946 and 1990. Someone might say it's a small number of museums, if we look at the number of museums per capita, but we also have to think about the quantity, but also the quality of work and content of these institutions. Collections and the construction of museums that have functioned for decades to refresh, complement, update their presentation so that museum audiences can increase and expand to all segments of society, because I personally think, and I am sure that I am not alone in this attitude that museums, as well as other institutions of culture, as well as culture and art in general must not be privileged only by the elites, but by all segments of the company. Given the current topic of European Capital of Culture Novi Sad, I would like to remind you that Melina Mercury, one of the idea makers of the European Capital of Culture, as the most successful idea of the EU, the Minister of Culture of Greece, opened museums for Greek citizens during her term and allowed them to visit their museums for free and to get acquainted with their heritage. What we could certainly do is apply that the educational system in collaboration with the culture sector organizes mandatory visits to primary and secondary school students' museums, through the schedule of classes or extracurricular activities, and which could enormously contribute to raising awareness about who we are, who our ancestors are creators, heroes and artists, strengthen the patriotic but also the cosmopolitan spirit, but also the creation of new consummations of culture and art. Also, through the organisation of cultural and artistic sections in schools with extracurricular activities, an interest base could be set up for cultural, historical and artistic content, but also provides about 5,000 jobs for young, educated individuals who could take over work, i.e. In a picturesque way, in the knowledge and creativity factory, which in all 1.136 basic and 517 secondary schools in children and young people could improve knowledge, and in particular support the originality, enthusiasm and courage and also in a certain way contribute to preventing brain drains and creating opportunities for the employment of quality, young, educated staff. What is important, what is already said and what is intensive, designing a presentation of the collection, presentation of the museum building, and all other cultural contents for both children and adult consumers, which would monitor the digitisation of our existence, and how we would interest and interest in the new museum audience. When we talk about the presentation of the contents of materials for children and young people, we must use all available resources to allow us to accompany the time and technology revolution that takes place on a daily basis. Children are no longer enough to see in the book of history or music culture a picture of Napoleon or Beethoven, but the content must be supported by video animations in which modern events and individuals would be shown in them. I myself created an educational animated series for children about the greats of music art that was broadcast in time at the Public Media Service. Seeing the reactions of the viewers and the result that we have achieved as a team with such a project, I have concluded that it is certainly easier for children to draw closer to their lives and work, for example, Mozart, Chopen, Tchaikovsky, but also to Beatles and Jimmy Hendrix. Museums as cultural institutions are not only buildings with an address, street and number and exhibits accompanied by short descriptions and texts and curators who will be happy to present to you the building that the museum has or an exhibition that is currently active. The museums are the cities of architecture that follow them. As guardians of time and existence, museums can also be concert halls, and exhibits, for example. Every chair in the Hall of Kolarca and parquet on the stage whose every hole from the sharp leg of the cell is remembered by certain spectacular art moments. The Kolarz piano remembers the articulation of the fingertips of the world's greatest pianists. The microphones in the capital record study in Los Angeles or Abby Road in London where the biggest hits of pop and rock music were recorded for eternity are also witnesses of some time and from this time distance can already be extremely valuable exhibits. The space we have empty, open to work and maneuver is certainly the tourist potential that the cultural heritage carries with it, if for example we take the information that the tourist branch based on heritage in the United Kingdom is making an annual turnover of around 20 billion pounds. It is unfair and illogical to compare how our but also European museum network with a network that has the United Kingdom, since London is treated as the unofficial museum capital of Europe, given the fact that of the twenty most popular museums in Europe, even six are located in London. Certainly, the transfer of the "Nikole Tesla" museum to the Termo power and light building as a historical museum to the building of the main railway station will contribute extremely to the preservation and promotion of collections that they possess, their activities and exhibitions and projects that their managers and their teams will be able to create and implement, the museum network, the museum's work, and the tourist offer for which they will certainly be extremely interesting. Also, as a step towards approaching museum facilities across the audience is the idea of establishing smaller museums that would treat the history of individual places, parts of cities or smaller regions, and for which it is certainly a good example to point out, the Kukarica-Zarkovo Museum, which represents good citizens' co-operation, whose initiative was also decided to change the old school's purpose and open the museum of economy, the management of the municipality and the city, and which could serve as an example in other environments. In view of the above-mentioned maintenance of one percentage for culture, its establishment as a new normal and desirable period, it would be necessary for Kolarce's debt to be extinguished in 2020 that there was no government decision on the aid paid by the Ministry of Finance, that there was no grants from the Ministry of Culture in the amount of 15 million dinars, as well as certain donors, because of museums and promotion of the tourist offer which would have been made and enriched cultural heritage, because of investment in cultural and artistic sectors and the return of culture to school, new research concerning museum activity, but also all other works from the cultural sector, which have not been done for many years, and because of our wine ancestors, Nemanja, Obbilić, Pupina and Tesla and many other giants that we are proud of, but also have to create spiritual pride. For the end of my presentation, I would like to express my deep gratitude and respect for the great artist and creator, our colleague Ivan Tasovac, who left an immeasurable contribution to the cultural and musical arts sector using all his talent and knowledge to advance the work of the Belgrade Philharmonic and give her the reputation we have today in European and world art circles. I read somewhere a fellow artist's proposal that the future concert hall of the Belgrade Philharmonic should bear his name, which could be a proposal to consider in the near future. And the new concert hall, for which Mr. Tasovac advocated, will one day be proof of the existence, proof of desire, thought, idea and dream, especially if, within this new building, an interpolated museum space that could serve as a sort of lull of music creation from the entire space of our country that would visually, as well as a sound reminder of great creators and advocators in the field of musical art in our country. I'd like to finish my presentation with what she paints and agree with everything I've listed as "Ars long Vita Brevis", art is long, life is short. We must do everything we may not have done so far to keep the cultural heritage and survive for centuries after us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-07-0.u9614	I thank the honourable People's Parliament. Representative of the Legislative Club Aleksandar Vučić – For our children, the Honorable Prof. Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-07-0.u9615	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, Mr. Dmitrović, with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, honourable citizens of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Minister, I am pleased to see you more often in this high house because you are in your own time, and today you are one of the best journalists in the area of the former Yugoslavia, very rare, I could count on your fingers, which is also evidenced recently published your book. You're one of the few journalists who stuck to all the elements of the press code from first to last. Unfortunately, today we can count them on the fingers of two hands. Dear People's MPs, as you know, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia passed the Museum's Work Act in April of this year. We are now seen by all cultural deputies and all cultural workers, museum workers in museums. This is why this is extremely important not only the law that we passed in April, and it has now been applied since 17.10, but also the Cultural Labour Act in general. Before the adoption of this Law on Museum Activity, as I said, in April of this year, we defined the museum's work in the framework of one law because it was not regulated by a special law at all, but the museum's works were arranged by the 1994 Cultural Goods Act, later completed in 2011 and 2020. I particularly underline this because of cultural workers and museum archives in this country. Since then, I have been speaking since 1994, to date two constitutions and a whole social political system have changed. That's what citizens and workers in museums and cultural works know about, institutions. A socialist system has been abolished, and a capitalist system has been introduced, it would say the restoration of the capitalist system. The law on cultural activities or good is a general regulation. I especially stress this. It is a general regulation that regulates common issues of protection of cultural goods, and which goods? Archival buildings, museum buildings, rare books, cinematheques and immovable cultural goods and others. This is very important to underline not only for the sake of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia but also for workers working in cultural activities. What's our goal today? The arrangement, and not just today, but the goal of this government and the ministry that extremely does its job when it comes to law-making because we've had an unsettled year, and in the last year alone, we've passed a few laws. So, our goal is to protect the individual area of all cultural goods, from archival construction, and to pass a law on special goods and special construction. For example, when it comes to archival construction, the law on archival construction. Did we bring it? We did. Let's just remind ourselves, in this term, this Minister Gojkovic and this Ministry of Culture. To protect the museum's work, what have we done? In April of the month, we passed the Museum's Labour Act, whose strength begins to apply from the 17th of this month. And the amendment of this article Mr. Dmitrovic was talking about just fits that part. We passed the Law on Museum Activity, as I said, in April of this year, and its application begins on 17 October 2021. I, in particular, warn museum workers, first of all curators and directors of individual museums about this application of the law and what it says in this law and what museums are obliged and at what time to make, or adapt their acts at a certain point, because there are indeed certain wanderings in certain museums, while in some we have extraordinary things. However, the Ministry of Culture and Information submitted to us this bill amending the Law on Museums, the museum's work, which relates, according to Minister Dmitrovic, to only one member, i.e. Article 49(3) refers to the selection of directors and V.D. Director of museums. That's very important. Directly, the museum is an extremely important person. I'm going to stick around to see what our practice is, from local communities across the Republic to the Republican level. We are going to use this Article Article 49, Section 3, to underline this, the Law on Museums, the Law on Culture, so that in practice there are no different situations, and I am going to say what these situations are, because I can see that there are misunderstandings among us. In the April 2021 Law on Museum Activity, Article 49 of Article 3 provides that the Director and V.D. The director of the museum, in addition to the conditions, is undermining this, there is confusion, with the directors and with certain, even with MPs of a particular part, "in addition to the conditions laid down by the laws governing the area of culture", that is the Law on Culture, the one I highlighted at the outset, "can be a person who has passed a professional exam and at least five years in the museum's work". What do we have in practice? In practice, we have different situations. If the director of a particular museum is a curator and has organizational abilities, it's an ideal thing. But we have a situation that the director of the museum is not a curator and is not even from the cultural field, and that there is no organisational capacity, and there are terrible problems in certain museums. I'll tell you what the problem is. In most museums we have good managers, and in one part we have problems. The Law on Culture found that the candidate for director and V.D. The director of the institution of culture must, I underline, have a higher education and at least five years of working experience in culture. There's a problem. Then museum workers, or curators, say - we have an advantage. No, I don't. It would be ideal if it were both a curator and a museum director, but it doesn't give a guarantee. We have cases where they don't have organizational abilities, destroy exhibits and vice versa, where they don't have, higher education from culture or museum works destroy museums and vice versa, both. So it's from museums to museums and that inspection at the level of the local community and the Republic, I hope, next year, the law will go deep and I believe in the Ministry that it will work. Dear People's MPs, speaking of directors, let me say that we have such a situation with individual directors that, for example, the keys to the museum, be careful, the keys, are available to everyone. The curator has no control over the collection. Can you imagine that this is happening in the Republic of Serbia? Things are even coming out, they're destroying, the buildings are scattered, they're scattered. Despite the numerous warnings of curators and the appeal of the Law on Culture and the Law on Cultural Goods, things are derived from individual museums and do not have adequate protection. That's why we find them on the market and buy them back. Now, that's where we need to get the order in. I guarantee you the ministry run by Maja Gojkovic, that the order will be introduced next year when we bring these legal matters to an end. Imagine what else is going on in practice. Apart from the knowledge of the curator in charge of the collection of certain persons, exhibits are given on the basis of a museum loan without a previously completed form. Can you imagine in the 21st century that this is happening? Furthermore, disabling and blocking the work of curators, if not able to director, inability to work exhibitions, taking away even exhibitions of curators who have already brought the work to an end, is therefore due to lack of money. And to be clear what the law says, which we brought in April this year. The exact plan must be specified for each year and the means for each exhibition must be determined. We've got really curators who are in a lot of trouble, and they're even going through a mobbing experience. We receive written remarks, MPs, members of the Committee on Culture, as we have received from the Committee on Education. Further - non-maintainment of the expert council. Can you imagine that? It blocks the work of curators. The curators do not participate in the museum's design and work programme. Can you imagine that? It's not just in local communities, it's what we have in Belgrade. But we'll take care of it next year, when we bring these laws to an end. Further - withdrawing the phone from the office, making communication impossible for the parties. Can you imagine that? Even a changed agency for guards, a longtime guard was expelled and unprofessionally brought in, etc. You know why? That I don't keep talking about why. They are taken to 10 people, assistant directors, who are not advisors, even had no professional curator's exam but later passed. We also have a situation where people who have nothing to do with museums come to museums, and we've put in law that we will work on professional training of museum and other workers. We really need to do a lot of work here. Now, allow the MPs, ladies and gentlemen, I will now be in the second part, because in this part our committee has reached the conclusion that the law has been passed and it has been explained by our president who is extremely leading our Committee on Culture and we will vote on it. And in the second, I'm going to say how much culture is reflected in practice. We are witnesses of the daily, here and yesterday, assaulting the President of the Republic, Mr. Alexander Vukic. Yesterday he joined, believe it or not, the BIRN portal. I will today expose the list to Serbian citizens to see who Dragan Djilas and Marinika Tepic are dealing with, the electric rabbit politically. So, BIRN, who was invited by Gilas' vice president yesterday, Marinika Tepic, and falsely accused President Vukic and his brother, Andreja and the Serbian Progressive Party of having paid seven million for the services in 2014, and that the SNS did not report it, completed a quote, which is a notorous lie. Now you'll see who this BIRN is, and I'll see about KRIK next time, because I don't have time. So, BIRN, called Marinika Tepic, was lying, imagine, that there was manipulation over the election of a company that was supposed to be in charge of pumping water on the dipping of the Tamnava-West Field during the flood in Obrenovac in 2014. Remember, you who were in office, here's a discussion in that sense. Those disgusting lies were denied by the then Prime Minister, and today's President of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandar Vukic. Look at the wonders, respected citizens, even their disgusting lies have been denied by the World Bank. Isn't that right, gentlemen of BIRN and the gentlemen of the opposition? Come out and tell me if it's true or not. Who is the BIRN to which Djilas's electric political rabbit, Marinika Tepic, is called yesterday and muds the president daily and his brother Andrej, and presents lies? The Balkan Research Network of Serbia is a follow-up to a media organisation known as the Institute for War and Peace Research. In the Republic of Serbia, he was also known for this, pay attention to respected citizens, which published a text by Royal Journalist Miroslav Filipovic, correspondent for the list "Today", "France-Pres" and BIRN, in which he falsely accused the Yugoslav Army of selling to the parents and children in KIM during the bombing of our country on purpose, quoting this journalist and BIRN, killed at least 800 Albanian children less than five years old and selling their decapitated heads, a quote. That's what they lied about. BIRN journalist, called Marinika Tepic, the political electric rabbit Dragan Djilas, was sentenced in a military court for slander and spying for seven years. Follow me for a few more minutes, and you'll see how they're done. He was pardoned by five-octobaric champions Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic, Boris Tadic and Vojislav Kostunica, then the leaders of the DOS, and today the leaders of the Alliance for Serbia headed with Dragan Dilas. For defamation and spying, journalist Filipovic was named an internet journalist of the year by Western countries. Follow the lead. He was pardoned by President Vojislav Kostunica on official duty, following severe pressures from Western countries and DOS leaders, and today the head of the Alliance for Serbia. Even then, U.S. spokesman Philip Riker intervened in his defence with the DOS leader, and that's already being published. Dr Vojislav Kostunica then said, pay attention, quote: "I condemn the verdict to Miroslav Filipovic, and I don't think he belongs in prison. “ I underline what Kostunica went on to say: “At the same time, I am not ready to agree that Filipovic was convicted of allegedly expressing the truth. “Completed quote, “NIN”, then normal paper, number 26-25, enigma Filipović, honorable and congratulating Ljiljana Smajlović and journalist, seems to me to be also called Ivanovic or Jankovic. Journalist Filipovic was already released from prison on 12 May 2000 because of pressure from Western countries and domestic NATO dusters, DOS leaders and many NGOs. Respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, behold wonders, when he was released from a military prison in Nis, believe it or not, but it is true, I call him now to say whether it is true, in front of the building, he was welcomed by a bouquet of flowers by the then mayor of Nis, and later by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia Zoran Zivkovic. Mr. Zivkovic, I call you, is it true or not? Just to ask, can I take time from the MP's group to finish this without speaking later? Yeah. Thank you. So, I call on Mr. Zivkovic to say whether this is accurate information or not. Filipovic was appointed secretary for information in the government of Zoran Djindjic as a cadre and was a longtime member of the Democratic Party. There, respected citizens, to whom Marinika Tepic and Dragan Djilas are invited, with whom they make up lies every day about President Vukic and his brother Andrej, the shirt Angelina, Angelka's father and his family. Dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, you have now figured out who BIRN is calling, who are Marinika Tepic and Dragan Djilas, and are calling in yesterday's press, even abroad and domestically on the BIRN portal. And finally, I say, there are more DOS leaders who bring disgusting lies to these days and insults. I'll just say and remind you, honourable MPs, that these days we heard Sasa Jankovic, who said in 14th September 2011, quote that he was recruited by foreign diplomats to enter the SNS and thus bring down Alexander Vukic, finished the quote because he has a heart problem. Do you know who else said that? I'll remind you. There's someone who remembers in this high house and in this country. It was said on 19.11.2011 by Boško Obradovic. I quote: "The wolf must have an emergency heart surgery in the United States to survive, which is why now is the right time to intensify the attacks on him from all available weapons. “ A quote has been completed. Mr. Obradic, Mr. Kostic, who you were on TV the other day, is this true or not? Come out in front of the people and say it. There has been more since Jankovic in 2021 that he said everything and threatened President Vukic Street worse than he threatened former President Milosevic. There are several other significant figures, and among them these days there are also Dr Vesna Pesic daily. She doesn't surprise me because she does it every day. She told Evening News in 19 January 2020, quote: "If Brnabićka resigns, you should know that a life-long Vukic is being prepared. Well, there's no boycott, just a pipe. “ A quote has been completed. Mrs. Pesic, I'm asking you as a former university professor, did you say that or not, in 19.01. 2020? Not to mention, but allow, to all journalists, since you, Mr. Minister, are those professions, which make an awful lie about the president of the state, as they were the satanization of President Milosevic, Serbia and the Serbian people in the 1990s and continued until now, I will only finish one quote. All of them should say whether or not they are doing it, I have no problem calling them twice, but I will end up with a quote by John Swinton, former chief of staff at the New York Times, on a toast he held outside the New York Press Club in 1953. He said, pay attention, respected citizens: “The job of a journalist is to destroy the truth, to lie openly, to twist, to bow before a golden calf and to sell their own land and people to earn bread, everyone knows it. We are the tools and servants of the rich," in this case Dragan Gilas and Šolak, "who are behind the scenes, we are puppets, they draw strings, and we dance. “ He adds: “Our talent, our opportunities, our life, is owned by other people. “ Gentlemen journalists, you who spit daily in the country, in the president of the country, in his parents, and in some respected MPs, if you have had the opportunity of Dr. Orlic and Dr. Martinovic these days, I ask you – are you in these quotations? The last quote, "We are intellectual prostitutes", concluded a quote, said John Swinton, former head of staff at the New York Times, on a toast far away in 1953. With full pride, Mr. Minister, I say that you are not in this quote, because you have been honorable, honest, honest, doing your job, and that is why you are attacking each other today. In the end, while Dragan Djilas, Boris Tadic, Vuk Jeremic daily, Marinika Tepic, invent the truths about the President of the Republic, his family, his parents, which I talked about two days ago, in coordination with certain factors outside our country, until our President Aleksandar Vukic grows stronger and stronger, together with the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, implements peace policy, our country's security policy, the policy of health of all our citizens, the policy of accelerated economic progress and the accelerated modernisation of the Republic of Serbia, and as I know how often to say, and the engine and accelerated modernisation of the Republic of Serbia is our President Aleksandar Vukic. In the end, respected citizens, respected students, respected students, my former students, my former students, fellow professors, vaccines, vaccines, vaccines. Please, as God, please, as an educator of many years, who lives for children, vaccines, vaccines, students, youth, vaccines. It's like I get up in front of students and say, "Mrs. Students, don't come to college." That's how some anti-vaxers tell their patients. I have cases of former students, the whole family is in a difficult situation right now because they're anti-vaxers, like Mila Aleckovic, and not to mention them, I called them here. Do you have any morals and some selflessness? Don't be selfish. Take care of your children, children of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Once again, as a professor, as a pedagogical long-time teacher, please and I truly kneel to you, parents, vaccinate your children and control. The last example, the day before yesterday I take the bus, as the Belgraders know every day, the city's mother brings an 8th-grade student, wears a mask to the entrance to the bus, not to say the number, she turns around, the child gets on the bus, takes off the mask. He comes to school from first to fourth grade, everyone wears a mask. You know why that is? We expelled education and education in 2000, when DOS came to power. We've put it back a little bit, but it's going to take a lot more effort, as someone said today, a lot of effort, because this job of an educator is very difficult, as a miner, to do that in our place. On that behalf, lived our president, lived Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-07-0.u9616	Thank you, Professor Atlagic. I think it was necessary for us all to hear this, which is why I had full understanding. Thank you to the MPs for that. We're moving on to the speaker list. The first on the list of speakers is the representative of the MPs' Club of Justice and Reconciliation, Samir Tandir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-07-0.u9617	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly Krkobibić, colleagues and fellow MPs, citizens and citizens, respected ministers, respected representative of the Ministry, today we are talking about the Museum's Labour Act. Here we have technical corrections and the Justice and Reconciliation Party, as the strongest Bosniak party in the Republic of Serbia, in the voting day will support this law and all the laws we have discussed in plenary this week. The amendment of the Law itself is of a technical nature and concerns one who can be director, v.d. Director, or head of the museum. What other than professional competences is very important and in principle I want to say are these management skills. So the moment you finish a certain school, become either an economist or a lawyer or a curator or an archaeologist, that just means that in a particular area you get some expertise and you have a degree in it. But being a director, being a manager is a lot more, and it requires certain human abilities, organisational skills, one human breadth, diplomatic abilities, etc. It's at the Ministry, it's on local self-government, all those who at some point are running and suggest they have that in mind. Because nothing is as good as it could be, even in culture. What I'm saying is that I fully support the establishment of private museums. It's something that's very interesting, that we have a situation that private museums are very visited, that they make a certain profit or a good profit, that investors, people recognize a chance at it. It is something that is very good for our country, because it appears on the map and with such an offer on the cultural and tourist map, however, we have a situation for certain state museums to cough, as we have heard from other colleagues, having a problem in functioning to the extent that certain settings simply disappear and then appear on the black market and that is something that we have to stop at the end of the moment when professional, competent and capable people who know what the real host is, and the director is the host of a certain institution, in this case of museums, cultural institutions, will be placed in such positions. The museums are certainly very important. They tell us about our history, they tell us about our culture and civilization, but they clearly and unequivocally give us guidance for the future, and that's why they're important for our children. It is also very important in the discussion that the legislator pay attention, we today in our country's border municipalities and in the interior have a problem not to find a curator and archaeologist, we have a problem finding a graduate lawyer with a passed judicial exam to perform a function, for example. The district attorney. So we have a problem in our country of qualified labour, not personnel. The problem with frames is a global one story, and the U.S. has a problem with frames, not us. That's why it's very important when we adopt laws, when we make those regulations that we know how to apply them in Black Travis, in Sjenica, in Tutin, in Prijepolje, not just here in Belgrade. What I'm saying is that sometimes in the process of restitution, I have one such example, museums appear. So museums and all other cultural institutions, they're important partners, but they can't function as religious communities. So, what was owned by the religious community must be returned to it, regardless of whether it is an Islamic community, a SPC or a Catholic or a Jewish community, the museum cannot report that it is the bearer of ownership, it is only in the process of restoration, certainly an inevitable factor. Here I am talking specifically about the case of the return of the Vakuf plot of Musal, in Prijepolje, and what I expect from the competent authorities, the Agency for Restitution, is that this area which is of great spiritual importance to all Muslims, in the Republic of Serbia, is returned to the Islamic community. What I want to point out is that, for example, in Sarajevo, we have the Valter Museum, and as we know Vladimir Peric Walter is from Prepolje. What I expect from the ministry's representatives is to launch and support local initiatives to get that museum and we need to work on better policy integration, development of tourism and our cultural wealth, especially here, I cited Walter's example, we know how popular he is in the People's Republic of China, how many tourists are coming to visit our neighborhoods and now most of them think Walter is from Sarajevo, and as we know, he's the only one in the title of the film. I'm very pleased that you, Minister, and I want to take this opportunity here today, Sjenica, the Municipality of Sjenica has no museum, and when we talk about demographic politics, when we talk about trying to get that wheel back and keep the young people in the interior, the border municipalities, I'm talking about the Sandzak municipalities, every municipality in Sandzak has a direct and in our country, of course, most of the municipalities in the interior have direct lines to Western Europe. I'll invite you to visit these municipalities, the municipality of Prepolje and the municipality of Sjenica. Your associates have been coming, but I expect you to come and see what your ministry policy is, to do something, because I'm afraid if we miss this opportunity now, there won't be others. So we have to work on decentralisation. Well done, Belgrade is the capital, but here, people in Sjenica don't have a museum, and they want a theatre, they want a museum, they want sports events, they want sports events, they want something that would make their life a quality that, in fact, they know why they should stay here to live and start their family. In voting day, we will uphold the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-07-0.u9618	I thank the honourable People's MP. He is the next representative of the JS MPs' club, Honorable Master Djordje Kosanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-07-0.u9619	Dear Ministers, with a co-worker from the Ministry, the Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before us the Bill on Amendments to the Law on Museum Activity and as my esteemed colleague, Life Starcevic, as authorised, has already said in front of the JS parliamentary group today, and I will only repeat that the JS parliamentary group in the voting day will support the draft law amending the Law on Museum Labour. At the very beginning, when we talk about museums, museum work, on the other hand about museum construction, it should be said that they represent an instrument to preserve our rich tradition and national identity. I won't say anything new to the Minister, if I say, on the one hand, that without it we can't understand our past, we can't understand our present, either, but you'll agree, we can't understand our future. Museums are a treasure of our cultural treasure, part of the educational process of all present but certainly future generations. For that reason, I must say, every commendation is what the Ministry of Culture did in the previous period. So one of the first important decisions was to establish, say culture institutions deliver and make a list and review. The real truth is that we practically in Serbia, and we don't know what kind of cultural goods we have, so we're not aware of that. On the other hand, ministers, and you will agree with me that there is a huge potential in our country for cultural tourism development. As I said at the outset, Serbia is the country of the museum, on the other hand, the geographical position of Serbia, then rich and violent history, which Serbia has, but certainly also the specificity of our regions, and on the other hand, the specificity of the cultural offer Serbia has. It would probably take forever, if I were to now start counting Serbia's cultural treasures, but on the other hand, the conclusion is certainly only one, that there is a huge potential. Serbia must certainly work on the attractiveness of its cultural offer. Otherwise, museums in the world have long not been a privilege, let me say, high-class and elite, are now available to everyone, but what separates us from everyone else is that in Serbia museums, tickets to museums are not expensive. When I say that I have in mind how it is in the world, so here I will say, the entrance to the Palace of Weapons in Moscow is 40 euros, the ticket to the Austrian Empress Elizabeth's museum in Vienna is 20 euros, or, say, Mozart's home house in Salzburg is about 12 euros. Minister, at least it sounds amazing when we hear all of this, that we haven't put an accent on this important area for so long, we didn't understand what cultural treasure Serbia owns. It took us about half a century to pass one of these laws on cultural action, more specifically, in 1977, a law was passed in the former Yugoslavia that defined the area of museum work. Some time ago, more specifically in April, a law was passed on the museum's work, so the first in the history of the Republic of Serbia and the law mentioned is, as you said, in force on 16 April and will be applied since 17 October 2021. The amendments to the Law on Museum Action that are before us today, as far as we're concerned, let me just say, the change as regards the alignment of two laws, one is the Law on Culture, the other is the Law on Museum Activity and these amendments refer to part of the law governing the conditions that should be met both by the Director and by the acting director. What's important here, the current solutions had a lot of problems in practice. So, let's say, in one city, we could have appointed a director at a museum and defined the Law on Museum Activity, and in another city, the Director, to say similar constitutions, that is, museums, and to define the Law on Culture that provides for five years of work in culture, on the other hand, high professional equipment, but also everything else is defined by the statute of the company. By passing this law, we will no longer have any problems with it, we will bring both laws into line and there will be no problems in practice. Finally, let me say once again that the JS parliamentary group will support the draft law amending the Law on Museum Action in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-07-0.u9620	Thank you. Next up on Justin Pupin Koscal's list. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-07-0.u9621	Thank you, Chairman. Dear government representatives, fellow MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, a few months ago we passed the Museum's Labour Act, which for the first time specifically regulates the work of the museum as an institution of culture. The museums keep historical testimony about the existence of the people. Museums are guardians of history, tradition and culture, cultural memory keepers of historical events and celebrities that marked our past, so it is important to keep and protect museum buildings and museum objects that are part of our precious immaterial cultural heritage. Although today it is a legal-technical change of the Law on Museum Activity, I would take advantage of the opportunity to draw attention to the importance of museums dedicated to the celebrities of our history, and Serbia has many such personalities, some of them unique and unrepeated. It's not just the cultural and historical heritage of our ancestors, our vast wealth and the mark of our national identity, it's just celebrities. Today, museums keep documents on their lives and work, on their role in Serbian and world history, because many are not only our own but world-famous figures who changed the world and left the mark of their work on the development of all mankind. First of all, I think of three Serbian greats of world science, Michael Pupina, Nikola Tesla and Milutin Milankovic, and in the way that we as a people and states keep a witness about their lives and the contribution to world science. They are the pride of Serbia, they have spent Serbia's glory in the world in their time. In Belgrade, there is the Nikola Tesla Museum, founded in 1952, and it is visited annually by tens of thousands of tourists who are familiar with Tesla's scientific achievements through museum construction. On the other hand, Mihajlo Pupin and Milutin Milanković, two of our famous and world-renowned greats of science do not have their national museums. However, there is a museum complex dedicated to Michael Pupin, which is made up of the house of Michael Pupina, an old school where there is a museum setup and the National Home of Michael Pupina, which is his property in Idvortci. This museum setup in the old school, which was built in 1843, was built by the Vojvodina Museum of Novi Sad in 1979 and has not changed since then. The item shows the life of a great scientist from the first knowledge of the world in a parent home to recognition and glory for their scientific achievements, both in America and in the country. The fact is that Pupin's birthplace keeps a memory of his most famous Idvorac, but also the fact that the financial powers of this local community are not enough to maintain a rather derelict museum building nearly 180 years old, to take care of all exhibits and contents, of their protection and promotion. I am convinced that we all agree that the museum dedicated to Michael Pupin should be supported by both the province and the republican authorities. Mihajlo Pupin was not only a scientist, he was an innovator, an honorary doctor of 18 universities in the United States, one of the founders of NASA by which a crater on the Moon bears the name, the winner of the Pulitzer Autobiography Award, the great Serbian patriot, the greatest Serbian lobbyist of all time, and the General Consul of Serbia in New York during World War I, the great supporter of Orthodoxism and consecrations, the intreasant and curator of numerous churches and intrepids. Mihajlo Pupin is also responsible for the Serbian flag blowing on the White House on July 28th 1918. Let us be proud of his role in world science, but also his patriotism and his love for Serbia and the Serbian people, who showed it at every turn. Mihajlo Pupin deserves his country in a decent manner to keep a witness about his life and scientific achievements. The debt to Pupin, as well as to other Serbian giants, should not remain only in occasional memories or only in a sense of pride. It is a debt to him, above all, to care for the preservation and presentation of future generations of original documents of archival and museum building on his life and work. In this sense, the state should take care of the museum's preservation of everything related to Pupina with the municipalities of Kovacica, Idvor and the provinceal authorities and the states of Serbia should be involved in the financial support of the reconstruction and maintenance of this significant museum complex. Mihajlo Pupin was born on 9 October 1854. In two days, it will be 167 years from his birth. In three years, or 2024, Jubilee 170 years from the birth of Michael Pupin will be marked. And this is an opportunity to draw attention to the historical role of Pupin, but also to repay him in a decent way. I would therefore take the opportunity to suggest that an opportunity be considered to allocate certain funds from the Republic's budget for the next three years to be reconstructed, that is to say, the old school building in Idvor, which in two years marks 180 years and in itself is a historical value, in which the museum setting is dedicated to Pupina. In this way, we would repay Michael Pupina for everything he has done for Serbia, because you will agree that for our country and people it would be inappropriate for 170 years from the birth of Michael Pupin to be marked in the ruined and tooth of the time exposed to the old school. I also believe that Mihajlo Pupin deserves to have a monument in Belgrade, in our capital, in Serbia's largest tourist centre, where it is appropriate for such a great science, along with Tesla, and Milankovic to have a monument. In gratitude for the Serbian people and their personalities, their work, thanks to which Serbia was recognised and known worldwide. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-07-0.u9622	I thank the honourable People's Parliament. Next up is Adriana Pupovac, from the Legislative Club Aleksandar Vukic – for our children.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-07-0.u9623	I thank you, Your Honor, Vice President, Mr Krkobiq, the respected ministers with a co-worker, fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, and in the first place an esteemed citizen and citizens of the Republic of Serbia. We have an extremely important proposal for a law amending the Law on Museum Activity, given the fact that the state forms a system and that the system is made up of people, and that only the right people in the right places can preserve a significant cultural and historical heritage in the Republic of Serbia. These amendments will avoid the current problems which have been applied in practice and instead of supplementary conditions, which have been established by the statutes in the institutions, the law will be the same for all, so that directors and executives of the directors will be elected in accordance with the amendments to the Law on Museum Activity, and will have to meet the conditions laid down by the provisions of the laws establishing the area of culture. Given the fact that the Law on Culture is the roofing law of many laws, I would like to commend Mrs. Maju Gojkovic, for her great agility and contribution, the quality of the amendments to the accompanying laws and theirs, now a certain real future implementation. How important is who will be at the head of the museum institution in Boro, the fact that one of the most beautiful anthropogenic tourist values of the Bora district is the Bora Museum of mining metallurgy, which represents a modern and modern, equipped, and a museum complete institution. The museum has a large number of exhibits, which are classified through archaeological, ethnological and historical, artistic, technical and Minerological collections and covers a period of 4500 years before the new era, until the end of the 20th century, a new era. The link between mining and culture is a permanent setting covering the quizzes, which are aimed at getting acquainted with the history of mining and metallurgy, in the fields of northeastern Serbia. Mining and metallurgical tools have been used in mining from prehistory to today, as well as many interesting items related to the mining culture of the Bora and the environment since 1903, when the Borski mine opened, until the arrival of our largest investment partner, the Chinese company "Zijin". Speaking of culture, I cannot help but mention previous events and that, as a mother, a daughter, I do not fully support the culturally decent and decent respect of a woman, who, in her own name, carries the epithet of one of the largest ladies in the Republic of Serbia, the mother of President Aleksandra Vukic, Mrs Angelini Vukic. Looking at the overall political situation, despite the individuals who want to show it differently, I am sure that, as I was in 2008, when I founded two other creditors in Boro, that our ignorance of the names of the spouses, parents, children, our political ones will not tell the opponent, but I will tell the opponents, both at the local level and in the Republic, the citizens will know that the prizes and that in the elections they will punish the indemnity so that they will be even more comfortable in the mud of primitives, where they belong, behind all cultural events, outside parliament, and behind all the institutions that are worthy of the respect of the cultural man. On that behalf, lived our President Aleksandar Vucic, lived SNS with its coalition partners and lived decent Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-07-0.u9624	I thank the honourable People's Parliament. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-07-0.u9625	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers with an associate, respected fellow MPs and respected citizens of Serbia, what do you first meet in a new city? What makes an impression on you? The kindness of the people, the purity of the streets, the arrangement of the narrow city core and, of course, museums. We rarely mistreated our history. Most people don't know how much they appreciate what's been going on for centuries. Whoever traveled abroad knows how strangers treat their old age. Based on the museums shown here, we earn respect for a certain people. I wondered, for example, at Corfu, if any of the foreigners visited the Golgotha Museum, which was passed by Serbs, and many passed through Albania. It's a very badly marked house museum that exhibits photographs, objects that testify to the death of our people. We Serbs know about Vida and must visit this site of destruction, but the goal is to be seen by foreigners, because their ancestors are those who were on the other side. The only way is to establish co-operation between the Greek Ministry of Culture and the Serbian Ministry of Culture, and to make the routes to the museum and the island of Vido more transparent. I'll name another case. I attended a wonderful and educational lecture by Dr. Jasmina Ciric, professor at the Faculty of Philology and Arts in Kragujevac, within the Cultural Heritage Day with the theme - medieval cultural heritage is in danger, the legacy of all humanity. She presented examples of Stefan Nemanja and Emperor Dushan's indemnity. Over 50 monasteries have been preserved by Serbian medieval officials, Nemnjević, on the territory of northern Macedonia. Many monasteries cannot be seen because they are closed and access banned, but they cover the frescoes of Serbian officials or overturn history by putting other names under the frescoes. I was caught with this lecture and learning with documented pictures and arguments, Dr. Jasmina Ciric, who has been studying this for years. The big problem is the preservation of these shrines that can only be made by Serbian restorers and iconographers. Our obligation is to the ancestors, but also to our Orthodox church and faith to prevent further destruction and the destruction of the frescoes. We can only do this with an initiative and better co-operation, also between the Serbian-North Macedonian Culture Ministry. I would take advantage of the opportunity since the Museum Act is in the process, but of course, I am also sorry that there is not Minister Maja Gojkovic in the Assembly to hear what I'm talking about, because she has started many forgotten topics. Even as speaker of the assembly, she raised the issue of NATO bombing and then a commission was formed to determine and investigate the consequences of NATO bombing. In recent years, here we have adopted the Law on the Use of Serbian Language in Public Life and the Protection of Cyrillic Letters, and the amendment of the Law on Museum Activity is not less important now, because it includes research, collection, documentation, protection, prevention of harmful influences, security of conditions for the preservation, evaluation, education of the public, but also, of course, the introduction of a unique information system in order to protect, use and present the museum building more effectively. In the end, I would say my observations by going around the cities of Serbia, as I said at first, one of the impressions that someone has about a city is, of course, museums, and most of the cities have them. Except for the exhibits, people who work here are very important. The largest number of these curators, on this occasion I don't want to name museums, or these cities, hate to talk, explain, then turn on lighting or virtual images where they exist, let you wander around the museum yourself while he plays games on the computer and you should be embarrassed to break them up in breakfast or phone calls. The markings of the exhibits are often torn apart and there is good enough will to replace labels or lamps. This is where the control needs to be tightened. That's why I'm saying this. At the head of the museum there must be managers who will actively co-operate with tourism organisations in these cities and with the Tourist Federation of Serbia, with municipalities and schools, not scientists, archaeologists who are in one of their own worlds, of course there are wonderful, excellent managers. It is very important to enlighten citizens, especially children, because it is important to connect with schools as early as possible to know what their city has and what it is specific about. If they are well presented, they will better appreciate and protect their city. For example, the Mladenovac Museum, which is an out-of-town Belgrade department, I was very happy when it was restored and re-worked after ten years, has not enough employees, there is only one employee, and that means that it is not enough for the quality of the museum's work. I also suggest introducing nn face, control, which will go through museums and write down impressions of what to change or who to adequately improve the service, as they have, you know, banks themselves. These are all well-intentioned suggestions for raising museum activity to the level it deserves. By the way, I really absolutely support all these changes to the museum laws, with a comment and other colleagues this should have been a long time ago. These changes are more than necessary in order for the truly museum's work to be raised to a higher level. I thank you all for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-07-0.u9626	I thank the honourable People's Parliament. The word has the People's MP Luke Kebar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-07-0.u9627	Thank you, Your Honor. The Honorable leadership of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the distinguished Ministers Mitrovica and his associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, dear citizens and citizens of Serbia, are talking today's session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia about amendments to the Law on Museum Action. This Law is very important, namely these amendments to the Law concern certain changes in a normative sense, i.e. compliance with those norms that are part of the Law on Culture. This is about certain changes that prescribe certain requirements for someone to become museum director. We have it all in the Law of Culture. So it's about one thing, let me say, technical alignment with this important Law on Culture, so there's no practical application of different provisions of one law or another. Otherwise, the Law on Museum Activity is just one example of how the Government of the Republic of Serbia and President Aleksandar Vukic are acting towards the preservation of our culture, our tradition and our identity, the preservation of Cyrillic, the restoration of museums, the construction of monuments to Stefan Nemanja, the completion of works on the Temple of St. Sava, investment in films that talk about the loss of the Serbian people are just some of these successful indicators, i.e. the results of the politics of the Serbian Progressive Party, the politics of progress, the policy of progress. But you, on the one hand, have exactly that, advocacy, effort and the results of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, President Alexander Vukic, and on the other hand, unfortunately, you have a certain function of certain members of the tycoon yellow regime, people who have devastated this country. I have to look back at last week's events, because I'm really shocked and disgusted, so I can express myself with these events. Namely, the leprosy insult of the President of the Republic of Aleksandr Vukic by Gilas' "journalist", a quasi journalist, a man who saw only a break from law school between class and exercise class and such a quasi journalist, a quasi lawyer in the middle of his show insults the mother of President Aleksandr Vukic. Just imagine this situation that one official, activist, member, anyone from the Serbian Progressive Party has cursed Mother Djilas, Jeremic, Aleksic, Marinika Tepic or any other member of the tycoon regime? Just imagine he said such disgusting words, such disgusting, dirty, barbaric insults? Well, I think that all possible protectors of free media, various associations, various organizations, would all be coming down on us and they'd say that we're in a dictatorship. Afterwards, Lutovac, who claims to be a prominent member of some elite, a democratic elite, said in his one quote on Twitter, that Gilasov's journalist remained unspoken. Well, what was he thinking? Was that Gilas' little reporter supposed to be cursing... So it's not enough that he cursed his mother, he was supposed to curse both his father and his brother, and the sons and daughters of President Alexander Vukic, so that this Lutovac would be pleased? Well, what does that look like? What does that look like? Then, the son of the party's official, Jeremic, demotes the Go SNS premises in Novi Sad. Imagine this situation that any member of the SNS went outside the rooms of Gilasova or Jeremic's party and that one stone hit the door of those rooms? Well, I think we'd be bombed. I think they'd all come down on us, declare us some kind of dictatorial regime, some kind of totalitarian, authoritarian regime. I think Serbia would be, Malten, identified as North Korea. Just imagine the situation. Then the official of Gilas's party threatens to bring down power on the street and each of their members will hunt down one advancer. Guys, I think these words, these intensities, this intention of that Gilas functioner, are an eclectic example of fascism. It's pure fascism. So you're threatening to hunt on the street, literally, one of your political opponents. Has one official, activist, member of the SNS ever said such monstrous things to Gilasu, Jeremic, Tadic and others? It would never occur to us to do such things, and that Gilas official, without any scruples, says the most terrible, the most monstrous insults and threats to our account, and no one condemns it. These terrible things can't happen and will never happen again. A decent Serbia, Serbia's progress, Serbia's progress will win. Long live our President Alexander Vukitch! Long live Serbia!
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-07-0.u9628	I thank the People's MP Kebari. Next on the list is the esteemed National MP, Milica Dacic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-07-0.u9629	Thank you. Dear President, distinguished colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, distinguished representatives of the government and, above all, dear citizens of Serbia, we are again talking about one legislative act in the fields of culture, amendments and additions to the Museum's Work Act that we all remember in April of this year. It was the first specialized law after 50 years we've passed in this area. I agree, of course, that this amendment is necessary to remove any doubt as to the different interpretations between the Law on Culture and the Law on Museum Activity and in the day for voting, of course, I will give support to this proposal. But let me tell you, when we talk about this topic, the topic of culture, I'm going to take a look at the extraordinary news that came yesterday from the Ministry of Culture and Information for all of us coming from Cačka. At the competition that was first announced this year, therefore, in the year at the head of Mrs. Maja Gojkovic's ministry, the town of Cačak was named the first national capital of culture for 2023. This is the city from which I come, the city of rich history, culture and art, the city of sport, the town of Ovčar-cablar ravine, Vladislav Petković Dis, Major Gavrilovic, Duke Stepe, and I must stress Nadežda Petrovic, because she, in addition to being a famous painter, a humanist worker, a writer, was also a great fighter for women's rights, received a certificate and a blessing for her cultural endeavors and exploits, but also an injection into the blood stream of the city of a new vision, because in addition to the programme content, about 300 million dinars will be defined from the state for this purpose, and the city itself will define over 100 million. The museum complex in the heart of the city that adorns the connection of Jovanovic Obrenovic will get new facilities for the safe setting of its historical treasure, and Cačak and Serbia will also get the first basketball museum, because it is Cačak, especially Serbia with its great basketball names owes the heroes of this sport. Of course, I will also congratulate the cultural workers and the leadership of the town of Cačka, which is the most responsible that Cačak has received such a flattering title, because much has been done in the field of culture in previous years. However, all that is happening in Cačka and will happen in the coming years, it is happening throughout Serbia. The Serbian Progressive Party, whose members, when they want to belittled, call them credentials, sandwichers and other insulting terms, very well understood that famous Churchill's observation of the situation before Hitler's attack on Britain, when the ministers were increasing from which sources they would transfer funds for defence and when some suggested that they do so from the position of culture, which is what this famous politician said – and what will we defend then. That is why it is very important that this congregation council also passed the Law on the Conservation of Cyrillic Letters and because we have passed a law on the preservation of the cultural and historical heritage of the Holy monastery of Hilandar. That is why this project is also important, which was launched this year by the Ministry of Culture and Information, because this is how the state helps culture, but also helps cultural workers who can make their own ideas come true in this way. At the same time, we are incorporating and extending the spirit of European values brought by Novi Sad as a European capital of culture for 2022, given that, just like Novi Sad, which will be in the spirit of this project, in 2022 and the town of Cačak will be in the spirit of the project of the national capital of culture in 2023. I would now stress and link the economy and culture, because such investments require strong economic activity and probably that most of us have not noticed research by the Ministry of Economy, which showed that small and medium-sized enterprises in 2020, the year of the crisis, showed a trend in growth, but also increased the percentage of exports, which is very important for both employment and GDP growth and shows stability in the Serbian economy. On the other hand, we're stable enough to pay back the debts of the former government, because just a few days ago, word came from the Ministry of Finance that the debt of the former government of 700 million dollars was paid back. All of it, of course, wouldn't be if we hadn't implemented strong economic reforms in the past years and now we can say with pride that we're not dependent on others. On the other hand, in this way, President Vukic can also say that Serbia will deal well with the energy crisis that threatens major economies, due to the rise in energy prices and that homes in Serbia will be warm, which is the most important thing for our citizens. That's why I'm talking about the economy right now, because culture is the foundation on which the state was built, but to achieve all these intentions, it takes a strong economy. That's why it's also important that today in Novi Sad we open another factory, the chocolate factory. Of course, the most important thing is that the citizens of Serbia know that what we promise, we do, to finish what others started, but to finish what we start. In that sense, sometimes I feel it is necessary to remind me of that famous Latin sentiment –res non verba, i.e. works, not words. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-07-0.u9630	Thank you. The next is Honorable MP Mladen Boskovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-07-0.u9631	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, today we are talking about a very important proposal for a law amending the Law on Museum Action. The Ministry of Culture and Information submitted a bill amending the Law on Museum Activity, which refers to the amendment of one member, Article 49(3), and which refers to the selection of directors and performers in museums. The reason is that this member is likened to the Law on Culture, in the sense that the conditions of the images, as in practice, so that tomorrow in application we do not have a different situation. The Law on Museum Activity provides that the terms and conditions for director and acting director may be a person who fulfils the conditions, but also a person who has passed a professional exam and at least five years of work in the museum's work, while the Law on Culture in Articles 36 and 37 are of general character. What does that mean? In fact, it is the conditions for the selection of directors and it is a highly professional cook and five years of experience in culture. In order to avoid the application of different provisions of the law, the ministry has prepared, and the Assembly Committee on Culture has accepted the amendment and addition of Article 49. The law on museum activity, which my colleagues from the Legislative Group Aleksandar Vukic – for our children and I to support in the day of voting. Otherwise, the Cultural Goods Act, adopted in 1994, is in force in the Republic of Serbia. Since then, to remind our citizens that two constitutions have changed and that the entire political system has changed in our country. This law regulates common issues of protection of cultural goods. In view of the need for systematic arrangements for each individual area of protection of cultural goods, according to specificities, it is necessary to adopt regulations governing the museum building protection system. In this way, a legal framework would be created for the Republic of Serbia to fully regulate the museum's work and protection of the museum building, especially if it takes into account the importance of these institutions and cultural heritage, not only for history, not only for science and culture, but also for meeting the needs of our country's citizens. Given the importance of the museum building, as part of the cultural heritage and the kind of moving cultural goods in the modern world that has recognised them and as one of the important elements of the drivers of economic growth, as a driver of a country's tourist offer and an important condition for understanding of both the past and the future of a nation, it is necessary to regulate all questions regarding the creation of a museum building by law which we will set up and systematically edit the museum's work. This law, which we won in April of this year, not only defines the museum's work and its compliance with internationally accepted documents and professional standards recognised in the Statute of the International Council for Museums and the Code of Professional Ethics, but also arranged by registering museums in the Register of Museums of the Republic of Serbia. I would also like to point out the excellent co-operation of the Municipality of Negotin, from which I come, and the Krajina Museum with the Ministry of Culture, where we have invested more than 50 million dinars for the realisation of projects in the area of cultural heritage of contemporary creation, digitalisation and preservation of archival buildings, Ministry of Culture and Municipality of Negotin in the previous four years, and there are works on the arrangement of four archaeological sites within the Roman Limes in the Danube, works on the arrangement of the archaeological site Vrelo in Sharkamen, publications on Hajduk Velja Petrović, which is famous for his famous sentence: "I am giving the head and I am not giving Krajina" and for whom Stevan Stojanović Mokranjac, born from Negotin, wrote his famous "Six Rukovit". In addition to these investments, we invested in the Krajina Museum itself, then, in the Hajduk Veljak Museum and we invest in the home house of Stevan Stojanović Mokranjc, where we traditionally opened the 55th Mokranjčeva Days in September. Do you think all of this could have been done in culture and in other areas, that Serbia has not economically strengthened since 2012? Well, I'm sure it couldn't. Thanks to President Aleksandr Vukic, today we can invest in road infrastructure, where it has never been invested again, so we invest in factories, new jobs, in increasing wages and pensions, in developing agriculture, in sports, in kindergartens, in hospitals, in schools and in Orthodox facilities. In the end, I must also remind our citizens when the National Museum in Belgrade was restored and reopened, which was founded in 1844 and which is the oldest museum institution in Serbia, as well as the Museum of Contemporary Art. For visitors to the buildings of the Museum of Contemporary Art, it was opened on 20 October 1965, and it was closed when? Well, at a time like I like to say, the yellow exotic tycoon octopus, such as Gilas, Vuk Jeremic, Boris Tadic and others who were then in power, despite all the areas of our country, also destroyed culture, which is in 2007. Finally, the Museum of Contemporary Art was reconstructed, renovated and opened on 20 October 2017. Also, to look back at the National Museum, which has not been restored for 10 years, respected citizens, our oldest museum institution, which began its work in 1844, is closed, you know when? So in 2003, again at the time of the authorities of these yellow exotic tycoon octopuses, which I mentioned earlier, and I wouldn't mention their names again. And do you know when the National Museum was restored and opened? Well, at the time of President Alexander Vukic, June 28, 2018. As Prime Minister Ana Brnabic said then at the opening, we are finally returning the National Museum to all our citizens and putting culture in its place. Long live Serbia!
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-07-0.u9632	Thank you. The next on the list is popular MP Natasa Mihailovic Vacic, representative of the SDPS parliamentary club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-07-0.u9633	Thank you. When we passed the Museum's Labour Act in April, SDPS MPs pointed to the importance of its adoption, especially given the fact that the museum's work was regulated by the 1994 Cultural Goods Act. The significant provision of the Law on Museum Activity for us was certainly also the formation and is still the formation of a Museum Council which will deal with the development and promotion of museum work, explore models of cooperation between museums and related educational, professional, scientific and international institutions, as well as the development and establishment of cooperation of museums with communities in which they serve. Of course, the provision that work within the framework of museum work could be carried out by highly professional staff and persons who had and passed a professional exam was almost revolutionary, given the importance of regulating museum activity through such a special law. Today we're changing exactly that provision. I believe that in practice and the application of these provisions, as is available in the law, certain problems may arise, although, on the other hand, what is in the explanation of the amendments and the addition of this article, is not very clear to me personally, it is – why would the selection of the director of the museum apply the Law on Culture, if we already have a law that accurately regulates the way the directors choose the museum, which regulates the Law on Museum Activity? I believe that the other conditions that are determined by the statutes of the institution will take into account this small, filigree difference between the experience of working in culture and the experience in museum work, because it makes a huge difference in the work of the museum. The museum as an institution positioned between the past and the future is a place where a particular society creates values of its own identity. In companies where the value system is threatened, the category due to the rapid and back transition from the socialist model to the neoliberal model, the institutions of culture and memory play an important role of the conversators, if you will, the reviewers and critics of change. Creature and contemporary art is global, not only because of global distribution, but because it has globally raised many issues that the world is experiencing and its criticism is affected by those mechanisms that shape modern and global modernity. In that sense, what is local and as far as reality fragments are concerned remains global. So museums are not just designed to expose art history, but also to show the world in a mirror of contemporary art. When we passed the Museum Act, I will repeat again, for me it was almost a revolutionary law that changed traditional museum practice and introduced the concept of a new museum, new practices in museum work. If traditional museums have become a trom, overcome and insufficiently engaged in modern society, we need a museum as a place to look at social diversity, educate the widest social layers, get through settings and exhibitions and answers to current social and global challenges and problems. I also saw the law as a change of that existing paradigm and as the opening of new opportunities for all the most professional in the field of culture, but with experience in museum work, as a new opportunity. Since we have a completely new law that regulates museum activity, we have a completely new and different, proactive approach and its application in practice, because it opens up space for museums to be useful today and just set on the basis of historical experience, so that all these experiences integrate and focus on possible strategies of responding to current issues and global challenges. There is no dilemma that the parliamentary group of the Social Democratic Party of Serbia in the voting day will support these amendments to the law, in the belief that, as I have already stated, the other conditions, in addition to those prescribed by the Law on Culture, that is, the statute of the institutions or museums, will take into account the importance and the expertise and special skills that certainly distinguish the director of a museum from the director of any other cultural institution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-07-0.u9634	I thank the honourable People's MP for the comprehensive discussion. The word has a respected MP Milan Jugovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-07-0.u9635	Dear President, honourable colleagues and fellow Members of the People, distinguished citizens, as we have heard, are here today before us a bill amending the Law on Museum Action. We heard a lot in the previous discussion, so I won't overhear myself. I'd like to say a few sentences on this subject, among other things, to leave time for colleagues who are on the list after me. Until three or four months ago, when it comes to the area of culture, the 1994 Cultural Goods Act was in force, which in all respects was overcome, too, because it was made up of a social system that was changed, which was overcome, but also because it was a very general regulation that regulated the general issues of protection of cultural goods, without going into any narrow areas. In fact, as it is necessary to regulate systemically, in a comprehensive way, and each individual area, we, if I am not mistaken, in April of this month have made an important step in the adoption of the Museum's Labour Act, which will allow museum citizens to be preserved as a significant part of our cultural heritage in a very, very high-quality way. When it comes to the very amendment of this law that lies before us today, we have heard that in principle it is a matter of procedural changes, i.e. the harmonisation of the Law on Museum Activity with the Law on Culture when it comes to the selection of directors, and there is really nothing special to say. In previous years, our country, our state leadership, has taken a number of serious steps, a series of serious measures to cultivate our national identity, in order to preserve our cultural treasure and what I would like to say, among other things, that this high home, therefore the National Assembly, has passed several very important laws in the field of culture. So, in addition to the Law on Museum Activity, the Law on Culture, the Law on the Hilandar monastery, the Law on the Use of Serbian Language in Public Life and the Conservation of Cyrillic was adopted. When I mentioned already the Law on the use of Serbian language in public life and the protection of Cyrillics, I can't help but look back at the latest in a series of attacks coming from Croatia during the previous period at the expense of our country's president. Namely, the last attack, yesterday or the day before, took place by one Croatian government official, specifically Foreign Minister Gordan Grlic Radman, who attacks Serbia, accuses of allegedly denying Croatian language, accuses Serbia, where, with this blatant denial of Croatian language, Croatia's community in Serbia, Vojvodina, where it falsifies history, etc., as it points out, it works out that Croatia respects all its international commitments, international agreements and conventions signed to protect the rights of national minorities. I would dare ask Mr Grlic and the others from Croatia who treat themselves in a hypocritical way -- is respect for the rights of national minorities to the Serbian people in 23 local self-government in Croatia to use their own language and their own letter, so in local self-governments where Serbs make up more than one third of the population, on which basis, according to the Constitution of Croatia, they have the right to use their own language and their letter, where the most express and extreme example of Vukovar, where bilingual tables on Latin and Cyrillic are broken? Is that the idea of democracy in Croatian? Is that the idea of national minorities' rights in Croatian? Or could it be that the notion of human rights in the Croatian way and the promotion of European values of beating up migrants at Croatian borders, disallowing European observers, European representatives to come to the same limits to see the situation? On the other hand, if the disrespect of the Croatian community in Serbia is the restoration of Ban Jelačić's house in Petrovaradin, the declaration of Croatian language in Subotica for the official language where the Croatian population makes up less than 10% of the population, so if this is also similar activities undertaken by the state of Serbia, we will, in future, disrespect the Croatian community. Furthermore, is respect for the rights of national minorities to mock Serbian victims, the distortion of historical truth best viewed in a statement given by Zoran Milanovic two or three days ago, where he says Serbs left Croatia thanks to Belgrade, that Zagreb did not drive them away? Again, did Belgrade banish 280 thousand people in Storm? Did Belgrade kill two thousand of its citizens in the Storm? Did Belgrade destroy 40,000 buildings in the Storm? Did Belgrade bring down 78 churches in the Storm? And so on, not to mention further data. I would say that, freely I can say, the frustrations that come from Zagreb on account of Serbia are like jealousy, the envy of our country's economic progress, of economic growth, because there is no logical explanation that Croatia in Serbia is all bothered by the names of the son of the president of the country, and beyond, unless it is pure envy and pure jealousy. What is unfortunately obvious is that our western neighbours still cannot break out of the embrace of Ustasha heritage and instead of turning to building good neighbourly relations, turning to mutual co-operation, they continue to slave the past. But let them deal with us freely, we don't mind, and SNS, President Aleksandar Vukic will not deal with them. As before, it will deal with Serbia, the Serbian people, the Serbian economy. As last year, Serbia had one of the best economic results in Europe, so the drop of all is down 0.9% and Croatia minus 9%, and as Serbia's public debt is 56.3% and Croatia's 87.4%, so the economic indicators will be even more pronounced in favour of Serbia in the future. In the end, once again, like all my colleagues, I will vote of course on a draft law that is on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-07-0.u9636	I thank the honourable People's MP. I'm announcing Professor Dr. Mark Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-07-0.u9637	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, I will start with my colleague Vacic, who stressed that when it comes to the selection of directors, that the statute of museums, or other acts, can regulate certain things. You're absolutely right and it's in the management of executive committees, boards, and acts of the statutes, as well as the practical individual competition that is being called and then to see the abilities of each museum, each one will have its own characteristics. I couldn't agree more, and I believe it'll go that way. But now I'm going to look back, we got a tip like museums appear in the 19th century a few sentences. So, the first data, there were museum collections first. The first information about a collection comes from the 12th century B.C. See how far this is, the 12th century before the new era, when the Elamithians, in modern Iraq, robbed the former Mesopotamia of Babylon or Babylon, as some say, and took the treasure to the temple of God, to highlight the royal power and royal success. It's the first collection, that's when the first collection begins. We have other formations about the collection later. Immediately in the 9th century, so this was at 12, I was asked by some MPs as we leaped from the 12th to the 9th century, and before Christ of the year, in the opposite sense, from the larger to the smaller, and only from the first Christ, the zero year from the first and to the present 2020, that's what students and students in chronology are doing, learning about time counting. So in the 9th century BC, a collection of valuable art works was stored in the western tower of Asura, one of the capitals of Assyria, modern - day Iraq. Here, and here we have the collection. We don't have a museum yet. The word museum, to be clear, comes from the Greek word, someone said Latin, no, from the Greek - museum, which means - temple. That's the essence, so a temple dedicated to husbands, protectors of science and art. That's the basic thing. In the end, I'm going to say the most modern definition of the museum, because I can see that we're running around here today. And there are representatives of the ministry, so let them correct me if I'm not correct. The Alexander Museum you heard about was founded by Ptolom under Aristotle's influence 250 BC. He collected books and other, as you know, precious rarest things. We have an entire ancient world, continued the practice of collecting, preserving various objects in temples. So, in the ancient world, the treasures and the natural collection. The Imperial Rome for which you have all learned if not in high school, is taught both in primary school and in college, has become a haven of treasure collected in war campaigns. So that's very important to say, at the time of Octavian August, the city of Rome has become a luxurious capital with beautiful basilicas, i.e. early Christian blasphemies, squares, and fountains. Look at the miracles, believe it or not, so the whole city of Rome became a museum, as we today try to make the Sremese Carlovites, or we have declared it with a special law, and in some ways we are trying to do it from the Sremish Carlovites. We have a Middle Ages, a special place to gather buildings belonged to several powerful rulers and a very important, powerful Christian church. Here we have monastery treasures, i.e. places where art items were kept, artistic treasures, i.e. of gold, noble objects and other material and spiritual, I underline spiritual values that personify power and wealth. Right then, I stress this, the practice of instilling the motifs of saints with gold and silver and other stones begins, so the monastery's treasures have turned into rich tombs of rulers. We have that in the Middle Ages very briefly, to say the least. It is precisely the word "cheese" that can be considered the beginning of official museums. So it can be considered, and occasionally the presentation of church relics can be called the first exhibitions. That's what we who worked with students know very well, here I have my former students, Mr Popovic, he knows very well, while the processions and the court ceremonies of public events and manifestations of public importance. That's very important. Rebirth age. Research and collection of objects turn to archaeological excavations. So at the time of rebirth we have archaeological excavations, then collections of non-religious content are created – old books, medals, collections, documents, collections of money, art items, etc. A time of great discovery. After 1492, we have the appearance of a new century, which is the discovery of new continents. It turns to rationalism and empirism, given to the development and preservation of collections. Collections are placed in special facilities, I stress, which are called cabinets. Cabinettes of rareness exhibiting public material achievements, from turtles, as I often say often, eggs to unicorn horns. So that's the period and we move on. At a time between the 16th and 17th centuries, I stress, the Luvr Museum was formed, which has been a synonym of a museum institution, one of the largest and most significant museums in the world with 35,000 objects from prehistoric to 19th century. It was founded, formed only in 1793 when it became available to the public. It's very important to say. In the 18th century, theoretical debates appeared, already about museums and museum collections. In London it was founded, as you know, the British Museum in 1753, and for the public in 1759. Nineteenth, the whole century, we go to it, the museum era when museums open everywhere in Europe. There isn't, so to speak, where the museum didn't open. The 20th century, great museum work. I have to tell you, in the 20th century, we have such wonderful museums in the world, but also in our former state and in our dear Serbia, until today. Let me finally say what I promised at the beginning to give a definition, although there are many of them, I'm going to underline this, because today I see different concepts, probably from the press. There are representatives of museum work, the ministry, I tend to this definition - the museum is an unconventional permanent institution in the service of society and its development, open to the public, which collects, stores, investigates, publishes and exhibits material and immaterial heritage about people and their environment for study, education and aesthetic experience. If we analyze this, every single word, and we'll see how many journalists are wrong in the definition of museums, how complex an institution is, one really institution, as you can see, a long-term tradition. Finally, respected citizens, I will look back at one part for the public, our political opponents, especially the media under the control of Dragan Gilas. Again to the unfortunate, Vidojkovic, I will not mention his name, for as far as I know, in my life Marco is the holy name of honest and honest people. To say that he continued, not to quote, what, but supported by Professor Vodnelic Rakic. In order for most citizens to understand, she said, she supported, that he swears to the president colourfully, which in translation means vividly, and quotes, cursing, not the Latin word, but the German word, which means pleasantly. Can you, respected citizens, respected fellow professors, believe that this comes out of the mouth of the university professor and, I think, the president of the political committee of Jeremic or Gilas's party? Does Mrs. Professor know that cursing and insulting a mother to certain peoples is the greatest possible insult especially because often parents are motives for their children, as was the case with our president Vukic. I have to say, he's got a crush on the president of Dr. Wolfie. Teodorovic, where miracles, supported violence and supported violence against Nevena Djuric and said – should be beaten, quote. Can you believe he said this, quote – parents beat children on time, finished quote. Do you know which Dr. Teodorovic is? President of the SANU Education Committee. Respected educators across the Republic of Serbia and Europe, children are not fighting but being brought up. Did the president of the SANU Education Committee beat and raised children? You know what else he was doing? Threatened our honorary actor Nenada Jezdić only just appeared at the opening of Milos the Great and threatened him not to buy out the brandy, which is otherwise determined, and says – I will remember you well. And not only him, but many more actors. And to us, to the MPs, in 18.7.2019, he said, I quote - that MPs are primitives, and the president of the state is a rude man and that Stalin, Hitler, Mussolini and Franco. Mr. Academy, Professor, Doctor, we can be primitives, but we will never, ever, ever work against the interests of our country. You, Mr. Academy, when the bombing of our country started, escaped from the Traffic College in a country that bombed us for two years, you returned, correct, Mr. Academy, when the bombing was completed and you were returned illegally to the work of a former assistant, it seems to me that she was an assistant minister, Serbia's Turajlic. In the end, you, Mr. Academy, said 22.7.2012, quote -- Kosovo is not an integral part of Serbia, finished quote. How else would you say when you ran away when there was a bombing? As our president works daily and builds the country, he promotes it in international contexts until you and one group keep spitting lies like that BIRN I've been revealing not only today but over the last five years. Dear People's MPs, distinguished citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I believe you understand very well what our president is doing every day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-07-0.u9638	I thank Professor Mark Atlagic very much for all of today's discussion. Since no word has been reported on the lists of parliamentary groups, I am concluding a search in principle and setting a regular break. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-07-0.u9639	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue our work. We move to search in detail on the first item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that they have been invited to attend: Sinisa Mali, Minister of Finance, Vanja Udovic, Minister of Youth and Sports, Slavica Savičić and Saša Stevanović, State Secretary, Dr Dragan Demirović, Assistant Minister and Marijan Blešić, Group Manager at the Ministry of Finance. You have received an amendment submitted to the bill by MP George Komlenski, as well as an amendment to the government. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds, as well as the Government's opinion on the tabled amendment. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. I welcome the Ministers. Welcome. The 10th Amendment was submitted by MP George Komlenski. First National MP Dejan Kesar has applied for a debate under this amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-07-0.u9640	The Honorable Chairman, esteemed ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, today when we are discussing amendments to the Amendments to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Procedure and Administration Act, it is important to say a few important things. First of all, amendments to the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration and the very text of the basic law will be brought into line and these amendments will certainly contribute to the improvement of our tax system, but it is important to say also that this proposal for a tax system and administration law has a good impact on the proposal for a fiscalisation law. When it comes to the proposal for a fiscalisation law, it is important to say that this law defines a transitional period for fiscalisation obligations in order to adapt to the new fiscalisation system. As a good side of this bill, it is also what the planned costs of replacing fiscal devices, when we talk about economics, will be borne by the state, not by fiscalisation bonds. Instead of some media dealing with the good things that are in the Bill on Taxes and Tax Administration, as well as in the Proposal on Amendments and Supplements to the Fiscalization Act, today the media has been dealing with the presentation of large untrues for the past few days, and that is the easiest word I can say when we talk about certain titles that we can read in the media that are now close to opposition parties' representatives. Instead of talking about those solutions that will improve our economy and improve the contribution of the entire economy to our tax system, we are today dealing with speculation and baseless attacks. Instead of today's media talking about all the good things that Minister Sinisa Mali has done since the start of his mandate, which have made a clear contribution to strengthening our fiscal system, which has contributed to strengthening our economic system, they deal with attacks on the character and work of the finance minister daily. These attacks are based on those truths that are being recycled today, which have been proven to be notorious lies. Today, opposition representatives are using only their media to attack Minister Mali as he has 24 apartments. That 24 apartment today we can multiply by both ten and a hundred and two hundred and say that today Minister Mali may have 240 or 2400 apartments. We can also accuse any of the ministers or MPs present here of having 200 or 300 apartments, but we know very well that this is one proven false. The context of this topic of attack against the Minister of Small is to mask all those things that are happening in the ranks of the opposition. Since 2012, have we been asking all the competent authorities to answer how has this been the former mayor of Belgrade Dragan Gilas acquired so much enormous wealth and that none of the competent judicial authorities have been thoroughly engaged in his development since he reported that as a successful entrepreneur from the Czech Republic he reported 70,000 euros and an old car, and when he left that post he reported almost 22m euros in real estate? That he has 22m euros in real estate today, and I think there's a lot more, I'm not saying, not only the representatives of the SNS, it proves the application from the Anti-Corruption Agency. When the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption as a competent authority says that Dragan Gilas today owns so much property, we, all Serbian citizens, have to wonder how one of the profits of 100, 120 or 150 thousand dinars, how much did he have as mayor of Belgrade, could have acquired so much property? Obviously, there are certain doubts that he did not get it in accordance with the law. If that property had not been acquired in accordance with the law, we could also talk about the functioning of the "Multigroup" that was under his paw while he was mayor of Belgrade. When I say under his paw, I mean because he directly handled the work of the "Multicom Group", and directly as mayor of Belgrade, he ensured that the "Multicom Group" co-operated with city enterprises and city institutions. I am not saying this again, but it is said in the Verica Barac report, which clearly taxed that the "Multicom Group" received certain jobs and that Dragan Gilas had a certain impact on certain urban and state-owned enterprises through the "Multicom Group" to get these jobs. The report clearly states that the "Multikum Group" increased its net income from 2008 to 2012, as the "Multikum Group" was given the opportunity to resell seconds at ten times the price of the RTS, even if certain printing works that were within the "Multikum Group" received jobs from the National Theatre and so on. And when you want to mask the misdeeds of those who are your direct founders, when I'm talking about certain televisions and tabloids, it's best to attack someone from the SNS, because the possibility of hiding a certain truth, you're trying to hide it with certain attacks. Like I said, the context of the whole story is to mask certain truths. And these attacks are also not only directed at masking the truth, but also at Alexander Vukic, president of the Republic of Serbia. And unfortunately for you, Aleksandar Vukic has no bills in the white world, as Dragan Gilas has, there are no 68m euros in 17 accounts in the white world and has no company, such as the "Multikum Group" and that he directs it and provides certain jobs for the company to become enormously rich. But not only are you attacking Minister Malia, you are also attacking certain MPs, daily and certain ministers, just because they work exclusively in the interests of the Republic of Serbia and because they all have results together that we as SNS can raise since 2012. We don't just have to talk about the results of that policy, we can see the results of that policy, we can see when we drive the highways, we have to see when we go to new hospitals, to new schools, and we can feel it in our wallet, today when we have a 560-euro salary, and that it was 320 euros in 2012. When you see all these things that you can practically feel today, you have to do one unscrupulous campaign to dehumanize certain people and to carry out a classic auto project of what you did by 2012. And the result of this hysteria and this campaign of lies that you want to hide is seen through the affair "Jovanja" that you have been transferring through your media for several days, and the direct goal of it is both the President and his brother Andrej Vukic and the complete family of Vukic. As I was saying at yesterday's session here in the National Assembly, it's not an affair, it's a court case conducted today before the competent judicial authorities and we'll see if in a year, two, three or four years, but we'll certainly welcome to see the epilogue of this court case. You don't care about court proceedings, you don't care what happens at the end of this trial or not prove it, it's important that at the epicenter of that story, Alexander Vukic, to be Andrej Vukic, to be all members of the Vukic family, so that you, your voters, show that what you did, to God, is much less than you do today and what you want to attribute to Alexander Vukic. You are concerned about all the things that will soon be learned and therefore there is hysteria in your ranks, and the leader of and complete hysteria, so that the truth about who he worked with, who he worked with, who he worked with, who he worked with by foreign factors and foreign embassies in attacks against Aleksandr Vukic, is the Vice President of the People's Party, Miroslav Aleksic. And not only was it proven that Miroslav Aleksic lied to the group and that he was a convicted liar when he said that Andrej Vukic had heard from someone from the case "Jovanja", not that he had not heard from anyone from the case "Jovanja" but he had not seen it, and that the testified liar was not saying I, but that is the verdict of the First Basic Court in Belgrade. But if such people were ready for all things, just to get some political points, this very testimony of Miroslav Aleksic, which says that Mr. Vice President of the People's Party had to finish third year of secondary education in August. Now imagine a man who's been hiding all these years that finished high school with grades two and three, that ended in August, imagine what this man is willing to say and do to directly attack his political opponents. But he does not attack those political opponents because some of his statements and reactions have the truth, but because Miroslav Aleksic is today trying to escape from the ship that hit the rock and is now trying to escape from that ship because he was getting information from certain people who didn't want well either Alexander Vukic or his family. There is a statement by Alexander Vukic that I would like to share with you here, and I hope that most of you have read it, which is that the noticeable hysteria in the ranks of opposition parties, as well as in the ranks of certain officials of the MUP, because they thought that they had to be true, well packed, that the citizens of Serbia would accept it. Serbia's citizens will not accept that because they are witnesses of everything you've done since 2012 with the sole goal of destabilising Serbia and discrediting the Vucic family. To leave enough time for my colleagues to discuss, I would like to say that you will never get the support of Serbian citizens, because Serbian citizens see how many highways we have provided, how many new schools and hospitals we have provided, how many kinds of vaccines we have provided, and these are the things they win in the elections. I hope that in the upcoming elections, Serbian citizens will show representatives of opposition parties where they really belong, which is at the disposal of political history. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-07-0.u9641	Thank you. According to the amendment, the People's MP, Serbia's Filipovic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-07-0.u9642	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable citizens of Serbia, you know why this is so much hysteria and panic in the ranks of the opposition in Serbia? Not only is it revealed from day to day that they robbed our unfortunate people, how many assets they stole, how many billions of Belgrade they owed, how many hundreds of millions they put in their pockets, what fairies and cars they had, that's one side of the story, those 50 accounts abroad. Because of all this they are panicking, but they panic over one other thing much more. Because the elections are approaching, and as the moon passes, the day after day panics are increasing. For what? They're aware of whatever they're saying, whatever kind of public opinion research they're reciting themselves, because behind that, no research exists, but the beautiful desires of Gilas, the marines and the others, and it's probably clear when they're sniffing or blowing up marijuana or whatever, they're particularly hallucinating some of their electoral grand victories and results, and then they're going wild on Twitter, and they're so inspired by swearing, vomit and insults that they and their bots write every day and spit on their portals, media, etc. Then they think at some point that the winners are in something and they're going to take some power. But when they look at real research, when they come out among the citizens on the street, when they make their own mini gathering somewhere and see that two or three people get together, they realize that winning the election is just a dream for them. When they look at new paths, when they look at, and today, the new chocolate factory, over a hundred new jobs, over 50,000 pounds of chocolate on an annual level that will be produced from that factory, they see their life getting bitter and bitter. Citizens are getting better. The salaries, already announced, are due to the good results of the government of the Republic of Serbia in the field of economy, finance, growth this year, and next year, and pensions, of course, more and more satisfied people, are increasingly feeling the need and possibility to stay in their country, to build their families and their future in it, and on the other hand to see some sad and sad characters, who, of course, are melting with millions of people, eager to restore that looting policy, tycoon, mafia, and yet there are two opponents standing on that road – of course, Serbian citizens, and the one that everyone points to, including their friends in Pristina and other destinations, their main opponent, the biggest obstacle to the mafia in Serbia, Serbia, Serbia's biggest enemy, Serbian President Aleksandar Vucic. All of these would be achieved only if there were no Alexander Vukic, and they say, "We forbid Alexander Vukic to go to elections, forbid Vukic to run, ban the lists from wearing the name of President Aleksandar Vukic." If Vucica were not there, they would be the happiest, because they know that when there is no Vukic in Serbia, then they have the opportunity and the mafia to regain positions, functions, chairs, to grab the register as soon as possible, to empty and say -- there will be results in the first six months. There's no dilemma. After 12 years in which they were in power, they saw their mistakes, and you know what mistakes. Because maybe some small dinar stayed behind, they haven't been able to steal that change yet. Now, those mistakes have been seen and learned about it and are now ready to do all the things that Alexander Vukic, together with the citizens of Serbia, have worked hard and hard all these years, to sit down and rob them. Well, that won't work. It will not pass through to Gilas, to Marinika, to Jeremiah, to Bosca, and to however many columns one, two, three, five of them share, not to their Schoolmen, nor to their various financiers, friends, criminals, alleys and others to pull Serbia back into a more recent crime scene. They can say whatever they want about us, they can talk about parliament whatever they want. Believe me, they can resent a dictionary that they sometimes use, so they can write whatever it says one way or the other. It is all mild and, believe me, I refrain from saying the worst possible words in the Serbian language, which they have earned because it is abnormal to have a salary of 150,000 dinars or 200,000 and 300,000 dinars and to have 620m euros. I'd be a total fool if I believed that a man could raise 620 million or 24 official ones. Somebody explain to me what kind of math you can have 50 accounts abroad. How can he do that? Which digitron can do, which, as a colleague, the technical brain, and that of the Ninga Turtle, is more beautiful than it says, can calculate. Here, put it simply on paper. So a man with a primary school, 150,000 dinars when he calculates, how long it takes a century, to work to collect what Gilas has acquired in a few years' time. And of course he looks at us all like fools. That's what we are for him. We work honestly for the salary, Serbian citizens work for the average salary today over 500 euros, in 2025 the salary will be 1,000 euros, pensioners have never had more pensions than they are today, growing. Is that enough? No, but it's three times bigger than it was at the time of Dragan Gilas. Could people have bought an apartment at the time? No, they're not. I can today. Look around Belgrade how many construction sites you have, on all sides of the wall, building. Someone's got to buy it. He didn't buy Alexander Vukic's villas and 40 apartments, he bought Gojko and Dragan, they bought it. No Sinish Mali 24 apartments, but Gojko and Dragan have 50. Alexander didn't usurp the garage with his brother, but he usurped the garage and abused Dragan Gilas for decades, so they had to throw him out of that garage. She panicked then. Because how, well imagine a thief dared to take something he stole. He can't get anyone together or defend him. He doesn't understand a man so blinded by hate. I can't understand that you have someone who can hate their own country and their own people so much. It's pathological hatred, he's a sick man. He doesn't have to just lose the election, he needs to be treated. That man needs help. It's not easy for him. Imagine what it looks like to him when he looks at the national daily at half past eight and sees how many roads in Serbia and the factory have been built. He knows that so many times ten votes are less for him then. How can it be when he sees a new hundred jobs that are open today? How can that man who closed down 400,000 jobs while he was in power? Well, he's not well. He gets sick every day when he watches the diary. When he looks at the front pages of the newspaper and sees it surface from day to day of the 12-year robbery he's taken from Serbian citizens not only money, we've compensated and returned, people are being stolen from what no one can bring back, 12 years of life has been taken from all of us. Twelve years ago, a thief stole Serbian citizens. You can't give those 12 years back to people. Everything can be built, restored, but life cannot return and no one can pay us those 12 years. And that's why Serbian citizens will never give anyone another chance to rebuild any October 5th, October 6th, seventh, any date they're proud of. What are they proud of? By burning down this building, by burning down RTS, what were the Kalashnikovs stealing from Mother Jevrosima? And that is true, they will say -- yes, some of us back then supported the change of October 5th, but here I say it publicly, and I said it on October 5th -- October 5th is the biggest mistake in the last 30 years that we've made as a people, the biggest mistake that has cost this people the most, and it must never happen again. We are mature as a people in both political and democratic terms, we know that we choose, we know that we measure results. Once we were naive, twice it couldn't be. Gilas won't get a chance to come back twice and rob us because then something wouldn't be right with us. This Serbia today supports Alexander Vukic, and I end up supporting him for the results, supporting him for his jobs, supporting him for a better life than a series, supporting him because of the roads, factories, wages and pensions, supporting him for real life, supporting him, and those pensioners who disgust Dragan Gilas, because their grandchildren stay in Serbia and in the next elections and each other will win politics and Alexander Vukic because Serbia wants to move forward, wants to make big moves, to build and work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-07-0.u9643	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Ilija Matejic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-07-0.u9644	Thank you, Your Honors Chairman. So, in the main debate today, my colleagues said a lot about the Law on the Protection of Noise in the Environment and the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, as well as about museum laws today. I really wouldn't have anything new to add. The debate was really great. But I would like to talk, since there have been a lot of words today about culture, about culture in Serbia and in my municipality, but also about the political culture that exists with us. First of all, when I talk about culture, I have to mention here my municipality that has a Gallery of naive art that our Slovak brothers keep alive. Some have devoted their whole lives to it and are truly beautiful and are also known in Serbia's cultural and artistic circles, as well as throughout Europe for their naive art. I also have to mention that we in the municipality of Kovačica in a small village of Idvor have the Michael Pupin Memorial complex, which consists of his old school, his home, and the Michael Pupin people's home. That's really what we're proud of. There's a process under way to rebuild his old school. The municipality of Kovačica is for the first time, let's say, noticed, finally by our country, that is, our country has noticed small places and we have received from the Ministry of Culture and Informing the funds for the restoration of that school, or for the construction of the project documentation, as well as for the reconstruction, where we are very, very grateful. I would really like to invite you all, and your respected citizens, and your colleagues and colleagues, that if you love your country you come and visit this Michael Pupin Memorial Centre. Why do I say if you love your country? Well, when we talk to Michael Pupina and about what he did for our country, I think it's a small session of the National Assembly. I can only point out that after World War I, the Treaty of Versailles was to be concluded, which was to be signed by Nikola Pasic, but that's where Mihajlo Pupin played the lead. Namely, the whole Banat, all the way to Pancheva was supposed to belong to Romania and it was all over, so the whole Banat all the way to Pancheva, and there was only enough letter from Michael Pupina to American President Woodrow Wilson so that it wouldn't happen and that the Banat that still today belongs to us. Just be careful what kind of reputation he had in the world when one letter was enough for that. How much did American President Woodrow Wilson appreciate Serbia at the time, according to one of my colleagues, that in 1918 he hung Serbia's flag on the White House and told Serbs: "The Serbs are a bold and noble people whose spirit is not broken even though their country was destroyed. “ So I talked about it already after this pay phone, if I do 5% of what Michael Pupin did in my career, I will really consider myself worthy of doing this function. As for our political culture or non-culture, therefore, we attended all the ugly scenes, I would call it, last week, when on some show, one writer, no less than cursed the mother to the President of the Republic of Alexander Vukic. We listen to every day in the media how we live in a dictatorship, how we live in some darkness, how there are no electoral conditions, media darkness, etc., and beware, no less, you freely curse your mother to the President of the Republic and that that's why you're not missing hair from your head. Well, what if the dictatorship was not yet there. Worst of all, none of the political elite that our opposition is making has said a word to condemn it, to apologize, etc. But it only says more about them, how much they have no idea, how much their infirmity is. I've already said there is no gentlemen in this struggle for Serbia's political scene. Here's the minister of sports, and anyone who's involved in sports knows that he's fighting honorably for something, if you have a goal, how he's fighting honorably, not the way they do it. You know, you're very popular today when you spit on someone. Does this Wolf have some kind of mistake? Well, I don't know about a man in the world who works every day without making any mistakes. I guess the only ones who sit around all day and spit on the Internet are the ones who write all kinds of texts and what I know about you, and the ones who do, well, of course, they'll sometimes make mistakes. Now, since I'm, well, subjective, let's say so, I want to ask one question that I doubt I'll get an answer. If this Wolf is so bad, then why is it being spat on by so many Croatian media? They spit it under the orders of their political elites from Croatia. Why? Why is it spit by the Bosnia and Herzegovina media on the same principle? Why is it being spat on by the media from Montenegro, who are under the control of Milo Djukanovic? We all have to work with our neighbors, but if they want us well, then why are they doing it? Why, if he is so bad, Albin Kurti said on September 19th this year: "Kosovo is not the problem, the problem is Vukic". Did he say that because Albin Kurti loves Serbia? He should love her, because it is his country, but I doubt he said that Vukic is the problem because Vukic is bad for Serbia and that he cares for our well-being. So, to finish, it's not their problem, Alexander Vukic, they're actually having a tough Serbia problem. You know, we started this session on October 5th on this poor date in our country's political history and then on the power of wings and foreigners, on the wings and our drug clans came those who had the trust of the people, had the support of the people then and came to power on the wings of the ideas to rebuild our country after the bombing, but they failed this trust of the people and instead of the restoration of Serbia we got the robbery, we got the sale of all our companies, we got the Pogrom Serbs in 2004 in Kosovo and Metohija, unilateral independence in 2008 etc. We, especially the younger ones who came here, really have to fight, to create a modern, one cultural, one strong Serbia that is no longer a black hole in the Balkans and not stop our work, hard work, hard work until all the great powers in the world talk about Serbia as Woodrow Wilson said in 191. Long live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-07-0.u9645	The word has a People's Messenger, Milos Terzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-07-0.u9646	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, honourable ministers, respected citizens of Serbia, I have reported that I am talking about an amendment to an important Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration. I agree with the Government's view that this amendment is not accepted because I believe that the government has provided for an acceptable deadline for a legal solution to make objections. I certainly believe that the regulation of this matter gives an additional contribution to legal certainty and ensures transparency in the conduct of tax policy, but I also think it is important that this law that we are talking about is in line with the Fiscalisation Act, because that is how we prove that we are committed to continuing the comprehensive process of digitisation and modernising our system and we are proving that we want to move forward with time and new technologies. The set of financial laws we discussed this week aims to continue Serbia's economic progress, of course through investment in infrastructure, building new highways, high-speed railways. We today have an economically strong state and we can also talk about additional measures of support for our citizens due to the impact of the pandemic of the coronary virus. We came up with these opportunities thanks to the necessary reforms we implemented, which were implemented by SNS in 2014. Thanks to these reforms, we have managed to consolidate our public finances, we have managed to strengthen the Serbian economy, and now our goal is to preserve these results, to achieve even better results in the coming period, and in the previous period we have managed to provide everything at a time of crisis that was necessary for our country's needs, for the needs of our citizens. I think we are one of the few countries in Europe that, even in times of crisis caused by the coronary virus, managed to raise salaries and pensions for our citizens. More than once over the year, we have raised salaries to healthcare professionals and this proves that we have done something since 2014, that we have earned something and have managed to help the unemployed who today are three times less than they were in 2012. The crown of everything, I can say freely, in the fight against the pandemic, is that we have managed to build three new coves of hospitals and to prove that the fight for the lives of our citizens is above all a priority. I think it's rare that the state in Europe, and even in the world, has managed to do it so quickly and so well. As far as the Serbian economy is concerned, we have managed to maintain the highest level of direct investment, so Serbia has the most direct investment if we compare it with all the countries in the Western Balkans region. There were no factory closures, there were even new jobs openings and all economic indicators are clearly saying that Serbia will continue for the coming years to be the fastest growing economy in Europe. The only thing that's good about this global crisis is that it didn't happen to us in 2012 when this country was run by SS, Djilas, Tadic and Jeremic, because then we wouldn't have friends in international circles who could help us when we needed help, we couldn't even as a state financially bear the burden of this crisis because by 2012, the state was completely, thanks to such politicians from the former regime completely economic and political destroyed. Why am I saying that? Because the former regime's ball of obvious robbery has finally begun to unwind and someone will have to bear responsibility for the economic and political destruction of the Republic of Serbia. We must never again allow ourselves to return to power, that some Gilassi and some Jeremiahs happen again, because at that moment, there will be nothing left of Serbia. First of all, because a lot of effort, work, sweat and diligence has been invested in finally getting the Serbian state back on its feet. The only thing those of the former regime offer is a policy of violence, some colored revolutions, that without the political will of the Serbian citizens tried to come to power and with all the help and support of foreign agents, so they could continue where they left off, which is to steal the money of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and fill their pockets. I would also like to take the opportunity, if you would allow me to congratulate the brave Serbian people on KIM, because in the previous period they showed steel will, courage, unity, the style to stay and survive on KIM. I think it is clear to everyone now that, above all, thanks to President Alexander Vukic, Serbia is such a country that no one can talk to with the language of threats and blackmail anymore. We have shown just about KIM that Serbia today is more incomparably powerful than it was in 2004 and 2008, when representatives of the former regime did not care about the Serb people in KIM, when the people served only as a subject of trade, in order to open as many secret accounts around the world. I think it is clear to everyone that with the policy of humiliating and insulting the national dignity of the Serbian people is over. For the first time in 22 years since the end of the war on KIM, since the signing of the military-technical agreement in Kumanov on 10 June 1999 and the adoption of Security Council Resolution 1244, we have a statesman, we have President Alexander Vukic, who, for the sake of the results, mainly of those economic but military and political, which Serbia has achieved in the previous period, is capable of saying one NATO pact – if you do not respond, we will react and we will protect the lives of our fellow countrymen in the southern province, if this is the case. That is why Aleksandar Vucic and SNS have the absolute support and absolute trust of the citizens of Serbia at KIM. In 2004, when ethnic cleansing was carried out over the Serb people in KIM, when our churches and our monasteries burned, we were not allowed to take one Serbian Army vehicle to the streets of Belgrade, let alone the administrative line. By 2012, thanks to the humiliating and crawling politics of Ponos, Sutanovac, who led a crawling policy of joining Serbia's NATO Pact, we didn't have one, the only aircraft that could take off. I think the citizens of Serbia understood the message in KIM when they saw our flight along Jarinje and Brnjak. It is a message that implies that Serbia will always fight, above all for peace and stability, but that we will never again allow new pogroms, new "Storms" and that we will never again allow anyone to endanger the lives of our citizens. I am honestly not surprised that Hashim Thaci, a human organs dealer, thanked Vuk Jeremic at the UN Security Council session, because they know terrorists from Pristina that if such politicians run the Serbian state, they will be able to achieve their goals, just as they were on the threshold by 2012. That is why both of them and these other Serbians from Belgrade who were led by Dragan Dilas and Vuk Jeremic and the terrorists from Pristina are bothered and as the biggest threat is defined by Alexander Vukic. A little, little bit, and Pristina terrorists thank both Gilas and Tadic and Jeremic, because they know they were unable to make a decision from 2008 to 2012 to influence a country in the world that would withdraw recognition of a false state. As for the agreement with Pristina, while we are already on the subject of KIM, it is clear to us that Albanians will not, frankly, expect anything to happen, but the EU is the whole international community that must force Albanians to respect the signed agreements. I will remind Serbian citizens that since 10 June 1999 we have a total of 48 agreements signed and that Albanians in Pristina have absolutely no respect for any of them. I will remind Serbian citizens that after that famous date on KIM territory, more than 50,000 well-trained and well-equipped NATO soldiers entered, that the biggest crimes on KIM had just taken place after 10 June 1999, that all of these were watchful by NATO soldiers. Then we had 2004 and once again ethnic cleansing, again burned Serbian churches and Serbian monasteries, but again, NATO soldiers, members of KFOR watched the regime in Belgrade, because by 2004, they had destroyed Serbia so much through robbery privatisations, that Serbia could not and could in any way react and help our people in KIM. That is why we must not rely on others but must continue with the responsible policy carried out by the SNS, which implies that we overcome our economic, our military, and our health power in order to be able to help our people at all times wherever we live. I will remind the citizens of Serbia and if the Brussels Agreement had been respected, all that happened in the past weeks at KIM, it would simply not have happened, if this agreement had been respected, because we would have a situation if we had a formed community of Serb municipalities and we would have a respected point 10. The Brussels-based agreement regarding the judiciary and no one could and should invite Ivan Todosiovic, to support the prison sentence, because of the truth he told about Račka, that he is justice and that he is the only one who is supposed to be in prison and that he is in prison, because of the Račak case, he is William Walker, not Ivan Todosijević. If part of the Brussels Police Agreement was respected, Serbs would have a commander in the north and without his approval or members of the KSF or members of ROSU, they should not approach the Serb environments. It is clear from all this that I have said, who is the factor of destabilisation in the Balkans, and the International Community and the EU, they must know that if something bad happens in the future in these areas, that it will be solely because of violent attempts to create a great Albania and therefore the EU, it bears one part of responsibility. That is why the EU and the entire international community must work on this, to come first of all to economic normalisation and to realise in full capacity the initiative of President Aleksandr Vukic, "Open Balkans", because on some political issues we will never agree on, but let us, through such initiatives, make our economies progress and make our economies ten times stronger. Serbia will, of course, always have the strength and will, and the desire and energy to fight for KIM, as part of the Serbian state, but it is very important that we continue to make economic progress, because only economically strong Serbia can guarantee a secure future for our people and our southern province. I think it's crystal clear, and with this I'll conclude that the new "Storms", tractor columns, pogroms, will never again be because today we have the SNS, the state unlike the period until 2012. Today we have a state that is both economically and militaryly strong enough to preserve peace and stability, but also to protect the Serbian people, at least where it is most difficult, and that is on KIM.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-07-0.u9647	The word is by MP Viktor Jevtovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-07-0.u9648	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, today I will speak on the amendment to the Proposal for a Law on Tax Procedure and Administration, which is proposed to the Tax Administration to take the affairs of managing the single information system of local tax administrations, as prescribed in Article 159. ZPPPA, starting on 1 January 2024. In view of the numerous reform activities that are under way and within the context of the tax administration reform, as well as the software solution of the single information system of local tax administrations integrated with a number of electronic administration systems and in continuity with the improvement and establishment and functionality of new information systems, thus making business transactions more efficient and simpler, and also contributing to legal certainty, ensuring public access to tax policy management as a general legal act and creating equal rights and obligations for all entities in the same tax situation. In line with the time and improvement of information technologies, without which daily life would not be imagined, and also in line with European standards and regulations in the spirit of the future of modern Serbia, which daily tends to be Alexander Vukic, we have one of the best electronic systems of administration in the world and by apostrophe of new technologies and electronic solutions has repeatedly reduced the risk of malversion, as well as the reduction in the business process as well as other segments that have taken up time, and thus and money, not only to businesses, but also to citizens. For this reason, it is daily work to improve information technologies, which can also be seen in schools, city administrations and other institutions. Accordingly, Serbia, led by Alexander Vukic, opened scientific technology parks in Nis, Novi Sad and other cities, where we are in step with the world following the trends of new information technologies, which was best seen through the vaccination process, which proved to be one of the best in the world, and we are also promoting society as a whole and working for the benefit of all citizens of Serbia and our children. Because that is our task, that is also our obligation and what Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic, who is once humiliated Serbia, who has now placed Europe's appendix on the pedestal of leading countries in the region, primarily in economic terms, and thus in all other areas of social life. With what is the former regime led by tycoon Dragan Gilas, can praise Serbia's promotions other than a ruthless 619m-euro robbery and accounts around the world? At the head of Belgrade, he ruined everything that dropped his hand, from kindergartens, child's allowance, underground containers, hundreds of thousands of shut down jobs at the state level, not to mention the Ada Bridge, which is also the most expensive bridge in the world. There are also long fingers he pointed at Telecom and RTS, where he made a contract with his friend Dragan Šolak, which was their only answer, to monopolise the market, steal minutes and charge them fat, leaving no media space for anyone who thinks for themselves and does otherwise. All according to what they are are occupied thieves and leaders of the tycoon-mafian octopus, which paved Serbia's path to destruction. Now that the masks have fallen and the people know what bandits they were dealing with at the time of their robbery, they literally lynch the family of President Alexander Vukic, where through their dactyloburo, and publicly in the most disgusting way, insult the May of Aleksandr Vucic, along with the disgusting, perfidious and dirty curses and together with their mob mercenaries, Marinika Tepic, Lutovac, Marko Vidojkovic, Aleksic, who, as serpents, palace with poisonous tongues, as the last human and political shearth, are still going on in their hysteria every day. It is good to hear everything and to see how and from whom these disgusting, dirty and perfidious swearings come, as well as physical attacks, such as breaking the office of the Serbian Progressive Party in Novi Sad by the alcohol of the high-ranking son of Jeremic's party, Bora Thessaloniki, which is perfectly normal for them, because hooliganism and terror are in the statutes of their programme. I'm just wondering how they'd react if it was the son of the president of Serbia, who, in their madness, draws a target, even when he's breathing. As far as their disgusting actions are concerned, I guess it's all normal for them, because it's their programme that they offer to the people of Serbia, it's scattered, terror, destruction and robbery. And while Aleksandar Vukic leads politics to protect the Serb people in Kosovo and Metohija and draws him out of the tycoon pushed by the tycoon poor, Vuk Jeremic and Dragan Djilas, who are probably preparing a monument by separatists as a reward for everything they have done for them, they have publicly praised Albin Kurti and have not stood by our people in Kosovo and Metohija for a single moment, not even a sentence. Everything they have to say fit them in that famous... that we are a genocidal people. Such lowlifes and cowards with a pointless policy of destruction will never be able to stand on the line for Alexander Vukic, the factories, the roads, schools and the standard for which Vukic is fighting. At the head of the state, there is no room for foreign embassy mercenaries who flew around like a cabin and were hand-to-hand spiders and dragged Serbia to the bottom, all for their own personal interests. But the people of Serbia see it, they understand everything. The people of Serbia will not let them do this, because when these bastards are ready to hit another person's family for the sake of only Serbia's citizens' money, what they are only able to do if they get their hands on the authorities again and what kind of plan and programme they would offer to citizens, except violence and millions more in their accounts. They don't have a plan and a program, except without a choice to ride the state's manger again, to make the people hungry again, and the country on the verge of collapse. The people of Serbia see it, the people of Serbia know it well, and that is why the people of the occupied thieves and secikes will sink in the elections once and for all to the bottom of their swamp where they belong. We know well who is fighting for Serbia, for our children, for the new chapter of history, that we are finally walking bravely to the top. We are no longer the last hole in the world. That's what Aleksandar Vukic is fighting for, that's what most Serbian citizens support. No matter what brutal attacks and pressures on all sides, not one moment, not one... Serbia will not stray from that path. We have no right to fail, we will not withdraw from the worst. That's the kind of fight we've chosen, and we're going to win it. Betrayal is not an option. Long live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-07-0.u9649	Thank you. The government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to Article 13 of the amendment. The Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending adopted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? Yeah. ) The word has a folk MP, Milija Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-07-0.u9650	I thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers, dear colleagues, another amendment that our Government, headed by the Prime Minister, has submitted, which is a sign that this law will be better, that it will have the opportunity to through all these amendments, through these laws that we are going to adopt today, to provide more resources for each of our citizens, for every man, for people living in the country and for people living from the village, because that is the only way it can and should be, to provide funds and to help everyone, regardless of whether they live in Srlig, Nis, Subotics or any other part of Serbia. All the previous speakers who have spoken of all the negative things that happen by the people who are trying to bring down this power, who are in the worst way telling the truth about our president and his family and all of us sitting here, I can only say that it's not right, that it's not domestic, as we say, but, most importantly of all, that at every moment we who are here, headed by our president, we have the opportunity and the obligation to provide for every child, for every man, that he can live better. All these things that have been done so far, all these roads, the highways that are being done, all the hospitals, schools, everything that's been done, it's done for our children and for our children's children. Serbia is something we live for, what our ancestors died for, and we have to preserve it. Once again, I, as president of the United Peasants' Party, will support both this amendment and the bill's proposal and all the laws that give us the opportunity to move forward. But let me, the Honorable Chairman, that here from the Assembly Speaker, as President of the United Peasant Party, congratulate our friend, President of the Russian Federation Vladimir Vladimir Vladimirovich Putin - Happy birthday to the Honorable President of the Russian Federation, that together with you and with you our Serbia is going forward, that all together, our entire Orthodox people will be together and be better for all. Long live Serbia and the best!
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-07-0.u9651	The word has the People's MP, Ugljesa Mrdić.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-07-0.u9652	I thank the chairman, Mrs. Kovac. Dear President, Mr. Udovic, with his associates, distinguished fellow Members of the People's Parliament, honourable citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I will look back on this section on the area of finance. As we know, the people in Serbia have always chosen a good path, from 2012 to today. The second time is the destruction of our financial policy. For the first time, strengthening our country is both economically and in any other sense. So Serbia chose both 2012 and 2014 and 2016 and 2017, and last year, and so, for God's sake, will choose all the coming years. And why is that? For the future of our children, for the interests of both our country and its citizens. When I talk about finance, I have to point out, precisely thanks to the best financial policy in modern Serbian history, it is full of the budget of the Republic of Serbia and in this difficult time to fight the crown of the virus we have had and we have enough money in the budget and for the purchase of respirators and vaccines and the construction of coves of hospitals and investment in the health system. It is the same when it comes to investment and the opening of factories, new jobs, as we had the opportunity to see today, and as regards the construction of new roads, highways, all kinds of roads and, of course, the construction and opening of new schools and preschool institutions. We have all this because it's no longer in power that they're stealing, it's not the kidnappers. We had opportunities to see what it was like to run the financial policy of Dragan Djilas, Boris Tadic, Vuk Jeremic and their counterparts. Then we had the destruction of Serbia. Fortunately, it's a distant past for us. I would like to take advantage of the presence of Minister Udovici so that I can look at the investment of our country and in the construction and renovation of sports facilities, the organisation of numerous sports competitions, world, European and other championships and another example, which we did not have before, which is regularly paid to our top athletes and sports workers, all who have achieved the successes of the previous decades, and also, whenever our athletes win medals at the Olympic, World or European Championships, they receive adequate promised prizes in record time. All of this would not be without the excellent policy led by both the Ministry of Youth and Sports and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and above all our President Aleksandar Vukic. So whoever wins the medal for Serbia, who proudly sings our anthem, points out our flag and promotes both our Serbia and the glory of our country, he deserves a reward and he gets a reward, but that wasn't the case before. That wasn't the case before, number one, because those who were in power just cared about rewarding those who deserved it, and the reason number two was that there was no money in the budget. And the money in the budget was not because it was stolen and fled from the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. That is why I, as a folk MP from the list "Alexandar Vukic - For Our Children", support the financial policy led by both the Government of the Republic of Serbia and our President Aleksandar Vukic, because this financial policy and all these laws concerning both the areas of finance and the tax policy, they encourage it to be fuller, to stand in the way of crime and corruption, especially in finance, that Serbia has more money in the budget, so that Serbia can invest in its strengthening. Because there is no area in our Republic of Serbia without the state investing in that area, whether it is sport, youth, culture, whether it is economics, economy, energy, infrastructure, traffic, health -- in every area of the state invests. And he's investing because he has a responsible authority, because he's no longer being kidnapped and because the budget is being filled, thanks to the best economic policy in Europe. And if that's the best policy, so are the indicators we've had of seeing and presented to us during the past and this year, in this difficult time to fight the crown of the virus. The best economic policy in Europe is the one driven by Serbia and we are the only ones with growth in relation to all other countries in Europe. For this reason, I support the financial policy of the Serbian government and support everything that our President Aleksandar Vukic does, which leads our Serbia to a safe and stable future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-07-0.u9653	Thank you. The word is made by the People's Messenger Miodrag Lint. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-07-0.u9654	Thank you, Your Honor, the President. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to remind you that in the National Assembly in April of this year, we passed the Law on the temporary register of full-time citizens of Serbia who are being paid financial assistance to mitigate the effects of the pandemic of the coronary virus, creating the basis for the payment of 60 euros in this year to every full-year citizen. On Tuesday, we had a debate on the amendments and additions to this law that provided payment of another 20 euros for all of Serbia's adult citizens. I remind you that the government, and I want to commend the government, has taken a number of steps to help citizens and legal entities overcome the negative consequences of the coronary pandemic virus. Last year, the government made a decision to pay 100 euros to all full-time citizens, to pay an additional 9,000 dinars on two occasions to all pensioners, PIO users. This year, therefore, aside from these 80 euros for all full-time citizens, 5,900 dinars or 50 euros were already paid extra for pensioners, then 3,000 dinars for all vaccinated citizens, 60 euros for unemployed persons and, I repeat, additional funds for micro, medium, small enterprises, of course, for large enterprises. However, in addition to all these measures I repeat, we have two target groups that are not covered by these measures by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. These are pensioners who are native to and from the countries formed in the area of the former Yugoslavia. These are about 124, of which 59,000 pensioners from Croatia, 41 thousand from the Republika Srpska Federation and more than 24 thousand pensioners from today's Slovenia, Macedonia and Montenegro. Of these 124 thousand pensioners from the region, only a small number of them were covered and received financial assistance last year of 9,000 this year, nearly six thousand and planned for February and March next year an additional 20,000 dinars, so for 1.7 million beneficiaries of the PIO Serbia Fund. But most of the 124 thousand pensioners are not users of the PIO Serbia Fund, and they are not covered by this measure. These pensioners are bitter, dissatisfied, disappointed, because they honorably, responsibly and securely meet all obligations towards this country where they live. They have been discriminated against for their retirement in the area of today's Croatia and BiH, but since they do not have the residence of pension funds in Croatia and BiH do not pay for their financial assistance. They are told here – since you have not achieved a day of employment in Serbia and here you have no right to financial assistance. So more than 100,000 pensioners from the region, which are essentially citizens of the second order. My opinion, I have repeatedly addressed the Serbian government, Prime Minister Brnabic with a plea, with an appeal to correct this injustice and to pay those pensioners also for monetary assistance, as they also have to overcome the consequences of the virus's crown. I remind you that a significant part of the pensioners from Croatia and BiH had so-called The financial supplement, having small pensions, in Croatia and BiH, and when they checked out their residence in the territory of Croatia and BiH, so Republika Srpska or the Federation of BiH and reported their residence in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, automatically their pension funds in Zagreb, Sarajevo were lifted by a protective supplement. We now have pensioners, citizens of Serbia who are 68, 70, 75 years old and have, say, a pension of three and a half thousand dinars, five thousand dinars, seven thousand dinars, ten thousand dinars. Now, imagine the feeling of these people, he says, 1.7 million pensioners got their money, and we didn't get 100 grand. Now you have a neighbor, a domestic pensioner who has a pension of 40, 50,000 and he gets nine thousand cash assistance last year, this year nearly six thousand, in February and March of the following year, and this one next to him who has a pension, born from Croatia or BiH, who has a pension of four, five, six, seven, eight or ten thousand dinars, he will not get. Because you pensioners from Croatia and BiH and other countries of the region are not users of the PIO Serbia Fund. It is right from a formal and legal point of view, but from a human point of view, from the point of view of justice, from the point of view of solidarity it is discrimination. If we have made it possible and found the funds for a million and 700 thousand pensioners, so let's also find the funds for those 100,000 pensioners of whom, I repeat, a significant majority of them have pensions that they cannot live on because they have been abolished by pension funds in Zagreb and Sarajevo. I appeal here to Minister Udovicic to transfer Prime Minister Brnabic once more my appeal for the government to find a way and make one fair decision to pay off, for these more than 100,000 pensioners from the territory of Croatia, BiH and other countries of the region, 9,000 for last year, 5,900 for this year, which has already been paid and that these 100,000 also receive the announced 20,000 dinars that will be paid next year during February and March. I repeat, it would be a fair decision and it would be one of the state's messages that it respects these citizens, as I remind you, the greatest victims of war in the former Yugoslavia's space, are those of the exiled Serbs. I always have to point out that I would not like any Serbian citizen, which is unfortunately experienced by citizens from Kosovo and Metohija, to take his bag and go 400,500km away from his place. No one left their apartment, no one left their house of goodwill. He left because, they did not leave, but were expelled by the pro-Prostitute regime of Franjo Tudjman and the Islamic regime of Ali Izetbegovic and these are facts that I think the government should consider. The second target group, which has also been discriminated against, which has not been considered, is 26,000 Serbian citizens who have a refugee or exile card. So it is about the exiled Serbs who have been expelled from today's Croatia and the Federation of BiH. I remind you, last year the government paid 100 euros for all adult citizens. This year it will pay 80 euros. More than five million citizens are covered by this measure, but unfortunately, those 26,000 citizens are not covered by the measure, because the government's decision says we are paying this financial aid to citizens who have a place of residence. And since you 26,000 refugees have a residence, we're not paying you that 100 euros last year and 80 euros this year. Now I'm reminded of one undeniable fact. Those refugee tickets were issued by the M.O.P. in the same place where they also issue ID cards for all other citizens. So if the M.O.P. feels that the refugee card isn't a valid document, then why betrays it? Those 26,000 citizens continued to retain a refugee card not out of good faith, not wanting to have further formal refugee status, for two reasons. One is the reason they continue to fight, they kept their residence in Croatia or in the Federation of BiH to try to achieve kidnapped property, acquired, status and other rights. I remind us, we all know that political Sarajevo, political Zagreb has been leading here for 26 years since the end of the war in Croatia and BiH, the policy of cementing the ethnic cleansing of our people, including the planned and systematic abduction of the property of the exiled Serbs. That's why one part of them kept those refugee tickets to try to get their houses back, to get their military apartments back in Sarajevo, to see them return to the usurped or kidnapped land, agricultural land, forests, to solve some of the internships they deserved until the start of the war, and now, let's say, they don't recognise eight years from 1983 to 1991 or ten years from 1970 to 1980, etc. So they kept the refugee ticket for fighting for their rights. The second reason, one part of these, of 26 thousand, citizens who have a formal refugee card kept that document for reasons because it's the only way they can make health insurance. They have no other way. So they were forced to still have those documents, and the MUP still hasn't made a decision to say that the document is not valid and that it will be abolished from that and that day. So these people are bitter, disappointed, feel like second-class citizens. I sent a letter to Prime Minister Brnabic and provided a list of 65 citizens who had a refugee card, who personally called me and begged me to see how the government could take them and their needs into account and level them in rights with all other citizens. So, I also want to appeal to the Serbian government for Prime Minister Brnabic on this occasion to make two decisions. The first decision, I repeat again, is to pay for financial assistance for all pensioners of gender and origin in today's Croatia, BiH, and other countries of the region. So, 9,000 euros received by pensioners from the PIO Serbia Fund last year, five thousand and 900 dinars paid to domestic pensioners this year and the announced 20,000 dinars to be paid to pensioners of the PIO Serb users next February and March. The government's second decision to find a way to pay for the money for the 26,000 Serbian citizens who have a refugee card, do not have a formal residence, but have a residence. So, to pay them 100 euros paid to all adult citizens last year and to be paid 80 euros this year, as already 30 euros were paid in May. In November, if I am not mistaken, new 30 will be paid, and now with these amendments and amendments to the law, we have made it possible for an additional 20 euros to be paid in December. I think these two measures would send a strong message to pensioners from the region, as well as 26,000 expelled Serbs who have refugee cards, that the government treats all citizens equally, and that it will not look at formal and legal reasons, but from the aspect of justice, solidarity and those who, like all other citizens of Serbia, will help them to overcome the effects of the pandemic of the virus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-07-0.u9655	Thank you. Meanwhile, Finance Minister Sinisha Mali arrived. Welcome. We're moving on. The word is from MP Zoran Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-07-0.u9656	I thank the chairman. Dear Ministers, colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, the amendment that lies before us today will allow for further improvement of the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration Act itself, as well as the amendments and additions that are here ahead of us for the reason that we are working on harmonising the law itself with the fiscalization law that we have adopted, which is in fact another evidence that Serbia is now moving forward towards a better and brighter future, to modernise. This is another piece of evidence when we talk about successes and in the field of digitization, the application of new technologies. We also had the opportunity to hear from the esteemed minister how important and technological and progress it is when it comes to a new system of fiscalization, i.e. the devices that our businessmen will benefit from. What is very important is to note, unlike the period when members of the former regime introduced fiscal cash registers, where they did not take into account the opportunities and potential of the businessmen to meet all these regulations and requirements and to look at the financial aspects of the costs they have, when it comes to introducing these fiscal registers, we today have a situation that the state is going to help all businesses to enter the new fiscalisation system and that these devices that have replacements are not costing them a single dinar. It is a household policy that is being led, it is the policy of President Alexander Vucic, who puts first the needs of citizens, the needs of the economy, and also the changes and additions of the laws that are here ahead of us have actually come from a communication that is constant and that is constant with businesses, because unlike members of the former regime who have looked only at their own needs, who have seen that their own businesses and their own businesses develop on the continent of Serbia, on the continuity of their incomes, today we take care of all and today the needs of citizens and businessmen in the first place are why these changes and additions of the law have come out. As we see for ourselves, everything that is done well in Serbia, everything that brings results, immediately on their side, on the part of the Jilassian tycoon opposition, is going on and on and on about this lie industry, as I like to say, Dragan Gilas, so it doesn't stop today or these days. What is it that hurts them? In particular, Dragan Gilas could hurt that at a time when he was mayor of Belgrade, he left with 1.2 billion euros in deficits, i.e. debt, with deficits in the budget and then Serbia had an incredible 25 per cent and more unemployed citizens. Today, at a time when President Aleksandar Vucic is the one who leads Serbia towards a better future, when his policy is being implemented and the Serbia Programme 2025, we have managed to ensure that at the time of the pandemic the whole world has managed to ensure that we have stable finances, to help citizens and businesses, to ensure that the unemployment level itself does not increase, even if it has fallen, because the state has managed to help citizens to start its jobs and to employ themselves and what the minister has pointed out – for these two years, as we are fighting the pandemic, over eight billion euros has been helped by both businesses and citizens, and all in order for this point of economy, in these crisis situations, when it is most important never stopped, but to further turn. It is precisely because of the region's champions, which is why in the previous year we had the lowest drop in GDP of 1%, which is why the forecasts that were that real GDP growth this year would be 6% exceeded and they would be 7%, real growth. What is certainly commendable is that it is confirmed by international institutions, including the World Bank, which has raised its forecast from 5% to 6%, and we are sure that with this trend this growth will be achieved and will be 7% and perhaps more than 7%, which will be the institutions and later statistical data to confirm. What hurts them is that during this period of battle against the Crown, we managed to build three new birds of the hospital in a record time period, which we proved to be a responsible state, to take care of citizens. They are pained by the provision of sufficient amounts of vaccines and by working intensively on the immunisation campaign and by the need for this level of collective immunity to deal with this monster. Instead of being people who need to feel a conscience, a council, I guess helping their neighbors and friends and supporting that campaign, no, they're making every effort to degrade and criticize and attack the very headquarters that is fighting and making important decisions when it comes to fighting the crown, and in situations where we were at the beginning, when measures had to be applied, they were against those measures. Today, when we have enough amounts of vaccines, when we produce both Sputnik V and Sinopharm vaccines, when we have become the cornerstone of a new factory together with Chinese and Arab partners to build a factory for production and “Sinofarm” vaccines and when a logical decision has been made to continue with the vaccination campaign and to take all necessary measures to protect the health of citizens, and in doing so our economy, economy and life continue to run, they are for people to be closed, which is actually just saying that their policy is a control policy, without any arguments, but it is only important to say – no, you know nothing, everything should be done. As you had in many economic doctrines critics who only criticized for criticism, it turned out in practice that it was not that simple. What's wrong with them? They're in pain that they claim themselves to be successful managers, and practice proves they're not. And my colleague, Kesar, spoke of the famous "obor prince" Aleksic, about his successes at school, where I wouldn't go over and over again, just once again from the pay phone, I would appeal to show the degree of the Faculty of Economics, as he boasted in his own time that he was a top economist. In doing so, at no time do we know which college he ended up in, and I won't even talk about grades since he only had an A in high school. Probably when he's caught in some hoax that he can be able to get away from the hand of justice as soon as possible, but all will be reached by the hands of the righteous who have sinned. Let it show, if nothing else, at least the door from that college that we know the address if he's already got a degree or the famous one, let's say a sentence, he said – the dog ate my homework, which my students like to say. Maybe some dog ate his diploma, so he's got nothing to show for it, and he doesn't want to take out a copy of his diploma. Although, on the other hand, his boss, Vuk Jeremic, who is the most responsible for all the problems that are happening in our province of Kosovo, which is what his esteemed colleague Terzic was talking about, and I won't even owe it, I just want to say that the citizens of Serbia have not forgotten his brain and his genius that he fought for the interests of citizens in the AP Kosovo and Metohija. He fought by going to visit Albanians in Prizren and shaking hands with them in the presidential campaign when he needed support. He struggled with the White World Lopurds and thieves to launder money through his NGO that he immediately founded after he ended his campaign and story in the United Nations after he was defeated, and we all know how much Serbia helped and worked to make him what we fought to be the secretary general, but unfortunately, the decisions were such that we couldn't influence it, but he was immediately blamed by Serbia, they were the citizens of Serbia and he was guilty of Alexander Vukic. The same Jeremic who asked a stupid question in front of the International Court of Justice and whom the Albanians will raise a monument in Kosovo and Metohija as a national hero, because he gave them a chair in the United Nations. Then when at the Public Service, a respected colleague, Caesar, puts all this into perspective for his man, he immediately starts with some controversy, with some fiction, and probably because the truth hurts. And then when you tell a man the truth in the face, when he has nothing else to say, he starts with a counter attack, because it's probably the best defense. That's what Gilas is doing, that's what Jeremic is doing, that's what all this opposition that hate is the main thing in political action is doing. And of course, in the end there's Dragan Gilas, who's been trying for days now, when he can't find any sin that he's committed, or maybe some offshore company or accounts, trying to pin it on his associates, brother, soon I think he's going to go after the kids, so as unfortunately they've attacked little Vulcan, he'll probably come up with some offshore company, and he's only four years old. Their hatred has no end, the instruments they use have no end, because they go with that idea to justify the means, and the means do not choose in that fight. The only thing they won't do is fight in a fair and correct way. And all these successes that have achieved him hurt, especially when a journalist comes to a press conference asking a perfectly logical question about his media and the work of his media and funding, and you know what his answer is? Well, we're a multicom company that has money, so we like to borrow who needs it and whenever it's necessary, but we don't finance any media, we don't have our own media. And then you see that situation that happened and with the mother's swearing to President Vukic, when barely at a conference where journalists naturally raised the issue and I barely condemned it, but he better covered his associate, he said, "Well, you know, his mother wasn't the goal, but President Vukic was the goal." He's probably saying that his executioner didn't do the job right, that's how Master Gilas imagined it. And even when he's talking about this loaning of money to others, I can see another lie again, because as the man who played a game called 619 million has already turned once and wants to turn that game a few times. I personally think, and I'm sure the citizens of Serbia know that he doesn't have a loan. He can either give you money in a green act in the sense that he asks you for a favor or buys you, as he does with the media through his pals and co-workers of the School and others. Then he buys and media outside Serbia, where he, of course, is going faster and better to spit on Serbia and to support the politics of his co-worker, Marinika Tepic, that Serbs are a genocide people, and that he simply does not condemn such an act that she has done, but only confirms with his performance and clearly tells you Serbian citizens and fellow MPs that his policy is not based and is not turned on Serbian citizens, but on a personal pocket, towards a circle of two, towards Serbia becoming part of a multi-corporation. All of his members of the party, which he also bought as Jeremic bought, have employed his company in the "Multico" company where they receive fat wages to implement his hateful policies. Finally, what happened today, which is another evidence of the opposition, says, "No freedom of the media, no access," comes to the Public Service where they should actually promote their policy, if they have it at all, and what bothers them? They're bothered by young SNS combatants who promote policy and defend President Alexander Vukic's policy, but come on, we're used to these attacks and we've seen what they're doing, they're starting to attack the Public Service themselves. They get angry when a public service reporter defends his own media house he works in. I guess that reporter knows best how the public service works and what it does. Why does it bother them? Because it does not function according to the Gilas boss, who reselled seconds on RTS at a tenfold higher price and thus came up with money through which he self-proclaimed himself as the best businessman in Serbia, and I am sure he would do so in the world. You don't become a successful businessman by misusing public office by promoting your company to do all the jobs in the state. And if you're a really good businessman, you can see it after coming down with power, and we can clearly see it by the financial papers and the successes they have. If he had success, he wouldn't go back into politics, he wouldn't attack the state, and he wouldn't ask to play a game called 619 million again. It's just that this would be an appended version of 619+million. Of course, when research is done in public opinion, and when these surveys clearly say that the absolute support of Serbian citizens gives Alexander Vukic and SNS, where it goes up to 58%, and these boycott of the opposition, the cowardly opposition does not even have to cross the censorship or struggle for censorship, of course they are not interested because they are quickly better prepared to apply their own doctrine of economic school, their doctrine of statistical analysis, where they are trying to seize both the 40th and some percent of the opposition they consider their own and to self-proclaim themselves with some new future authority. Well, gentlemen, you screwed up, because it is the citizens of Serbia who, in the elections, decide both on Serbia's future and on what direction Serbia should go further. I am absolutely sure that the Serbian citizens in the next election will choose that party and the leader who has results behind him, who has work behind him, who has sleepless nights to provide Serbian citizens with a better future, and it is certain that they will not support anyone who only works to keep the fog industry working, to poison these citizens and to buy Serbia to be his farthest again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-07-0.u9657	Thank you. The People's Messenger, George Milicevic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-07-0.u9658	I thank the esteemed Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Mrs. Kovac. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, counterpart Tomic asked a question when it comes to a part of the opposition, first of all why again in politics? A colleague, it's the only way that, in fact, first to try to get to power without a choice, and then through that same authority to save capital. That's why in politics. You mentioned one, too, opposition. I do not want to talk about his calls for success when it comes to the national and state issues, when it comes to the Kosovo and Metohija issue, I think about Jeremic, but I will remind you of something that happened at the end of 2013 precisely in this room, when we discussed the Republic of Serbia's 2014 budget, when we were moving into a reform course of the government and when it all started. It was the basis for having a healthy system based on sound foundations today. At that time, the same Jeremic voted in favour of the budget, and the reason he voted in favour of the budget was because the substance amendment was adopted, no matter what it meant at that time, and in the translation it meant - give me support to be the secretary-general again and everything will be fine and you give me enough financial resources. Although it is up to me to return to the amendment, the Government's amendment to Article 13. The draft law amending and supplementing the Tax Procedure and Tax Administration Act becomes an integral part of the law, I would like on behalf of the SPS Parliamentary Group to support the amendment in this way, the position of the Government which essentially refers to the work of local self-government of tax administrations, I mean a concrete amendment. Namely, the government proposes with the amendment that the affairs of managing the single information system of local tax administrations be taken over by the finance ministry, i.e. the Tax Administration as a body within the Ministry of Finance. The takeover is fully envisioned and is due to be completed by January 2024. Therefore, a longer period of time has been given here to take over this important job, which will lead to VAT collection data and automatic VAT collection from the fiscalisers at the level of the Tax Administration as a tax authority within the Ministry of Finance, which we consider to be very justified and that it is positive. We believe that this planned way of managing a single information system will absolutely contribute to the efficiency of the work of the tax administration, better payment control and to seeing the scope of VAT collection on the territory of the Republic on a daily basis. We think it's very important. This system is largely integrated and now integrated, but the full takeover by the Tax Administration will, among other things, be achieved by one of the objectives, which is the transformation of the Tax Administration into an even more efficient tax authority whose work will contribute to better tax projections corresponding to budget planning among other things. Let's not forget that VAT is one of the tax revenues of the state budget. I am taking the opportunity to refer to the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Procedure Act and to the Tax Administration, which is the legal basis for the implementation of our country's tax policy. My colleagues from the SPS Group spoke in principle of the debate on this bill, but it is not appropriate to say again that all the proposed amendments to the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration contribute even more effectively to the tax system. I guess it's the interest of all of us, I guess it's the interest of the economy, I guess it's the interest of the citizens of Serbia. These changes are also necessary because legislative solutions are in line with amendments and additions to the fiscalisation law, which we are also discussing at this session. So another important legal proposal. I would like to commend the tax policy led by the Government of the Republic of Serbia because it is a truly visible effect of serious access to planning and charging of all forms of tax, which means, as a result, better budgeting, and therefore more money to achieve the functions of the state itself. Here I think of a number of major and significant investments and the achievement of the social function of the state, the social aspect of the social function of the country on which we particularly place the accent. A little while too, it was about the economy and the exact data and the economic policy run by the government of the Republic of Serbia. It is true that one part of the opposition, but not only one part of the opposition but also those who call themselves independent regulatory bodies, I will say again that we have nothing against independent regulatory bodies, we are here to support them, to strengthen them, to strengthen them, but we do not always have to have the same opinions because then we could be asked, if we always had the same opinion, the question of the essence of their existence. This way we better think differently because if everyone thought the same thing, they wouldn't think enough, and that's certainly not good. However, it is clear and visible, to say, that one part of the opposition, but also one part of the independent regulatory bodies, feels that this society in a certain way has lost its sense of recognition of the right priorities, that this society has lost its sense of real recognition and value of results. Unfortunately for them, it's not. You know, you can try to cheat, you can tell the truth, but when you talk and when you talk about economics, there are indicators and data exact and there's no fraud. So these are facts, and the facts are inexorable. You can't do that when it comes to economics. As far as the SPS is concerned, I will repeat for who knows which time the MEP group gives full support to the economic policy of the Government of Serbia for a clear reason, because the government is running an economically-socially responsible policy in which a common man, a citizen of Serbia, is at the centre and when I listen to these quasi experts who believe that narrow professional policy is a magic stick – it cannot and cannot be. Living politics is something else. This live policy, managed successfully by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the President of the Republic, has just brought results, brought in a new homing of hospitals, enough medical equipment, enough at the time, when necessary, respirators, enough vaccines, restored Torlak, built together with the UAE and the China factory for the production of the Sinofarm vaccine, started in Torlak with the production of the vaccine "Sputnik V". So that's that living policy. There does not drink water this narrow party policy, i.e. narrow professional policy and analysis and some reports consisting of deep and comfortable chairs of independent regulatory bodies with good salaries. Okay, I can't say anything against pay because for those salaries we voted on, but we can sometimes check them out a little bit, see if they're real and whether they're realistic in accordance with the time we live in. They say we're in debt. It is true, we are in debt, but Serbia is not in charge of paying salaries and pensions, as it was once done, but is in charge of the future, it is in charge of infrastructure projects, first of all, for something that will pay back the money in the period ahead. When we talk about concrete economic indicators, I'm only going to come up with a few exact and accurate data. The minimum labour price, for example, for comparisons in 2012 was 102 dinars in January and February and March, in April 115 dinars and in 2021 was 189.93 dinars. The minimum labour price in 2022 will be 35,012 dinars, which is an increase of as much as 9.4%. The average salary in dinars, a reminder, in 2012 was 41,377 dinars, and the average salary for June 2021 was 65,070 dinars. So, health care workers' salaries increased, as you know, in 2021 by 5%, public sector employees' salaries by 3.5% first and then 1.5% since April 2021. As for healthcare salaries, they increased by about 30% in the last year, in November 2019 by 15% to nurses, 10% to doctors, in April 2020 all medical workers received a 10% increase, and we also had one-off payments for medics of 10,000 dinars. Pensions increased according to the Swiss model by 5.9% and the average pension for July 2021 amounted to 29.376 dinars and in 2012 was 23.024 dinars. We are fully convinced that this strong and economically stable Serbia with full confidence that we will realise that projected GDP rate, as the minister said during yesterday's exhibition, which may be and over 7% will realise that our ultimate goal of Serbia is 20-25 when the average pension in Serbia will be 430 euros and the salary of 900 euros. As for unemployment in 2012 we already talked about this, 23.9% was unemployment in 2012 and in 2020 a record 9%. I spoke briefly about borrowing, on June 30, 2021, the public debt is 55%, which is less than the level of masturbation of 60%. So 60% of GDP, the criteria of masticht established in 1991 within the then European Community, refers to the level of debt that states can have to be a candidate for membership in the eurozone, or for the currency union, since then. Foreign direct investment, that's what I was talking about yesterday. So in 2020, when it was the most difficult 2,902 billion euros, and in the period from January to May 2021, 1.274 billion euros. It is not by chance according to the Financial Times, Serbia among the first most attractive destinations, not only in Europe, but in the world. When do you ask where the money comes from? It's a very simple answer. Not out of debt, of course, but the money exactly from what I was talking about at the beginning when Mr. Jeremic adopted, voted in favour of the budget and voted in favour of the government's economic policy, supported the government's economic policy, because we adopted this substantial amendment. So we have money in the budget because we have started a reform course of the Government of the Republic of Serbia that is not based on stories, good wishes and what citizens would like to hear, but on what is life and what is economics and precisely thanks to this reform course of the Government of Serbia, we today have a healthy system based on sound foundations. Three years in a row, we had a budget surplus. I think in 2019, Minister, last time we had budget rebalances, not because we had deficits, but because we had surpluses in the budget. Then one part of the opposition here in the hall laughed, and we said -- we ended the period of fiscal consolidation, the next phase is Serbia's development, the goal is to now focus this surplus in the right way, namely to preserve macroeconomic stability, to start development, to accept all those incentives and initiatives leading to development, to preserve those hard-earned fiscal achievements. I am convinced and therefore I want to conclude, therefore, that the Socialist Party of Serbia parliamentary group, as I said yesterday, will support all four legislative proposals, but we are fully convinced ministers that we will be able to realise first and foremost that projected GDP rate that you spoke of at the end of this year and that we will be able to look at, well, let's not be against the region and not be able to speak against the region, because Serbia is a symbol of new values in the region, but I will say freely that we see who in the region is leading a barren policy, when in December we draw the line and look at economic indicators, Serbia or some other country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-07-0.u9659	Thank you. Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide on the bill in the voting day. Fifth item of the agenda – Proposal for a law on protection against noise in the environment. (Mihailo Jokic: I responded by amendment. There'll be an opportunity. We're moving on. According to the member... (Mihailo Jokic: I contacted the minister to say, about taxes. ) The minister will remain until the end. Please don't throw it at me. (Mihailo Jokic: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. ) pursuant to Article 90(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that they are invited to attend the sittings of Irena Vujović, Minister of Environment Protection Siniša Mali, Finance Minister Vanja Udovic, Minister of Youth and Sports Jelena Tanaskovic and Aleksandar Dujanovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Environment Protection, Aleksandra Imšigić Đurić, Deputy Minister of Environment Protection, Sara Pavkov, Special Advisors in the Office of the Minister of Environment Protection and Sladjana Brdić, Head of the Department of the Ministry of Environment Protection. You have received amendments submitted by MPs Djordje Komlenski, Zoran Tomic, and the Committee on Environmental Protection. You have received a report from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Environmental Protection, as well as the Government's opinion on the amendments submitted. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a search of the bill in particular. Member of the 34th Amendment was submitted by MP Gjorge Komlenski. The government and environmental protection committee accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Does anyone want a word? The word has the People's Messenger George Dabic. (Mihailo Jokic: I asked for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-07-0.u9660	I thank the chairman. Dear Members of the People, ladies and gentlemen of the Honorable Ministers with Associates, today we have amendments before us that our MP group will support, as far as improving the text of the law itself is concerned. And this week, we've had like the previous weeks, and as a matter of fact, since the beginning of this work, the National Assembly has been calling together a series of good legal solutions that will contribute to the improvement of the business climate in our country. This is what has been constant since the beginning of the work of the National Assembly in this congregation. To remind the citizens of Serbia, there was the Law on the introduction of a single register of administrative procedures, we passed the Law on invoices, the Fiscalization Act, and these are all laws that directly improve the business climate and environment in our country. It's all about what is the agenda of this government and the previous government, ever since the SNS took over power, which is a digitisation that in every way contributes to making it easier for investors to have an easier procedure when they invest money in our country. Of course, all the big investors who came, in the first place, and the US "DFC" in the latest statements, have just all the time urged that we have to work even more to digitise our public administration and facilitate the excessive procedures and bureaucratic obstacles that exist in our country. This is what the government insists on, and with all these legal solutions, we respond to the needs of investment because, above all, it is important for us to keep this growth constant, that the economy is making constant progress, because this brings us the opportunity to invest, to continue to invest this much money and to invest in public works, primarily on highways. So that we can invest in rail infrastructure, that we can continue to build schools, hospitals, that we can continue to allow the economic climate to be so high that it leads to great economic growth. Many have disputed the prognosis of Minister Sinisha Mali when it comes to GDP growth for this year. The ministry predicted that it would be 6.5% growth, let's remember, the Fiscal Council challenged those forecasts. It speaks of the fact that the state and how well it knows its work and that the ministry, led by Mr. Sinisha Mali and how well it works, has good results. This high growth was not possible without serious structural reforms and all these laws adopted by the National Assembly in the previous period. What does that mean directly for Serbian citizens? So when you have high growth, you can still plan this massive work that happens at the country level. We're talking about this year seven new highways starting and doing fast traffic, and we're also going to continue to invest in everything that started in the previous years. Here's only in Zlatibor County, from which I come, President Aleksandar Vukic was visiting about a month ago. We've received announcements, and today when it's said - we've received announcements, everyone knows it's going to be done. It was a pre-election promise before, when someone in the former regime's power speaks and says something, make sure it never happens. Today, when something is announced, we see that it is quite certain that it is happening. The president announced 200m euros in investment in the Zlatibor district, of which 80m euros in the health centre itself, which will get the opportunity to become the fifth clinical centre in Serbia with such large and massive investments. It's something that completely changes the image of our region. That's not just the case with us, that's the case at the level of all Serbia. When we talk about our region, 200m euros, that people know, it's something that hasn't entered our region in the past 45 years, 45 years we haven't had that much investment. What the president announced has already begun with the realization. The first phase of reconstruction of the health center will be done, it is already under way. We also have the end of the works, it is announced that by the following year the highway "Milos Velika" will be finished, we are making a tour around Užica, we are making a tour around Zlatibor. Today, Zlatibor is investing 8m euros in the development of sports-recreative terrains. As we speak, machines are in Tripkova, it's a road trip to Ponikva Airport, 136 million dinars of direct investment from the budget. So there is no village, no settlement, there is no municipality in Serbia that today the state is not investing huge amounts of money. It's something no one can deny. Strong growth is the only guarantee that all these investments will continue to take place, as is the case now. That's why all these laws that are before us are actually the basis for us to come to such high growth. All when we add up and look at what's going on in the whole region, we see that our country, with big and strong economic growth, comes across the rest of the region on both salary and GDP. This is why great hysteria is present throughout the region. That's why there's a lot of attacks on our country, too. Everywhere in the region, we hear various calls to our country, they say, of this great bogey of great Serbian nationalism. It is all due to the fact that today you see Serbia taking great steps forward, that today we can reach this European quality of life and that is something everyone sees. That's why there's a lot of controversy and a lot of attacks. This will, I'm sure, and in the coming months to intensify, given that today you can notice that we will reach Croatia and the total GDP on average. That was unimaginable until nine years ago. That's why you have this much tension in the region today. We also saw in the case of the last developments on KIM, how some thought that Serbia could be negotiated today by some recipe from earlier, when it comes to the final act, so we have to accept the founding state and then say – let's now turn it into reality and that we have to agree to everything that came as a dictatorship from outside and from the region of certain circles. Today is not the case anymore. Serbia needs to be negotiated. No one ever sees Serbia as it was before, as a punching bag. Today Serbia is stable and we can talk about the good results our country achieves in all fields. This also gives us the opportunity to invest in our environments in KIM and Republika Srpska. There are no municipalities besides Serbia, there are no municipalities in Republika Srpska and three in the Federation where the majority of Serbs are, that Serbia has not invested the money. Before 2012, it was not possible to speak or think, because we didn't have enough money for our own salaries and pensions, and today when we have a stable state, a stable economy, we have the opportunity to talk about all these things that matter to our people in general. What's also constant is that there are unlimited attacks on our country inside. We see for ourselves that simply our opposition, which in the absence of any political programme, is already crossing that border where it is perfectly normal to call on some terrorism, the link, according to one Bulatovic from Gilas' party, says -- everyone will look for a forwarder in Serbia. It went completely unnoticed. It's normal, therefore, to call on civil war and we absolutely agree that they should be treated that way, because it's an indicator of everything we've been saying. We demasted that policy of theirs, we said that their policy was the only destruction of Serbia, and they now acknowledge themselves that it was the only policy. And they should say that, that the citizens of Serbia know. On the one hand, you have a stable government, you have people in power who fight for this country, and on the other hand you have people who announce bloodshed, civil wars. It seems fairer to the citizens of Serbia that they can immediately see who offered ahead of the elections and that they have given themselves up. We are absolutely certain that citizens will never vote for such irresponsible politicians who have led to the practical bankruptcy of our country in the past period, and today, I say, they place such a burden on us that there is a need for bloodshed in Serbia to happen in order for them to come to power. Imagine what it would be like for us to invite our 700,000 members to chase their few hundred supporters. Would that be normal behavior of a responsible party? We, of course, will never call for any conflict. It is important for us to have peace here, both in our country and in the region, because this peace provides us with prosperity and our country will certainly in the coming years, headed by President Alexander Vukic, be able to make further progress and, as the president said, make an even bigger difference than the region. So it's not enough that we've been past them, we have to make an even bigger difference so that we'll have such a high level of investment in the coming years and a simple possibility that we can really bring our country to the level of European quality of life here, which we all hope for and what we're looking for. Of course, the attacks coming from the opposition and on you directly, Mr. Mali, are not random, because you are next to President Alexander Vukic the most responsible man for what is happening today to this very economic growth of our country and it is perfectly normal to expect that attacks on you will continue personally, on the family of President Vukic, on all people who are doing something in this country will be the most intense attacks. And the strange thing is that there are no attacks on those who do nothing, and there are no attacks in the government, there are them elsewhere, there are no attacks on them, and by that you can see who is the most resentful opposition, who bothers. So, they're bothered by Alexander Vukic, they're bothered by his closest associates working for this country. Of course you absolutely have the support of this Parliament for everything you do, because all we are talking about today is the direct result of one responsible approach by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, President Aleksandr Vukic, that the state of Serbia can finally become a European country with a European quality of life, I say, what we all strive for. In the voting day, we will certainly support all these laws and amendments that are on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-07-0.u9661	Thank you. The People's Messenger, Michaelo Jokic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-07-0.u9662	First, I'd like to make a protest. You reset the system, it was zero, and I was third. Meanwhile, five MPs spoke.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-07-0.u9663	That's not true.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-07-0.u9664	I don't know why you did it, you hurt the Rules of Procedure, but I forgive you. Dear gentlemen, it is my special pleasure to be present when the Minister of Finance is present. I'd like to say a few practical things. First of all, are these data, Ministers, the exact ones I'm presenting now, which are related to August 2021, that income is 110.3 billion, that tax is 98.5 billion, that it's a percentage of 89.3%? If that's true, and it's probably true, it says how important the tax is when it comes to the budget and that it can simply be said that its fulfillment, its size, depends on the tax. Now, what should we do to make that tax even bigger in absolute terms and in this relative amount? My suggestions are next. The tax when calculating the obligor must be correct. This size in absolute terms must not be growing. She, Minister, must be less than or equal. It creates security, it increases the number of tax payers. Second, Minister, the scope of the debtor must be increased. I think you know very well, and we all know that there are people who don't pay taxes. Now the question arises – how do these people, in local environments, get them into the system, create their obligation to pay taxes? That's what we have to work on. The mechanisms must be found to increase the volume. The third thing, we protect the debtors, we write off the interest, we write off the principal, we write off the principal and interest, and so it turns out it's better not to pay the tax than to pay it regularly. Now that the principal is separated from interest and the principal is paid in particular and the principal is paid first, not interest, of course the obligor is in a more favourable position than he was five, six or ten years ago. What do I suggest? I suggest that just as we protect the debtors, because he's better off living than dead, so he's better off being there and helping him get out, but we need to find mechanisms, ministers, to stimulate those who pay a regular tax. They must have some benefites. Here's a digression. I suggested it, but you weren't here. Let's say, take your property tax. The property tax is paid quarterly in four wars. Why is it not possible for citizens with money to pay at once and to achieve some benefits, to have some discount of 5% to 8%? Do you know how many people would do that if those who take taxes, and these are cities and municipalities, knew what they would do with that money? And a lot of other things. For example, tax policy should introduce the principle of an advance, that someone who has money at a given moment, because the price of money on the world market is at this point very low, to pay the whole tax and to have certain benefits. In practice, it has to be nurtured in order, I say, the tax that is present, you saw in August the month in which the percentage is in the entire budget, at an even higher percentage, or in order to be in absolute terms even greater. The other thing I want to point out which is very sensitive is state property, as a form of public property. You don't have to chase and you don't have to rush and you don't need to eliminate state property at all costs, so it's all private property. I responsibly claim that when there is good management, capable people, responsible people, that no one is more responsible for the state and the budget than state property, or state-owned enterprises. Maybe it's time to do the law on public property? You weren't here, I'm in the last term, and even here, I kept talking about the dollar. It's my favorite theme. I believe that in all forms of public debt, you should run away from the dollar. A dollar is a very dangerous weapon. I said at one point - more dangerous than an atomic bomb. Minister, you probably know that information but maybe some MPs don't know, Americans with $67.5 billion provide support and are guaranteed, remember, for $4.3 trillion. What kind of scam is that? What kind of paper is that? What's that worth? It's toilet paper. So, when we get into the arrangements, we get loans from China in juans, we have to boost the national currency, there's no need for us to get into dollars. It's a dollar, Minister, that's my personal opinion, a big con, and it can be a great danger to us. We must, when it comes to foreign reserves and public debt, beware of dollars and strengthen our own currency and go to national currencies if we want to preserve our independence, because that dollar as a currency will surely be misused at some point. There's something else I wanted to say, but I've been defocusing, I've waited a long time, and I've been a little upset because I've been unwarrantedly moved, but these are things, Minister, which I should think about. I just remembered! These green bonds you've been broadcasting, now you help me, I have the information that the hearing is 15 years and that the interest is 1.25. If that's true, it's an honor to you. And if it's 2%, it's still an honor to you, because in 2012, it seems to me, 7.5%, 8.5%. That's the way to go. So you have to pay off that high interest debt, take new loans, because now the interest is about 2 or 2.5%. You're doing great, and I congratulate you on that. Thank you so much for me.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-07-0.u9665	Thank you, Mr. Yokic. The Committee on Environmental Protection submitted to Article 39 of the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I would like to ask the motionary's representative to make a statement on this amendment. The word is made by Minister Sinisha Mali.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-07-0.u9666	Thank you very much. We accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-07-0.u9667	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The word came from Olja Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-07-0.u9668	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers with Co-operation, Honorable Ladies and Gentlemen Members of the People, Honored Citizens and Citizens of the Republic of Serbia, yesterday we had a constructive debate on the proposal for a law on noise protection in the environment in principle, and today, in particular, the "Alexandar Vukic - For our children" Group, will support the proposed amendments to this law, given that they improve the proposed text of the law. We could hear, in addition to information about the law, and everything that has been done in the previous period to raise standards of the environment, but also better quality of life for citizens, since it has now been approached by serious resolution of decades of problems. The commitment to leave a cleaner and healthy environment for future generations is seen through the operation and through the various actions and projects that have been implemented, which are currently under way, but also all those planned for the next period. Some problems, given the area they cover, can't be solved overnight, but the shift and progress and how they see, unlike the time when we had huge existential problems and when we didn't even think about these issues, we had other priorities to solve. The law on noise protection in the environment, as we have heard, is one of the laws prepared in the process of harmonising domestic legislation with EU rules governing this area in a coherent and comprehensive manner. It is necessary to establish a uniform functional system for the monitoring and control of noise levels and maintenance of databases within a single information system, to carry out appropriate measurements of noise levels, to make strategic noise maps on the basis of which action plans will also be developed to identify noise protection measures in order to prevent and reduce further exposure to adverse noise effects where exposure levels can endanger the environment, but also human health and improve quality by taking appropriate safeguards. In areas where the exposure to noise is below the limits, it is a satisfactory need to maintain the existing level of noise. The legal person who is the owner, i.e. the user of the source of the noise, is required to ensure, in accordance with the law, the measurement of the noise he emits and the costs of measuring noise in the area of influence, as well as to apply the noise protection measures prescribed by this law. The law on noise protection in the environment will affect all citizens in view of the matter they edit, but does not provide for costs for all citizens. Costs will be incurred for contaminants, i.e. owners and users of noise sources due to mandatory compliance with the provisions of this law. These costs are related to the taking of appropriate technical, technological and other measures to protect and monitor the impact of activity at noise level, and they have not been new, but have so far been in the applicable regulations under which businesses, but also other legal persons, are obliged to include, within their investment and production costs, environmental protection costs, including, of course, the cost of noise protection. All these costs justify the objectives to be achieved by this Law on the protection of noise in the environment, which are in the public interest, which would mean in the interest of preserving the health of citizens and the environment in general. The preservation of life and the health of citizens is certainly the most important thing to us. Serbia was fortunate that, thanks to the responsible policy of Aleksandar Vukic, among the first we have available vaccines, a whole range of vaccines that were put before the citizens and they could choose. I would take this opportunity to appeal again to all people who have never vaccinated to do so before, and here I primarily think of young people, because among them is the smallest percentage of vaccines. We are a rare country in the world that can boast of a built three brand-new bird hospitals, but yet we have reconstructed many existing ones, as well as the General Hospital in Piroth where I come from. In addition, a type of vaccine is already being produced in Serbia, a Russian vaccine, and another vaccine will be produced in the coming period, which is either Chinese or Sinofarm vaccines. President Aleksandar Vukic also announced when he visited Dubai that one of the topics of talks with Sheikh Muhammad was about drugs that appeared on the market, which are innovative and very good for the coronary virus. We hope that in the coming period they too will be available to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Also, we're in negotiations with Faiser on the same medications that should be about similar drugs, which should appear on the market. There's nothing more important and expensive than people's lives. That is why our president is doing everything, using even his friendly relations, that everything that exists, everything that comes out on the world market, is also available to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. We also want to help all our neighbours in the region. This could also be seen in action when we donated vaccines to them at a time when they meant a lot to them. The Serbian Progressive Party, led by Aleksandar Vukic, is seeking to improve every segment of our society. It starts with the preservation of people's lives and health, from major infrastructure projects, from new roads, railways, hospitals, kindergartens, factories, new jobs, over salary increases and pensions, to improving living standards and better quality citizens' lives. On the other hand, individuals do not stop working and speaking against their country and against their people for the sake of their personal interests and riches. But the people can't cheat. That's why they have absolutely no support for the citizens, and they're aware of it, and they're probably afraid to go to the polls, to go to the only court for our work, and they're citizens. Citizens do not want to live in fear of insecure existence while individuals are abnormally rich. Citizens want to live in the peaceful, stable and economically strong Serbia as it is today. It is absolutely ugly and inadmissible that the political programme of one party is a constant and increasing attack on the president, on his family, on you ministers and all those who are fighting for better Serbia and for even stronger Serbia. They are all disturbing the opposition, because they have stepped down to fill their pockets and accounts, all those who are fighting for SNS policy and all of us who are investing in making Serbia a better place to live, have stepped down to enriching the opposition and filling their accounts. The citizens recognized it, and they absolutely don't support being robbed anymore. In addition to the constant public-disturbing attacks, last week we saw SNS demoralization in Novi Sad. Citizens do not support this kind of political struggle, but they want concrete results, they want plans of the programme and they clearly say that in the elections. It is because of you, dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, and because of the trust you have shown us, that we will continue to work hard and work on the lead with Alexander Vukic, to strengthen Serbia, which will be even better, more stable and healthy for life and to which we will all be proud. Today we are investing in the environment and preserving the health of citizens of the Republic of Serbia by cleaning Serbia, not by cleaning up the budget of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-07-0.u9669	Thank you. National MP Zoran Tomic submitted to the 40th amendment. Does anyone want a word? Minister? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-07-0.u9670	Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. So we accept this amendment. If you'll allow me just a few moments to respond to the subject he mentioned in his address to Ambassador Jokic. So, Mr. Jokic, a couple of very interesting topics you've started, first of all around the collection structure, you mentioned the month of August, yes, most of the income is, of course, tax revenues, a large part of the tax revenue. What needs to be done is the revenues charged by the State from the revenues charged by local self-government. So, you mentioned earlier to say, extending the tax pay base if it's a matter of property tax, then it's a local self-government that needs to do everything possible, which is able to do in its field through regular tax or field control, determines also the number of buildings, the number of buildings, the area of these facilities and everything else that matters to their public income management. That's what we did in the City of Belgrade, and we were doing in Belgrade, through an increase in the number of those paying the property tax, we were just able to raise incomes from the property tax, without increasing the tax rates themselves. As far as the state is concerned, the biggest revenues of our budget are from value added tax, so that's the most important revenue item of the budget. When we talk about it, it is, of course, directly related to the level of economic activity, economic activity in our country, and that is why it is very important that our GDP rises from month to month, year to year. So, the more goods and services are produced in Serbia, so we have more income than VAT, and that's what's important too, that's that it's a value added tax, so it's charged only in case there's traffic, there's buying, sales, and it's not imposed on itself, in terms of any fee or fee. So if you look at those items that I was just talking about, you'll see that this new system of fiscalization, one of the laws that you're facing today is just aimed at increasing the number of taxpayers that are entering the fiscalisation process, so that we have much more efficiency, not only of the charges, but of the controls, in the context of retailing and curbing the grey economy, so that on that side we don't increase anything from the VAT rate, or anything else, we're just expanding the scope of the taxpayer that needs to be in the fiscalisation system just to in such a way, not only increase income, because it's not the goal in itself, but to curb the gray economy and reduce unfair competition for those who work in accordance with all the laws. What's an interesting question that you mentioned is the question of paying taxes, and when we're going to introduce an advance or the possibility of an advance tax payment, that's a great question. Here is now for those who don't deal with it as much, and I may not be clear to everyone, at the moment that you would like to ask or if you would ask the tax administration, well, how much this and this individual owes for the tax on property, for income tax, for any other tax liability, you wouldn't get that answer so easily, which is why we've been doing for two and a half years, we're conducting a tax administration reform, which should be completed by the end of 2023, which will have such a system, that you will, through your mobile phone, in a safe manner, be able to participate in your tax administration address and get the information you owe immediately if you owe something and that at the same time, through your credit card and pay all your obligations. Look, now one interesting thing if you follow me, imagine that you are one individual who owes, say, 3,500 thousand dinars for tax. Now you're saying, wait, I don't have time to deal with it, I'm gonna transfer 5,000 dinars to the IRS, so let them get along, I'll cover the debts, and I've got something else to say, I've paid some taxes in advance. That's not possible right now, and this new system is going to be possible. Believe it or not, we have over 180, if I'm not mistaken, 184 bills or bills, or on which Serbian citizens are now paying various taxes, taxes, etc. So is one district in question, another city, one tax form, third tax form, etc. We want there to be only one. And it will be in a year and a half to two days, just one bill for all taxes and all the obligations that citizens have towards the Republic of Serbia, and then through algorithms, they will be properly paid, I say, categorized in the way they should now. So it's a huge system, a system that we're changing. That's what citizens don't see with their own eyes, they'll see only when they can say, in a simple simple way, that they pay their tax obligations and that at the same time they get confirmation that they don't owe anything and that they have no other obligation to do so. So it's a huge reform, and that's what we do. I'm always at your disposal, Mr. Yokic, about the details. We're working hard. By the end of 2023, I'm sure this system will fully live. Two more very brief references to what you were saying. One is a dollar. So you're also absolutely right. Somewhere in 2013, if I remember correctly, in 2014, we had almost 30% of the participation in our public debt, the dollar debt. Serbia has no so-called natural hedge, or should I say, natural dollar cover, because our EU is our biggest trading partner, our transactions are mostly in euro or dinars. We have since 2013/2014, especially in the past two or three years reduced the share of our dollar debt from 30%, today we are somewhere at 12 or 13%. That's very acceptable. Meanwhile, we've increased bond emissions in dinars. You now with some low 15.20%, we're already at about 30%. So if you look at the structure of our public debt, about 50% is in euro, 30% in dinars, about 12 or 13% in dollars, and there are other currencies. Definitely that trend that goes towards reducing the participation of dollar obligations is present, it's a wise move, a responsible move. Our dollar is not a natural currency, if I can put it that way, it's the euro, or, of course, our dinar too. Finally, around the green bonds, we're very proud of it. So, everyone talks, today we talk about noise protection and other laws that are important for the preservation of the environment, but we are the first country in the region, one of the rare developing countries to go to the international capital market with green bonds, which has run for their projects and we have received over three, almost four billion requests for these billion euros. So we had investors who had four times more faith in us than how many of us have projects to run for office at this point. About the years you know, our 15-year bond is 205, and this green is exactly 1% at seven years, and those previous authorities at 10 years were 7.25% I would say, indeed, one green interest symbolizing Serbia's failure. We paid those debts and that debt, the last war of that debt back ten days ago, so we won't be burdening our children and future generations with those green debts. What is important, Serbia is recognised on the international financial market, so we are regularly present there. The number of investors who buy our bonds spreads from day to day. Our credit rating is getting better and better. Simply, when you have stable public finances, when you have a clear and responsible economic policy, when you have a growth rate, it's going to be 7% this year, when you're fighting the crown in the right way, when you're building a list of hospitals when you need it, when you're building highways, when you're building schools and everything that's necessary for an accelerated development of an economy, as we do, then, of course, you have a confession from those who are, I'd say the hardest when it comes to recognition, and these investors are, after all, giving you their money that you're investing and you need to give it back to us at this point, the historic low interest rates that just show how reliable we've become. I hope I've covered all these topics that you've been running for. This tax matter, dear Mr. Jokic, is a topic we can discuss a little longer, so that we don't bother all citizens of Serbia and MPs of the National Assembly, because in any case you're right. It is precisely the activities and the way we run the tax policy that goes towards not raising tax rates but to expand the base of taxpayers to achieve the goal of higher incomes, not to affect the quality of life and the standard of Serbian citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-07-0.u9671	Thank you. Since the Government and the Environment Committee have adopted this amendment, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word has been made by MP Vladimir Djukanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-07-0.u9672	Thank you, Chairman. God helps everyone. I'm glad you're here, Minister. I'm sorry Mrs Vujovic isn't here either. You'd have something to say to her, too. It's not about praise, it's not. I think that here you and the entire government must be referred to as one fierce criticism, especially in the way you present yourself to the public and what you've done. You just listed all of this and believe it or not, the general public to ask, and a lot of it's done well, that's the problem, actually, is happiness, but the problem is that it's rarely anyone who understands and rarely hears. People when you ask what's done, they have no idea. Why? Because either there's a problem with your team and the government team, in this complete media failure to show the people and the state what's been done. Look at our finances, look at the inflation that's really at a very low level, look at how we've taken care of our finances, look, let's just say, how much it's built in Serbia, it's never been more favourable loans. It's proof of absolute economic stability in the country, but that's not what we're talking about. That's not what you're talking about. You today when you type on Google - Sinisha Mali, the Panamanian papers come out because someone made a scary spin, and unfortunately from here it's from Google, Facebook and other major multinational companies that hold the internet taken so-called. An obscenity portal called the Truthomer, as if his news were the only thing that's true and you can't read anything positive about what the state has done, you're just reading nonsense, nonsense, falsified affairs of fake journalists, fake media houses. Minister, I don't know why this tax administration of ours doesn't question it once again. We've got two so-called guys here. TVs that are not registered TV in Serbia, do not pay taxes at all, create problems for other media that are registered here and pay taxes to this country, and they do not pay any taxes or advertising, nor pay taxes. They work here, they take money, they get out of the country, they get nothing. And not to mention this so-called. media houses like Creek. These are citizens' associations, avoiding taxes to pay here. Imagine, the Citizens' Association represents itself as the media and they launch such nonsense and no one here reacts to anything. I have to give the IRS criticism here. Why don't you go in there once and see how much this is owed to this country and how the money is being delivered from this country, how it's walking the signal from Belgrade to Luxembourg, through Ljubljana, and back and broadcasting the programme. The law defines that they have no right to have political programmes because they are registered in another country. But, well, who here cares about the law. I watched your press conference the other day where you brought out so many positive things, incredibly positive things. Now look at this fissalization, we're modernizing Serbia. Otherwise, I say we have one of the best tax systems in Europe. You've done a hell of a job. You can't fool the state like you did in their day, you can't not pay taxes. It's just that the state is really tight, which you would say. Well, good for you, but we're still having a constant criticism that everything is bad, that it's a disaster, that nothing's wrong. Why? Because you don't answer people anywhere. We keep getting the need to justify something to them. They come to a press conference and harass everyone instead of someone saying, "Stop it, you got the answer, there's someone else here to ask a question." No, we're always making excuses. A bunch of our officials are moving away, because they won't pass the media rabbit warm, etc. Guys, there's a fight against them. We're gonna fight! We're not gonna let any more of these guys step on us. By the way, I love it most when they write about me, when they lie about me. I'm enjoying it because I know I hit them with something. Look at just these few days how much it hurts that I did an interview with Coluvia and it's like his lawyer. I didn't break anything. And I'm proud to do it, I'd do it again just to piss them off, because look how many have been hit, because they've been lying for two years, brutally lying, and they keep lying now. Of course this hit them because someone finally posted another page somewhere, but I guess we're forbidden to have a different version. We need to coordinate how they think. Right? So, how much longer can we keep quiet? How long do we have to justify ourselves to them? How long do we keep going through all this crazy stuff when we don't get a press conference? You should have stopped that day, said enough! Enough! We came here to talk about one topic. If you have something, come to the office, or wherever you want, but you have no right to abuse a press conference. Dot. They often ask us why we don't go to their media. Well, I don't want to go to their media. I won't, because they're scarred, because they're rude, because they're broken, because they're not the media, because I won't give the media that cheats on this country, is not registered in the Republic of Serbia. That's not why I'm going to visit there at all. I left twice, beat them. It was just so wonderful to enjoy how Cosic sweats, etc. There's no need anymore. We've shown what hypocrites and the end of the story are. I just don't want to visit there. There's no need to justify ourselves to them. When they come, when they put on the microphone, I move the microphone. I don't want to answer your question. You're not registered in Serbia. Dot. There's got to be some order here sometime. I'm asking you to strengthen the media team. I ask you to show people what has been done in a better way. Serbia has blossomed. She's literally blossoming. It's just amazing that there's always something... Look, say, the city of Belgrade. Look at "Belgrade on Water." Look how much it's built in Belgrade. Look at all the new traffic. Look at what's been done, and we can't say anything, because somebody's always making up all kinds of stupid affairs, so, I don't know, and you're going to poison our water, and Vinci, and I don't know what, and all that inherited from them and someone's doing it today, but no one can show that it's being arranged today because, simply, there's a monster campaign going on and where you just don't get in a chance to say anything. Just, please, look at the Internet. Type in your name and name. Type in any minister's name and last name, they only set up to go, when you list Google, affairs about these people and made-up affairs. Everything is a lie notorna. Although I must say, you dear fellow MPs, especially you younger men who attack like this, are proud of it when they attack you. That's your biggest medal. When you're attacked by "New S", "N1", "directly.rs" and the rest of those fake media houses, and you proudly, as Karajord's star you've won, so you've got to be proud that you're after them and you're fighting like that. I congratulate you on every attack. I'm especially glad to see how angry it is when some young MP of ours goes to RTS, so he brutally beats someone of that unfortunate of theirs. Then they invent, lie, spin what she did wrong. Here, let's say, colleague Nevena Djuric was remarkable, as the unfortunate one from that party, Sergei Trifunovic... The way she broke it in that duel, it was a pleasure to watch. Indeed, the pleasure of watching. I'm begging you, people, don't kneel. You have no reason to justify yourself to them. This Serbia has been raised thanks to the current ruling set. Raised, doing something in this country. You're proud of it, you're fighting it, and don't ever justify it to them. We have reason to be proud. We have something to show for it. They, apart from thieving and insolent and lying, have absolutely nothing. I beg you, the election is now going to a fierce fight until victory.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-07-0.u9673	Thank you. The Committee on Environmental Protection submitted to Article 41 of the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I would like to ask the motionary's representative to make a statement on this amendment. The word is made by Minister Sinisha Mali.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-07-0.u9674	Thank you very much. Dear People's MPs, we accept this amendment. Mr. Djukanovic, just to look back, if you'll allow me, on your exposure. I am aware that the election is not won by sitting at your desk and in your chair and then on the Internet or on Twitter you type various tricks, as some in the opposition do, some who do nothing. We talk to the people and to the people and we fight from day to day on the ground and concrete results, and so we will continue and when you talk about whether or not we promote our results properly, I think that, if enough, I think not, but what citizens certainly feel and surely see, they see new kilometers of highways that we have made. They are aware that the average salary in 2012, when Serbia was on the verge of bankruptcy, and we were brought to the brink of bankruptcy by the previous regime, including Vuk Jeremic and Dragan Djilas and all others who filled their pockets and did not care about the citizens, so the average salary was 320 euros, and in December this year there will be 618 euros. So almost twice as much. The minimum earnings in 2011 were 15,700 dinars, with more than 35,000 dinars from January 1st. In 2012, we, the honourable MPs, had 25.9%, almost 26% of the unemployed in Serbia. Every fourth Serbian citizen had no job. We're at 10% today. We still think it's high. President Vukic has opened 250 factories over the past few years. We still think it's 10% high. We're fighting for every new job, but two and a half times less than 25.9% and 26%, respectively, which was in his time. At the time of this greatest economic crisis caused by the coronary virus, honourable MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, we have a battle on the front where we are fighting for the health of our citizens, where we have made three new hospital coves completely new in such a short period of time, where our citizens have all the necessary and possible vaccines, medicines and everything else, where we have supported our economy and our citizens with eight billion euros precisely thanks to responsible reforms. With responsible economic policy, we've been taking into account some better times about every dinar so that today, when the crisis is, we can help and it's never happened in history. It was always the state that ran away from help and businesses and everyone, to protect ourselves as a state when there was a crisis, so they had closed factories and hundreds of thousands of people who were out of work. You don't have that now. You have a responsible economic policy, stable public finances. You mentioned a course earlier. Here, tell me, how much has the course changed in the last 18 months, and the biggest economic crisis in the world, not just in Serbia? Well, not a bit. We protect the interests of Serbian citizens, protect their living standards. So, wages rise from month to month. Pensions, for which we had no money, or no money in 2012, are now stable, growing year after year. We help pensioners whenever we can. Just ten days ago, September 22nd, we paid them an additional 50-euro aid. We'll pay another 20,000 dinars in February of the month. According to the Swiss formula, pensions will grow at least another 5% as of January 1st. So, honourable MPs, we're talking about responsible economic policy, responsible public finance management, about whatever we do, and it's never been built or done again, we're holding that level of public debt against GDP, below 60%, and we're going to be successful in that. We were last year, and we're going to be these, and we're going to be next, despite this biggest crisis we're facing. And most importantly, when you look at it, our growth rate by the end of the year will be at least 7%, minus 0.9 last year, when much larger and more developed economies fell by minus 10, minus 11, minus 12%. So minus 0.9 and this 7% plus is going to be. We will be the first, second or third best economy in Europe. Well, when did this happen that Serbia was winning the economy and that was in the times of the biggest economic crisis? Well, never, but it's happening now and it's happening given the responsible policy of President Vukic, the government of the Republic of Serbia. The heavy measures are behind us, but hopefully, Mr. Djukanovic, if not everyone notices, that we are all trying to make sure that the citizens of Serbia at every corner, at every step of the way, notice some change for the better. If maybe we didn't get to every man and it's our obligation for the future to get to everyone, to feel some improvement, to see that the street is fixed, that a new sidewalk has been made, that a new children's park, a new kindergarten, that the home of health looks better, that the school is digitally connected, that when they go to the hospital for any reason, that it's all new, has been painted with new equipment, as it is now. So, Serbia is becoming an example in the region, and even in Europe, I can express myself that way, in terms of economic growth, development and progress over the past few years, and the best days, I believe, are only ahead of us, because with stable public finances, with projects that we have, so at this point, seven highways and fast roads are being built in our country, we're going to build another three by the end of the year to work, 10, and tell me which country in Europe is building 10 new highways at the time of the crown? Well, nowhere but Serbia. On the spring we will travel and to Novi Sad by train, in 35 minutes we get there. So, things have changed, Mr. Djukanovic, and I know that you know all that. I hope you hear the voice. If you can't hear it, I hope that the citizens of Serbia can see the changes that are happening every day. It's up to us to fight, to do our best. Let's fight. Here, now what time it is, so we sit, we work. Some of the opposition are probably sitting at home drinking drinks in a coffee shop or tweeting something from their beautiful, safe, warm chairs. We fight here for the citizens, we fight for this bill of noise. We are fighting for amendments to the Fiscalization Act and we are fighting for the law that you should discuss soon, about 20 euros, so in December, we will pay all Serbian citizens 20 euros in aid and support to reduce the negative consequences of Kovid – 19. So, every promise we made, we fulfilled in the day, we fulfilled in the dinar. I think it's a picture of a different, better, more successful Serbia. And all that remains is for us to fight even more, to invest even more energy in it, and the results, as they come now, will come and will be even better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-07-0.u9675	Thank you, Mr. Minister. I therefore find that, after having adopted the amendment at its session, the Government's 39th representative accepted the amendment to Article 41 in the same way. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since we have completed our search on all amendments, I am concluding a review of the draft laws in particular. Since we have carried out a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will declare itself in the voting day on the draft law in general. Thank you so much for your work today. According to Article 87(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I hereby set Thursday, October 7th, 2021, starting at 6:00 p.m. as a day for voting on the agenda points of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2021. I ask the MPs to approach for the vote, which we will begin in about three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-10-07-0.u9676	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before we move to a decision on the agenda points, we need to determine the quorum. According to Article 108(5), The Rules of Procedure, a quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the voting day, exists if most of the total number of MPs are present at the National Assembly session. I ask the Members to insert the cards into the MPs' units. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 162 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and that therefore there are conditions for decision-making. We're moving on to a decision. The first item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Tax Procedure and Tax Administration Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, in principle. Please press the corresponding key. Stopping vote: total – 166, for – 166. I find that the National Assembly unanimously accepted the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendment. The 10th Amendment was submitted by MP George Komlenski. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: total – 166, for – four, against – one, did not vote – 161. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this amendment with the majority of votes. After we have completed our decision on the amendment, we approach the vote on the bill, in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration, in general. Please press the corresponding key. Stopping vote: total – 166, for – 166. I find that the National Assembly unanimously adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Procedure Act and the Tax Administration. The second item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and FYSCALISATION DEFINITIONS I remind you that the National Assembly has carried out a search of the bill in principle, and since no amendments have been submitted to the bill, the National Assembly will, in accordance with Article 160(3) of the Law. Rules of Procedure, to decide only on the draft law in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Fiscalization Act, in general. Please press the corresponding key. Stopping vote: total – 166, for – 166. I find that the National Assembly unanimously adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Fiscalization Act. The third item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Interim Registrar of Full-annual Countries of the Republic of Serbia to pay for the monetary aid for the mitigation of the pandemic's disease KOVID-19 INVOLVED BY THE SARS-COV-2 I remind you that the National Assembly has carried out a search of the bill in principle, and since no amendments have been submitted under the bill, the National Assembly will, in accordance with Article 160(3) of the Law. Rules of Procedure, to decide only on the bill, in general. I'm putting the bill to the vote. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. Stopping vote: total – 166, for – 166. I find that the National Assembly unanimously adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the provisional register of full-time citizens of the Republic of Serbia to whom financial aid is paid to mitigate the pandemic of Kovid-19 caused by the SARS-COV-2 virus. Fourth item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on the Indemnity of the Republic of Serbia under the supervision of the Bank of Serbia A.D. NEW NOW FOR THE RECONSTRUCTION AND MODINATION OF THE SUBLIC PURPOSE OF SUBLICARY-HORGOŠ BORDER WITH MAJARSKA (SEGEDIN) Since the National Assembly has carried out a general search on the draft law, and I remind you that, on the basis of Article 105, paragraph 4. The Constitution of Serbia, the National Assembly of the majority of the votes of all MPs, decides on laws governing public borrowing. I also remind you that no amendments have been submitted to the bill. I am putting to the vote the draft law on the borrowing of the Republic of Serbia at OTP Banka Serbia a.d. Novi Sad for the purpose of financing the Reconstruction and Modernisation of the Subotica-Horgosh railway border with Hungary (Segedin), in general. Please press the corresponding key. Stopping vote: total – 167 for – 167. I find that the National Assembly unanimously passed the bill. I remind you that the National Assembly has carried out a search of the bill in principle and in particular, and since the amendments submitted have become an integral part of the bill, the National Assembly will, in accordance with Article 160(3). Rules of Procedure, to decide only on the draft law in general. I'm putting the draft law on noise protection in the environment, in general. Please press the corresponding key. Stopping vote: total – 167 for – 167. I find that the National Assembly unanimously adopted a bill on the protection of noise in the environment. The sixth item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on MUSENARY Activity I remind you that the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bill in principle, and since no amendments have been submitted to the Bill, the National Assembly will, in accordance with Article 160(3) of the Law. Rules of Procedure, to decide only on the draft law in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending the Museum's Labour Act, in general. Please press the corresponding key. I conclude the vote and declare: total - 167 for – 167. I find that the National Assembly has unanimously passed a bill amending the Law on Museum Work. Before the session is concluded, just to remind you that I have scheduled the Second Regular Session session for Wednesday, October 13th at 10.00 hours with agenda: 1) Proposal for a decision on the choice of judges first elected to the judicial office, 2) Report on the work of the Commission for the Protection of Competition for 2020, 3) Report on the work of the Fiscal Council for 2020, 4) Report on the work of the Energy Agency for 2020, 5) Report on the work of the DRI for 2020. Since the National Assembly has carried out an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and of their decisions, pursuant to Article 102. My Rules of Procedure closes the First Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2021. Thank you. (The session is over at 6:15 p.m.)
