ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-16-0.u10512	Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Sixth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2021. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 75 MPs. In order to determine the exact number of MPs present in the O.R., I ask the MPs to insert their cards into the parliamentary units. Thank you. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 128 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. at least 84 MPs are present and there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Before we move to the point concerning the request for information and explanations on the basis of Article 287. Rules of Procedure, I would like to congratulate everyone who celebrates the glory of Djurdzic today, and I am among them, and that in this difficult time of sickness, monsters, we pay more attention to our loved ones, loved ones, family, and I want everyone to spend and celebrate this glory in peace. The word has a folk MP, Jahja Fehratovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-16-0.u10513	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, honourable Members of the People, fellow Members and colleagues, as the MP in the second term in front of the Justice and Reconciliation Party, on behalf of all of us from the Justice and Reconciliation Party, on behalf of our family, I would like to thank all of you for the support you gave in the previous days, for the minute of silence that started the work of this prey in the past week, for what you did when you came as MPs to the funeral and for your condolences, that is to say, to the Jack and Hatar in Novi Pazar, to Orlje and to everything you have shown us these days that justice and reconciliation policy, which Mufti Muamer Zukorlic promoted during the previous period, has indeed produced results. The policy that brought us here was the mission and vision of our rickety president, it's a policy i-i, a policy where the general benefit for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, general well-being for all peoples and general well-being for the whole Balkans and the region. It's a policy that's been left in an amanet to us that we've been learning by it for years, staging and understanding all these relationships. In addition to thanking all of you, the institutions of the representative executive authority, I would like to thank all members of the celestial people, especially members of the Serb people, who in every way have shown respect for the rickety academic Mufti Muamer Zukorlic. As our President Usama said, not only Bosniaks, but Serbs cried for the Mufti. On that day, a general unity of the people was seen on the dame in Novi Pazar, many decades later. There were a large number of members of the celestial people, our fellow citizens, Serbs from Novi Pazar, Tutina, Sjenica, but also Raska, Kralje, and I especially thank them. What I'm still trying to say is that in this tide the previous five years, academic mufti Muamer Zukorlic sought his universal thought, his thought that only as believing people in God can we contribute to the healing of the entire society and to improving our relationships through persuasion, through a culture of peace, through a culture of understanding and breaking fears and stereotypes. You, as MPs, have every time given him respect for those words, and he has contributed to us, Bosniaks living in the Republic of Serbia as citizens of the Republic of Serbia, starting to change our views on our common state again. We are beginning to build up a relationship that is fully focused on the only way to break down all those fears, stereotypes, everything that has burdened these relationships over the past decades, we can build our country together and we can go through prosperity together, and therefore I especially thank you. We as MPs of the Justice and Reconciliation Party, and the president of our parliamentary group will speak much more in his presentation, we will continue that path. We will continue this mission and vision of academics rickety Mufti Muamer Zukorlic in principle, in principle and in all particulars we shall carry out consistently and in principle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-16-0.u10514	Thank you. I want to extend my condolences once again and inform you that tomorrow we will hold a memorial assembly here at the National Assembly. We'll make an appointment today right around the time, but on the day of tomorrow, there would be a memorial gathering where the President of the Republic of Aleksandar Vukic would come and speak. Let's move on. The word is by MP Enis Imamovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-16-0.u10515	Thank you, Mr. President. At the beginning of this session last week, we asked for a resolution on genocide in Srebrenica to be put on the agenda. We also did this at a session before it and all previous years, which envisions a whole series of human steps that need to be done to counter growing fascism in this society. You didn't accept that. So today, I am based on the existing Criminal Code of the Republic of Serbia, which, in Article 387 of Article 5, prohibits the denial of genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes and provides for the punishment of anyone who approves, denys the existence or significantly reduces the severity of crime genocide against humanity and war crimes. Accordingly, I am referring my question today to the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office and it says: what does the prosecutor or prosecutors do, while in Serbia these days, under police protection, deny and celebrate the genocide of Bosniaks in Srebrenica, excelling war criminals and crimes, spreading religion, national hatred? The same article in Article 4 provides for prison sentences to anyone who spreads or otherwise makes publicly available texts, images or any other representation of ideas or theories that advocate and encourage hate, discrimination and violence. You today in downtown Belgrade have this mural convicted war criminal who represents all of this contrary to Article 387 of Item 4, whom they paint daily, refresh and guard hooligans and with which the text "generals, thank your mother" goes. For what, thanks for the genocide? What does the prosecutor do while the police minister denies genocide? The great war criminal who committed genocide over one nation. I ask in the end and the prosecution - is Ratko Mladic a war criminal for you or is Ratko Mladic a hero? To return to the Criminal Code, which threatens to punish anyone who prosecutes organisations or individuals for their advocate of human equality in Article 387. And you've had a continuous violation of this member of the law for days, and the D.A.'s office is silent. So, I'm asking a question and the chief of Belgrade police, I'm not going to ask the minister, because the minister is obviously the organizer and protector of these hooligans, who are the people who brought in the activists? Who are the people who kidnapped the "woman in Black" banner? They're the same people who attacked their premises a few days before. Have they been brought in by cops without IDs or hooligans with police powers, while uniform police officers stand by and watch silently? At the time of Milosevic, there was hiding about Srebrenica, silent about Srebrenica so that the truth could not be learned. Today, this genocide is increasingly celebrated, glorified, announced new and all under the protection of the police and the state. It's another one in a series of evidence and the final stage of genocide over one nation. Today, it is dangerous to be a Bosniak in Serbia, especially in Belgrade. Today it is dangerous to think free and free to speak against the crimes committed against your people, if you know that in the capital under police protection, people who celebrate the character and work of their people's greatest executioner. Ratko Mladic committed genocide against the Bosniak people. As a result, he has been convicted and the Bosniaks will never again allow themselves to be bitten by a snake from that same hole. But Mladic and his crimes are now eating up Serbian society and the sooner the decent Serb people are distanced from the criminal, the better. An example of this cancer in Belgrade has been harassing war criminal Ratko Mladic. I hope the prosecution understands its responsibility, not only to the Constitution and to the laws, but also to future generations living in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-16-0.u10516	Thank you. Let's move on. The word has a folk emissary, Jasmine Karanac.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-16-0.u10517	Thank you, Mr. President. I refer my question to the Ministry of Construction, Transport and Infrastructure. In fact, these days, the work on the “Milos Veliki” highway from Preljina to Pakorac is being completed in haste, and on the entire route from Preljina to Požega, on the most demanding construction works, about nine hundred workers were hired 24 hours a day. On the section of Preljina – Požega, 31 kilometers long, three tunnels are built, one through the abdominals and two tunnels of Laz and Munjino hill through the Jelica Mountain, a total length of 2,800 meters and these are the longest tunnels in our country. That this is one of the more demanding shares of the talk and the fact that besides these three tunnels on the Preljina route – Požega will be 35 bridges, four overpasses, two traffic loops and even two million cubes of embankment. In addition, the work will also need to move existing technical infrastructures. From the payment ramp Preljina to the future loop in Pakorrac, power and telecommunications lines and gas installations should be removed. On this 14km section, the highway passed through five local communities and during the work, construction machines cut the lines and the locals ran out of electricity, water, phones and the Internet. Also, due to the need to build a highway, due to the passing of trucks and heavy construction machinery, about 40km of roads have been devastated through the villages of Prevor, Trbušani, Rakova, Pakovrace and Preljina. Aware of the importance of the highway, the locals, although often paralyzed because they could not reach their fields, and they were left without electricity and water, were patient and showed hospitality to both domestic and Chinese contractors, but they expect everything to return to its original state. My question is – when will the local roads be reconstructed and the other infrastructures, such as electricity, telecommunications, water and gas networks, will be fully trained and put into operation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-16-0.u10518	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Zoltan Peck.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-16-0.u10519	Thank you. In front of the SVM parliamentary group, I will ask the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, Mr Branislav Nedimovic. My question concerns renting agricultural land. The Agricultural Land Act accurately and precisely determines what kind of land can be leased and under what conditions. Agricultural land in state property may be leased and agricultural land, which is designated as a building land under special law to the purpose, intended for use and used for agricultural production. So this land can be sold out. Agricultural land in state property and land referred to in Article 3. The agricultural land law may be leased if the annual programme of protection, regulation and use of the agricultural land of the unit of local self-government is intended for lease. Agricultural land is leased by public tendering in two circles, except for the right of the lease and the right to a direct lease. The decision to open a public ad shall be made by the competent authority of the unit of local self-government on whose territory the agricultural land is located in the state property within 60 days of the date of adoption of the annual programme with the consent of the ministry. The decision to rent agricultural land in the state property is required by the local self-government unit to adopt by 1 June of the current year at the latest, with the ministry's consent. In the autonomous province, the assets generated from renting agricultural land amounting to 30% of the revenues are the budgets of the Republic of Serbia, at 30% of the revenues are the budgets of the autonomous province and 40% are the revenues of the units of local self-government on whose territory is agricultural land that has been issued. Local self-government units are required to deliver to the ministry a report on the payment of funds made from the lease of agricultural land in state property by the current year by 10 November at the latest, as well as an annual report on the use of funds for the implementation of the programme for the current year by 31 January of the following year. So the Law on Agricultural Land accurately laid down the entire procedure for renting agricultural land in state property. My question concerns - what to do and how to do if agricultural land, which is defined as building land under special law, was already in place at the time of the lease? So the land was leased. Maybe it's a bad interpretation of the law. The contract is concluded with the tenant and on the basis of that contract, the tenant uses a plot or agricultural land. It is about land that is referred to as water catchment area as the plan for the general regulation of the village of Senta. This land has been leased, but on it are drinking water wells and supplying a village with drinking water. So the land was brought in for purpose. Its purpose is regulated as a water catch in the plan of the general regulation of the settlement. What do you do, what do you do? That's my question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-16-0.u10520	Thank you. The word is Gjorge Milicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-16-0.u10521	I thank the President-in-Office of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the Honored Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since the MPs of the Justice and Reconciliation Party, after seven days, are once again in parliament, taking the opportunity to give them, their party, their family and the entire Islamic community, once again the deepest condolences on behalf of the SPS parliamentary group. I want to start with a question right now, but before that, Mr. President, I need to make a point. I think you had to break up a short-time speaker, because he insulted Serbia, insulted the Serbian people, calling Serbia a genocide state, and calling the Serb people a genocide people, and it was quite an accident when there was no Mr Zukorlic among us. It's not an accident, it's absolutely not an accident. So, in recent days, there has been one topic in public that in itself is absolutely no problem. Namely, it is General Ratko Mladic's mural on the facade of a residential building in downtown Belgrade. It is interesting that this mural has been on that wall for months now, and that the attention of a group of activists of some NGOs, who favor human rights, does not only know whose, I do not understand, has drawn attention to right now and at that very moment nine MEPs... I'm saying this because this has far more goals. This isn't about a mural. This is about discrediting Serbia, discrediting citizens of Serbia, discrediting the president of Serbia and this National Assembly, because it does not want to accept what we have just heard about. So nine MEPs, nine out of 705, and it's not a number you have to admit, but nine MEPs have signed a statement condemning Serbia and its president for saying it is unacceptable that the country's candidate for EU membership is guarded by a Mural of a convicted war criminal. Those are the words we just heard here from one of our colleagues. It's exactly the same word. The police, and they understand that, were only doing their job. It wasn't the police that protected the mural, it was that it kept public order and peace, because someone wanted and had an interest in dividing it into a concept, to make new divisions in society, because that's how it suits them. We wonder where their impudence to say that Serbia is on the side of war criminals when only Serbia has respected all obligations to The Hague tribunal. Serbia has never denied a single genocide, in fact, not a single crime, respecting all the victims of the conflict that occurred during the break-up of the SFRY, but what about the respect of Serb victims that were never spoken of, nor talked about? They are bothered by Ratko Mladic's mural in Belgrade, and they do not mind that for many years dozens of streets in Croatia, which are members of the EU, bear the names of war criminals, such as Ustaška Mile Budak is the founder of the Ustasha movement and ideologies, the author of the Ustaška krilatica "Stava vrbe" or the street on 10 April 1941, which is the date when Ustasha formation of NDH or the street of Mira Barisic, who killed Yugoslav Ambassador Vladimir Rolovic, a prominent anti-fascism fighter, was founded in 1971. This is the highlight of hypocrisy, as it is just one of the signatories of the European Parliament's statement from Croatia, otherwise the former foreign minister of Croatia. We wonder why they did not respond to the setting up of the Aqif Efendija table, which Hitler has decorated, the domestic court has condemned, and this would be a special issue to Aidi Corovic, who is from Novi Pazar. Why didn't they ask for the procession of those behind the yellow house, who sold the organs of Serbian children and did not count anymore? A lot of evil has been done to the Serbs. Why has none of the EU officials so far reacted, nor has Viola von Kramon, who has repeatedly visited Serbia? Isn't all this unfortunately evidence of the double arches of Europe? What are the interests of former Serbian Democrats to deal with a mural that neither this government nor this state today? Even a former war crimes prosecutor, who delivered Serbs to The Hague, reports to launch a petition against Serbia accused of causing instability in the region. Apparently, Mr. Vukcevic has not been informed. I know I'm out of time, but allow me, Mr. President. The same petition was signed by Canak, Latina Perović, Basara, Olenik, Sonja Biserko, Balša Bozovic, Jerkov and Kostreš. What do they want with that petition? To prosecute all war crimes indictees, as if Serbia had not shown its readiness to co-operate with The Hague tribunal, require the prosecution's removal of war crimes, the replacement of Justice Minister Maja Popovic, etc. The law must also apply equally to everyone, without exception, whether it is works that can qualify as war crimes or organised crime. Otherwise, law becomes a source of injustice, tyranny and uncertainty. We don't agree to a crime of justice by national belongings. We do not agree that the criminals of the state of Serbia should be sheltered and protected from the fine they deserve. Should we then get to know him, Mr Vukcevic, that Serbia today is a symbol of new values and bearer of regional initiatives and economic leader of the region, consistently favours peace, stability and when it was most difficult, Serbia has shown solidarity to everyone, to all its neighbours? Apparently, the reputation and new international position of Serbia bother some and others' interests. So I'd like to ask the government a question. When Serbia faces great challenges and temptations, who wants to present Serbia as a genocide and Serbs as a genocide people? Aren't the goals of those who suddenly raise the question of a mural far greater and more perfidious? It's an honor and privilege to know Mr. Zukorlic. I attended the funeral from the pitet to their stranger, from the pitet to Mr. Zukorlic. I was with the Bosniaks that day. Not all Bosniaks think the same thing. It is not true that today it is difficult to be a Bosniak in Serbia, and that someone is trying to make political profit in this way, to kidnap the electoral body, specifically you, a colleague, it is shameful and it is hypocritical. I was in Republika Srpska last week, and it was my pleasure to say, in addition to Inck's law, despite Schmidt's resolution, that Serbia would never accept that genocide was committed and that it was a genocide state. I loved hearing it from the authorities and the competent institutions. I don't have a problem, let them arrest me. That's my opinion, and that's my right of opinion. I have a legitimate right to have my stand. In Serbia, Serbia is our country, no matter how politically we differed, what we once had different political opinions, we always found a common denominator, and that is the prosperity of the country in which we live, that is Serbia. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-16-0.u10522	Thank you. I'd only ask you to fit in in in five minutes, so you don't abuse my kindness. When it comes to this part of the session, this part of the session is part of before the debate opens. This part of the session is not about the possibilities of replicas, injuries to the Rules of Procedure and everything else. So, you put up with anyone who says anything, you have a debate, that's the purpose of parliamentaryism. Let's move on now. I would just ask the question, since Mr. Birmancevic answered, are you authorized in the name of the group since Ljubisa Stojmirovic was written here? If he's a professor. Stojmirovic, please. Just sign in.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-16-0.u10523	Dear colleagues and colleagues, today I will ask my three questions to all those righteous and honest people from the National Bank to the lowest organisational units that have a good will and a desire to help solve such petty problems as those which I will list. I don't want their answer to be that it can't be solved, because if a Frenchman can change the color of the flag, why can't we solve a little problem like this that concerns the abolition of a law, whether it's a regulation, but hopefully we'll agree on that. Together with two younger people, I travel through Serbia and we give together books, libraries, schools, individuals, etc. wishing to contribute at least a little bit to the development of culture and education. On those trips, we meet a lot of people. So far, we've talked to more than 3,000 people and they've been bringing up their problems and they've asked us to help out as much as we can solve these problems. I'm going to name three problems today, and the first of these problems is the problem that the caterers who work in catering work are facing. They have a little pain in the ass, and there's some regulation, and I don't even know if it's the law that because of certain failures they make in business closes the facility and they're banned from working for 10, 20, 30 days, and they're begging and they're suggesting that you end that regulation to ban them from working because it's against the constitution, because it's inhuman, inhuman, etc. Let these punishments increase and be twice, three times, and I don't know how many times bigger, but let them continue to carry on their actions, because they didn't do all of them, one individual did. This is why one individual in the country loses because it cannot charge its obligations during that period of 10, 15 and more days, lose its employees because they cannot receive their profits and cannot support their families. I hope there will be wisdom, that we can solve this problem. The other problem is almost identical. It refers to those involved in business technical examinations. In the previous period, they had the power of the law, normally, the obligation to modernise their appliances and the means they work with, so they said, they had to invest between 15 and 20,000 euros, but that should be a contribution to traffic security. They don't mind, but they have the same pain where due to certain failures of inspections or who's already in charge forbids the work of a month, two, three, I don't even know how long it goes. Same case as the last one. And they ask to increase the penalties, to punish them three times and five times more, but not to forbid them to work, to let them do their work because in this way they lose the state, lose their employees, and we lose the citizens who are their comets, customers, etc. Because you can see for yourself that it's very difficult to schedule for you to go to do that technical examination. The third problem is the biggest problem, the problem that many citizens have addressed and complained against. It is a criminal, bandit, thieving, criminal treatment of banks against citizens, or citizens of Serbia who use their services. What's this about? Banks keep making up new accusations, some of which I don't even know of useless services which, at the end of the day, in the worst case scenario, if I may say so, tear the people's skin off their backs. One of the most recent examples that the citizens have complained about is that banks make deals with sellers, merchants, producers, etc. where banks and these producers make a mutual agreement where banks help them sell these goods on credit, and then they place it to citizens with no interest, no interest whatsoever, with nothing to do with three wars, six, 12, 15, 18 wars, it doesn't matter. Citizens fall for the story, and banks in the meantime charge from their committees for their service a certain commission or I don't know how it's going. Now, thieves in banks get to know each of the customers who bought this product 50 dinars per war and charge them for something they shouldn't charge because it wasn't at the time when they started using that service, it didn't exist at all. I don't think that's correct and that it's the National Bank or who's already in charge of combing, that it doesn't happen again that lawyers have to represent citizens in the exercise of their rights, etc. Especially in these difficult times when we are plagued by this crown, we need to be flexible and find ways to enable people to do their jobs as easily and better. In order to support citizens, catering activities and those involved in technical examinations, I will do a gesture of goodwill, and in order to think that what the banks are doing is unfair, I will make a protest gesture, shave my beard already today or tomorrow as my little contribution to solving this problem. Thank you very much. I'm sorry I overstepped my time.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-16-0.u10524	When it comes to the professor, I have an understanding. Five minutes is really short for one professor. Since no one has answered the word for Article 287. The Rules of Procedure, on this basis, continue to work and move on to a joint single search on items 5 and 6 of the agenda. According to Article 90(1), I would like to inform the Rules of Procedure that they have been invited to attend the sittings of Alexander Vulin, Interior Minister, and Zoran Lazic, Secretary of the Interior Ministry. You didn't tell us the ladies were coming. I would protest this discrimination, but I will have understanding. I ask the MPs' groups to report immediately for the orderly word. In accordance with Article 170(1) and with Article 157(2), paragraph 2. Rules of Procedure, I am opening a joint Single Search on the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement on disaster protection co-operation in the Western Balkans and the Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement on mutual recognition and replacement of driving licences between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the People's Republic of China. Before I ask the Proposer to explain the proposals, I would only inform you, according to our agreement with the College, that we will work today and tomorrow. So tomorrow's scheduled vote. We wouldn't be working Thursday because we transferred this session from last week. There will be a follow-up next Tuesday, where we start a budget debate and a series of budget-related laws. I just want to draw your attention to the fact that on November 25th, we will have a referendum law, and that on November 29th, we will be selecting new members of the Republic Election Commission. a the proposal for constitutional amendments on 30 November. I must say, since Marian is provoking me here for November 29th, that government representatives have suggested that we discuss constitutional changes on November 29th, but I, although I am a former communist and socialist, did not agree and will not be on November 29th, but will be on November 30th. So you have an idea. This is all what I'm saying to get there. A referendum on constitutional changes was scheduled to take place on 16 January. In that sense, it's important that we end everything we had planned in time. Also, regarding RTS transfers and some agreed commitments, etc., we will talk about this when the budget is proposed for next year, because we cannot give 80 million a year to RTS, and then we will depend on whether the rosters in some categories will play in some international competition, and not our team, and not to have a session of the National Assembly at RTS. So, anyway, if we don't talk about it right now, it won't be today from 11:00 to 12:00 a.m. to 13 hours and 50 minutes. Let's move on. The word is Alexander Vulin, Minister of the Interior, representative of the promoter. Then, reports from the committees in charge, then representatives of the parliamentary groups. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-16-0.u10525	Dear President of the National Assembly, gentlemen and Madam Vice Presidents, comrades and comrades, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, once again we are before you and once again we come before you with the agreements, with proposals for an agreement that I hope you will support and accept, which will change the lives of our citizens better, but also all those who live well with the Republic of Serbia. You are facing today's Agreement on Co-operation in the area of protection against disasters in the Western Balkans and the Agreement on mutual recognition and replacement of driving licences with the People's Republic of China. The adoption of these proposals, the adoption of laws will allow us to cooperate better, to help each other, and more than anything will help our citizens to exercise their rights. You know, ladies and gentlemen, that the President of the Republic of Serbia in Skopje signed a set of three agreements in Skopje on 29 July 2021, together with the Prime Minister of the Republic of Macedonia and Prime Minister of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Albania, the Agreement, which was signed before you, on cooperation in the area of protection against disasters in the Western Balkans, the Memorandum of Understanding on Co-operation and the Enabling of Imports, Exports and the flow of goods in the Western Balkans and the Memorandum of Understanding and Cooperation on Free Access to the Market of Work in the Western Balkans. Behind these big words and long sentences is actually hiding or hiding nothing, of course, but there is one historical thought that we Balkans have been living with for centuries, is the historical thought that we Balkans need to form our own policies, which means Balkans. This means that we are the ones who need to arrange a way of life for us and our children, that we are the ones who are going to restrict the space we call the Balkans to our interests and not wait for someone to come and do it for us. All the countries we are talking about are countries that want to become EU members. Whether the EU will ever want to expand to the Western Balkans is a big issue. Why should we wait? Why would we wait for someone from Brussels to come to us and tell us that we need to speed up the flow of goods and capital? Why should we wait for someone to come here and tell us – let's speed up the possibility of people moving? Why would we wait for Brussels or some government, some other countries' choices to tell us how we should work and how we should live? This is our need. Does anyone outside like that, I don't know. Is that what the EU wants from us, and I don't know that either, but I do know that citizens of these countries need to move faster, to trade simpler and to live better. Every introduction is a proof of the power of one who offers. Serbia has nothing to fear. We want to open our borders, we want to open our paths, we want to open other borders and other paths for our businessmen and our goods. What we create and what we produce. Whenever the Balkans decided for themselves, we lived in peace. When they came to us from outside, we died and fought for their interests, we died and fought for their wealth. It's time to decide for ourselves. President Aleksandar Vukic is one of the last sovereign, free, independent leaders in Europe. That's why he can offer Balkans, which is why he can offer opening, talks, which is why he can offer a common market, which is why he can offer the opening of borders. Because he doesn't have to ask anyone if they're allowed or not, and those who haven't joined this agreement know best who they asked, so they're told that maybe they shouldn't be there. No matter what it is in the interest of each of the countries that this is offered to be here. So, ladies and gentlemen, comrades and comrades, I hope you will support this agreement and recognize the concrete benefits of our citizens and the need for our citizens to live better and simpler. Also, you have a very important agreement on mutual recognition and replacement of driver's licenses with the NRC. The agreement was signed on 27 May 2021, and that agreement is the result of the two parties' desire to facilitate the process of obtaining a driver's license for their citizens staying on the territory of the other side. The matter is very simple, the possibility that when our citizens go to China they don't have to take a theoretical, or a practical part, it's enough that with proper documentation, at no cost to register to the competent authority and get a driver's license. The same goes for the citizens of the NRC who live with us and the possibility of their driver's license being recognised in our system, to be valid under exactly the same rules. It's useful for both of us, it's beneficial for each individual, but it's also about the relations of the two countries. It speaks of the expectations of the two countries, one of the other, talking about the expectation that our economic, economic, and political co-operation will become more and more powerful, more and more pronounced. By the way, more and more people will be moving on the territory of both countries. I will be grateful if you support this agreement and allow our citizens to get a driver's license in China very quickly and of course, for Chinese citizens to feel at home in the Republic of Serbia, to live, work and have as few obstacles and as many open opportunities as possible. Ladies and gentlemen, friends and comrades, I look forward to our debate today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-16-0.u10526	Thank you. The word is made by MP Aleksandar Markovic, the Defence and Home Affairs Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-16-0.u10527	Thank you, Chairman. Very briefly, as we have heard today, we are considering two agreements that first discuss mutual recognition and replacement of driving licenses with the People's Republic of China. This clearly testifies to the correct and, let me say, the partner relationship that our two countries traditionally cherish. The People's Republic of China, I have the need, Mr. Minister, to point out, has so many times shown that the sincere friend of Serbia, and I am glad that this relationship continues to develop in this spirit, in the spirit of our mutual co-operation, because, among other things, the People's Republic of China is the first, or among the first, to come to help Serbia at the very beginning, by donating not a small number of vaccines and medical equipment and medical resources, etc., to which we are immeasurably grateful. Of course, it is important that we keep working on strengthening the importance of the role of the Republic of Serbia when we talk about the world, but it is even more important that we seek to improve and co-operate with countries in the immediate environment. As you said well earlier, therefore, to the Balkan Balkan peoples, and I would say that it is especially important if we have a view of the SNS, which is led by Aleksandar Vukic, because we will see that this policy that seeks to build on a rational and primarily partner relationship a vision of this very open Balkans. In this regard, this agreement on co-operation in the protection of disasters in the Western Balkans, which is also part of the initiative of the President of the Republic of Aleksandr Vukic - Open Balkans. This agreement obliges all foreign signatories to help each other in the event of disasters, and in this way we build relationships in which we hope not to view each other as rivals, not as rivals, but as neighbours, good neighbors, close friends, who step in to help each other when needed. We had experience, Minister, just a few months ago, in which Serbia sent members of the MUP to help Northern Macedonia cope with the fires. But whenever the National Assembly of Acts in the field of the MUP is on the agenda, it is a good opportunity to point out how far Serbia has advanced in the area of security. We had the opportunity to make sure through the "System 2021" exercise that Serbia was more ready, more organized and powerful than it was, I can say freely, ever in the past. I would like to congratulate the ministers on that in person, but I would also like to congratulate you on a good organisation from a few days ago, when we had an unfavorable event, when a group of some who falsely represent themselves as some civil activists, and all of them up to one party activist, tried to make incidents in Belgrade, one of them was unfortunately an MP in the National Assembly, Aida Corovic, who was savaged around the city, throwing eggs on the walls of buildings. Thanks to a good organization and a quick reaction to the MUP, any incidents have been prevented, any violence has been prevented and I really want to commend it and congratulate you. Finally, I am convinced that MPs in the voting day will have an understanding of all these arguments and will support these proposals of the agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-16-0.u10528	Thank you. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The People's Messenger Samir Tandir came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-16-0.u10529	Dear President, fellow Members and fellow MPs, respected ministers, respected representatives of the Ministry, before I start talking about today's agenda, I want to be the head of the Parliament's Group of Justice and Reconciliation and the United Peasants' Party, as well as the Vice-President of the Justice and Reconciliation Party and one of the closest associates of the Mufti Mufti Muamer Zukorlic, to thank all of you for the expressions of deep condolences, support, where you are in the most difficult moments for our people, for our party, and for us individual and MPs and officials and members and sympathisers of the Justice and Reconciliation Party, you have indeed done everything you could to give us that pain, a huge void, a huge loss. On behalf of the family, on behalf of the party of the parliamentary group, on behalf of the Islamic community, I would like to thank all the citizens and citizens for attending the Genoa, to send telegrams of condolences, to comment on through social networks. If this was expected, and perhaps I can give myself the right to say, and was the obligation of the Bosniak people, because the rickety President Zukorlic was both religious and political spiritual, indisputable leader of the Bosniak Muslims, not only in Serbia, but in the Balkans, we were certainly particularly moved by the feeling and emotions that we received and saw sincere emotions, genuine sadness from our neighbours of the people of the Spy people. I would especially like to thank our neighbours in Sandzak, members of the Serbian people in Novi Pazar, Prijepolje, Priboj, Kralje, Raška, Vranjska Banja, as well as the entire Republic of Serbia who attended the funeral, signed up in the books of mourning and thus showed their piet to the ricket president. Neither did the dame, and we could see the headlines in certain media, and I will quote how much I remember – the dead Zukorlic Belgrade does not need. I don't really know who needed such a text, a text completely untrue, a text that apparently aims to sow some seeds of hate. I would especially like to thank the President of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandr Vukic for his condolences and for calling for support from the family of the rickets of our party's President Zukorlic, for the fact that his personal envoy, our friend, Mr Darko Glisic, was on the floor, that the delegation of the parliament of the Republic of Serbia was present to jezija, that there was not a single party of parliament who had no representatives on that dame. Why am I saying this? I also speak for the respect and gratitude I feel and I want to convey what our members and our people feel, but I want to send a message that the political will left by ricket President Zukorlic is a policy of reconciliation and she manifested herself on his jazz as well. It's something that we will permanently, consistently and essentially, if God does, and in the next period through partnership with the SNS and with all other partners try to implement. Apparently, someone was aiming to show that the policy the rickety president had been leading was wrong, so that's where he said he didn't have any conversation. Rahmtli President Zukorlic had his conversators, had partners and could feel it. We heard one rhetorical question, how do Bosniaks live in the Republic of Serbia? I can say, thank God, day after day, all the better. I remember, and it was about the occasion and why the rickety academic Zukorlic entered politics and I with him as his student from high school, during some other authorities, the human rights of all citizens and Bosniaks were compromised. But since 2012, when we had a change of government, things have started to improve. Primarily because Academyman Zukorlic had his conversators and friends in Belgrade, with whom capital projects were realised that showed that Bosniaks in the Republic of Serbia are equal and that some of the injustices they have done in some previous regimes are slowly correcting. What I'm saying is that today we are free citizens who love this country, free citizens who see this country as their home. Nowhere is ideal. In our families, we have situations where father and son, mother and daughter differ and pass, but what is the political will of academics Zukorlic is that we have to solve these differences in institutions, we have to solve them in dialogue. Maybe that's the man I got the most advice from and who's always undermining dignity. Today when I was listening here to some dialogues, conversations, attitudes, he insisted so much on dignity and authentic attitude, and when you put it out there, he defends it. Don't make a stand, don't verbally attack someone, some rapal verbal fire, and then walk out the door. Stay and defend that attitude, if you're really convinced of what you're saying. It can't be seen by the citizens now, that those who throw out a few of some parolees for daily policy, get out very quickly. My views, our party's views are quite clear. In some ways, we all agree, in some ways we differ. That's why we have this political pluralism, and that's why we all have our own political options, but we have found one common multiple of our policy, and it is a struggle for all citizens and citizens to feel this country as their own home, that we all have the same rights, that we have a fight against crime and corruption, that we have economic prosperity and development. Oh, my God, I've debated here more than once, we haven't agreed, but I've never left this room until the talker I'm having a debate with finishes his debate. That's what I'm saying because of my Bosniaks in Sandzak, to see who and how they represent them. We cannot for a long time, and perhaps never again, have a representative like rickety President Zukorlic. But our obligation, his associates, his students and friends, is to continue his political mission. What I particularly want to point out is that the things he fought for, which are an autonomous, unique Islamic community, the return of vacuum property, the resolution of the issue of international university, are permanently resolved, with a partner relationship with the government of the Republic of Serbia. It's proof of the freedom we live in. Could that go any faster? Of course, it could go faster. Can things be better than they are? They could certainly be better, but we don't have some ideal perfect society, we're just fighting to move things in the right direction and I think we do it every day. I want all of you, dear colleagues and colleagues, to thank you for the support you've given us, all the representatives of the government, the executive, the legislative authorities, the representatives of the diplomatic court. The support we have received, primarily from the president of the Republic of Serbia, is not just a word of comfort for the family of academics Zukorlic, these are the words of comfort for our Bosniak people, and this is what our people should remember and a good one to return. As for today's agenda, the natural disasters agreement in the Western Balkans, I'm glad the police minister is with us today. I think the idea of an open Balkans is something that has the absolute unreserved support of our party. I believe that both the people of Bosnia and Herzegovina and other countries in the region will understand how important this idea is and how important it is to turn to each other, and when it comes to fighting disasters, there have been natural, some others, any fight we have in this pandemic, whenever it comes to economies and linking companies that are regionally acting. What I want is to remind once again that at the time of the pandemic, which is absolutely the greatest global disaster that could have hit us, the state of Serbia has been really dignified, friendly and in order to implement the reconciliation policy, helping countries in the region. I would like to point out an academic initiative by Zukorlic, who has been permanently speaking to the president of the Republic of Serbia to help Bosnia and Herzegovina, I remember the mayor's invitation from Gorazd, and that assistance would always arrive. It's a policy he ran, but it's also a policy run by this government. As much as you don't want someone to like him, to attack him, the results are what's left behind. I want to confess to our firefighters who have been very active and helped citizens and citizens in Greece and to give recognition to the Ministry of the Interior. The decades-long fire vehicle problem in Novi Pazar has been solved. It was one huge problem that brought human sacrifices. They didn't have adequate working conditions, and now it's settled. But I will ask the Ministry's representatives to pay more attention when it comes to our firemen and the resources they operate with. I want to remind you of a dilemma that permanently appears in our society, that about when we need ice-cold rivers in winter, and that the ethics is that when we have fires, we need canaders. I know you're thinking about it, too, but I think it would be important that now the public and you get to know us as far as we can, whether we have supplies and ice-collars, and when it comes to helicopters, etc., because we live, I come from Sandzak, that's one mountainous area, and when the fires happen, they last for days and days, and they threaten both summer and people because they can't drive to those areas. As regards the Agreement on driving licences between the Republic of Serbia and the People's Republic of China, absolute support. A large number of businessmen from China have been coming to our country, but our people are also traveling to China and living economic activity is developing. In the voting day, the parliamentary group will vote on these proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-16-0.u10530	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Alexander Vulin.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-16-0.u10531	I thank you for your support and understanding. In short, as far as ice-crackers are concerned, the ice-crackers are being obtained by the Ministry of Agriculture, not us, and as far as I know, they're getting supplies, they're also ice-crackers. As far as the Canadians are concerned, the canadian is a plane that would never fit us for our space. It's done for the sea, you need to have a canader. What we do, what we get, we get helicopters of "cam" Russian production, fire helicopters, and all of our existing helicopters are already scheduled, and most of them are already designed for the possibility that they can carry brightly and participate in the shutdown. For example, we were in northern Macedonia and in Greece using our helicopters with a bucket. That's the system. Kamov would, of course, be a major improvement and would be a much better solution, but at this point we are negotiating. We objectively even increase our capacities, perhaps more than we need for our country, but we want regionally that we can act, because, you know, with climate change, these disasters, no man, so no country is an island, we need to be able to step out and help each other, as we have shown very effectively. We continue to invest there, you can be sure of that, as you know, in the New Market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-16-0.u10532	Replica, Samir Tandir.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-16-0.u10533	Thank you for your response, Minister. What the public, as I say, is less important whether they get the Ministry of the Interior or the Ministry of Agriculture, but realistically, until the formation of this and the previous government, about the story was passed on. Now we're solving this problem. It's actually good. Your answer encouraged me. What's another question of mine, can be answered now, can be answered by another time, by the time it arrived with a firehouse in Brodarev? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-16-0.u10534	Thank you. The next speaker is the deputy head of the Single Serbia Group, Life of Starcevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-16-0.u10535	The Honorable President-in-Office, respected ministers and fellow MPs, before I start discussing today's topic, I really can't help but look back at it, I could say the free, performance and appearance of my colleagues from the beginning of this session, a colleague who, together with all of us here, has taken an oath in this house to respect the Constitution, to protect the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, to respect the law of the Republic of Serbia, and here, as often as today, does not respect and violate the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, does not respect and violate the laws of the Republic of Serbia, spits Serbia, the state in which he was born, which gave him everything, from education, treatment and in which he enjoys literally all the rights enjoyed and all other citizens of the Republic of Serbia. His performance was, to say the least, shameful. When I said it - it violates the Constitution, so the name of the party to which it belongs is in some way a violation of the Constitution, because Sandzak does not exist as an administrative, not as a geographical, but solely as a historical category. He's breaking the law, and today he's breaking Article 343. The criminal law of the Republic of Serbia relating to the spread of panic and disorder, because it is said that fascism is growing in Serbia, in Serbia that has suffered terrible sacrifices and that heritage and its existence and history of anti-fascism, and when he said that no Bosniak in Serbia feels secure and thus intimidated and spread panic among the Bosniak population and Bosniak citizens of Serbia, in fact broke the law. I, here, and here on behalf of my MP group, and I'm sure on behalf of the vast majority present here in the O.R., I call on the D.A. to respond to that. He accuses Serbia of spreading fascism, after the great sacrifices the state of Serbia made in World War II and in the fight against fascism, and tolerates and places a board of Acif-Effendia, a man Hitler decorated for his merits in World War II. What Serbia and Serbs think and whether Bosniaks feel insecure and intimidated in Serbia, says both the facts and the situation at the funeral of our late fellow Mufti Mufti Muamer Zukorlic, where they were representatives of all parliamentary groups in this parliament. Everyone respected him and everyone felt safe at that funeral. We have fellow Bosniak MPs here, specifically Mr. Samir Tandir, who I know visits all of us in Serbia, visits cities in Serbia, so has he ever felt threatened, insecure, unrespectful, any of what our colleague said from the beginning of the session? Instead of reconciliation and policies of reconciliation and development policy, the colleague in question worked exclusively on destabilising the situation and political opportunities, the radio excluded the spread of hate and wickedness. We must certainly condemn such a performance and remind him that his leader, Mr Ugljanin, when he has a chair in the Republic of Serbia and when he is part of the government in the Republic of Serbia, is a mother to him, and today he tells his lawmakers to accuse Serbia of fostering and raising fascism, protecting fascism, and that all Bosniaks in Serbia are threatened. Well, that's not true. And is this chair of Mr. Ugljanin worth destabilizing the state of Serbia and that good international relations in the multinational state of Serbia, which we are proud and we consider our quality, that these relations are disrupting? Let me get back to the subject. Today, we are discussing the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement on Co-operation in the Protection of Disasters in the Western Balkans. The deal was signed in Skopje on 29 July 2021 and was signed by Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic, Albanian Prime Minister Edi Rama and then hosted by northern Macedonia Prime Minister Zoran Zaev. This agreement was created under the Open Balkans initiative, which we in Unique Serbia consider a very good initiative and which we strongly support. That is why the Single Serbia parliamentary group will definitely support the agreement in the voting day. The very term of the Western Balkans was neither geographical nor geopolitical until the beginning of this century, when the concept was founded by certain European Union institutions in Brussels for the sake of the geopolitical needs of the European Union itself. The first term of the Western Balkans was mentioned in 2003 at the European Union Summit in Thessaloniki, when Greece chaired the European Union. The term itself includes five states -- Serbia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Northern Macedonia, Albania and Montenegro. As a geographer, I can say that the term of the Western Balkans is not a geographical concept, but a geopolitical term, because if it were geographically, we would join our neighbour Croatia, who is the westernmost Balkan country, however much they would like to remove from their geographical position and from the fact that the country that is in the Balkans and the westernmost state of the Balkans, but also Albania, in that case, which is geographically belonging to the southern Balkans, would certainly not belong here. But the Western Balkans, as a geopolitical concept, is a territory that covers 207,784km square or close to 40% of the Balkan Peninsula area and a total of 17.936.991 inhabitants. For comparisons, the former Yugoslavia had 23,528,230 inhabitants at the time of the collapse and had an area of 25,804km square. Of course, I did not make this comparison in a political sense to compare the Western Balkans and the former Yugoslavia, because it is indeed two different completely things, both in the political and geopolitical and international legal order. The comparison was in terms of the size, i.e. territorial and human resources of the Western Balkan states. I said, this agreement was signed under the Open Balkans initiative. The "Open Balkans" is an economic zone set up by three countries in the Balkan region in Southeast Europe, which is Serbia, Albania and Northern Macedonia. By establishing this economic zone, Albania, Northern Macedonia and Serbia aim to increase trade, co-operation and improve mutual bilateral relations. The "Open Balkans" is a single market of 11 million and 829 thousand people and has an area of 131,935km square. The aim is to provide more opportunities for trade, exchange of students, exchange of culture, sports co-operation, co-operation in all areas of society and the state, to encourage EU integration in the Member States of the "Open Balkans". Citizens of Member States should be assured that they travel to those three countries only on a personal map and are spared a huge amount of time at border crossings. In this Union, goods and capital between these countries would run faster and save more than 30 million hours crossing borders every year. The World Bank estimate saves $3.2 billion of which would save only Serbia about a billion and a half dollars. In 2020, to compare the strength of the Open Balkans in 2020, the gross domestic product of these countries totalled about 80 billion dollars, according to residents, the gross domestic product was somewhere on average $6,256. If we compare the three Member States individually now, we can see that Serbia is there with $52.96 billion in 2020 or $7.666 per capita. That growth in 2020, as far as Serbia was concerned, was minus 0.98, and by this time Serbia was the most successful, i.e. it had the smallest decline in gross domestic product, as all others and most of the world's countries had a significantly larger decline, and that some growth was forecasted in this 2021, gross domestic product growth around 7.5%. Unlike Serbia, Albania has a gross domestic product in 2020, around $14.8 billion and a gross domestic product per capita of $5,215. In 2020, the decline in gross domestic products was 3.5% in Albania and the planned growth of 2021%. As far as Northern Macedonia is concerned, gross domestic products were around $12 billion in 2020 or the average per capita is around $5,880. So, Serbia, as you can see, is the most economically developed, the strongest member of the Open Balkans, and that's not just what these numbers I've put out here say, not just statistics, it's not just me and most of the members of this high house. Last week, we were Dragan Markovic Palma led a delegation that visited the Austrian parliament, as the president of the Austrian-Serbian group of parliamentary friendship at the invitation of Mrs Gudrun Kugler. Dragan Markovic left on her call. Gudren Kugler is the president of the Austrian-Serbian friendship, or parliamentary group of Austrian-Sprze friendships, and you know what she said then for Serbia in the Serbian parliament. On that occasion, she said Austria considers Serbia to be Switzerland in the Balkans. Where you will be more commended, where you will be more acknowledged when a parliamentary representative of one of the most developed European countries tells you that your country is Switzerland in the Balkans. It is indeed a great recognition and policy that is leading Serbia, and certainly we liked it when we heard such a statement. As for the "Open Balkans", I said, this idea, an initiative, provides a strong opportunity to encourage the economic development of the three countries, of course, if, and the "Open Balkans" is open to other countries, if the Open Balkans initiative were joined by both Montenegro and Bosnia and Herzegovina, this would be an even greater market, even more opportunities for economic and all other developments. What may be even more important than this economic development is the "Open Balkans" initiative, primarily politically stabilising the Western Balkans area. I think it is high time that the Western Balkans do not be the focus of conflict, political conflicts, conflicts of interest of major forces, that the Balkans, as you ministers said, should circle its borders and take care of itself and thus this region, instead of a hub of conflict and disagreement, become a region of stability, peace and prosperity. I said, this agreement on co-operation in the protection of natural disasters, between the three countries, it defines procedures somewhere, procedures in these some, so to speak, crisis situations, in situations where in these three countries, all three are subject to earthquakes and floods and other natural disasters, fires and so on. Cooperation with each other on this matter is very important. I would just remind you of an earthquake in Skopje on July 26th 1963 when thousands of people died, more than three thousand injured, when between 120 and 200 thousand people were left without their own home, when 75% to 80% of Skopje was destroyed. Or, in 1979, when Albania and neighbouring Macedonia hit an earthquake that left 136 people dead and injured a thousand. For example, when an earthquake in Albania two years ago, 39 people died in Durres in 2019 and 650 were injured. Let us also mention the floods in Serbia in 2014, when over a thousand objects were damaged and threatened, and when more than 30,000 inhabitants were evacuated and when the estimated damage was estimated to be more than a billion euros. Such situations always require solidarity, assistance and mutual co-operation from neighbouring countries. Serbia has always shown this co-operation in Skopje and Albania, and in neighbouring Montenegro, which is not a member of the "Open Balkans", but also to remind last summer in Greece when our heroes, firefighters, made superhuman efforts to protect the settlements in brotherly Greece from the terrible fires it was affected. Serbia has always shown this solidarity in 1979 when there was a major devasting in the hundreds of kilometers of the Montenegrin coast when 101 people died, 35 were then in Albania and our fathers and our grandfathers took a very long time to help rebuild and build Montenegro and Montenegro's coast. After all, and situations like this show the importance of expanding the Open Balkans initiative, including Montenegro and others. This Agreement shall specify procedures and procedures in such situations. He guarantees that any "Open Balkans" member state can count on its partners not only in good but also in difficult situations. Except for the common economic interest, other than the integration of people, labour force, security and assistance in major disaster situations whether they are natural or caused by a human factor. Because "Open Balkans" is an excellent initiative and a great project, because this is a way to make the Balkan area a politically and economically stable region, because "Open Balkans" is open to other Western Balkan countries, the Single Serbia supports the agreement. The Single Serbia Parliamentary Group will vote in favour of this agreement in the day of voting, as well as for the Agreement on mutual recognition of driving licences with the People's Republic of China, with our say so to a friendly state and a traditional friend. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-16-0.u10536	I thank the People's MP Mr. Starčević. The word has the People's Messenger Samir Tandir. Replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-16-0.u10537	Thank you. My colleague Starčević mentioned me directly by name. I really don't feel threatened, absolutely. All that academic Zukorlic did was a permanent struggle to make all the citizens and citizens in this country feel equal and that's why the fight for the pipeline, and for the highway across the cave, and to replace the low-level and high-voltage networks, but that message that I now want to send to citizens and citizens in Sandzak is that we and in the 1990s listened to some similar fire talk, but everything would ask people, the one who then held those answers where he went immediately when it became, quite complex not to say hard? (Marco Atlagic: He escaped. He ran away. That's right. And then Mufti Zukorlic stayed with his people. Therefore, the policy of peace, co-existence, tolerance, reconciliation has no alternative. We can disagree, but we need to talk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-16-0.u10538	I thank Mr. Tandir. Do any of the representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? (Yes) The word has a People's MP, Alexander Mirkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-16-0.u10539	Dear Chairman, respected ministers with associates, respected fellow Members of the People's Parliament and fellow MPs, I must, of course, point out that the Serbian Progressive Party MPs' group Aleksandar Vukic – For our children in the voting day will support both of these agreements. I think Minister Vulin himself, in his presentation, pointed out how important these agreements are and how important and how much citizens, not only of Serbia, but also if we take into account this second agreement concerning the "Open Balkans" will benefit the citizens of both Northern Macedonia and Albania. However, I, dear Minister Vulin, will use your presence to discuss something that has been happening in the last few days, but unfortunately, as this session has begun with scandalous statements that in our country, there is a growing fascism that exercises power, and unfortunately, I think that's what my colleague Starcevic and counterpart Milicevic have been talking about, but let's start with the order. As far as the agreements themselves are concerned, I think that the "Open Balkans" clearly demonstrates our country's desire to open up and to be all together towards Europe and the world, but we also show that we are ready to create together from our sky the words, our story, that the Balkans be predetermined, but that we all together as one big team perform and that when difficult situations are being helped. I think good examples were given when the situation was critical in Greece, when Serbia came to help, but I am confident that this agreement will only strengthen our position and the very idea of an open Balkans. Unfortunately, some countries in our environment have not recognized this as something good, as a project that can benefit everyone, but still it speaks more of them and again shows who is essentially ready to work together, but also to grow as a country individually. I think the next period of the Open Balkans initiative will show much more benefits and show how much of the good things we can expect, but I am also convinced that joining some other countries in the region would further strengthen the whole project and show, in fact, that it is not only Serbia interested in developing and improving the Balkans. As far as the deal with China is concerned, I think it is another indicator of the two countries' good co-operation, but above all, the excellent relationship between President Aleksandar Vukic and Mr Si Jinping. I think that indicator, that personal relationship has brought much to our country. Just a few days ago, an agreement was signed on bypasses to be built – Požega, Užice, Loznica, Kadinjaca tunnel, and I think that next to Jelizara Smederevo, next to the Bor mine, I think there are many indicators that clearly show that Serbia-China's relationship is now on the historical level. I think that when we were affected by the coronary crisis last year, we could see who first came to our aid and that at every step and in every respect and sense, our good relationship just developed and improved. And I'm confident these agreements, which, for one, are just a letter on paper, if you dig a little bit more into the very essence and the material that is in it, you see in fact that this driver's license agreement also shows a lot of trust and respect between countries, even though we are by the number of inhabitants far away, far in a small number of China. As for the relations and relations that our two countries have, I think that in the next period we as a country will be able to better put ourselves in this relationship, because as things show and how time passes China takes a more important place in positioning the world, and I think that the relationship between the two presidents is certainly the result and resulted in all these good agreements, but also by developing our country and our infrastructure. Will all these agreements improve life in our country? It will be safe. But what is necessary is that other political factors, above all in our country, so-called. The opposition sees benefits and benefits in all of this. You know, this agreement with China is attacking today just as the Open Balkans initiative is being attacked, just because someone didn't think of it before or didn't want to develop something like that. We have a situation that people in our country want to return to power against everything. I've really been trying to find out what's wrong with these agreements these days, and I've been trying to find out if anything like this has ever been done before. I couldn't find it. I really didn't. Again, the second question arises - must the personal interest of individuals be above the interests of both the state and the citizens of Serbia? Unfortunately, that's the example we had until 2012. Unfortunately, those people who then represented the regime of the Democratic Party that was in power all subdued to their own personal interest and personal wealth, so there was no room for such agreements or such agreements and for the improvement of life in our country. I can't take it seriously that someone's bothering China or Chinese investments, or that they're threatening to cancel those contracts only when they come to power. Such dangerous statements come from Dragan Gilas, a man who, not only ruined Belgrade, has also ruined Serbia. Because when he was able to do anything good for our country and for the citizens of Serbia, he did nothing, and today with these statements not only damages the reputation of Serbia, but also sends a dangerous message to people who are interested in investing in our country and being partners with our country. I can't believe they're going so far in all their plans, and they're already thinking that whatever contract the Serbian government has signed will cancel and stop the development of infrastructure in our country. I don't think anyone who loves Serbia would ever think that they're destroying bridges, stop building roads, stop building hospitals and homes of health, but somewhere we're increasingly hearing that these are messages from one part of the opposition. The pressure that is happening and most exposed to President Aleksandar Vukic is increasing from day to day. I think as the election approaches, the pressure will grow. This is where Minister Vulin, during the presentation of one MP at the very beginning of today, was charged with the most recent things, and everything goes in one mantra and one pattern at a time. Namely, this is where Alexander Vulin was called that police were guarding the mural of Ratko Mladic and that he, beware now, is therefore advocating fascism and that in our country fascism is in a growing wave. These are scandalous things, and I am sorry that this MP is no longer in the O.R., which, as in the old good custom of which he has used us all here, after his presentation and presence of ten minutes in the O.R., was told what he had had, and what someone had written before, came out of the O.R. and thus remained deprived of hearing the truth from all of us, and that he hears the arguments that speak in favor of all of what he has said here is prearranged and handled by this part of the opposition of Dragan Gilas, who have been excelling him for months and making heroes of him. It is the same mantra that appears, the same words are spoken, and the same messages are sent on the media directly controlled by Dragan Djilas, with gatherings held outside the mural, but here is now from the tide of MP Enis Imamovic, who here said things that offended every Serbian citizen. Talking about fascism in this context in a country that has given so many victims in the fight against fascism is scandalous. To talk about fascism, a country that was the victim of all sides during World War II, over which genocide was committed in camps like Jasenovac, talk about fascism and appeal to fascism in a country that was every time on the side of justice, on the side of the winner and who never attacked anyone, but only defended itself, is the highlight of insolence, not to use a more difficult term. The top hypocrite is that when he talks about fascism in Novi Pazar, he is able to see the tablet of Achif Efendia, who in 1941 welcomed the forces of the occupiers with whom he co-ordinated and was responsible for the deaths of more than 7,000 Serbs, who made his army and his police, and all with the goal of creating "Greater Albania" at that time. It's not clear to me that he didn't find it appropriate in one letter to say something about this fascism and from that angle he sees things. That board doesn't bother him? And when we talk about hypocrites and double arches, I talked about it last week, we came into a situation where NGOs from the region come into our country, that they're involved in moving this mural, that they're competing to do it better, faster, more effectively, but we haven't heard one single letter that they said anything on the subject of the wounded Serb in Kosovo and Mr Sofronievic's Metohija, when in one terrorist act he could lose his life. None of these NGOs have called in any single letter. At the time, Mr. Imamovic was not the topic here in the Assembly. It is also interesting whether it is the highlight of the insolence, impudence or something third, that no NGO, both in Serbia and in the region, which has come and participated in these protests, has condemned both the graphite or called for a crossover of graphics in Croatia where Slobodan Praljak is glorified. You have dozens of graphs like that. He is responsible for the death of Muslims in the 1990s. You have dozens of graphs like this. I don't remember Mr. Imamovic saying anything at the time and calling, here's the chance for these graphics to be crossed in Croatia. What's the greatest paradox of all of what I'm talking about today is the next example. It seems to me that now for the weekend, don't exactly hold me by my word whether it was Saturday or Sunday, another mural in Mostar made a problem. The cheerleading conflicts there between Velez and Zrinjski are not something that is not expected in that city and what is happening for the first time, but there has been a conflict over some kind of cheerleading group, but it is not the most interesting either. Interesting place where the conflict took place. It took place at the crossing of the streets of Cardinal Alojzi Stepinac and Milo Budak. So in Mostar, you have the streets of Aloysia Stepinco and Mil Budak. Now I ask if, at some point, any of these NGOs will accidentally ask why Ustasha's executioners and criminals are assigned streets and proudly bear that name and do not mind the mural people who killed both Serbs and Muslims, while their only problem here today is Ratko Mladic's mural? This is where we come to what I talked about last week, that in coordination with the parties that are now the opposition in Serbia, everyone together wants to put pressure on President Aleksandar Vukic and thus weaken his position and position as the Serbian Progressive Party ahead of the April month elections. What's the best proof of that? A few months ago, I was in this House talking about it. Marinika Tepic, a member of the Party of Freedom and Justice, was signed in 2016 by a letter addressed to the president of the National Assembly, which is required to, on the basis of Article 107. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, Article 40(1) of the Law on the National Assembly and Article 190(1). The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly submit a motion for a resolution on genocide in Srebrenica, with a proposal to be adopted according to an emergency procedure. In addition to the signatories mentioned here, I have two names. One is the name Marinika Tepic, and the other is Enis Imamovic, who today discussed and accused both Minister Vulin and President Aleksandar Vukic and all of us, but also the citizens of Serbia and Serbia themselves, that we support and that fascism grows with us. Now, this is a scandal over scandals, but this is evidence of evidence that all this is happening is not an accident and that it's not a mural of Ratko Mladic, but that there's something much bigger and much more behind this, and it's scandalous that in the last days, police satanization that has only kept public order and peace, people from both Serbia and the environment are taking part, and they are in the worst possible way insulting and nidging people who have just done their job. We need to talk about these things. I didn't mean for my exposure to go this way today, but when I heard the words spoken this morning, I absolutely had to adjust my speech to the burning subject, because obviously this isn't the last time something like this is happening. The question is raised for all of us here, but primarily for the citizens of Serbia, what can we expect in the coming period, and what are all the kinds of pressures that we will be exposed to as a country in such a scandalous way? Serbia has not earned that anyone in this way is either indignant or trying to degrade it, but surely it is insulting. Because, as Mr. Starcevic said, I have many friends of Bosniaks and none of them feel threatened here. But what both Imamovic and Djilas are doing shows that hatred for Alexander Vukic, the SNS and this responsible policy conducted by the Serbian government has no limit and that for the sake of personal interest and return to the authority of individuals will not exceed anything. Dear Minister, I am convinced that in the coming period there will be still such good agreements and that they will all be in the interest of Serbian citizens, that they will be in the interest of our country. But, honourable ministers, and with that I will end up, besides all this, you must strive for such provocations none of the police, none of the people who run Serbia today, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever. I am convinced that the next draft laws that you bring here before us will be good, as I pointed out, but I am convinced that, next responsible policy of Serbian President Alexander Vukic, we will preserve our Serbia on providing even better conditions for the lives of our children and all those generations to come. Thank you and live Serbia!
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-16-0.u10540	I thank Mr. Mirkovic. The word is made by Minister Alexander Vulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-16-0.u10541	Telling Serbia that it is a fascist country or that there is a fascism in it that is supported by the government is not an insult to Serbia alone, is not an insult only to power, it is not an insult even to this generation of Serbian citizens, it is an insult to hundreds of thousands of Serb anti-fascists who have fought against Nazism and fascism. Serbian anti-fascists knowingly sacrificed their lives knowing what they were fighting against. They knew what evil they were fighting and what evil they were fighting. Unlike most Europeans, the Serbian people have never accepted fascism as their own ideology, as a way of life, as a social arrangement. The Serbian people consciously opposed fascism and was consciously ready to pay the price. The historians today argue whether it was right on March 27th or not, in a political sense, whether it was a product of intelligence services or not, but about one they all agree - all Serbs thought that fascism had to be resisted and all of them were with the resistance to the Troika Pact. Telling that to a people who have bled so much is saying that you think ill of that people. It's not politics. This is not a political upgrade in which you are looking for space to take some political point, which is a legitimate thing, this is an insult to every Serbia wherever it lives. There was no fascism in Serbia in 1941. Those who were on the side of fascism were first dealt with by the Serb people. It's a terrible insult. It's a terrible insult. I don't want to try to make parallels now about what's going on in Croatia, BiH or other countries. It doesn't matter at all. I don't care what happens to them. All I'm interested in is that in the Serbian people and the state of Serbia, there is no talk of fascism. I hope the MP has the courage to apologize, as he had the courage to tell such a terrible lie. And I know that what he's saying doesn't mean a single Bosniak in Serbia. No single Bosniak in Serbia thinks this is a fascist country, does not think that in any way he is discriminated against and does not think in any way that fascism can ever be in this country. Please, I'm telling this to my citizens of Bosniak nationality, no one will ever judge you based on statements of hate and lies we've heard today, ever. And don't think you should apologize to anyone for that. There's nothing you're responsible for this nonsense and the insult that's been said here. Nothing. No Bosniak is responsible for this nonsense that has been said to the state of Serbia, not one. And please don't feel bad about it, don't let anyone ask you anything about it. You don't have any responsibility for this nonsense and this kind of lie, not at all. I know that every Bosniak thinks best of his country and certainly doesn't think so of fascism, that there's fascism or anything like that here. It's an insult to both the dead and the living and those who will live. We exist on the better side of the world because our ancestors knowingly sacrificed their lives in the fight against fascism. I hope this tall house that's heard nothing will never hear such nonsense again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-16-0.u10542	I thank Mr. Vulin. The next is MP Djordje Milicevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-16-0.u10543	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers, respected representatives of the ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am afraid that we will hear a lot more nonsense by calling the ideologies or the minor handfuls of politicians who have only one goal, which is to destabilise Serbia. They appear this way at the beginning of the assembly session, said several political flossules, come out and their goal is to talk about them, talk about them. But don't kid yourself. All of this is part of a planned strategy that has just been directed towards Serbia, towards destabilisation of Serbia and the president of Serbia. One part of the strategy is related to the international community, to pressure to be applied to five countries that have not accepted and have not recognised Kosovo's unilaterally declared independence. As for the second part, we are witnessing, Biden is forming his team to deal with the Western Balkans. And when one of you calls the opposition, he says -- so the EU doesn't just decide what's going to happen in Brussels, but the United States, then rather those who think they're going to find support in the United States run to the United States, because money means nothing to them, to find lobbyists and try, don't try, but to speak ill of their country again. It's a kind of pressure. Another type of pressure is an attempt to criminalise the president of the state and the president's family. The third type of pressure, it is true, Serbia is a symbol of new values today in the region and Serbia is not involved in internal affairs of other countries, but other countries in the region do not have such a position and they are very much involved in Serbia's internal affairs. The fourth kind of pressure, so you will always find someone like this MP, you will always find a Marine, you will always find a Gilas who will speak ill of Serbia, because they go from the the thesis – the worse to Serbia, the better for us. The only thing we can see is that they're changing more and more political parties and more expensive cars, and whatever political party they're changing, it's disappearing from Serbia's political scene, and the value of cars is growing. So, where did the money come from? Where's the money to pay lobbyists in the U.S.? Whose money is that? How'd that money get made? What I had to say to my colleague, I said, although he came out, because he has this manner of spreading political pamphlets and passwords and coming out. The mural is just a cause. The mural is a reason to try to win some political points, divide society and condemn Serbia as defending allegedly war criminals. His goal is clear and it's not the first time he's put up with a resolution like this, pal. Marinika Tepic spoke many times in the previous meeting about a resolution in which Serbia should be a genocide state, to define itself as a genocide state, and Serbs as a genocide nation. The best answer to how Bosniaks feel in Serbia has just given a few moments to a colleague. That's enough satisfaction and enough confirmation for everyone. Don't kid yourself, I was talking at the beginning of the session, not a mural as important, it's important that this story spread to European parliamentarians and I talked about it at the beginning of the session, which made a better statement. Among them, and one who was Croatian Foreign Minister, I mentioned him. Dozens of streets in Croatia bear the names of those who committed the worst war crimes, the worst war crimes in the former Yugoslavia's space during World War II. That's what he didn't think to talk about. She didn't think to speak either of these Viola von Kramon who, as I said, visits more unofficially, Serbia than she does her job, and otherwise is the rapporteur of the European Parliament for Kosovo and Metohija. At least they could send someone who knows where Kosovo and Metohija are, but good. What's important is that we should put an end to it and not add too much importance. The interior ministry, I said so at the very beginning of today's session, was just doing its job, because the interior ministry's job was to preserve public order and peace, and the attempt of those who interrupted the mural was to challenge conflicts and to challenge division. If it hadn't been for the Ministry of the Interior of those conflicts, it certainly would have been. My colleague, when you mention this Marinika Tepic, I said at the beginning of today's session, a shameful petition that was launched, and who launched that petition in Serbia. Imagine, the petition in Serbia is launched by Vladimir Vukcevic, former war crimes prosecutor, and among the signatories are, as always – Canak, Latina Perovic, Basara, Olenik, Sonja Biserko, Balša Bozovic, Jerkova and Kostres. How embarrassingly they talk about Serbia, how Serbia celebrates war criminals, how Serbia does not respect victims and how Serbs are a genocide people. In addition, they demand that all war crimes indictees be processed immediately, the prosecutor's shift for war crimes, the replacement of justice ministers, etc. Not to waste my time, so I can go back to agreements and what is the subject of today's session, but it's very interesting, the one who signed and launched the petition is the war crimes prosecutor. Former war crimes prosecutor, what did you do about the "yellow house"? Why was the "yellow house" never part of the indictment before The Hague tribunal? Did it exist or did it not exist, except that you looked favorably at everything or today you solved, as well as a number of representatives of some independent regulatory bodies to deal with politics and politicization? To get back on the subject, like I said. So, two agreements -- a disaster protection agreement in the Western Balkans, signed in Skopje on 29 July 2021 as a trilateral agreement between Serbia, Northern Macedonia and Albania, as part of a regional initiative "Open Balkans", and the second is a bilateral agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the People's Republic of China on mutual recognition of the replacement of driving licences. Both agreements are of paramount importance. When it comes to the first agreement signed in Skopje by the President of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandar Vukic, then Prime Minister of the Republic of Northern Macedonia Zoran Zaev and Prime Minister of the Republic of Albania, Edi Rama, it is very important to stress that in the next period of co-operation in the area of protection and disaster prevention, not only in the region, but also on a global scale, international co-operation points. Why? Because global climate change, which up to three days ago was about the global summit on climate change in Glasgow, is causing increasingly brutal consequences, such as floods, fires, earthquakes, air pollution, water, land, which will necessarily have to combine all defence potentials, not only at the level of each country individually, but also require well-organised regional co-operation for facts in the event of these emergency situations. It is natural for neighboring countries to rely on each other. It is perfectly logical to combine resources, technologies and knowledge in order to most effectively resist the consequences of various natural, chemical or any other disasters of great proportions. I view this agreement as a time-honored form of regional co-operation in this context that all can benefit from, above all, the citizens of our three countries and our three countries. How much fast and timely response to natural disasters is valuable and necessary, we in Serbia saw in 20147 when in Obrenovac, but also other parts of Serbia, an unremembered flood with human and huge material victims. Such catastrophic flood waves are happening everywhere in the world, and in the previous days, abundant floods have, unfortunately, affected Bosnia and Herzegovina, Sarajevo and, of course, it is commendable that, Mr. Minister, you have visited both Luciane and you have seen the direct situation on the ground, how to help our citizens. In the context of the signing of this extremely important agreement, I would like to remind you that the initiative of President Vukic and Serbia for stronger integration and co-operation of Western Balkan countries, which was launched under the name "Mini Schengen", was renamed "Open Balkans" this summer, is extremely important for any kind of co-operation and strengthening of the region's position on the European and global path. As regards the draft law confirming the Agreement on mutual recognition and replacement of driving licences between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the People's Republic of China, of course they will give full support to this agreement in the voting day. In this context, I would like to say more about bilateral relations with the People's Republic of China, as well as the role and importance of the People's Republic of China for our economy. Needless to be ignored: the total investment in Serbia's People's Republic of China is eight billion euros, but we're only talking about starting investments. What about the agreements that are being prepared, signed, contracts that have been signed? So they're far bigger. In five years, trade trade with the People's Republic of China has grown three times, and that speaks quite enough about good relations with the People's Republic of China. Our countries also associate traditional friendship, mutual trust, mutual support on important issues, and one of Serbia's most important foreign policy priorities is further deepening the comprehensive strategic partnership and co-operation in all fields that has been intensified over the last five years with this friendly state of ours. Earlier established relations of the strategic partnership between the Republic of Serbia and the People's Republic of China were further deepened in 2013 during the government of the then president, now the National Assembly, Ivica Dacic, and at the highest level the comprehensive strategic partnership was raised in 2016, during the government of Aleksandr Vukic, when Serbia was visited by the president of the People's Republic of China, Si Jinping. The visit was considered historic, and this was also the first visit at the highest level in three decades, raising our two countries' relations to a level of comprehensive strategic partnership. The Chinese side particularly appreciates the visit at the beginning of the Kovid-19 pandemic, then Foreign Minister Ivica Dacic, who was the only foreign diplomat to visit the People's Republic of China in the middle of the pandemic. Our relations have been developed at different levels of government, and their promotion has also resulted in the signing of a Protocol establishing a Commission for the Co-operation of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the Svekine National Congress, which formed a joint parliamentary body with a view to a new higher degree of co-operation. Parliamentary diplomacy and the parliamentary co-operation of our two countries has also been enhanced by the activities of the MP group of friendships with China, which is among the most numerous in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The Republic of Serbia attaches great importance to President Si Jinping's initiative, "The Belt and Road", as the development strategies of the People's Republic of China, which envisions stronger co-operation of the People's Republic of China with Eurasia. In this context, Serbia has shown great interest in various forms of economic co-operation with China, and many joint projects are under way, alongside the joint construction of various rail construction infrastructure projects, the construction of highways. The "Point and Road" initiative also includes projects in the area of energy, building information and telecommunications facilities, free trade network, facilitating mutual trade, investment, financial co-operation, financial co-operation, co-operation in the protection of the environment and many others. It is the trilateral project of modernisation and reconstruction of the Belgrade-Bipesta railway line, one of the most important projects of Initiative 17+1, because it is the first cross-border project jointly implemented by Serbia, China and Hungary, in the framework of co-operation between China and the countries of Central Eastern Europe, which is of great importance for Serbia, but also for countries of the entire region. In addition to the project of modernising the Belgrade railway – Budapest, other projects that are of great importance for the co-operation of the two countries and represent a successful example of co-operation is the construction of the “Michajlo Pupin” bridge, the construction of the section of the road “Milos Veliki”, then there is Željara Smederevo, the reconstruction of the Kostolac thermal power plant, the construction of the Zrenjanin tire factory, as well as the Chinese factories in Kragujevac for the production of components for the interior of the car factory car parts in Loznica, and the construction of the Science and Technology Park in Borca has started and much more. The Chinese company Zijdin became a strategic partner of RTB Bor, and a short time ago it opened a new Kukaru Peki mine near Bora. Therefore, for our long-standing co-operation with the Republic of China, we can say that it is prosperous in the mutual interest of our peoples and we hope that our esteemed, reliable business partner China and Chinese companies will continue to invest in Serbia. So, in Bora, a brand-new mine. The salary in Bor was 68,200 dinars in 2018. Today is 98,000 dinars. The promise of Chinese partners is that at the end of the year there will be over 100,000 dinars, which speaks enough about NKK and Serbia's economic co-operation. With this, we can say for our long-standing co-operation with the NKK that it is prosperous in the mutual interest of our peoples and we hope that as esteemed and reliable business partners of China and Chinese companies, it will continue to invest in Serbia. Let me remind you that in 2020, for example, only the volume of our two countries' exchange was impressive and amounted to as much as 3.2 billion euros. This sufficiently testifies to the fact that the most important partner of Serbia is China's economic co-operation. First of all, it's infrastructure investments. Especially should China’s support and assistance in the fight against Kovid 19, which for who knows which time confirmed that we have an honest, traditional friend in China. China's contribution to Serbia in the fight against the crown is of immeasurable importance. China helped Serbia get a huge amount of medical equipment in time, respirators. Chinese doctors came to us, and not only that, we got a huge number of vaccines from China. Also, there is the construction of a “Sinofarm” vaccine factory, along with our friends from China and the UAE. Capacity will be two million, which means we will be able to help countries in the region, because Serbia, as I said, is a symbol of new values many times so far and ready to give hand to all. I would remind you, that friendship is decades old, traditionally even though our two countries are distant. I would remind this occasion of a often forgotten detail of our friendship, Mr. Minister, and you will remember, and that is "Walter". Our late movie giant Bata Zivojinovic and his film "Walter defends Sarajevo", which has been the most visible foreign film in China for decades, as far as I know, the MP group of friendships with the Republic of China has the initiative to form a special film room within the new Chinese Cultural Centre in Belgrade that will be dedicated to the late Velimir Bati Zivojinovic. All of this carries a key message that nothing is far, not even China. We are bound by a growing friendship, but also by the mutual economic interest and prosperity of our countries and our two peoples. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-16-0.u10544	Thank you, Mr. Milicevic. Next up is Dr. Muamer Bacevac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-16-0.u10545	Respected, given that the Agreement on Co-operation in the Protection of disaster in the Western Balkans is part of the "Little Schengen" initiative, let me first of all say a few words about the idea "Open Balkans". In order to better connect people, goods and capital in the early 1990s, the idea of joining the countries of the Western Balkans has emerged, territories that were designated as Balkan states in the EU, which did not belong to the EU. The plans for integration, primarily in the economic field, have ceased to be active due to war events in these areas. But the idea was restored at meetings held in 2019 in Ohrid and Drac, when the leaders of the three countries of Serbia, Albania and Northern Macedonia showed readiness and agreed to form a single market, i.e. an economic zone, in order to improve political, economic and cultural ties between these border states and, let me say, brother states. This initiative for regional co-operation, originally called "Little Schengen", and then "Open Balkans" is in fact the sublimation and resuscitation of all the regional initiatives that have existed so far. The "Open Balkans" aims to link the Western Balkans' economies to make life easier for citizens and improve living standards. It also implies a number of concrete measures that will ensure within the three countries the full freedom of movement of people, goods, services and capital, which is one of the fundamental values of the EU. The initiative is open to all countries in the region. It should be pointed out that the "Open Balkans" advantage is primarily reflected in the economic benefits of countries that are signatories to this co-operation. Namely, as the president of our party said, Mr Ljajic, removing barriers and facilitating trade increases trade with each individual country in the region. To us, the region is the second external trade relationship, i.e. the second external trade partner with which we make the largest trade since the EU. About 11% of the total foreign trade exchange, Serbia realised with the Western Balkan countries, and a fifth of our exports were placed in the countries of the region last year. In particular, more than 4,000 Serbian companies have developed business co-operation with Northern Macedonia and about 1000 of our companies have developed business co-operation with Albania. This initiative opens up a space for greater investment in Serbia's economy in other regions, countries of the region. I think that this should be the goal of every productive, creative policy, of policy being a servant of the economy and of policy preparing the ground for the development of the economy of a country and of presenting, selling and distribution of goods produced in this case in our country, and I think that this initiative is extremely good, in particular, in the interests of our country and our economy. Also, this initiative contributes and peace in the region. We will now be able to attract foreign investors more easily, because we are sending a message that the region has finally become stable and that the Western Balkans is not a conflict zone, but is suitable for investment, especially since investors are always more profitable to operate on the market than 18 million people, rather than with smaller depreciated markets. It is important to point out that this initiative provides a basis for improving infrastructure, as the EU will be easier to finance joint projects, while at the same time we will have to improve border crossings if we want to reduce waiting at borders. Also, it will be easier to address the growing problem of the qualified workforce deficit, which all countries face, especially in our region. The initiative should facilitate the process of forming joint companies, which would position them as a strong regional player, ready to withstand stronger competition. In particular, it would be a tourist economy, because through common tourism products we could easily acquire tourists, especially those from distant countries that intend to visit several countries during one trip. As a continuation of the consolidation of the idea of "Open Balkans" was held at the end of last week in Nis, a meeting of ministers and representatives of the government of Serbia, Albania and Northern Macedonia was held in order to improve and boost economic co-operation, but not just these three countries, but the whole region. Agreements have been reached regarding the harmonisation of phytosanitary and customs procedures and the recognition of certificates, all in order to facilitate and facilitate the flow of goods. Then, there was a discussion of relief, import and export, free movement of products, easier access to labour markets and the achievement of a single system and electronic identity for citizens of the “Open Balkans” state. The next summit was planned in Tirana. The Regional Economic Co-operation Forum in Skopje signed three agreements on 29 July this year, which will contribute to the further economic integration of the three countries. One of them is an agreement on co-operation to protect against disasters in the Western Balkans. The signatories of the agreement saw the importance and necessity of mutual co-operation in order to prevent, i.e. the mitigation of the consequences of disasters that can occur, and respecting the international agreements and efforts of the UN and civil protection mechanisms of the EU, agreed that, in accordance with all available capacities, they would provide assistance in the event of floods, earthquakes, fires, sea accidents, radiological dangers, environmental pollution and other hazards. The Agreement shall specify the co-operation of mutual information, education and training, exchange of scientific and technical data, safeguard measures, demand and provision of assistance, procedures and competences. The signing of this agreement will allow mutual assistance between Serbia and the signatories of the "Open Balkans" in the event of disasters, activities in the field of protection and rescue. The exchange of experts, expertise, opinions, technical and technological knowledge on education, training and equipment will also be made possible. Serbia is a signator of several bilateral agreements on disaster prevention with many other countries, such as Montenegro, Cyprus, Croatia, Bulgaria, Hungary and others. Given that the word is a disaster of Greek importance, of origin and that it means – setting the matter upside down, marks an unusual and very risky phenomenon for the country and its citizens, each state is certainly interested in regulating this area in its laws so that it will predict situations and more precisely procedures in cases where such situations happen. The Republic of Serbia has fully regulated this area by adopting a Law on the reduction of the risk of disasters and the management of emergency situations in 2018. This law improved and upgraded the existing system, which was defined by the Emergency Law in 2009. What I'm saying is that we have a good law today in our country. But I really need to point out a phenomenon that is not good and that is very common in our country. During certain disasters, you remembered, whether a minor flood or a minor fire occurs, then opposition parties are trying very aggressively to get certain political points, which is really unacceptable, is not human and which should be reduced to a minimum in political action. There are various fields, and the policy field is really wide, in which to compete, but in no case should these things be misused and used for political purposes. Finally, in this light and this invitation, I would like to remind all MPs that today is the day that is celebrated as the Day of Tolerance, because on this day on 16 November 1995, several states, namely most UNESCO states, have signed a declaration of the principles of tolerance where tolerance is defined in the best way as a non-resistance from its absolute position, but as one abstention, as a patience which, I believe, at present, is extremely important to us. Once again, given that it is highly affirmative things and extremely affirmative agreements that can even one man, and believe me, much more help in difficult situations and help mutual co-operation and the assistance and solidarity of countries in the region, we in the Social Democratic Party will truly support one such agreement, but also all similar agreements that are on this background and that strengthen co-operation, trust, tolerance between the peoples of the Balkans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-16-0.u10546	Thank you. We're moving on to the list of MPs. The first is MP Milija Miletic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-16-0.u10547	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Dear ministers with associates, distinguished colleagues, Serbian citizens, I am Milija Miletic and I come from Svrlig. It is the most beautiful municipality in Serbia located near the town of Nis. It's the most beautiful city in Serbia. By the way, here in the Assembly, I represent the United Peasant Party, and I have been selected from the List of Alexander Vukic – For our children, where, as always in the framework of my speeches, I have talked about all those problems that concern citizens living in the country and from the village. I was talking about the problems of people living in southeastern Serbia and I always wanted it to be in this direction and that we could function better and have a greater opportunity for every man, so whether he lived in Srlig, whether he lived in the White Palanca, whether he lived in Književec, Sokobanja or in Prepolje, Tutin. We all need to be able to live normal, so we can work together, but one of the important things is safety. Dear Ministers, Mr. Vulin, I, as Minister of Labour and Social Policy, have given you a lot of results, your ministry, which you are leading, has indeed produced many results in the past, positive things concerning the fight against corruption, the fight against everything that is not good for any man. We know the problems that have been going on. Almost in Nis was a big problem where the entire family was killed, where the Nis Police Department, the people who run the Police Administration, the Chief, his deputy and everyone else, where the associates from the surrounding police stations worked, where you were present, where this murder was solved, and where the perpetrators are now in prison. I think that these are all the things that give us, the citizens who live there or in any part of Serbia, that give us the opportunity to live free, that we are not afraid of anything, because we know that there is freedom, and the police and you within your ministry are doing this job in the best way possible. This part of which we are now talking about the Western Balkans, about catastrophic situations, disasters, it is a big deal for all of us, for our country Serbia, for northern Macedonia, for Albania, because we are neighbours. We've got to get in there. When something bad happens to someone, let's say, to some neighbor, there's a problem, whether God doesn't give him a turn on the barn, a house, whether he's got a cow or something, we always call the neighbor, because the neighbor always comes first to help out. That's the rule. So we do, as good neighbours with our neighbours, with Northern Macedonia, with Albania, because we want to give this way to provide the best possible conditions through this Agreement, for our people from Serbia to come to help our friends in northern Macedonia, to help people who have problems in Albania, and this happened in 2019, 2020, and during the catastrophic earthquakes where our people, rescuers from Serbia, helped people in Albania, where they saved several families that were buried in ruins, where in Macedonia were huge fires, huge floods, and where indeed, our firefighters, rescuers were present. They're real, people who do their job the best way. I here from this place can say all praise for the work of all the people who work in your ministry. In particular, I speak here for the lifeguards, for those people who are ready at all times to go into the fire and into the water, to save someone's life. So now, whether it's the life of our people living in Serbia, whether it's the life of our friends, our neighbors, it doesn't matter. It's important to us, to these people, it's important to everyone who needs to be saved, they do. A large number of lifeguard firefighters were admitted to training. Dear Minister, it's a big deal and it's good for all of us because we're safe. For example, a large number of our municipalities that have large territories, let's say I come from the municipality of Srljig and it has close to 500 square kilometers, and there are a small number of people, but it's a large territory of the municipality that requires a great need to have a sufficient number of lifeguards, a sufficient number of people who will be on the ground to help anyone who needs it, when it's snow, when the rain, when there's fire, there's them. There are now they and we here, from this pay phone, I call on local self-governments to form a DVD within their jurisdiction, these are voluntary fire companies that, together with our rescuers, can work on the ground, help our people and save our people's lives. It's a big deal. Dear Ministers, our police are doing their job, and here are some bad things that some people who work in and out of state services are involved in. That's what it's all about, and now a number of people who have abused agricultural subsidies, people who don't even have land, but have abused it, made some fictitious accounts, now the police are doing their job. I expect that's how every type of crime will be contained, but this is how we stop the funds from going to those people who live on agriculture, not those who want to cheat, and there's a lot of them. There are some agencies involved, there are some civil servants involved, but that will be the final word of the police and the judiciary. My dear colleagues, I think we should adopt these agreements. As an MP and representative of the USS, I will support the proposals of the agreement, because it is necessary, specifically for our friends, for our neighbours in other countries that we have to help when necessary, and we have done so. Also, we need to allow our friends from China and our people to replace driver's licenses and enable them to function both in China and in China. Once again, thank you very much. Dear Ministers, you have great support, your cabinet, Bojan, Vlada Ilic and all those who work together with you are doing their job. What is said about us and the wind – without anesthesia, let what is bad be removed, that we all fight corruption and crime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-16-0.u10548	Thank you. The next word is National MP Vladan Glisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-16-0.u10549	Any agreement containing the name of the Western Balkans is problematic. So the Old Latins who formed the western predatory civilization spoke – nomen est omens, i.e. the name is everything. The way they call us, that's how they shape us, first in consciousness, then in reality. We must be aware that the idea of the Western Balkans is an idea that is not geographical, but geopolitical and belongs to German geopoliticals and their name in this space. As is the story of Southeastern Europe belonging to British geopoliticals, and today to the Anglo-Americans, this part of the Western Balkans is in fact the colonial idea which is all the opposite of what Milovanovic was saying when he was building the Balkan Union, which is also the Balkan Balkan Balkan peoples, and it is very important to remember that the Balkan peoples and this space were always, when it belonged to the Balkan peoples, a southern Slovenian space, and that is why such an intense intention is both Angolan and Anglo-American and German policies to clear the name of southern Slovenes from this space. So, the idea and the Western Balkans is something that in some way says that we should become both in our consciousness and in our soul and in all the Balkans, not the Balkan peoples of Southern Slovenia, as they were supposed to according to Benjamin Kalaj that there are Bosnians, today Kosovars, means all those who will accept a colonial order here. So the agreement could have been called differently. He has good intentions and every agreement against humanitarian disasters, but in a strange way, while we do these agreements with Albanians, we forget that the Russian humanitarian centre in Nis has not yet received a special status, his staff who deserves to get it, especially by what he has been helping and doing in Serbia, and he has not been given it because Brussels and Washington oppose it, because their humanitarian interventions when they happen around the world create waves of refugees that then sink many peoples, most of the peoples who are freemen, are fighting this colonial order. So, although we are military neutral, NATO officers are sitting in our Ministry of the Army, although we are militaryly neutral, NATO soldiers have so much special status in our country that neutrality is brought under question, and SNS policy is always two-layered, two-way, some would say hypocritical, but as a man who understands the political moment, I understand that you get time to finally define which side, but at this point, the claws of Euro-Atlantic integration are too much stuck in the body of the Serbian people. This second agreement with the NKK is good, but it is like everyone else, and like the Russian humanitarian centre, it is still insufficient, it is still talking about that, because, under the authority of the SNS, things are very little done institutionally, but everything depends on the strength, will, character of one man, that when the government is changed, someone can return everything to the original setting, to Euro-Atlantic integration, to everything that is contrary to military neutrality, everything that is contrary to the "Storage and Road" initiative, which is not only an economic initiative, but also a civilization initiative. As an opposition MP, I can say that it is high time that we extract the claws of Euro-Atlantic integration from the bodies of the Serb people, to turn to an upcoming, successful, much better civilization called the Chinese civilization. I'm deliberately speaking to Chinese civilization even though I am a Russianophile, because Russia is serving us to defend ourselves against the attacks from the West, but Russia hasn't yet cleared up in its head the fog of love in Europe. Unlike them, Chinese civilization knows very clearly what Brussels is. Brussels is a place where family values are destroyed, a place where satanic cults are developed, a place where the sovereign rights of small peoples are trampled, a place that can't eventually be kidnapped by an anti-Slovenian regent, so when you look at the Visegrad group is actually defending Slovenian peoples in the EU from Brussels and their demands. On the contrary, in China, regardless of all economic power, technological progress and everything else, China still decides that between man and capital at the top of the pyramid there is a man. That's why the state is stronger than all their tycoons, than all their corporations. That's why China knows today that a child who spends more than two hours on video games has to be excluded from these video games, even though that's how profits are denied. That's why China today forbids the promotion of the feminization of men, because it knows what an archetype of male and female and what family values are. That's why China is the future, and Brussels is the past, and SNS should be more defined towards the future and less towards the past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-16-0.u10550	Thank you. Mr. Alexander Vulin has the word, then Alexander Mirkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-16-0.u10551	First, in this high house, I had the honour of serving as defence minister, and by order of the president and commander-in-chief of the Serbian Army, Aleksandr Vukic, I defend the national defence strategy, a national strategy which is clearly defined military neutrality. For the first time, and there were before us and various governments who considered themselves patriotic and talked about themselves being anti-NATO in the mood, for the first time that a Serbian government and a Serbian parliament committed themselves to military neutrality and there is nothing to object to. You know, the Ministry of Defence of the Russian Federation, I've had the honour of signing it, has signed an agreement opening a representative of the Ministry of Defence of the Russian Federation at the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Serbia, and that happens these days, is just a matter of when it will be technically implemented. It was supposed to be carried out already if there weren't any birds. So, as you can see, we are strictly taking care of military neutrality. It is a fundamental definition of this state, but it is a fundamental definition of the SNS that makes up the majority of this parliament. If these people weren't here, so I could define myself as you want, or you can define yourself whenever you want, if there weren't those who voted, it just wouldn't be. I don't agree that this country where there are no institutions, as I disagree that this is a country where everything depends on the will and decision of one man. Aleksandar Vucic is a man who respects the institutions of this country, who respects the party he is leading and who has chosen him where he is, the man he is talking to and who is very concerned about the opinion of the people he is working with. When we signed the Brussels Agreement and after that, Aleksandar Vukic went to the Serbs from Kosovo to tell them what was being agreed, or what was signed, and before that he included Serbs from Kosovo in the delegation, just so he would not allow decisions to be made without Serbs from Kosovo, because they concern them because their lives are concerned. Alexander Vucic is a man who is able to take responsibility, but don't let us confuse him with being a man who doesn't recognize and step on institutions, but is able to take responsibility and take responsibility for the decisions that are being made. Very often the decisions made collectively, but the guilt is on him alone, and he alone is being defended and only he is being attacked, and the decision has been made by this home, by the government, by the collective authorities. In Brussels, most of our delegation voted for us to accept that Kosovo, among other things, could be part of the United Nations. Alexander Vukic broke his voice and took responsibility for it. Does this mean that he does not recognise the institutions, does that mean that he is autocratic, does that mean, or does that mean that the man who has consistently defended our country's position and was ready to endure, as he has endured every political burden and every political weight? So military neutrality is undeniable, absolutely undeniable. You know, to all of us, if we were just politicians, if we were politicians who didn't care about their own beliefs, or the people's beliefs, it'd be the easiest thing to get into the NATO Pact. Where would they praise us more, would anyone criticise us anywhere, would there be any media who would say something wrong? On the contrary, we'd be praised, we'd be fighters for democracy, we'd get those charters in Brussels, the rights, they'd just scratch prizes, no matter how far the Nobel Prize goes. Vukic was just supposed to recognise Kosovo and be a Nobel Prizer, nothing, right away. We have consciously chosen the path of military neutrality as difficult, but as more upright and absolutely honorable. There is no deviation, nor can there be, and Aleksandar Vukic is a man who respects institutions, he takes care of the opinion of the nation he is leading, but he is ready to take full responsibility for himself in times of crisis. When we passed the Labour Act here, when we reduced wages and pensions, was it Alexander Vukic's decision or was it the decision of all of us? Well, us, but did he take responsibility from the nation? Yes, it is. Did he face the nation? Yes, it is. Did he then put his name on the list he was wearing and which, according to that decision, should have submitted political consequences for it? But your name. You know, here are SNS MPs, I don't believe there's an SNS MP here, or even a ruling majority who wouldn't sign under the list run by Alexander Vukic. Does this mean that it is autocratic, that it does not respect institutions, that it does not respect its own party or that it means that Serbia trusts him and that it is of course an honor to stand under his name? You know, I know that right after this explanation, I'm gonna be attacked by the fact that I'm a half-tron, a creep, and so on, but it's an honor to say that I have a fellow I can have with so many arguments to defend and praise. Let's see who attacks me or one of you for what I'm saying right now. Let me see them once when they say that Gilas isn't the most beautiful, fairest, most capable. Let me hear Marinka Tepic once say something against Gilas or one of these parties, more specifically not even party, but these colleagues from the firm because they all work for pay there, for nothing else. Let's see it sometime. So what I'm saying is, I speak from a pure heart, but more importantly, I speak from personal and political experience. Alexander Vukic is a man who takes responsibility by respecting the institutions, but ready to take responsibility and military neutrality is absolutely unquestionable, there is no movement. This high house would have to meet to change that resolution, not a single party, not a single man, not a single politician, the Serbian Parliament would have to vote that we are no longer military neutral. That's what I know in this session, it won't be possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-16-0.u10552	Thank you. Mr. Aleksandar Mirkovic, a replica of Mr. Vladan Glisic's exposure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-16-0.u10553	Thank you, Chairman. I think it was very trendy and without any need to again prove the attempt to clear SNS and President Alexander Vukic, but that's the difference between dealing with politics essentially and petty politics. It is also the difference between statesmen and those who want to deal with politics for personal promotion and personal interest. You know, no one from the SNS, and above all President Aleksandar Vukic, for the responsibility he has towards Serbia, according to every citizen of Serbia, will ever be in a position to give up co-operation or business relations, partnerships, friendships, whatever it is you want to define, both with the EU and with China, and with Russia, and with America. You know, when you're so responsible and you want to fight for your country from day to day, you have to have partners both in the east and west, both in the north and in the south, however you want to define it. As for military neutrality, I think Mr. Vulin clearly defined it, but this is the best reminder of that demagogue and those untruths that have been placed years ago. That's what Aleksandar Vukic was talking about until Easter, until the New Year's Eve to recognise Kosovo, so here next year, in a year's time, and it never happened, nor will it happen. Serbia is militaryly neutral, Mr. Vulin explained this to you and there is no need for such cheap politics and by trying to pick up some cheap political point. What I am unpleasantly surprised with, betray yourself and represent yourself as a great patriot, a man who cares deeply about Serbia, and for God's sake in your five-minute exposure, I have not heard a single word about the scandalous address of fellow Imamovic, who accused our country of being fascist. Whether you see it a little differently, or if you have pre-prepared speeches where it's only important at all costs to attack Alexander Vukic and deal with him just when you have no reason, no evidence of it. For Serbia, military neutrality is an absolute axia, has no doubt and has no second thoughts, and I am convinced that the promise and the word that has weight has been fulfilled, when it comes to Alexander Vucic, will prove in the next period everything that Mr Alexander Vulin spoke about, which I am talking about, but above all, history will, in the next few years, show who, how and how much it cares about Serbia and its future. I am convinced that the citizens are seeing it now, so SNS policy Alexander Vukic's rightly has full confidence in the citizens of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-16-0.u10554	Thank you. Replica Vladan Glisic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-16-0.u10555	What attitude I have regarding Mr. Imamovic's presentation you can see when I voted against all the proposals they made. To participate in an attack on someone who is in minority honor does not allow me, and where we are equal, there I have always shown, and at a time when you haven't been involved in politics, where you should and what it seems to be to defend the national interest and to bear some consequences. The other thing that's symptomatic here is that the president of your party, whose last name I say very rarely in public, is because there was an atmosphere of gloristion or satanization around it, which prevents every normal debate, I didn't even mention by name and last name, and you had the need to hide behind it and lead again to the best way to show yourself how endangered society we are, how threatened the institutions are. Because in all of this, if it was up to him alone that a delegation in Brussels would not accept concessions to Pristina, if only it depended on a lot of things in this country, even a question that often my friends from the SNS, because I have a lot of them, don't have the right answer, is which I'm going to ask you all here right now. May everything be best at this time in Serbia under your authority, and I don't think it is, and many in Serbia think it's not, just not sufficiently organized, aware, so maybe they're not historically right to take over, if all is best, and it's not, what happens when your party president and president of Serbia, a man who is human like all of us, can one day not wake up? Who's his deputy? How do institutions function? How do you organize your speech without talking about it? How does your party function without asking all the pyramids of power that go towards him? So it's irresponsible to Serbia, to the institutions, to everyone. So think about it, not whether I'm a politician or a statesman.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-16-0.u10556	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-16-0.u10557	I don't know how the SNS works, but I do know that the SNS has its own party organs, that there are more people in party organs than many voters and voters, so I don't doubt at all the quality or honor of all these people. It's irresponsible to say for a party that has 400,000 members and thousands, tens of thousands of different elected officials, that these are all people who don't decide anything, they don't ask anything, they never say anything, and they don't think about anything. It's just not like that. It's irresponsible and it's wrong. Do they have a leader who's already imposed himself in a historical sense? Well, they do. They should be grateful for that, as he is grateful for, I am sure, for the party that is the force and who is able to cope with the same challenges he is facing. I don't see a problem here. You say when he's gone or he's gone. So, what's politics for? They don't pretend to be heirs. You bring it down to the personal question of who's the heir. What heir? A man's 50 years old, didn't you hurry up a bit? But politics isn't just personal. The policy Alexander Vukic has drawn will be implemented by the SNS, if I know anything about SNS. But I guarantee that the Socialist Movement will stick firmly to military neutrality, refusal to recognise Kosovo, the preservation of Republika Srpska and other important issues. As Parliamentarians, I'm sure the SNS is only doing it even stronger than we are, because it's stronger and bigger. This is where you take it down to a personal matter. I'm telling you about the moment when a brave individual did something big and important. Then are you going to tell me that Zivojin Music was insignificant, or was he an autocrat who respected nothing? Well, an individual in some moments of his life, in some historic moments, is the one that changes the tide, which changes something and in that it's worth it. That's why you have politicians, and you have leaders. That's why you have politicians and you have statesmen. That's the difference and there's nothing wrong with it. On the contrary, after such people, if we talk about being gone, leaving politics behind, leaving behind legislation, leaving the legacy to be followed. Are you saying that Kemal Pasha Ataturk, so he's no longer here, and all of Turkey lives by him, by what he formulated as Turkey's future policy and I don't see what's wrong with it? Bring everything down to one man? Well, that man never let it happen, here in this congregation he never let it happen. But he did, and we can't figure it out, he was able and he was able to take responsibility for himself. You say you hid behind him. He's the one going out front. Sometimes it's hard to catch him, so he goes out front and often gets into conflicts that aren't his, but if he's convinced that what he's doing is right, he does. So it's not about the individual's relationship here, but it is a matter of respect for a man who is able to make a party that size and formulate a policy that the vast majority of Serbs irrevocably respect and vote for it, accepts as their own. There is no conflict there, there is no conflict between a man who respects the institutions and a man who respects the nation. Why would that be a problem anyway? We're talking about the entry of an individual into Serbian politics, we're talking about the role of an individual in important historical moments. Both the party and the state should be grateful when they have a man who is capable of taking responsibility and doing what is right and necessary at that moment. You know, Alexander Vukic never tried to say – I know better than the people. Never! He spoke his own opinion, which he once liked and sometimes did not like the people, but above all he respected the will of the Serbian people. Then when they tell him, especially from the West, he's a populist. He's a populist because he speaks, because he thinks, because he shares the conviction of his people. And what's he supposed to share? What's he supposed to do? To be in conflict with his own people, to explain to him, like these various NGOs, who are actually governmental, they're just not Serbian governments, how the people don't know anything, how the people don't know what's good for him? Alexander Vukic comes out and tells the truth, the truth is very difficult, he can hurt, he's behind it, but he's ready to accept his people's judgment. When we cut salaries and pensions, we went to the polls afterwards. There are no politicians who would cut wages and pensions and go to the polls afterwards. You can't do that. You just say let's let the time pass, let's wait till it's forgotten, so it'll be better, we'll deal with it somehow. No, he comes out right away, tells his truth, says what he thinks, does what he thinks and offers the people to decide. If that's not proof of respect for both nations and institutions, then I really don't know what better evidence it can be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-16-0.u10558	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Mirkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-16-0.u10559	Thank you. Very short, chronologically. You say you will not look back on the presentation of MP Imamovic only because he is in the minority, the weaker or as you have said. Well, none of you here expected me not to know what you're doing, but that as your own patriot, which you're proving, you say your position, condemn. But maybe it's not popular for you or not a topic. It is still more popular and easier to score points when Alexander Vukic is attacked. That says a lot about both you and your patriotism, which is just a mask most common. You're talking about things that concern our party bodies. I think Mr. Vulin is the best answer to that, but what's very important, and what could have been recognized from your exposure, and you've been carefully listened to by everyone here in the tide, is a morbid statement that looks more and more like that mantra conducted by one part of the opposition, and that's what we're going to do if Alexander Vukic stops his heart, what if Alexander Vukic dies? Well, we're going this far again and into that story where they wanted to kill him, so they relativated both the snipers and the front pages and threatened him. Is it possible for you from this place, here in the tide, to discuss this, the life and death of a man? Absolutely groundless and morbid at the very least. What happens when Alexander Wolf dies or what happens if he dies? Is it possible to ask such a question? Is it possible, in the 21st century, that's how politics is run and things are set up? I think Mr. Wolin answered that part, but you can't understand that. The idea, the vision, the path, the politics, the attitude, the things that are done, the things that are drawn are something that stays behind and above each individual, but you can't understand it. Because you and I, first of all, and I can only imagine how many you and Alexander Vukic have different views not only of life, but of the future and vision of our country. But you can't understand it today, and I'm sure you won't be able to understand it in the future. I'd just ask you, as someone who singles out himself if he wasn't part of Gilas' alliance and Gilas's policy, then let's at least stick to arguments, some normal discussion and normal thinking, and not that you're using live transmissions and discussions here for such morbid scenarios. President Aleksandar Vukic has already left so much behind at this point that the generations and generations that are yet to come will only be able to learn about and assess how good it was for our country, and I am convinced that you are now aware of how good and huge things Alexander Vukic has done so far and changed Serbia for the better. I invite you as a fellow MP to discuss here on sound norms, to some healthy borders and to discuss arguments. Black hunches or black desires that have individual opposition parties, and apparently you do, just paint all your impotence, but also hatred for Alexander Vukic. I hope that in the next period we will not have this kind of thing, but I am also convinced that the citizens of the best of these exhibitions can see who and how they want it, but also that Alexander Vukic and the Serbian Progressive Party are a thorn in everyone's eye just because we create even nicer, even better and stronger Serbia and a country where every child wants to live, stay and create. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-16-0.u10560	Thank you. We'll take too much time from the time of the parliamentary group. This concludes this circle of replicas and we move on to the next speaker. The word has a folk MP, Vladan Glisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-16-0.u10561	You know how, I don't know if it's any pleasant or unpleasant, but the fact is that the president of the Serbian Progressive Party and the Republic of Serbia is still just a man and a mortal, and that is what everyone should face, no matter how they experience it. Let's get this thing back to one thing that's tied to the previous circle of replicas, which is military neutrality. The strategy is a good step, but it is not enough, because the strategy contains in itself many guidelines of our relationship towards military defence, security and everything else, so some future government can push military neutrality to some inconspicuous level. As military neutrality is provided, the UN Security Council's law on military neutrality and demands to be a guarantee of that military neutrality. Until it's done, it all depends again on the will of one man, one political party, and when things change, everything can go back to what we've been through. So, in that sense, I think the public should know that, in order to know that it measures real readiness to fight for military neutrality or just a declaration and political that is needed from one to another political moment or unnecessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-16-0.u10562	Thank you. We're moving on to the list. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-16-0.u10563	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Rules of Procedure that I have have some rules, but my God, it turns out that I am the only one who respects the rules. The rule is to break the rules. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, when we talk about disasters in the Western Balkans, I don't mean just natural disasters. It is good co-operation and I support "Balkan Open" – "Open Balkans", especially because I think we still have the strongest economy in the region, especially agriculture, and that the bigger the market – these are the greater chances for development. I'm not just thinking about economic development here. Those who think a little more maturely know that political power is increasing through economic development, but the means to acquire weapons are also being obtained. I am one of those who advocates that one third of GDP growth is invested in a new technique, the most modern, to be well-armed, that if, God forbid, there is some conflict in the Western Balkans or with someone else, that we can protect people – drones, the best aircraft, the best artillery tools, everything that can preserve our people. We don't have people to throw away, and it's only an economy that can deliver enough money to us to save economic development, technological development, scientific development, we can have more military power, and it's already greatly acquired that we can be a serious factor in defence and security in the Western Balkans territory. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I can't help but recall some catastrophes of other species. I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, does our rural population have the same rights as the city? I'm asking. Does our rural population, which is extremely patriotic towards the state and all its sports teams, have the right to watch the transfer of qualifications to their team? Is it a disaster when you deprive half of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia by the law of guaranteed right that they can track their teams on televisions that cover the entire market of the Republic of Serbia and have free access? So, given that the police minister is present, I will file a criminal charges for organised crime against REM officials and against the people of United Media and the SBB group for association, not to say criminal enterprise, for organised crime that viewers, especially in rural areas, are deprived of the legal right to have the opportunity to follow their football team. I'm a little older. I remember the famous reception on Dragan Jajić's chest, and I'm not a star, which he cheated on all the English in the semifinals of the European Championship in Italy and gave a very nice goal. I remember that judge, if he was Banks, the goalie was Banks, and the judge was some, I can't remember now, the judge, as the Croats called him, who drastically damaged us. I remember Karasi's goal in Athens. Why do I remember Catalina and the mistress in Frankfurt? Why do I remember Radanovic in Split? Because it was possible for all the citizens in the country to follow their team's games, although the law did not regulate it, but we were allowed. In a village with three thousand and a few inhabitants, we had four televisions, but we all followed the most important sports events. I ask you - why is half of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia deprived of the legal right to watch the game in Lisbon and to rejoice at the moment of achieving the goal of Aleksandr Mitrovica, to look forward to the success of his team, that is, to the success of his country? They were deprived of that right by United Media. Apparently she bought sports rights from UEFA. She bought sports rights, as well as a member of our 64th law, says that only the right to transfer the most important events from the list of events of interest to all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, political, cultural and sports, have television channels covering the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia, and is defined on the list of most important events of the regulator that are the most important sporting events. The list says that they are qualifications for European and world championships. That part of the law is not respected and United Media has illegally transferred games and thus deprived me, which is a disaster, half of Serbs and half of Serbian citizens, because in the region, because it was not on RTS, it was a reduced possibility that Serbs who cheer for the Serbian team and live outside Serbia can also watch the team they worship. It's a disaster for me that needs to be sanctioned, because several laws have been violated -- the Law on Electronic Media, the Law on Advertising, the Convention on Cross-border Television and the Law on the Protection of Competition. They have broken several laws to disastrously deprive citizens of the Republic of Serbia of the joy of their country's success through the success of their team, where they are guaranteed the possibility by law. So, exclusively, they had television channels that cover the whole market, and I think they have five or six national frequencies and they have free access, so they can also look at the antenna. What the law says is broken, and we must bring justice to those who have broken the law. In doing so, funds were made, because people who could overpay themselves to cable networks to watch it and obtained illegal advertising revenues, which were broadcast before, during, at halftime, etc., etc., as well as famous bookies and all that was advertised that day. They say, since they bought rights from UEFA, they don't have anything to do with our laws. That's not true. We can, if we have money, buy planes and Falcons like the United Media owner Solak, Gilas' partner, we can buy planes, but we have no right to drive them. Here we have to show that we have licenses, that we have the right, that we are authorized to legally use those planes. Just because we bought them doesn't mean we have the right to drive them. Only the right to transfer is guaranteed by television with a national frequency. I argue there was a certain agreement, given that RTS did not overly object and did not mention these legal rules, that there was some relationship there and that viewers in the territory of the Republic of Serbia were played. For me, especially because I represent the rural population, as a protector of villagers, it is a disaster for me in the Western Balkans that viewers in rural areas do not have the right, they are not legally guaranteed the right not to be deprived of watching the transfer, if they want to, of their football teams. That's what-- what the law gave you, no one took from you. That's what Valtazar Bogisic and the prosecution rule say, and I'm going to file a criminal report there, he has to prosecute. Otherwise, we don't have judicial organs. The second disaster in the Western Balkans is the green and red brigades that appeared in Belgrade these days. That's where Mrs. Aida, who probably now takes Achif off in Novi Pazar, because it's a symbol of fascism. We have heard here that people from Novi Pazar claim that Serbia has fallen deeply into fascism. Not all of Serbia, only one part of one city sank into fascism when it brought up the mark of Acif Bluti Hadjiehmetovic's New Pazar effect. When they put that note, that part of the New Market, I'm not saying that the whole New Market, I'm not saying that the whole Sandzak, went down into fascism. Because Achif Efendi had units that served Adolf Hitler, and because of that service he was rewarded and decorated with the Iron Cross. If there is a Nazi on Serbia's territory to which the memorial was erected, then it is the Acif Efendi, whose plate was placed right from Mr. Imamovic's party in the part of Novi Pazar. I expect Aida Corovic with that five-pointer, as leader of some new red antipa brigades, then those green ones who also claim, this Viola von Kramon, so I say green brigades, which also claim that we are some fascist country, that Serbia has sunk into fascism, and I also expect them to fall there on the living Naser Oric, because he is being punished for war crimes. Mladic being punished, Judge Niambe, it was a revote, claims that there was no genocide, Gideon Graf, etc. Just because he is punished and Naser Oric is not punished, it is not our fault, does not mean that Mladic is guilty and Oric is innocent. So if the court were to blame, if he had freed the guilty and punished the probably innocent, I would have dared say so. This proves the political instruction of courts that ruled in The Hague and domestic courts, especially those in Sarajevo and Zagreb. The fact that Gotovina was released in a strange way does not mean that they did not commit ethnic cleansing of Serbs, that they did not kill Serbs in Croatia in the territory of Croatia, that they did not commit these crimes, that only means that the court was politically biased and that it was unilateral, or that for political reasons it blamed war crimes solely on Serbs. The fact that Haradinaj and Thaci have not yet been punished is not proof that they are not guilty, because living Serbs have been removed from the organs. People, the living Serbs have been pulled out of their organs. The fact that no one is punished for this is the fault of the courts and the judiciary and the judicial international and domestic courts who have not punished it. It is, for example, the guilt not only of Naser Oric, Haradinaj and Thaci, in the case of crimes in the southern province, but also of Judge Majic, who freed Albanian terrorists "The Gjilan Group" killed by 23 Serbs, tortured 80 people in the most brutal ways possible, and in this process witnessed one of the Albanians or Shipara who participated in those crimes plus the Serb victims who survived these monstrous crimes. It is a disaster in the Western Balkans, and then they attribute to Serbia deep fascism. Can anyone in Knesset, Mr. Marinkovic, come out and say that Israel is a Nazi, fascist country, that it has sunk into fascism? Israel is a democratic society. Can anyone out there say that and say that? After the Jews, the Serbs must be the greatest victims of Nazism, fascism, etc. Ascribe to a nation that in the 20th century, which killed various "SS", the division's handler, among other things, that is to say to Mr Martinovic, credit three million in two wars of lost Serbian souls, with a birthright of five million. So today there'd be five million of us. Ascribe various crimes and fascism to a nation that lost three million, which killed three million people and lost practically five million, crediting it to Serbs. It's fascism. The fight against Serbs and Serbian national interests and represent it as a fight against fascism. Is there a hate language for Serbs? I ask you all, is there a language of hatred for Serbs or is there just a language of hate when Serbs speak? It's perfectly normal to hate Serbs and speak against Serbs. Then it's not hate language, then they call it antifascism. Then Aida comes out, and the eggs are trying to get the mural off now. I expect Aida to go where she was at the Management, Supervisory Board of the company when 400,000 euros were checked in Novi Pazar. Where she attributed 60 acres of building land to her political leader, to go there and run into Achif Efendi. That's how he fights Fascism and Nazism, by attacking a Nazi who decorated Hitler with an iron cross, and you come to Belgrade. You come and say that the fascist nation that lost five million people in two wars was killed three million, displaced and ethically cleaned up three million. In the last war on Federation territory, let me tell you that this is the Muslim-Bosnian part, it has been evicted, it has been displaced, ethnically cleansed 450,000 Serbs, and from Croatia 400,000 and at least 200,000 from our southern province of Kosovo and Metohija. Over a million Serbs have been ethnically cleaned from their territories. Serbia is the only former Yugoslav republic that has not significantly changed its ethnic composition, despite hundreds of thousands of refugees it has received. Against Bosnia, Serbia is not running any policy, it is seen from the population's growth. I'm not against them, they're there every year, they're trying, they're getting more and more every year, and I don't mind it, but to claim that this country is treating them specifically and that it violates some rules of conduct, that their rights are, in my opinion, fascism. There is no fascism in Serbia, except for those who wish to attribute fascism to Serbia, and Serbia has never been a fascist country. What was done in Bosnia and Herzegovina during the 20th century, so it wasn't me, my family wasn't squatters or what was called in World War I. My father's whole village and my grandfather were driven to a dobean camp. There were only two girls left in the Bogovics. In World War II, countless numbers of my broad family that lived in Bosnia were executed. In the last war, no more Risticevic than a hundred lives in homes where he lived in 1991 in Bosnia and Herzegovina. In these houses live Bosniaks or are destroyed and burned to the ground. My father's hometown, the Bogovici, had nine inhabitants. That village was burned with 18 houses to the ground, and the entire population was killed. Today I have to listen to how genocide my people are and how they are fighting Fascism. How did they fight in the village of Cowards where three relatives of my mother were killed, from 1912 to 1927, of them three were women? I'm supposed to believe that we're genocide, and they're, like, innocent victims. Let them show me, but it is a disaster, and one of their most important politicians, an MP who came out and came to Bratunac and said, "I apologize for the victims of the crime committed on 3,657 Serbs in and around Srebrenica, we understand your pain, except for Ibrana Mustafic, whom I am taking off his hat and who is a witness to the slaughter of a judge in Zarej by Naser Oric, who, behold, is freed by international and Sarajevo courts. Now we need to believe that Naser Orlic is an anti-fascist, and Mladic with a five-pointer he did not take off until the mid-wars of the 1990s, who was killed by the Ustasha father, that he was a fascist, and Naser Orlic was an anti-fascist. He won't, because what I know about Bosnia and Herzegovina is that in the 20th century, a genocide of Serbs was committed. As for the 1990s, no Serb in Srebrenica survived in the town. When the Serb army entered Srebrenica, only one slaughtered old woman of eighty-something years, of Serbian nationality, was found. I'm supposed to believe in their antifascism and they're going to convince me that my people are fascist, and they're fighting Fascism. They send Aida, I don't know how many eggs she won't be worth, she won't be able to, I don't believe that - the genocide of the 1990s in Srebrenica. I can make all the contributions of the 1,333 fighters of Naser Orić, whose sources I used in my resolution, as buried in Potocari – half of the 1,333 killed soldiers in the 28th Division. As the site of Naser's death, it states that they are pure Serb settlements and pure Serb villages. How is it the aggression of Serbs against Bosniaks carried out in their own villages? They're all buried in the Potocari. Let them say where Suljagic is buried, the father of what is the director of the Memorial center. He buried him, although he died in Bratunc, in an attack on Serbs in 1992, he was buried in Potocari. Why should I believe that truth of theirs? Therefore, I say, it is a disaster in the Western Balkans that they are doing to Serbia and the Serbian people. In doing so, Serbs did not have the SS "Hanghar" division in Stalingrad. The Serbs did not have units serving Adolf Hitler, where their leaders, like Achif Efendi, received iron crosses. That's why it's a disaster that this genocide keeps talking about, and it didn't happen. Let them ask Graif Nazaroff, let them ask Judge Niambe, I say, in Srebrenica, what they now say, in the 1990s, a genocide was done, but a genocide over the truth, on their part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-16-0.u10564	Thank you. Next up, she's a colleague of Jasmine Karanac's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-16-0.u10565	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Ministers Vulin, colleagues and colleagues, in the tradition of the people from these places is to approach each other when needed, especially in major troubles and difficult situations. It's part of our heritage, our culture, the quality of selflessness, solidarity, empathy, everything that's human in us. We have witnessed countless times in our distant and near past how much assistance in disasters she has been in people, equipment, knowledge, significant and crucial when those affected by disaster are not able to stand alone and by her own means to counter the disaster that has struck them. The disasters caused by a number of natural phenomena, i.e. the dangers of technological, then war, security risks and threats are constantly present for human societies around the world, and therefore the countries need institutionally, through laws and agreements to regulate the framework, or conditions for providing assistance in such situations. This Agreement, which is ahead of us, i.e. the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement on Co-operation in the Protection of Traditions in the Western Balkans, is part of the Mali Schengen initiative, now "Open Balkans", concluded with the intention to bring positive changes to the entire region, to encourage economic co-operation, facilitate trade, movement of people, goods and services and to make life easier for every other way possible for citizens and to bring our peoples closer. Aware of the challenges facing modern humanity, and in particular the rise in natural disasters caused by climate change, such as floods, fires, extreme temperatures, the signatories of this Agreement, the president of Serbia and the prime ministers of Northern Macedonia and Albania, have made another step in the relations of three countries, and our parliaments are putting into the legal framework all the conditions and means of assistance provided for in this Agreement. I am sorry and I hope that this will change and that Montenegro and Bosnia and Herzegovina will understand the benefits of such co-operation and join this Agreement, because disasters do not know the borders, and no one is safe until we are all safe. Let us only remember the flood of 2014 that showed how vulnerable and helpless society was before nature and how much aid that then played a significant role in saving human lives and material goods was precious. Natural disasters that occurred almost every year, not only in Serbia, but also in the region and the whole world, we are reminded of earthquakes in Petrila last year, then in Albania in 2019, extremely high temperatures and droughts during this year, and not to mention, warn that we all need to be better organised in the future. Earlier, this bill is of great importance, as it provides for a way, i.e. a framework for voluntary provision of assistance and co-operation to protect against disasters in the Western Balkans, especially in planning and implementing measures to protect against floods, earthquakes, fires, environmental pollution, radiation-induced dangers. Also, the bill provides for assistance in the event of pandemic disasters. During this pandemic, we saw, on the one hand, all the weaknesses and selfishness of the modern world, and especially the most developed countries when fighting the battle for the purchase of respirators, protective equipment, disinfectants, vaccines in the fight against the virus Kovid19, and on the other hand, we saw the solidarity of some countries that were selflessly providing assistance to others in the fight against this virus, including Serbia, which was rarely criticised entirely unfounded. It was therefore necessary to adopt this Law, so that the countries of the signatories, by respecting its provisions, as well as the signed international agreements, co-operate with each other in an uninterrupted manner to prevent or mitigate the consequences of disasters. When we talk about natural disasters, they are also a reminder that it is necessary to change people's minds and attitude towards the environment, because only over the last decade, especially, there has been an increase of disasters caused by climate change that has affected thousands of people, and millions have been affected by health, housing, hunger. I want to point out here that's why it's important in situations of disaster, when human lives are fundamentally changed because of the loss of loved ones, the loss of sense of security and hope, which we witness during this pandemic, pay particular attention to the provision of psychosocial support. This type of assistance is necessary to facilitate the recovery of individuals of families and the entire community and I think it should become an integral part of the struggle to overcome the consequences of disasters. The Social Democratic Party parliamentary group will support this and a proposal to recognise driving licences between the Republic of Serbia and the People's Republic of China, as a large number of Chinese citizens work in Serbia. We did not have the number of our citizens living in China and, of course, these permits should be recognised with all due respect to the rules and standards of the host country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-16-0.u10566	Thank you. The next speaker is National Assembly Vice-President Marija Jevdzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-16-0.u10567	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Ministers with Associates, today we have the opportunity to discuss agreements concerning national co-operation in the area of protection against natural disasters, but unfortunately, we could see that this topic by individual MPs has been abused, so we could hear here that Serbia is a genocide state, up to morbid statements about what will happen to Serbia if Serbian President Aleksandar Vucic dies. I'm appalled by both speeches, I'm appalled by the abuse of this high house, and I'll try to observe the agenda in my presentation. As for today's subject, how many times have we heard a sentence that disasters do not know the limits? It seems lately, and especially during the pandemic, as well as climate change that happens too often. However, the preparation of the community is just lying in the need for disaster risks to be learned in the best possible way. Natural disasters that occur daily, and we must not forget the catastrophic floods that struck Serbia in 2014, which happen not only in Serbia, but in the region and in the world, warn us of the necessity of a better organisation of all of us. Here, first of all, I mean institutions, but also citizens. They are also a reminder that it is necessary to change people's minds and attitude towards the environment and natural disasters. If we prepare the population well to a large extent, we also help state institutions, or the state in the situation of natural disasters. The data that extreme weather is becoming a new normal state by the end of the century would be that the average temperature in the Balkans would be increased by as much as four degrees or more. This means that we will have more and more frequent droughts in the future, and thus reduced agricultural production, a great scarcity of water, and therefore less hydropower, thus undermining all the achievements of centuries-old development. I think that we still have time to do something and that all participants in social life, but also policy makers that relate to implementation and prevention of climate change in the Western Balkans, can well prepare the Balkans for future disasters. Serbia is the leader of activities on this plan, and it has brought rights to the region's disaster risk management framework, which has become one of the first countries in the world to fully comply with its legislation with the Senedai Framework. Otherwise, the Senedaj framework for reducing the risk of disasters is an international agreement signed by 180 UN member states and it needs to contribute to the reduction of human life struggles, the reduction of economic losses, environmental protection and natural resources. The World Meteorological Organisation's latest data are not a little encouraging, and their latest Atlas report analyzed about 11,000 natural disasters that occurred between 1979 and 2019, including major disasters such as drought in Ethiopia in 1983, which had the most fatal outcome since over 300 thousand people died at that time. The report points to a trend in acceleration, with the number of natural disasters growing almost five times in the period from the 1970s, up to the last ten years and the only thing that encouraged me is that, despite the dangerous weather opportunities, they bear with them the increasing costs that, for example, amounted to $1.16 billion in 2010. The number of human victims on the annual level has dropped, so with 50,000 victims in the 1970s, they have fallen to below 16,000 in the last few years. This tells us that better planning and improvement of the early warning system have been paid off. As I said, Serbia is a leader in preventing the fight against natural disasters and several months ago, thanks to the good preparation of the interior ministry and the emergency sector, we were able to help neighbours in northern Macedonia, as well as to brother Greece, who fought with unremembered fires. Catastrophes do not know either nationality or national borders, nor are they limited to a country, and because of this, the Unique Serbia believes that, by adopting such an agreement, it can contribute primarily to saving human lives, as well as natural resources, and ultimately to reducing economic losses. As I said at the beginning, good organisation, preparedness, education above all local self-government, and therefore citizens, can contribute to the agreement we are talking about today, I can say freely, 100% implementation in real life. It was precisely in this intention to prepare in the best possible way and the city from which I came, Kraljevo, that after the catastrophic floods in 2014 launched an initiative on inter-municipal co-operation. The initiative this year was crowned by the signing of the Agreement on Co-operation and Definition of 18 local self-government in the Western Morava Basin to establish a joint service for disaster risk reduction and civil protection tasks. In addition to the Ministry of Government and Local Self-Government, your Ministry and Emergency Sector, the Public Investment Office, provided numerous domestic and international institutions and organisations, such as a permanent conference of cities and municipalities, the World Bank, etc. Otherwise, the reminders for November 3, 2010, the King was struck by a devastating earthquake. In 2012, we had catastrophic snow applications. We had the floods on several occasions in 2014, 2016, 22017, 2018 and 2019. Also, for the past two years, we have had huge forest fires that at one point threatened to endanger the monastery of Studenica, which belongs to UNESCO and has been declared a legacy of world importance in Paris. The impact of drought may be the biggest in this part of Serbia, but it is also the hardest to assess because it has far-reaching consequences. We can safely say that when we look at the last ten years, the city of Kralje compared to the disasters that hit it, it may have lost three or four of its budgets, and there are the most affected sectors of agriculture, infrastructure and housing. All these disasters have done so to establish a special service within the city's administration, the Civil Protection Affairs Department, and I will take this opportunity to commend your ministry, because a few days ago, in fact on November 5th, at five locations, with the participation of more than 8,000 members of the MUP and other services, you have held the greatest civilian exercise since the time of the old Yugoslavia. 24 cities and 26 municipalities participated in the "System 2021" exercise, and the Republic of Serbia is a joint civil protection organisation called "System 2021", showing once again that despite decades of not investing in this system we are not behind the world's leading states. We have shown that citizens of Serbia, or Serbia, can be safe, because there is someone to care about in times of disaster. The regulation of the normative and clearly institutional setting up of the disaster risk reduction system and the management of emergency situations puts the Republic of Serbia at the right place as regional leader when these processes are at stake. What may be most interesting about today's topic, when I mentioned the city from which I come, Kraljevo, is the participation of the city in a global network of resistant cities called MCR 2030, and under the auspices of the UN's Risk Reduction Fund. Within this network of cities around the world, the city of Kraljeno is recognised as one of the regional leaders when it comes to civil protection organisational systems and the inclusion of all organisations and individuals of importance for the disaster risk reduction process. Through this network, the city of Kraljevo will provide other local self-governments in the world, as well as our local self-government examples of good practice. The efforts of local self-government to strengthen resilience to future disasters should be shifted to the fact that local self-government is not only recognised as the place of first reaction when disaster occurs, but rather in the first place when it comes to investment, i.e. a reduction in the risk of future disasters. This is exactly what the Government of the Republic of Serbia recognized, so we could see in the Lucians a few days ago, where in the upper part of the West Morava Basin, the coordination of state institutions, primarily "Serbia" and the Emergency Sector, temporary facilities were removed that could pose a potential threat in the event of major rainfall and river levels. At the very end of my presentation, I'd like to make a suggestion. We are aware that the technological revolution is happening right now and it will happen again and where the Republic of Serbia is regional leader when it comes to modern technology, but in addition to existing risks as potential dangers within the framework of a normative that treats it, there are two other dangers, which is a power shortage or a "black out" and hacker attacks. I believe that these dangers should be treated in particular, and all in order to prepare the country for future challenges. I'm sure you, Minister, work through your Department of High-Tech Crime to prevent cases like this. Because of what I have stated today, the JS parliamentary group in the voting day will support the proposed agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-16-0.u10568	Thank you. Before I close this first part of the session, agreeing to Article 27 and Article 87. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that today we will be working after 1800 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to bring the acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. The second part of the session continues at 1505 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-16-0.u10569	Dear People's MPs, we continue our work. On the basis of the words reported by the list, Parliament MPplatmir Stević has. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-16-0.u10570	Respected vice-presidents of the National Assembly, respected ministers, with associates, respected fellow MPs, dear Serbian citizens, despite increasing pressures on the Republic of Serbia, which come from the region, but also from some Western countries, Serbia as the right host country in which there is room for each benevolent continues to open the door to its neighbours, proposing versatile regional co-operation in the Western Balkans, and with a key goal of better positioning the region and faster being accepted by European countries, from the EU. This commitment by Serbia to confirm, in addition to its own development, regional co-operation is just the proposal for a law confirming a co-operation agreement to protect against disasters in the Western Balkans today on the parliament's agenda. This agreement is part of the "Open Balkans" initiative launched on the proposal of our President of the Republic of Aleksandr Vukic, which was first called "Little Schengen". The agreement ahead is signed by our President of the Republic and the President of the Government of Northern Macedonia and Albania. The "Open Balkans" objective is to create an open economic zone between the signatories countries, which should ensure smooth trade and other forms of economic co-operation, free movement of the labour force, and also to transfer the improvement of mutual bilateral relations, and the common objective should be to improve the Western Balkans' position on the European map. The offer to participate in this initiative was addressed both to Montenegro and the Federation of BiH, as well as to the provisional institutions of Pristina, but they have not responded so far. Their resistance to the initiative that our region is moving towards the European market together and that it is developing more rapidly is not rational, but it is their right not to participate in a joint attempt to make us all move faster economically. What is notorous today is that Europe now views our entire region as the most lagging part of Europe, and so it should not be. The Western Balkans region has resources, but also a geostrategic position that should make us an equal negotiator with the rest of Europe. But let me remind you that our geostrategic position, unfortunately, throughout history has often been an obstacle to progress because we are the majority of the different interests that are being broken here. That's what happened throughout history, and unfortunately it's true today. Serbia is best aware of the price it pays precisely because of the political aspirations of different centres of power that are in the interest of Serbia, and thus the Balkans remain a permanent powder barrel, which they will fire or shut down if necessary. In the 20th century, we felt this with huge casualties, and our still fresh wound was in 1999 when NATO bombed us without the consent of the Security Council, thinking it would help Albanian separatists to take away Kosovo and Metohija. Then, instead of world justice, this space was ruled by force. Because we have survived everything as a Serb people, especially in Kosovo and Metohija, only because we have not been allowed to disperse and destroy us, everything our world knows today, and even those who have dropped bombs on us know that they have done so against every law in this world. Cosmet Albanians and their money-bought leaders buy the favor and advice of some of the world's politicians, in order to earn recognition of their self-proclaimed independence, count on force because they know they have no rights. They put pressure on the Serbian people daily, and these days it was for an election campaign which unfortunately did not help Kurti win. On the contrary, he was defeated, and this should be a message to him, because in a blinded struggle for power and a non-existent state, they all forgot that Kosovo is hard to live in and an Albanian common people, completely forgotten. Osmani and Kurti, with the help of their Western sponsors, are daily, different means, threatening Serbia, dare to set up ultimatums, do not respect international documents, primarily Resolution 1244, but neither Brussels, or Washington Agreement, and are constantly expecting Washington and Brussels to side with them. That would be devastating for world policy and international law, especially for the UN and their peacekeeping mission in Kosovo and Metohija, which is KFOR. In view of the territorial aspirations or the desire of a national minority to create a parallel state in the territory of a sovereign state, a UN member state should be torn down by a complete international legal order building, all international institutions must think today. We remain to believe that those representatives of the states, the UN member states who continue to support the open or secret terrorist and separatist activities of Albanians in Kosovo and Metohija and give legality to these attempts of secession have in mind and know that this is not the right or justice. It's a force, it's a precedent. When it comes to Serbia, there is no law for world powers. In our case, in the case of Kosovo and Metohija, there is no UN Resolution 1244 for them. It has been forgotten by international peacekeepers in Kosovo and Metohija that they have just come from this Resolution, whose violation we have witnessed daily since the first day, and those who violate it have never been punished for it. On the contrary, everything Pristina does is tolerated, which is that Serbia is being threatened and Serbia is being blackmailed to recognise a self-proclaimed so-called. the state of Kosovo. Today, when other people's interests do not give us peace, don't let us be on our own, try to take our own, to declare us criminals instead, to make us forget both the "yellow house" and the exiled, murdered, burned homes and churches, they expect us to bow down, but today Serbia is not a promotional coin. Fortunately, in the last 10 years, Serbia's foreign policy position has changed. Serbia is becoming economically and politically stronger, more respected in much of the world. So we get a chance to talk about the attack on our country, about the victims and the consequences we've talked about in parliament many times. Our leadership is concerned about the defence of our national and state interests, it also cares about its Serbian people who have remained to live on their hearths, which has shown the last victory in the local elections in Kosovo and Metohija, and where the Serbian List has brought a convincing victory to this occasion, congratulating the Serbian people who have given unanimity support to the Serbian list and state leadership headed by the President of the Republic, Alexander Vukic. This determination was seen by the President of the Republic in the gruesome attack of ROSU units in northern Kosovo and Metohija, which is for us Serbs the wind in the back and the encouragement for our survival in Kosovo and Metohija. Our leadership is patriotic and state-of-the-art, and the results and economic and political struggles for better, safe and sovereign Serbia are both visible and recognizable to our and international public. Such policies and results are now allowing us as an economically successful and politically stable state to expand regional initiatives and advocate the better lives of people throughout the region. Serbia recognises the need for everyone in the region to be directed at each other and through regional co-operation to overcome differences, to improve regional co-operation with respect for the state sovereignty of each of the countries of the region, bringing together all potentials and using the comparative advantages of our countries. Serbia is convinced that as a region, we can achieve more on the international agenda and prove to the world that we are not some Balkans that have no place in modern Europe of the world. Of course not, and this shows the readiness of Serbia, Northern Macedonia and Albania to show Europe that we are committed to peace, regional co-operation and development in all areas that are important to the citizens of our country. In this regard, the agreement is extremely important because it refers to a serious and important area, which is co-operation in preventing disasters and eliminating the consequences of disasters. Earthquakes and floods, fires, ecological, chemical excesses often have no limits, but when one country, one area, is nothing more important than timely life-saving and material goods. Serbia has great experience and knowledge in this, and this has taught us the difficulties that have hit us in the past period, especially floods, slides and earthquakes. That's why it's important for us neighbors to work together in such unpleasant situations that, unfortunately, can be increasingly common, and that's what climate change is warning us that are increasingly drastic and with increasingly serious consequences all over the planet, and we're part of it. The SPS parliamentary group supports this agreement, as we firmly believe it will contribute to better preparation for the Western Balkans to face and fight natural and other disasters organised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-16-0.u10571	Thank you. The word has been made by the MP, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-16-0.u10572	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President Kovac. I am very glad that Minister Vulin is back in Parliament and is known as someone who likes to come here and is dedicated to working on legislation that will, primarily, lead to the security of our country and the citizens of our country. Once again I take the opportunity to congratulate him on everything he's done in the past, a year has passed the other day, on the ruthless and uncompromising fight against organised crime and corruption that was only one of our country's key problems until yesterday. So, we have managed to solve the economy, we have managed to improve our geopolitical position, many things to improve, to become a winning nation in many fields and areas, but in this field we have shown weaker results in the previous period, but thanks to Minister Vulin and his team, this problem is now being solved, improved, and I hope that we will never have that kind of problem that we faced at the beginning of this year, because we as a country need stability, we as one serious state need primarily that our country's leader, President Aleksandar Vukic, is safe, that all Serbian citizens are safe in order to be able to implement all our plans and agenda in the coming period, taking into account the highest possible interest of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. I also have to mention that debate that took place at the very beginning of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and that I am simply reacting sharply to the words and claims made by the MP belonging to the Party of Democratic Action, which in one shameful way called our country a Fascist country and that everything we do in our country has elements of fascism, which is primarily absolute and materially not true, and I also have to bring that up and remind the citizens of the Republic of Serbia that it is the same party, the same people who, just a year and a half ago, went and visited and paid tribute to veterans so-called. "the Kosovo Liberation Army". They were very happy to meet the leaders of the former "freedom army of Kosovo" or temporary institutions in Kosovo and Metohija, and it seems they preferred to face those who were the most brutal, the worst, who have proven to commit serious war crimes against our people, civilians, Serb peoples and other peoples, non-Albanian peoples in KIM territory. So they all came to see each other, with Thaci and Haradinaj and Grabovac and with many other people who participated in the riot during the 1990s, who were part of a terrorist group, which has caused great damage to the Serbian state and the Serbian people. Then we welcome today that in 2021, in a country which, as they say and claim and in the supported by their so-called. "independent" tycoon media, a non-democratic state, where there is no rule of law, where there is no freedom of the media, where there is no freedom of speech, in the middle of the parliament of the Republic of Serbia, one of the worst possible ways is expressed about their own country, a country that has such a long tradition of anti-fascism and which, of course, is recognised globally throughout the world. We're proud of it as a country that has an anti-fascist heritage, but what's also important is the tradition of fighting anti-Semitism, which is very important and what's important. Perhaps, Serbia is one of the few countries and the Serbian people is one of the few peoples who has shared fate with the Jewish people from the very beginning and through his history and who has always had good relations and whenever it was possible to protect the Jewish people, unlike many others, unlike those who worship us today, who have done everything possible to make the Serbian people, that the Jews, that Roma disappear. We, today, in this unfree country, listen to their sermons in this undemocracy. I just can't believe it, and I can understand the political interest, and I can understand the struggle for some more voice in the Raška area or in the territory of Sandzak, whatever you want to say, but I can understand that someone is not ashamed to in such a way of expressing disrespect for their own country and for the Serbian people. Of course, I would also like to mention that today's topic of our session is an agreement that is part of the Open Balkans initiative, part of an initiative that can deliver many results, can bring many benefits to Serbia. What strongly encourages this initiative, which is in fact the original Vucic initiative, given the fact that Vukic, President Vukic, in 2016 still proposed a customs union for the countries of the Western Balkans and so on is the idea of some so-called. The "leader" in the region, they had large reserves accordingly, did not want to accept it. They didn't want to accept it not because it was a bad idea, but because it came from Serbia, because it came from Alexander Vukic, and some of the "Open Balkans" today defend themselves by achieving it, as Minister Vulin would say, and in that I support it, the Serbian world, the Serbian hegemony, which, of course, is not true. Yes, Serbia is interested in peace, Serbia is interested in defending the Serbian world. Serbia is interested in defending Serbian vital, national and Serb interests wherever it lives in the region and the world. Of course, they and Vukic and Vulin are bothered by what they say publicly and are not ashamed to say that we love the Republic of Serbia, respect BiH, respect the Dayton Agreement and all agreements that we have signed or guaranteed as state so far for them, such as the Dayton Agreement and as something which forms the basis of the agreement of the people in BiH, which are two entities and three constituent peoples. It is certain that the biggest result of all this that the open Balkans obviously will not remain dead on paper because only a few days ago a major conference was held in Belgrade, which hosted President Aleksandar Vucic, that the prime ministers of Albania and Northern Macedonia were present, and only a few days ago, now for the weekend, a conference was held at the ministerial and operational level where the resolution ministers of finance, agriculture, trade, tourism and many other restaurants, work, employment and social policy, representatives of state institutions, the agency had the opportunity to agree with their counterparts from Northern Macedonia and Albania on operational matters concerning the achievement of the key objective of the Open Balkans initiative, which is free flow of goods, people and capital. This is something Vucic has been talking about for six, seven years as a goal that should be pursued by all nations living in the Western Balkans, but the goal is not by itself, but by means of a goal that will, through the relaxation of economic relations, through strengthening economic relations, trade relations between our countries, lead to our political co-operation, cooperation on the basis of science, new technologies, education, security, joint action in the field of security and defence against terrorism and many other monsters, which are, of course, part of the functioning of today's global world and part of these major threats to every nation and every country individually talking about the intention being serious and thanks primarily to Alexander Vukic's intention to implement on the ground and which will give its first results in several months. The main result that we want here in Belgrade as a parliamentary majority, as a SNS, as the Government of the Republic of Serbia is that our companies, our businesses, can function easier, can work easier, can export more easily, we have a much bigger market, we have much greater potential. What is also very important when it comes to attracting foreign capital and foreign direct investment is that these big world players see very differently when one market has 20, 20 and some million inhabitants, or that's a market for, say, North Macedonia that has 1.5 million inhabitants, Albania where it lives somewhere around 2.5 million people, which is nominally 3.2 million, and even our Serbian market here of seven million is for some big players, large companies, and all of this will ultimately have one very large benefit and will benefit our citizens and citizens of the whole region. Not to mention, and it will only be seen in a few days, how useful it will be on this political plan, how much economic co-operation and the creation of mutual trust when we advance, when we strengthen trade co-operation, when we develop tourism among ourselves, when our students can have the opportunity to go to universities and universities in other countries in the Western Balkans without any obstacles, when their people can come here to work where they want or vice versa, when these work permits are valid in all countries and when they are unified for all of them will be, I am sure, the beginning of one serious and quantum development of the entire region and will contribute to Serbia getting an even greater economic momentum and to increase and strengthen the economic growth that when we look at it cumulatively for 2020 and 2021 to be the first in Europe. It is something I can say that represents a personification of what Alexander Vukic is doing since the beginning of his term as prime minister in 2014. It is very simple, very clearly taking care of Serbian interests, taking care of the interests of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. It is dedicated to dialogue knowing that economic growth, economic development, military empowerment, but also regional co-operation make good primarily for our people and our citizens and that we simply need it to make one real, but also a fair way to solve the political problems that exist in this region. Of course, I also have to mention that Serbia is not only an initiator and not only participates in the implementation, i.e. the realization of the Open Balkans initiative, that we are in very good relations with the Visegrad Group. I am constantly here in parliament talking about that Serbia deserves and that in some future period it should be part of the Visegrad Group, given our excellent co-operation, at the historical level of co-operation with both Hungary and Slovakia and with the Czech Republic and Poland, and that we have a lot of political and economic interest with them and what is most important in all that we have no open questions with these countries and that it is very easy for us to promote and strengthen this co-operation. Of course, I must also mention the initiative in which our country participates, and it is related to the Orthodox quadrant, Greece, Bulgaria, Romania and Serbia, which shows one great openness of our country to co-operate with others, the openness of our economy, the complete one liberalisation of the economy and the will to strengthen our economy, and that there is a welcome here for all those who want to have the right and the right way to invest their capital, given that in just a few years we have managed to completely change the way and approach economic development, which unfortunately from 2000 to 2012, was based on the fact that we have speculators investors, that we have the biggest world scum and criminals who have managed to privatise some businesses here in the Republic of Serbia, of course, destroying them, and, along with them, destroying both the entire industrial and commercial branches. We managed to restore our tourism in just a few years, we managed to restore our tourism, we managed to restore our textile industry, our chemical industry, we managed to restore energy and put it in one of the first priority places when it comes to the development of our country and the development of our economy. I want to say how much today, at this distance of six years, how many President Vucic was right when and then exposed to pressures from foreign ones, from many power centres around the world, refused and did not comply with this pressure to impose sanctions on the Russian Federation and ask the question – all those who criticized him for it, all those who said that Serbia had to turn to one side, that it had to choose a side, that we had to do this once, what today would be if we had turned to only one side of 2015, what would it be and who we would talk to and negotiate on gas imports, the price of gas and the conditions that we need, and what would be adapted to us? That's why President Aleksandar Vucic is going to go on next week, 25 November, as far as I know, he announced today, that he will have an important meeting with President Putin, where he will fight not for the price of gas, not for gas, but for the supply of gas, but will fight for our economy and will fight that no citizen of the Republic of Serbia has a problem both this and the next winters with heating and the basic things that represent the civilization's 21st century liquids unlike many who are more developed than Serbia, which are in great trouble because of their enormous price of electricity, the huge price of gas imports, which of course has very negative implications for economic development, at the prices of goods and services. We can see and all of us are witnesses now of this great crisis in the supply chain and the delivery of goods and services as many as are gone, how many shortages are under control and how much this crisis has actually caused a disturbance in the world market. But what's most important and what's the greatest ability and traits of Vukic, is that it doesn't feel right here in Serbia, it's that there's no loss of jobs here. It's a situation that we open a factory here almost every week, and we'll continue with that job. I will, of course, end up with a paraxelans politically important topic for our country, that is Kosovo and Metohija. This is our fight for vital national interests and defense of our legitimate interests in Kosovo and Metohija. Very good news. I think our entire people and citizens should be proud that the Serbian List won the most municipalities in the local elections in Kosovo and Metohija. The Serb list is the first, ten municipalities will be ruled by the Serb List, and only then will the Albanian parties LDK, the Self-determination of four municipalities and other parties, and imagine that Serbs are divided in Kosovo and Metohija, Albanians would, I am sure, achieve what is their goal, what is the goal of their mentors abroad, but unfortunately the goal and so on. The boycotting tycoon opposition here that blames and tells abroad that the Serb people and that they are members of the Serb list in Kosovo and Metohija are criminals. Well, we don't need enemies, people. What do we need an outside enemy for? Why do we need that kind of enemy next to Gilas, next to the School, besides the people who live here, living with us here in Belgrade? It's precedent, it hasn't been seen anywhere in the world. I will remind you of an interesting interview Mrs. Ksenija Vukic conducted with the Prime Minister of Albania several years ago. Then she asked him what he thought of the opposition leader, I think the party is called the Democratic Party of Lyze Basha, he answered briefly and said – I don't talk about internal political matters and issues in front of people who come on the side. And that's, of course, polite, that's cultural, and we have to admit, it's state-of-the-art. Imagine that precedent when someone who pleads, who wants to come to power here, who says they've already won elections in Belgrade, and the republic, as far as we can see, is just missing some voice, I guess, George Vukadinovic or maybe some movement of Vlach to win those elections, go dead 'cold people to Washington, go to Brussels and spit on that part of our people and those citizens of our country who are daily threatened by ROSU, by Albanian separatists and by people who have only one goal -- to empty Kosovo and Metohija from Serbs, to make Kosovo an Albanian, ethnically clean and to conquer northern Kosovo. Of course it bothers them here, and I couldn't surprise myself and end up there, when I saw the other day and it's a good thing we have investigative journalists and people who analyze our internal political scene well, this so-called. Inspector Information Commissioner, here, I've been here for the tenth year, I've read a lot of reports by that trustee, I think I know, we've also elected them here in Parliament, I'm very familiar with the description of the work and work of that institution, that state body, but I haven't read or heard that they're any kind of inspection and it turns out that they're after President Alexander Vukic's son and I don't know what they're checking in a store where he works a few years ago, a man, for a salary. You can imagine how far that disease goes. As long as it goes in that area that they want, tearing down this power, tearing down the Wolf, tearing down everything in front of them, through that so-called. their Ukrainian scenario, to come to power, to get to the budget, to get back into a situation and an opportunity to rob this country, to rob this people, but of course, what is the fact on the ground, beyond all their research, beyond all their media so-called. It is independent and dependent that Aleksandar Vukic has almost plebiscite support for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Let me finish this mural. It's a shame to impose a mural theme. Now I can tell from the pay phone, why don't they arrest the mayor of that Bilda Blazi in New York? There's a mural of some drug dealer there every step of the way. Is he as a man to blame? And the problem is some mural, they're delegating the subject, they want to send bad news from Serbia. They're dealing with mural and who drew that mural. Be careful by chance, this mural is located across the street from the daily newspaper “Today. ” For six months, no one in the tycoon list mentioned or said anything about it, but now it has risen and pressured itself as if Vucic had drawn it and, of course, carried it by SNN, BBC, wanted to send a bad picture from Serbia, but of course the citizens of the Republic of Serbia who choose here, who choose who will lead this country, give support to the one who is the biggest patriot here and who works 24 hours a week for this Serbia, which is Aleksandar Vukic. We will see that his policy continues to be strongly supported and continued. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-16-0.u10573	Thank you. The word has a folk MP Sanja Jefic Brankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-16-0.u10574	Thank you. The respected chairman, ministers with co-workers, co-workers and colleagues, this agreement on co-operation in the Western Balkans protection of disasters, which are concluded by the presidents of the countries, i.e. the government of our country, the Republic of Albania and the Republic of Northern Macedonia, has far greater significance than the one that seems to be at first sight. Co-operation between the Western Balkan countries in a period that is just ahead of us is one serious tool to assess the readiness of each of these countries, as well as its progress on the road to the EU, as well as to achieve a serious regional co-operation between these neighbouring countries. All Western Balkan countries have the same ambition, which is to join the EU and at the same time express preparedness, but also the desire to step up mutual co-operation in order to speed up this path towards the EU and the Western Balkans will have to work on several different fronts in this context. Here I think of solving some bilateral problems and issues, then, improving mutual relations, and that is essentially one of the main preconditions for progress in such regional co-operation. Then, it is necessary to improve the capacity itself to implement all these agreements within the Western Balkan countries, and to find an agenda on the way to the EU in the first place or at least in the first place. The signatories of the so-called Mini Shengena agreed with a series of talks and meetings that improving regional co-operation is in one of the common interests of all the countries participating in the negotiations. I will also stress that it is important for the Western Balkan countries to join the EU as important as the EU to have Western Balkan countries closer to it and closer. When it comes to natural disasters, or the agreement that we are talking about today, we are witnessing that natural disasters have become the source of a permanent threat to society at all, but also of the environment, and we are witnessing that exposure to the effects of natural disasters such as droughts, floods, slides, earthquakes, is largely due to a weak degree of knowledge and their cause and origin, but also mechanisms of action and means of protection. For example, let us remember that some of our colleagues today mentioned the struggles that our country fought after the floods of 2014 in Obrenovac and then came to our country's aid from all sides, by all the countries of the world, and by the EU as well as neighbouring countries, and I think that this unfavorable event has greatly raised awareness of this problem, and today it is much more taken into account both in terms of planning and in terms of removing the potential consequences of disasters. As I come from Nis, I have to mention that Nis has a very good memory of the 1948 flood, with a flood wave of over 5.5 meters, and that's why he's ready to welcome every major and richer rainfall. For this reason, I believe that the president of the states, namely the government of these three countries, the Republic of Serbia, Northern Macedonia and Albania, had a number of meetings several days ago. Among other things, one of them was organised at the ministerial level in Nis, which is one of the types of concreteisation of pre-arranged co-operation when it comes to various agreements to be signed, and in order to allow the flow of goods, services and goods to flow at the end of the line. The Social Democratic Party of Serbia recognises the importance of such an agreement and the general idea of the "Open Balkans" and for this reason we will undoubtedly support this proposal in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-16-0.u10575	Thank you. The People's Messenger Milenko Jovanovic has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-16-0.u10576	Rules of Procedure, Article 106(2). - No one can interrupt the speaker while he's talking, and some colleagues were interrupting the pay phone, and I'll tell you what. It was interrupted by a skill that appeared now in the break, which is that the German portal "Wise", is not an operation from World War II, although some of this information will pass as some who have passed the operation "Wise", announced that the maximum level of THC in the industrial hemp found on Jonajica is 0.54% and cannot be considered a drug. Also, an anonymous source, a source from the German embassy who wanted to remain anonymous, said it is unusual to spend two years in custody for this reason. In the end, they say that both N1 and N1 have used this case for political purposes. It caused a reaction from the MPs, the fact that finally the truth about what happened is already in foreign media, because we only seem to believe when someone on the side tells us something, we don't trust ourselves and our own eyes. It is now clear that the entire action was carried out so that President Aleksandar Vukic, through the charges addressed to Andre Vukic, would be directly linked to some kind of drug production and that the key issue is now, and we already know who, therefore, some politicians, politicians under the command of the tycoon power of the former regime, who exploited this topic in the media unwittingly, for days, weeks, months, years, some media, i.e. tycoon media or media owned by tycoon, who also gave this topic room to be interpreted exclusively to be attacked by the President of the Republic and his brother, and now we see that even the foreigners see what was the subject here, but also some parts of the police, Mr. Minister, you are very well aware of that they were involved in creating this whole sign of the affair. So the key question is - who is and why did he ask that Andrej Vukic connect himself at all costs to this case, who asked who the German portal here said he had reason to be in custody for two years, to say what Andrej Vukic called him, and what was the idea of achieving it? We are aware of the political consequences of what would have happened if this lie had passed, that this intrigue had passed, that this political plot had passed, that this brutal attack on the president and his family had passed, we are very aware of what would have been the consequence. But since it hasn't passed, this has to be revealed and explored. She can't be protected. After this information, everyone involved in creating this affair must respond and say who they were and what they were doing. Thank you, and I'm not asking the Assembly to make a statement about this.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-16-0.u10577	Do you want the Assembly to plead on the breach of the Rules of Procedure? (No) Excession has been taken away from the time of the parliamentary group. The word has a folk letter from Dr. Nina Pavicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-16-0.u10578	I thank the chairman. Honorable ministers with associates, respected fellow MPs, since the origin of the original human communities, have been trying to ease or reduce the consequences of natural disasters, although man was then powerless to nature, and disasters were only natural. Although the answers of nature are still the most devastating today, natural disasters today are not the only ones that can cause life loss, property damage, leave behind desolation, cause major economic damage and completely change the face of the country. It is clear that the extent of the consequences depends on the resilience of a particular social community to resist them and to recover from the consequences. Today natural disasters are a major challenge for our entire civilization, because from floods, earthquakes, huge fires or chemical disasters, but also from environmental pollutants, no one can be spared. That is why today's assembly debate has the importance of state care for adequate protection against disasters, at regional level. Today, we are talking about a bill to confirm a co-operation and disaster protection agreement in the Western Balkans. The agreement is trilateral and signed by the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Northern Macedonia and the Republic of Albania. On behalf of Serbia, the agreement was signed by the president of the Republic of Serbia. By confirming this agreement, the parties shall regulate the legal framework and conditions for providing assistance and forms of co-operation in the event of a disaster. The main objective is to assist three parties to the agreement in accordance with their capabilities and capacities in the event of disasters where one party cannot resolve the consequences of the same disaster on its own. The "Open Balkans" is an idea, i.e. an initiative launched by Serbia and the president of the Republic of Serbia called "Little Schengen", which would create legal and other conditions that would facilitate the flow of people, goods and services between countries, but also help each other in case of emergency situations in the fastest and most impoverished way. This agreement is a fruit of understanding by the three states that the better life of our citizens is a faster way towards European integration. Also, good neighbourly relationships mean that we are directed at one another and at different difficult times that are the product of natural or other disasters when many lives are threatened or great material goods are suffered. Such forms of co-operation humanize relations between our countries and restore trust in each other. That is why it is good for the Western Balkans to have a consensus on these issues. For now, the initiative -- "Open Balkans" is depicted in three signatories, which are Serbia, Northern Macedonia and Albania. It is good that the door is open to other countries of the region to enter this initiative. What is important for the whole Balkans is a common plan to open all borders for the flow of goods and services throughout the region by 2023, and Serbia is extremely committed to this goal. It's an extremely current issue of disaster. Our planet is once again affected by extraordinary elemental opportunities including extreme heat waves, forest fires, as well as devastating earthquakes and floods, because due to global warming we must expect and be ready for more and worse natural disasters. All disasters, whether natural or not, are mainly due to climate change, whether they are caused by different chemical, atomic or other extreme large proportions, affecting the further lives of people, causing huge destabilisation, destroying the environment and living world, and ultimately reducing the country's development potential and pose a risk to social stability. We must not forget that natural disasters are becoming more and more serious about the safety of the life of modern mankind. Therefore, we must never think that earthquakes or other accidents are happening out there and that we are lullaby waiting for a flood or an earthquake to bypass us. That's not true. We also felt through massive floods and earthquakes in Obrenovac and the King. It happens to everyone, including the countries in our region. So we need to raise awareness that something that rarely or elsewhere happens, and it happened to us, too, should be prevented by preventive action, where possible. Because natural conditions are not always in favour of the Balkans, which is a thorny area with high-risk earthquakes and floods. This applies to all three States Parties to this Agreement. I would like to remind you of an earthquake, which in the 1960s hit Northern Macedonia now, then the former Republic of the SFRY, when Skopje was the most injured. I must point out that that was when the whole of Serbia helped to resuscitate that earthquake. At that time, Nis, from which I come, offered two settlements with assembly facilities, settled the displaced from Macedonia. When such natural disasters occur, the most vulnerable are countries that lack infrastructure, logistics, and good policy in emergency situations. It is therefore important to unite regional resources in order to intervene quickly and efficiently and to prevent the serious consequences of disasters. Serbia in this regard shows that it is strong and ready to react quickly to natural disasters, as well as to show regional solidarity, as was the case when a devastating earthquake hit the Republic of Albania, because we then provided great solidarity assistance. That natural disasters are not only floods, earthquakes, droughts and storms, but also a pandemic in which we have been in for over a year, which we consider a global disaster of inexplicable proportions, in which human lives disappear as in the real war, our fight against Kovid is essentially a major disaster. With great efforts from the government, the Ministry of Health and the entire health system, but also from all of us, we successfully oppose this monster. There are more vaccines in Serbia today, and Serbia has shown a broad heart on this plan and helped citizens of northern Macedonia, both Bosnia and Herzegovina and Montenegro. We need to be responsible and aware that a country that invests in its own responsibility before natural disaster happens later has fewer costs in solving the consequences, but also fewer losses. Only by persevering and preventive work can Serbia become resistant to the consequences that nature can bring us. Natural disasters around the world warn about the need for better education, organisation and preparation for future disasters. Feel free to say, they are a harsh reminder of the necessity of changing people's minds and attitudes toward the environment. During this year, we witnessed catastrophic disasters in a nearer and further environment, and of course they did not bypass our country either. This year we faced an extremely warm wave, so it is not negligible to mention an earthquake in the King just a few days ago. Certainly, we still remember the floods that you thank Serbia in 2014 and showed how vulnerable we really are when nature decides to be cruel to us. Therefore, a well-prepared population can largely help state institutions in situations of disaster itself, which undoubtedly leads to reduced risk of consequences. Serbia, we can say, thanks to the vast experience and equipment of the emergency sector, as well as local civil protection organisations and other competent at all levels, is a good example for the region and therefore our experience and experience of Northern Macedonia and Albania will be valuable for the common measures and activities under this agreement. We believe that all three signatories will benefit, especially if regional preventive mechanisms are established. So together we have to work, have the same goal, contribute to reducing vulnerability from disaster itself and increasing the country's resilience to climate change. All natural disasters have a common feature, and that's the surprise of their creation. So by adopting this agreement, we will show unity to help each other when it is most necessary. The Socialist Party of Serbia parliamentary group will certainly support the agreement, as well as all other points of the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-16-0.u10579	Thank you. The word has been given by the People's Messenger Milos Terzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-16-0.u10580	Thank you, Chairman. Dear citizens of Serbia, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we are talking about a trilateral agreement between Serbia, Albania and Northern Macedonia, aimed at leading to the affirmation of further co-operation between the countries mentioned in the area of disaster protection. These agreements represent concrete arrangements within the framework of the Open Balkans initiative, with the aim of facilitating the flow of goods, people, capital and services. I am sure that we will never agree with those countries on some political issues, but let us lead to our economies making progress and providing all the citizens of our countries with what they really deserve, which is an even better standard of living. Serbia is today an economic engine for the development of the entire region and what President Aleksandar Vucic offers the whole region first and foremost is a better economic future through the Open Balkans initiative. As regards the Agreement with the People's Republic of China, such agreements are evidence that Serbia is leading a serious, responsible policy and that Serbia is enjoying today the greatest international reputation in the last 30 years. I am sure that co-operation with China will be even more intense, of course for the benefit and for the benefit of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, Serbia's strategic goal is full membership in the EU, but we have never turned our backs on our strategic partners. Here, first of all, I mean China and the Russian Federation. It turned out to be more than a good decision, because we managed to preserve energy stability, energy security, and jobs for our citizens. So, since 2012, pragmaticism has been a fundamental feature of the foreign policy of the Republic of Serbia. The foreign policy balance in relations with major forces, as well as with countries in the region, as well as military neutrality are the cornerstone of the politics of the Republic of Serbia. I would add that economic security is a prerequisite for national security. Serbia today is a fundamentally better and different country than it was before 2012, and we managed to make Serbia a winner country, to win today in all areas of social life, and above all, to win both economics and policy areas. Our task will be to continue working in the coming period to keep Serbia moving on unconstitutionally. However, the lack of adequate talks in the region and the activities of the Belgrade circle of two headed by Dragan Dilas and Vuk Jeremic prove that there are certain power centres in the region, but unfortunately in Belgrade too, which are frustrated and frustrated by the economic and political results achieved by the Republic of Serbia. Their only goal is to force some colored revolutions to power Serbia through violence. Always these Belgrade-based auto-skillers, now led by Dilas and Jeremic, have worked against the interests of the Serbian state and the Serbian people, only now do so by generating and producing false political affairs, primarily directed against President Aleksandar Vukic, but also against members of his family. These are the same people who consider what Marinika Tepic thinks, who is ready to accuse the entire Serbian people of being a genocidal people. These are the same people who go to Washington and speak for Serbs from Kosovo and Metohija that they are criminals, and have never dared to condemn any crime against the Serb people in Kosovo and Metohija. These are people who go to the point of calling in Washington to introduce sanctions to Serbia. As much as they hate Serbia, I wouldn't be surprised if in another period in Washington or Brussels they asked for Serbia to be bombed again. I am not surprised by the fact that we are talking about the political children of Latina Perović, Zarka Koraća, Nenada Canka, so it is no wonder that they worked hard to bring Serbia to its knees by 2012. At the time of the former regime and their rule of Serbia, absolutely no one resented anything. At that time, the political children of Latina Perovic, Koraća and Canka nemo watched both the Martian pogrom and the separation of the state union of Serbia-Montenegro and the unilateral declaration of independence coming from Pristina, Vojvodina went to the status of the republic, and all this happened at times when Jeremic and Tadic went to the region, apologized to everyone and to everyone for something that the Serbian and Serb people had never done. All of this happened at a time when Dragan Gilas was unfeelingly rich in the torment and misfortune of this people. He is their boss today and controls them all with the money and money he has taken from the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. To be honest, I don't know what we did to God, so in two terms, we had Boris Tadic, a man who shows his second Serbian face openly today, so he's giving some lectures at the Civil Democratic Forum together with Olenic, Vuletic, Veljanovski, otherwise a member of this Civil Democratic Forum is also Latina Perovic, so people who betray countries define as their greatest achievement. It is good that, thanks to President Aleksandar Vukic, this second Serbian is the first time since 1945, absolutely nothing in Serbia is asked anymore, otherwise we would continue to have an imaginary Kennedy, or Boris Tadic, at the head of the state, and then Serbia would still have to fulfil the tasks of foreigners and foreign embassies. Just imagine the level of their frustration when Vuk Jeremic, son of the director of Jugopetrol, grandson of Vice President AVNOJ, tells us that we are the comfort dogs over whom he will personally conduct rematchism. I mean, honestly, that a man is worth laughing at, but lately, or years ago, I can say that, we haven't heard anything from that auto-skilled opposition, except for things like remandism, lustration, violence, revolution, I just don't know who they're going to do it with, because I'm convinced that the citizens of Serbia will never be able to cheat again. They probably count on the support of foreigners, as Vuk Jeremic openly says more foreign influence, more external factors are missing in Serbia, and he doesn't say that by any chance. So it is obvious that people like Vuk Jeremic and Zdravko Ponos are bothered that Serbia is leading one final sovereign, independent and free policy. Now they must seek likely protection still on foreign embassies and that certified liar Miki Alexic and Marinika Tepic, because I am convinced that they are trembling from the truth and new evidence of the case "Jovanja" because every lie seems to be absolutely exposed. It is precisely the people who have tried the most monstrous lies, in the most monstrous way possible to accuse Andrej Vukic of being the protector of the business of people from whose businesses are financed by some, only those known, invented black funds of the Serbian state and that this money has served us for the campaign to recognise Kosovo's independence. Everyone in Serbia knows it's in the domain of science fiction, but it's a dangerous pattern that was meant to lead to a coup and that second Serbian rule again. The real intention of the screenwriter of the fake "Jovanjica" affair was to remove Aleksandar Vukic, but to ultimately accuse the entire Serbian people and the Serbian state of funding the campaign to recognise Kosovo's independence, which would completely undermine our credibility in the political struggle for Kosovo and Metohija, and our negotiating position would make it incorrigible. Their goal, therefore, was to bring down Alexander Vukic and the Serbian state with one move, because Aleksandar Vukic is now a state policy holder on Kosovo and Metohija. So they can't forgive him for his skillful diplomatic skills to lead 19 countries in the world to make a decision to withdraw the state's independence. They can't forgive him for failing to enter 11 international world institutions by 2012, including the most important ones, and above all, I think of Interpol, UNESCO and the World Customs Organisation. They cannot forgive him for making it clear to the whole world now that Serbia is making it clear that we will never again allow new pogroms and new "storms" over the Serbian people. They are bothered that he has torn down all their plans that should have led to the Kosovo-metohic independence path being tattooed, which is why Pristina, Tadic, Gilas and Jeremic are thanking each other day and all that. But to return to the essence of their false affairs. It's obvious we're dealing with people who have the most blackmailing influence of strangers. It is obvious that we are dealing with an alliance between tycoon and other Serbians from Belgrade, terrorists from Pristina and Croatian media, with one single goal, which is to remove Aleksandar Vukic and stop any further economic and political progress of our country. That is why it is essential for Serbian citizens to give absolute and unimpaired support to the Serbian Progressive Party and the policy conducted by President Aleksandar Vukic in the next elections, because this is essential to preserve the state. The vote for the Serbian Progressive Party is a guarantee that new factories will continue to be opened in Serbia in the future, that new investments will arrive, that new jobs will be opened and that all Serbs, wherever they live, especially in the region, will be able to rely on a strong Serbian state. We People's MPs of the Serbian Progressive Party will continue to give information to the citizens of Serbia and tell them the truth about the former government's thieving and treason policy, because we are the only state that has, by 2012, handed over all its archives with the term "confidential" to others, primarily the UN tribunal, which I am sure, has been used both against this state and against this people. Because there are no words about any politicians, these are children of the false second Serbian elite, and we must never allow them to return to power again, because if that happens from Serbia, nothing will remain. Only where there is a policy of the Serbian Progressive Party and President Aleksandar Vukic's citizens have something to hope for, is that only citizens can be safe and safe and it is only a guarantee that no one will ever be able to insult both the Serb people and our national dignity again. We have proved, therefore, that national and progressive can go together, primarily through the construction of a monument to Stefan Nemanja in the heart of the "Belgrade on Water" development project and through the construction of highways with the names of Milos the Great, the leader of Karajord in the future and through the rise and construction of scientific and technological parks and centres. And that is why more and more young people approach and believe in the policy of the Serbian Progressive Party, and this is a clear indication that thanks to Alexander Vukic and Serbia-Serbian Progressive Party they have a safe future, and our task will be that in the future, we will beat those false elitists who think Serbia is the worst and whose only political parole – the worse for Serbia, the better for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-16-0.u10581	Thank you, Mr. Terzic. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-16-0.u10582	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would just like to fill in my colleague Terzic, if I didn't know what we had sinned not to have Tadic in two terms as president of the Republic of Serbia, but 12 years of DOS authority, what we have sinned to lead the state for 12 years. And while he was not president of the Republic of Serbia, Boris Tadic was defence minister, counterpart Terzic, we will later return to what he and Ponos and Vuk Jeremic were doing to our defence ministry and to our troops and our Emergency Sector. We have now, I can say, an agreement – one with the People's Republic of China, an agreement which, as well as any agreement that you conclude with one such serious and large country, is significant and reflects a strategic partnership and mutual trust that Serbia and China have. However, when you open portals or public information funds controlled by the former regime, you will conclude that China is allegedly carrying out some kind of malignant influence in many countries where it is present and also in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. This malignant influence is seen in the following, that China gives huge resources as a debt to certain countries, and then controls their policy, so that these countries can't repay those funds. And to make it even more interesting, these assets are reportedly given without a serious analysis, what is the creditworthiness of such a debtor. This, of course, involves Serbia, is identified with a weak country, trying to show itself among Serbian citizens. The goal, of course, is that according to this strategic partnership that Serbia has with China, there is a certain resistance among our citizens through one, a truly heartless pile of lies and untruths passed on by the former regime, through its means of public information or portals. If you would just look at the structure of the public debt of the Republic of Serbia, you would see that the debt that we have, according to the People's Republic of China, is less than 5% of our total public debt, that the interest we pay on that debt is about 2% to 2.5% on an annual basis, that this public debt occurred at a time when Serbia was in debt with interest of 6% or 7%, or as the former regime owed. Of course, someone is angry that they lost 6% or 7% of their capital, but there I can't help him. However, there is another problem, which I think is even more pronounced, which is that the strategic partnership we have with the People's Republic of China is also underlining two very important projects for the Republic of Serbia. Two projects with which the Republic of Serbia has largely solved some of its problems. One project is related to Smederjevo Jelizara or Sartid, another project is related to the copper mine in Bor, the Mining-Topionary Basen Bor. What's the problem? Well, China has accepted, perhaps the most ungrateful part of the Serbian economy, so-called, often likes to say, jargon, hot potatoes and proved and proved, that it has knowledge and ability, that even under difficult circumstances, these two companies lead successfully, to increase the number of employees, to significantly increase profits, to significantly increase the structure of these companies in the exporting of the Republic of Serbia and to significantly increase Serbia's GDP and then to come up with the reason why the former regime shows China as a malignant influence. When some citizens work, and these citizens are citizens of this country, these Serbs and receive much higher salaries than they dreamed during the former regime, China becomes a problem for the former regime, because if that is how it will win Alexander Vukic in some of the next elections, when there it is, it has managed to bring investors who will lead the Serbian economy differently than the former regime. You know if Sartid, or now Hestil and Bor, exports close to two billion euros in goods, if it's in the structure of our GDP, I think about 5% or 6%, then you can imagine how much Gilas, Jeremic, Ponoš and the rest of the team are angry with the Chinese, why they helped Alexander Vukic so much. Not to mention the roads, not to mention that we had a ten days ago one for me and a personal pleasure to attend the marking of the beginning of the works on the fast-moving section of the Fireman – Golubac. As I come from Braničsky Management District, I live in Pogorevec, and my parents and father and mother are from the territory of the municipality of Golubac. I'm sorry, for all the residents of Braničevsky County, even the rest of Serbia, it was a big deal. Something these people have been dreaming about for decades, it's starting to come true. How the former regime thinks then it defeats Alexander Vukic rather than simply by lying about some malignant influence of the People's Republic of China. They accept that theory and some politicians from the West, but when you ask them a question, okay, just tell me how much your republic is working with the People's Republic of China, you won't get an answer. They hide it like a snake's feet. You can't know that. Why? Well, because one of the conditions to implement an independent policy is that you have a strong economy. Whatever your economy is, your policy is more independent and independent. That's why you need to attack that malignant influence of China, and I'm sorry, even these investors from the West say, so if the Chinese can't do us, because they're not interested in politics, they're interested in profit. We have this one engine called the growth of gross products, which is actually proof of one regularity, one policy that Aleksandar Vukic conducted years ago, which is that we want to co-operate with everyone and that we will not give up traditional friends of the Republic of Serbia and the Serbian people. We now have this agreement that is related to the area of co-operation in the protection of disasters in the Western Balkans. Whenever a natural disaster is mentioned, we always remember those unkind scenes when they were flooded in 2014 and when we saw essentially how much the ruined state we inherited from the former regime in 2012. It was really terrifying for me to find out that our army members from the Emergency Sector don't have enough boats to help the citizens who captured the water. I didn't think anything that could be destroyed for decades could be destroyed in just a few years. One terrible situation. We had Mr. Ministers up until a few years ago, and here this year they marked the fires, we had fires on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, we had worse situations when we were hit by fires and when, not that we couldn't put them out, but we had to ask our friends to help us. They came through the Russian humanitarian centre in Nis, which also attacked the former regime, helped put out those fires. It is good to know that you have a great friend who has opportunities and resources to help you, but also a terrible knowledge and is asking the question, are we so failed, Mr. Minister, that we couldn't put those fires out ourselves at the time. Then there's that Mr. Minister, you were the Secretary of Defense, so it is a fact, and I would like it to be confirmed that, let's say, while Ponoš was the Chief of the Aeromating General who was not needed in 2010 and which was exclusively for representative purposes, that the Military-Technical Institute was extending the tire resources on planes. We didn't have the resources while Ponos was Chief of Staff to even put new tires on our planes, and now you're telling the ministers that Serbia plans to get helicopters that specialize in fire extinguishing next year. Now you see the difference, Mr. Minister. They didn't even have tires, because they stole and destroyed the state so much, and Serbia today can buy helicopters that are exclusively designed to put out fires and help in these emergency situations. While they were in power, we had to ask for help from others when we had natural disasters, natural disasters and fires. I'm not saying that it's a pleasure that our neighbor or friend is in trouble, but we have shown that we are able not only to take care of ourselves, but also to help others this year, because our members of the police, the Emergency Sector, participated in the ceasefire outside the territory of the Republic of Serbia, and in northern Macedonia, and in Greece. I don't know if at that time, other than those who support the former regime, our citizens didn't meet the satisfaction of being a serious, built country again, a serious society capable of caring for its citizens, the safety of our citizens, if necessary to help our friends and neighbors. That's the difference between us and them. While they were in power, we begged for help. Now we can not only take care of ourselves, but also help others. Then we are not surprised that we do not know that we are running foreign policy, those who were in power when Kosovo declared its independence, those who set the borders within the Republic of Serbia on the administrative line, the borders between Serbs, are trying to convince Serbian citizens that they should return to power again to rob them, redefine some new borders, probably because of this early morning's session, to suggest where they could be, in order to rob Serbian citizens, set new borders, they became ever richer and more empty and poorer. It seems to me that the story they gave Serbian citizens on October 5th can no longer count and that we will always beat them with results, we ours, they will lose with theirs. They have Dragan Gilas, they have Solak, they have Jeremic. We have Alexander Vukic, so let's go to the polls and see who has better results and who has greater confidence in the citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-16-0.u10583	Thank you, Mr. Arsic. The word has a minister named Vulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-16-0.u10584	Just for a little while, to see what the situation of the emergency sector is like, and how it works, almost undetectable because we have an organized state, because we invested in our country. We've had 27,564 different fires this year. Of that 13,882 in the open. It's simply something that means that this sector is able to deal with, that good schedule, good training, good equipment saves the lives and assets of all our citizens. Much richer countries than us can't say that these challenges were so effective. At the time you were talking about, at the time of Ponos, at the time of Tadic, our army was to compare personal equipment with the Emergency Sector today, weaker than the Emergency Sector, without any doubt. You didn't have one set of uniforms for soldiers, one at a time. As Secretary of Defense, I know that every soldier has two, minimum of two sets now, minimum. And that's the difference that Alexander Vukic managed to make and that shows how our country is recovering and how it's progressing. The emergency sector has been putting out catastrophic fires this year that we didn't have, and not because they're not there, so someone's goodwill, but because we've been working hard, we've been doing everything we can to prevent them from being there. The biggest fire is extinguished with one glass of water. When you're here, when you're close, when you're properly deployed, properly equipped. The Emergency Sector has helped put an end to catastrophic fires in northern Macedonia and Greece. We are not richer than Greece, we are no bigger than Greece, but as you can see, our help was both necessary and extremely noticeable. About Northern Macedonia not to tell you. We're now going from, perhaps, a slightly different way of working. Let's stop. Let's stop above all else. So, we're looking at what we can do to make sure something doesn't happen, so in collaboration with local self-governments, we recognize the points where things happen, so we're doing from the education of the population not to burn down the mat, that it doesn't have to as his grandfather and grandfather always, every year, burn down that field twice and think about what happens to her. So we went so far as to talk to the courts. Violent courts now understand that it is something that is dangerous, almost precedentd, and that those who do so have begun to punish themselves. Well, until we, along with the local self-governments on several occasions, examined all the waterways, checked all the crisis points. What you were talking about, in Luciani, so two obstacles to highway work, two temporary bridges, two temporary structures, were that the flood threatened to bring all those investments by the Government of the Republic of Serbia to the protection of Luciana, would be completely missed, as these temporary obstacles would create a completely new geography where water would be collected where it should not be collected, the factory "Milan Blagojevic" and the city itself would be at great risk. But, thanks to prevention, thanks to our constant work together, we're on the ground all the time, it's been identified with a Chinese contractor that's found a solution. They'll put it away at their expense. Everything's done right. Luciens safe. This year, also with Electrodistribution, i.e. we are working on an electrical economy, one of the MPs I think even mentioned, is very often running out of electricity in the winter in some parts of Serbia. What's going on? It snows, it weighs branches, trees break, it falls on a power line, and then you know what can happen. Now we've figured out exactly where this is happening, and I'm hoping from the next few days we're going to be moving in the proper logging of the forest, in advance, we're not waiting for the snow to fall, but now we're coming to make a proper cut around the power lines, and that way we're reducing the ability to cut power supply when it comes to snow and when it comes to winter. That's prevention. It's thought, it's thought, it's done in advance. System 20/21, so this big exercise you've all noticed at 50 locations, 8,000 people, 24 cities, 26 local self-government, has not been since the time of SFRY, and there's no greater practice in Europe. We wanted to show, to see how we function and to show that we are able to respond to simultaneous challenges, at the same time at 50 different locations, from earthquakes to floods. Whatever happens, we have to be ready for it. And we've shown that we're ready. We worked together with our friends, with our brothers from Republika Srpska, where we showed that Drina, whatever happened on it on both sides of the river, we are able to help each other and that we want to help each other. It wasn't possible until you made a state that was able to work planically, work organized, prepare for such challenges. Before Alexander Vukic started thinking about the state, before he took responsibility for the state, we had from the Styric supply to the Stychial answers, so if there's an earthquake, there we are, if there's a flood, there we are. You need to think ahead. I am also very grateful to the sector for emergency situations, and public enterprises, and local self-government, because it does so now. It's done in advance. It's meant in advance. When you have 27,000 fires and no catastrophic fires, that's not an accident. That can't be quite an accident. It speaks of the value and work of these people, but it speaks of a strengthened Serbian state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-16-0.u10585	Thank you. The word is from MP Zoran Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-16-0.u10586	Thank you, Chairman. Dear ministers with associates, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, my fellow MPs before me spoke clearly about the relationship between Serbia and China, especially in economic terms, and why it bothers members of the former tycoon regime, who are making every effort to return us to a period of time when we fall under someone else's influence, interesting, where we would be trapped again with the hands of these tycoons, who would then continue to privatise the state, fill their own pockets, and of course, in the interest of their employers who are significantly stronger and better than they and who are working for whom they are working today, but they will absolutely fail, because Serbian citizens absolutely recognise in the politics of Aleksandra Vukic that he is working in the interests of Serbian citizens, that he is doing this in an honest, effective and effective way that we are leading, and that we are friends and associates with all, and with the EU, Russia and China. Not only is China our big strategic partner in the economy and economy because of Jelizara and RTB Bora, but I will remind you all of it, and at the time the pandemic started, China and the Chinese vaccine was actually the first to come to Serbia, with which we started the immunisation process and which produced results. You remember that many times we talked here and in the tide and about the measures the state took during that period and that those by and by world experts were found to have actually been timely and that we were speaking in the most appropriate way. Not only did we get these huge amounts of vaccines, which we didn't just keep to ourselves, but we tried to help countries in the region by donating some of these vaccines, so that they could start the immunisation process, but we, together with Chinese partners and partners from the UAE, started building a plant for the production of Sinofarm's vaccine, and already in Serbia, we produced "Sputnik V" vaccines, based on which we created stable conditions for further fighting in raising the immunity of Serbian citizens, but also citizens in the region, when we talk about fighting over the pandemic. Also, this agreement that lies before us today will help further deepen that friendship between the two countries. As the minister said in his opening address, it will also help the citizens of China who are here in Serbia and our citizens in China, so that they can do their jobs easier and better. I am extremely pleased to know a large number of my friends who have been in China on master studies, who have done mastering and who have really nice experiences and I am glad that they have returned to Serbia to transfer their experiences here, so that we can further develop our economy and our country. When we talk about another agreement concerning joint action on catastrophic walks, it is another segment that emerged from the "Mini Schengen" initiative, which is now called the "Open Balkans". Otherwise, I will remind the citizens of Serbia that the initiative was launched by President Aleksandar Vukic, in fact, it was meant to start from some kind of customs union, and it went further towards being "Mini Schengen" and is now developing and exactly the meetings that were held in Nis in the past few days at the level of the ministerial delegations of the Republic of Serbia, Northern Macedonia and Albania are talking about this process and how seriously it has been approached to deal with certain problems, to solve them and to come up with effective solutions to what is an initiative and idea, that it can be effectively and implemented. I will remind you that even by some estimates, when it comes to the current situation and the traffic of goods between countries, the entire region, i.e. these three countries at an annual level, lose up to $3.2 billion, of which Serbia loses due to these procedures and reduced efficiency up to $1.5 billion. So if we were to successfully start implementing this idea, we would already have about 1.5 billion dollars plus in the budget that can be invested in new infrastructure, new roads, railways, can also be invested in health care, segment of education, culture and all that is needed for the better and better life of Serbian citizens. As my colleagues have said, there is a single common market that has about 12 million inhabitants, a great potential. I will remind you all, given that the country which is on its way to the EU, that the EU, or then the Coal and Steel Community, on the same idea and on the same principle began its beginning, was actually the idea that through the cooperation of countries that were once major rivals in earlier history, competitors who had fought a lot of wars, actually fighting together for a better and better life for citizens, and in particular it was during that period after World War II when Europe was recovering from the consequences of World War II that was being fought in its space. So this agreement, which is here in front of us, about disasters, has already been said by colleagues, is not only about natural disasters caused by climate change, but also about other forms of disaster that can occur. Certainly, with the joint functioning of the three countries within the "Mini Shengena", or "Open Balkans" initiatives, such problems can be better addressed. But it's not just about implementation in terms of combating these disasters, it's about preventing such disasters from happening, because it's also about sharing knowledge, experience, techniques, and that means a much broader aspect of the performance of an emergency protection segment. This includes, of course, co-operation and certain institutions, institutions, institutes dealing with such problems. I will also remind you that, in scientific circles, the subject of catastrophic damage to climate change is today current and that today, indeed, by our experts, but also other experts are doing a lot of work on this matter. This is also another step towards further convergence of countries that can make it possible for us to act better and more efficiently together both in the direction and in our way towards EU accession, because I again say that in a similar way the countries which are now EU carriers have started their own path. Unfortunately, it always happens when you have such good things done, that you have individuals and groups who do not work in that interest, which in this they do not see the benefits, which the citizens of the Republic of Serbia or the whole region have, are already working to get us back into some past, and, as counterpart Arsic said, to return to the path on which the citizens of 2012 stopped them in the most effective way, which is by pencil and exit to elections, where they clearly did not, that they no longer want to allow Serbia to rob, they do not want to put the borders within the territory of the Republic of Serbia, and they, just those members of the former yellow tycoon regime, are also active today, especially on social networks, where as spin masters and people who spread lies, most of whom they and judicially certified lies, are trying to place certain false information. Here, I will show for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the godfather of Dragan Gilas, Mladjan Djordjevic repeats one and the same matrix, which they have launched since we started the constitutional amendments process, because, as you know, we want to work on reforming the judicial system, to make the judiciary even more efficient and independent. Well, of course, in those steps and the moves we make, they continue to place the story of how it is that the referendum is not about changing the constitutional segment relating to the judiciary, but about the preamble to Kosovo and Metohija, and that, by God, in the referendum, we should give up Cosmeta. We can see clearly here in this tweet, in fact, in whose interest they are doing it, and they did it by 2012, because I will remind you, Borislav, or Borko Stefanovic, after the newly baptized, that man changed his name, because he thinks if he changed his name that he had erased his history behind him and that no one in Serbia will remember what he was doing in Brussels and what agreements he signed and that he was actually the one who wanted to introduce the border between Serbs and Serbs, that is to put the border on administrative crossings between Serbia and our AP Kosovo and Metohija. What I can say about the best man, Dragan Gilas, is that from this whole movement, as he calls it, the liberation, the only thing he has managed to free himself and his co-workers of the brain and common sense, because anyone who follows the events on the political scene, who could also follow the public hearings that took place in Serbia in four cities, twice and in the Serbian Assembly on these constitutional amendments, it is clear what changes are going on and it is clear that these are actually the changes that we need to do to improve our legislation, in order to enable and create conditions for our economy to develop further. So they ask the question: How does this affect the economy? Well, of course it affects the economy, because each of the investors when they know you have an effective judiciary that works by the letter of the law and where you have professional people, they have a guarantee and security for their investments that come into Serbia. I'm not just talking about foreign investors right now, we're talking about domestic businessmen and people who want to invest in further economic development. And that is exactly what would be the opposite of the 2009 reform, where Serbia was elected on the DS municipal boards and had decisions to be certified by the DS municipal board. Of course, that machine of theirs doesn't stop, they're going through Serbia, they're trying, they're trying to spread lies, and one of the places that Borislav, or Borko, as the newly baptized Stefanovic, found is Vranje and what's very interesting has come to the conclusion that "The Vranje has no lie" and that's what Marinika personally wrote on her Twitter. What is very interesting, since it has come to the conclusion that there is no lie in "The Vranje," I suppose she has not said a word to the citizens. The only thing she knows how to do is either keep her mouth shut or lie, and since there's no lying in Vranj, she's probably just crying like that, and she couldn't wait to finish that whole circus and leave Vranj. Probably because there's no lying she hung on her warrant a picture of her coming out of the black BMW, she's healthy with, I don't even know who's representing this party or the "Multicom" empire, because it's not a party, it's just a branch of the "Multicom" empire. Then we ask ourselves, and that's well-respected colleague Milenko Jovanovic, who asked the question -- how did the polo transform into BMW? Since she claims to live modestly, that they're poor, that they're honest people, and we know about honesty who's talking the most, and then it's very interesting, somewhere it turns into a Porsche, somewhere it turns into a BMW. What I've had a chance to see, since my colleague Sandra Christmas has also determined, is that the anxiety in Gilas' media is growing and they often experience these failures and mistakes when publishing the texts. They prepared a photo montage to show how they were modest and nice people, so she came south to Vranje, and Vranje presented as one green meadow, because they probably wanted to say that Serbia had not developed at all, but had returned to some earlier historical period when there were neither buildings nor roads, and then you can imagine how difficult it was for them to get to Vranja on the highway built during the SNS, which was completed thanks to Alexander Vukic and his efforts. Since Marinika found that there was no lying, they probably didn't get along and the first picture that went off was this one with the BMW, so instead of turning polo into the south, he transformed into a BMW and their circus program didn't go through. Speaking of lying and court-confirmed liars, just one more piece of information, and that's where I'd like to finish today's speech. All of us know the famous despot from Tristenik Mika Alexic, who we know is a court-certified liar, a member of Jeremic's party, i.e. the person who sold the party to him, and he is a court-certified liar right and according to the case "Jovanja", because the court has proved that he lied about the matter of Andrej Vukic and is just going to contribute to what his colleague Jovanovic said should be examined to the end who are all the people involved in this system where they wanted to sew up those lies to President Vukic and to attack his family and brother, to try to replace him with power, and to get their own support for the citizens, and probably to support previous employers in whose interest they had robbed Serbia by 2012, and again wanted to give a witness to a simple circle of twos. What happened was that another member of the party was also almost a court-confirmed liar. It is the chairman of the People's Party's City Committee in Krusevec, who, according to the complaint, is the director of BIA Bratislav Gasic, is obliged to pay 350 thousand dinars for making a huge amount of lies when it comes to the town of Kruševac and when it comes to Mr Gasic himself, thanks to whom we know that Krusevic has started to change, he has become a city of young people, a city of built infrastructure, a city in which a whole new settlement is being built, an airport where he ends up at Rosulje Airport and a city that has a huge industrial perspective, because the most modern highway is built the Moravski Corridor that passes there. He declared to the tycoon media that everything you see in Krusevec is done, done in the private interest, the interest of the Gasic family or someone close to the Gasic family, which is an absurd and incredible lie. Kruševac is a city of 130 thousand people, but in Krusevec all citizens know who Bratislav Gasic is and what kind of politics he is conducting, which is the policy of SNS and Aleksandr Vukic, and thanks to whom Kruševac is a reborn city, and it is absolutely not Vuk Jeremic, nor this gentleman who runs his city board, also a member of the former regime, while in the regime he worked to create his job and abuse his job in the centre where he worked. I am pleased that these funds will be used to improve the conditions for children in the “Jefimija” home in Kruševec. It is true that it always wins and, as I said, we will continue to work in the interests of Serbian citizens, we will also work in the interest of citizens in the region who belong to this initiative "Open Balkans", because, as we see, we are no longer Serbia, as Mr Arsic said, who only asked for help, we are a country that wants its experiences and knowledge, but also the resources offered to others, such as Northern Macedonia, Albania or, as the minister said, Greece when needed most. I'm glad we've become a country as successful as our football players have won the pre-proclaimed winner of Portugal and placed ourselves directly at the World Cup in Qatar. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-16-0.u10587	The word is Maria Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-16-0.u10588	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers with fellow workers, respected colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, presently there are a set of extremely important laws for our country that show Serbia's huge progress in international relations. Serbia today, thanks to President Aleksandar Vukic's responsible policy, is a stable state that builds friendly relations with both countries in the region and with major world powers. That is why the Government of the Republic of Serbia is able to conclude numerous agreements that bring great benefits to our citizens, as is the case with agreements that are now on the agenda. I will pay my attention to the proposal for a law confirming the Agreement on mutual recognition of driving licences, signed between the Government of the People's Republic of China and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. This agreement will facilitate the resolution of an important life issue, both for citizens of the Republic of Serbia living in China and for Chinese citizens living in our country. The agreement allows for the reduction of procedures and easier implementation of professional and private obligations, as well as the savings of funds for passing driver's exams and obtaining a driver's license. What we must certainly note is that a huge shift has been made in Serbia's co-operation with the People's Republic of China in the previous period. The two countries' co-operation is based on the principles of friendship, solidarity, then respect, as well as respect for the territorial integrity of the Republic of Serbia, but also the personal friendship of President Vukic with the president of the People's Republic of China. China today is Serbia's third foreign trade partner, which until one year ago was unimaginable and thanks to co-operation with the People's Republic of China, Serbia is receiving numerous investments from Chinese investors today. In the past few days alone, we could see Serbia developing and taking a safe step forward thanks primarily to Chinese investors. Step by step, stone by stone, we set out to build our Serbia and move faster than we expected just a few years ago. This is primarily about how people will live in their own country. We could hear this from our president to mark the beginning of the work on the fast traffic station Požarec – Velika Gradište – Golubac, so on. The Danube corridor that will essentially change the lives of people in Braničev County. Also, another very significant Chinese investment has arrived in our country in the past period and in Bor. A copper and gold mine was opened in which Zijdin invested 474m euros. This investment will significantly raise the standard of living for the citizens of Bor. I will remind you that the average salary in Bora in 2018 was 68,000 dinars, and today it is 98,000. We have a promise from Zijin that it will reach 100,000 dinars. This will be the first green mine in Serbia, which means modern technology will be used in mining ore and the highest standards in the area of environmental protection. Also, after Poland, Serbia will be the second largest copper producer in Europe. What is significant is that three billion and 141m euros of foreign direct investment were reached in Serbia as of October this year, most convincingly throughout the region. This means a better economy, this means the safe progress of our country, but this means the growth of wages and pensions that our citizens expect in the future. That is why we must certainly talk about the successes of our country that it achieves and during the crisis that governs the world due to the pandemic of the coronary virus, where we must also thank our Chinese friends who helped us fight the crown of the virus by donating vaccines and medical equipment when we needed it most. Everything Serbia has done with President Aleksandar Vukic in the past will forever change our country and the picture Serbia leaves in the world. The highways we dreamed of have now become a reality, so the Moravia Corridor will be a real masterpiece since it will be the widest highway in our country and the first digitized road Serbia will get. The factories that our president opens almost every week throughout Serbia will remain for generations to come. For this very reason, we must fight, continue the development of Serbia and give our citizens the future they deserve. We must not allow Serbia to again become a humble state in which foreign mercenaries will be asked, and citizens to be last. Members of the former regime would obviously want riots and conflicts as they constantly call for hatred and conflict, while still showing no plan for Serbia's future. Apparently, they are preparing for one of the dirtiest campaigns so far, as they go public every day with all kinds of lies, contesting every success of the Republic of Serbia. They run one of the unremembered and most monstrous campaigns against President Alexander Vukic's family by insulting his mother, children, brother, and the whole family. They seem to mind anyone who works in the interest of a strong, independent and stable state. That is exactly what bothers them, that Serbia is strong and independent and they are troubled by the success achieved by Aleksandar Vukic, as well as by what it does in the interests of Serbian citizens. Because while they were in the power of Djilas, Tadic and Jeremic, they were pouring state money into private accounts while the state register was fed up, and the factories hit, leaving the people on the street with no money and no perspective. The people, of course, remember all this because they felt it on their skin, so they don't have any support in their country today, so they have to go around the white world looking for support abroad. While today's picture of Serbia is completely different. A number of new factories, new jobs, salary and pension increases, the infrastructure integration of Serbia as a whole, the highways we have always dreamed of, economic growth and stability, the Kovid of the hospital that we have built in record time, as well as daily care for our citizens. It's a picture of Serbia today. Everything SNS, led by President Alexander Vukic, is doing for the better future of our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-16-0.u10589	Thank you. The word has Dr. Boris Bursac.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-16-0.u10590	Thank you. Dear Mr. Orlic, honourable fellow MPs, respected Serbian citizens, respected ministers with associates, we have today a set of very important and constructive bill proposals, and I would personally refer to the proposal for a law on confirming a co-operation agreement in the area of disaster protection in the Western Balkans. The history of the Earth's planet is marked and shaped by various natural disasters. Regardless of the degree of technological development of states, sometimes we can't influence them. What we do know is that some areas of the world are more often affected by such events and not by such events. In some places natural disasters do not cause greater damage and no casualties, and in some, they do great material damage and carry thousands of lives. In recent decades, there has been a trend in increasing the number of natural disasters, and there has been an increase in their destruction. When earthquakes, floods, and fires are the most vulnerable countries in which infrastructure, logistics and good policy are lacking, resulting in an increase in human losses, material and immaterial damage and a slowdown in the sustainable development of society in general. New reports released by the UN in September this year suggest that extreme weather events have increased five times in the last 50 years and that there have been more than two million lives in them, and only in the previous year the world has hit 980 natural disasters that have caused a loss of at least eight thousand and 200 human lives. Also, floods, hurricanes, storms, floods have left behind material damage estimated at 210 billion US dollars, significantly more than $166 billion in 2019. When we talk about Serbia, according to the 2020 World Risk Report, of the 181 countries covered by the analysis, Serbia is in 113 places. For citizens to understand, the first place on the table is the country that is most threatened by natural disasters, and lastly, a country that is least endangered. What is very important is to point out that this report is not only based on the realization that the risk of disasters is determined solely by the appearance, intensity and duration of extreme natural events, but takes into account the social, political and economic factors of a country and their impact on the occurrence and prevention of natural disasters. Therefore, the authors of this report also take into account the state policy and its consequences, therefore, what infrastructure it is, whether the buildings are wasteful and fall even when they fall easier, how it reacts in the case of natural disasters, how it is assisted in affected areas, etc. So, in this respect, by analysing this report, Serbia has made significant progress, especially in the last 10 years. What is very important and every time I mention it when it comes to this subject is that we must not be guided by the policy "not us", because just a few years ago, more specifically in May 2014, we saw that every society, including ours, is vulnerable when nature decides to show its strength and strength. Natural disasters have been happening and will happen and it is not controversial, but we must make every effort to better organize and prepare. Serbia as a serious state does so, and this bill speaks in favour of my finding. The agreement between the countries of the Western Balkans, i.e. Serbia, Albania and Northern Macedonia on disaster protection co-operation has a clear objective, which is to regulate the framework conditions for co-operation in the area of disaster prevention, i.e. voluntary disaster assistance. To be more precise, cooperation between the parties is mainly covered by the following areas: Therefore, planning and implementing measures to protect against floods, earthquakes, fires, environmental pollution, navigation accidents, radiological dangers, various pandemics, as well as industrial and other disasters, mutual information on hazards, occurrences and consequences of disaster, mutual assistance in saving, providing assistance and eliminating the consequences of disasters by using land and air forces and vehicles for intervention in the event of mass fires, floods, earthquakes and other disasters. Education, training of staff members, protection and rescue units, fire protection units and other rescue teams through information meetings, courses, training, seminars and other forms of co-operation, as well as the organisation and execution of joint exercises in the field of rescue and assistance, exchange of scientific and technical data, as well as other documents of importance for the protection of disasters and of course cooperation in the development and production of equipment for the rescue and provision of assistance. For all of this, I will personally, and hopefully my colleagues, support this as well as other bill proposals in the hope that they will be the basis for fighting for strong, modern and safe Serbia. Long live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-16-0.u10591	Thank you. The word is Vesna Knezevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-16-0.u10592	Dear President-in-Office, respected ministers with associates, MPs, dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, today we are discussing two important draft laws. One refers to the confirmation of the Agreement on Co-operation in the protection of disasters in the Western Balkans, and the other to mutual recognition and replacement of driving licences between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the NKK. Confirmation of these agreements enables them to enter into force and integrate into the domestic legal system, thus enabling them to be implemented. Both agreements were concluded this year, the first in July and the second in May and are equally important to us, for several reasons. In my presentation, I will comment on both draft laws. The proposal for a law confirming the Agreement on Co-operation in the protection of disasters in the Western Balkans represents the common interest of the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Albania and the Republic of Northern Macedonia in order to improve co-operation in the prevention and mitigation of the consequences of disasters and disaster preparedness. Serbia is always ready to help and provide friendly assistance and support in difficult times, as Serbia is a human and organised state. In addition, I will remind you of helping Albania, when it was hit by devastating earthquakes in which there were injured, injured, as well as destroyed facilities and major material damage. In order to help the Republic of Albania, the Republic of Serbia has directed a specialist search and rescue team from the interior sector's ruins of the interior ministry, which consisted of 13 people with accompanying special equipment to remove the effects of the earthquake. The team was engaged in the Tuman and Drac area and rescued three people from the ruins. In northern Macedonia, several locations were the forces of Serbia's interior ministry, the Emergency Sector and a helicopter unit to extinguish forest fires, and earlier, in August 2016, following heavy rainfalls that hit Skopje, Serbia sent two rescue teams from a total of 30 members equipped with high capacity pumps. Also, when the catastrophic floods struck Serbia in May 2014, Macedonia directed a rescue team of 40 people with boats and equipment. Confirmation of this agreement should contribute to strengthening ties in the Western Balkans, raising co-operation to a higher level as well as more efficient implementation of activities to protect and save the population of material, cultural and environmental goods in emergency situations, as well as to more effective removal of the consequences of disasters, in order to normalise conditions for life and work in the affected area as soon as possible. The second bill refers to the confirmation of the Agreement on Mutual Recognition and the replacement of driving licences between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the People's Republic of China. The agreement was signed on 27 May 2021. The agreement allows our citizens who have residence in the People's Republic of China to replace our valid driver's license for a Chinese driver's license without prior laying down the theoretical and practical part of the driving test for certain categories of vehicle. This represents resolving an important issue for our citizens in their everyday lives, especially for those whose profession is related to motor vehicle management. The same privilege, of course, is given to Chinese citizens in the Republic of Serbia. The entry into force of the Agreement and its application constitute a direct financial advantage for citizens of the Republic of Serbia who have their residence in the People's Republic of China, as they are deprived of the financial costs and of paying for the laying of a theoretical and practical part of the driving test for certain categories of vehicle and shortens the procedure for obtaining a Chinese driver's licence. The agreement will significantly deepen bilateral co-operation between Serbia and the People's Republic of China, recognising the importance of co-operation in all areas, taking into account the international obligations of the states and acting in accordance with national legislation on the objectives and principles of international law. The co-operation of the Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Serbia and the Ministry of Public Security of the People's Republic of China is very successful, with a tendency to further intensify in all areas within the responsibility of the two ministries. The People's Republic of China has shown its readiness to make donations in the form of technical equipment and training available to the Ministry of the Interior. Our two peoples connect steel friendship and Serbia will never forget that China was with it at the most difficult times. China still strongly supports our vital national interests today. Thanks to the presidents of Serbia and China, Alexander Vukic and Si Jinping, a strategic partnership has been established between the two countries, which has led to strong Chinese investments in our country, which have enabled new jobs and to improve our economy. To remind me, despite the pandemic, there was not a single Chinese company that suspended works in Serbia, and all plans were met frequently before the deadline, which is rare not only in the Balkans, but also wider. In the end, I order these dirty hands and cheeks of chalk and paint - you are free to paint, Serbia goes forward, Serbia lives!
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-16-0.u10593	Thank you. He's got a word for it, Doc. Dr. Ilija Živić.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-16-0.u10594	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, respected citizens, today we are talking about an important agreement that talks about protecting against disasters in the Balkans between Serbia, Albania and Northern Macedonia. Personally, I find this agreement extremely important for practical and political reasons. For political reasons, this agreement is the continuation of the Open Balkans Agreement, which was President Aleksandar Vukic's initiative and will only further strengthen relations between the three countries. When we talk about practical meaning, Serbia has proved what it knows, what it can do in an exercise held on 5 November when more than 8,000 members of the MUP, the Emergency Sector, members of local self-government and others participated in a major exercise at more than 50 locations. We have thus shown our predominance in the region, and we have shown that everything invested in the Emergency Sector in the last year, since Mr. Vulin has been at the head of this ministry, has a really great excuse. However, although we may say we are quite good at this, although, as Minister Vulin said, some additional purchases are yet to be planned, it is important to develop co-operation with neighbours for several reasons. First of all, disasters never come alone and very rarely affect only one country. If a disaster, regardless of whether it is a technological disaster or a natural disaster of a type of earthquake, fire or flood, would occur in a border area, it would really be justified to invite our neighbours to help, because every flood, every fire can easily be transferred from one border to another border. For this reason, it is extremely important to be compatible with their units, with the units responsible for the recovery of disasters from our neighbours, in this case Northern Macedonia and Albania, because who you will first call for help if not your neighbour, both in the country and in interstate relations. It is also important to have good relations with your neighbours, and we have proved our relations with regard to solving the consequences of the fire this year several times when we helped Northern Macedonia, when we helped Greece. As I recall, only August 5th, four of Serbia's MUP helicopters carried out more than 20 runs in a few hours, saving Dren's village in northern Macedonia, which was not without notice, and you know that our neighbours from northern Macedonia were very grateful for that. Also, our helicopters, our members saved several extremely significant villages and a lot of residents and a lot of material goods in Greece this year. For this reason, it is therefore important to sign this agreement and, of course, work on the equipment of our people. So while we as responsible authorities are working on having as much cooperation as possible with everyone, while we want to have better co-operation with China as possible, and I believe that this agreement is extremely justified, because it is not just a practical replacement of driving licences, whether someone with Serbia's driver's license can drive a car in China or someone with a Chinese driver's license to drive a vehicle in Serbia. It is about strengthening the relationship between China and Serbia because let us not forget that China has done very much for our Serbia. China literally saved Smederevo and Bor, and today these two cities are alive, people are working, children are starting to study and go to schools that are related to these two industries that are just in Bor and Smederevo, and I will remind you that let's say that the Bor High School, which is intended for mining, was closed until the Chinese investors arrived. Today these two institutions, these two industries, these two factories complement our GDP with an extremely large amount of resources and represent, we can even say, and the foundation of our exports. So, while our President Aleksandar Vucic and we are all trying to develop our country, that we have better co-operation with everyone, you have some power in Serbia, parts of the opposition that are led by Gilas, Marinik, Borko Stefanovic who are going around the surrounding countries, who are going to Brussels, who are going to the United States, who are going around the world to threaten our country, so that we don't freak out our system that every day employs more and more people, unlike their system that has left more than 600,000 people out of work. I really don't know, is there anything more pathetic, something simpler than going to a foreign country and spit on your own country? I understand what a political struggle is, that we are fighting in some political arena in Serbia's territory, holding stands, holding rallys, making statements to the media, but how long does it take for a low man to fall abroad and spit on his own country? How low does it take to be, I don't know, on a scale of one to a hundred? I don't know, probably 619. That's what Gilas knows best. But what is new in their tactics, and what needs special attention, is the strategy they implemented in Negotina during the election. Namely, they announced just before the elections a statement by a research agency that said they had 20% support. When they received 12% in the election, they immediately declared the elections illegal, stolen and called for management. They called for their 10-day announcement before the election that they have 20%. After that, they invited people out on the streets. Although it was not worth any more media attention, they still managed to convince some of the residents to take them to the streets, and it was just a test balloon for Belgrade. I'm afraid they'll try to do the same thing in Belgrade, that before the elections, as they now post the story that they have more than 50%, in Belgrade which is really funny, will also publish a survey of some of their marketing agencies, and then when they're beaten to their feet, they'll use those arguments just to go out on the streets and try to violently win over power, to which Marinika Tepic persistently invites all this time on social networks. What I would also like to say, and it is very interesting, as far as they are concerned, and as of today, a site called "Cenzol" is not critical, but in principle an anti-state site that publishes everything it publishes against the authorities in Serbia has announced that an NGO, I think, has been called "Free Journalists of Europe, based in Paris, has sent a letter to the American Congress and supported sanctions against Serbia, against the president, etc. When you take a closer look, there was no statement. A man who registered this NGO just tweeted and mourned seven U.S. congressmen. That's the way they work. They literally make an elephant out of flies and publish in their newspapers to drive the people crazy, to defuse voters in Serbia as they are all against us. On the other hand, you saw that Serbia was invited to the Summit on Democracy, which is something we're all proud of and what we've all talked about, which we've all been working on developing relations with the United States that they're just trying to spoil. They just want to corrupt Serbia's relations with all the great powers of the world. Today, the United States employs more than 17,000, 18,000 people in Serbia. The largest individual donor is the Netherlands, also Europe's country and Serbia's largest individual investor. China is investing more and more in Serbia. President Aleksandar Vukic met with President Putin, which was unimaginable in their time. In the end, like all my predecessors, I really want to support President Aleksandar Vukic in the policy he is leading and Mr Alexander Vulin in curbing organised crime in the Republic of Serbia. Well, good for you. I hope you will endure and we will finally fight all those who pose a threat to our society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-16-0.u10595	The word has the People's MP Ana Karadzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-16-0.u10596	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, respected Minister Vulin with his associates, ladies and gentlemen MPs, is now on the agenda of just some of the agreements signed by the Ministry of Interior on international co-operation to strengthen co-ordination and communication with both countries in the region and with distant countries like China. First of all, I want to praise the disaster protection agreement on Western Balkan territory signed in Skopje this summer, because it shows how much the Interior Ministry is investing today, in rescue teams, in equipment and co-ordination of the MUP services, but also opening Serbia's borders towards the region. This agreement is a formalisation of co-operation and support that already existed. The forces of Serbia's MUP worked in northern Macedonia on several locations. A rescue unit was also sent this year to put out a fire in Greece. It's just part of the development and investment in the MUP. The interior ministry has marked the fight against organised crime in recent years, which was an absolute priority. There are huge results in breaking organized crime groups and their sources of funding, but also significant results are seen when we talk about the repression of crime affecting ordinary people, street violence, drug trafficking, etc. What is very important to me today, and it is related to the good results of the MUP, is the importance of keeping the MUP out of daily politics in its work. You've proven that there are no protecteds and you've proven that you're ready to fight the most organized criminal groups. But you've also proven that even the slightest attempt at politicisation would reduce the results of the MUP, that you won't allow it. The event of the other day related to Ratko Mladic's mural, which we talk a lot about today, is only one in a series of events trying to politicise the MUP, which want to show that the MUP is on the side of certain political options, on the side of the hooligans, on the side of crime. Today in the Assembly, we're hearing about police protecting the mural, the police denying genocide, the mural protecting the hooligans. From the mural that stood for months, which no one had ever mentioned before, the other day they came up with a way to provoke and violently send a much stronger message. The message that Serbia is a genocide people, a message that we are fascists and that the climate in Serbia is unstable. You must not allow this politicisation, which they are trying to implement, to affect the safety of citizens on the streets. Police do not guard the mural, police keep peace and security on the streets of Belgrade. Police are not hiring hooligans, but today they're destroying organized crime groups. Mural Ratko Mladic is just one paradigm of trying to return bloody heads to the streets of Belgrade, what you did not allow, defile Serbia and collapse of everything Serbia has achieved at an economic level. They are trying to create an unstable climate and atmosphere in the country, in order to discredit both Serbia and the MUP and all results that are very obvious to Serbian citizens. What else can we expect, we don't know for ourselves, because destruction is at a very high level. But what's important is that security on the streets of Belgrade remains at the highest level. I'd especially like to commend the fact that by the end of the year they'll be back on the streets and on stage. Implementation of security on the streets is a serious and decent Serbia. But, on the other hand, I have to express my dismay and shame over the words that Aida Corovic directed to the police, above all as a woman, because those words she referred to to to some who could be children, those words are not like one woman, and they are more like words spoken by some hooligans, who she is just saying are part of the police and that they protect certain political options and protect that mural, which is not true. The attacks you put up with every day are proof that you're doing the job right. You've got one Natasha Kandic attacking on Twitter, but he won't make the show. You also have Milan Antonijevic, who expresses hate, who also didn't show up on Friday. They are ready to pour out anger and hatred, to camouflage the stories of human rights, but they are also ready to remain silent today when they call Serbia fascists and those who deny genocide. Dear Ministers, this is all evidence that you're doing the right thing for Serbia and that's all you have to do. Long live Serbia?
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-16-0.u10597	Thank you. The word has Bojan Bag. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-16-0.u10598	The Honorable Chairman, esteemed ministers with associates, fellow MPs, ladies and gentlemen, and since I am not an ex-socialist, of course, and comrades and friends, we now have proposals on the agenda for the certification of two extremely important international agreements, an agreement on mutual recognition and replacement of driving licences between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the People's Republic of China, which my predecessors have said so. It expands significantly, deepens co-operation, but first and foremost strengthens honest and large, as we like to say, a steel friendship between the Republic of Serbia and the People's Republic of China. I don't know if it's necessary to mention that China is our third foreign trade partner, as well as that co-operation is growing at lightning speed, so Serbia and China have tripled trade over the last five years. The Serbian people will never forget the help that, at the beginning of this monstrosity, the Chinese state and the people have directed to Serbia and its citizens, but not everything that has done for Serbia in the past with a special pytote towards the fact that the Chinese state and the people have been honest with us, even at the most difficult times, during the criminal NATO aggression, that they have paid high price for it, the bombing of their embassy in Belgrade, which during the last years has killed three Chinese citizens, and more than 20 have wounded them, but with absolute support for Serbia's territorial integrity the same way Serbia has provided the politics of one China. When a country and its people have such a friend, as we have in China, but also China in us, every step that will improve our co-operation and friendship is always more than welcome. When we talk about a co-operation and disaster protection agreement in the Western Balkans, we must note that it is essentially part of the initiative of the President of the Republic of Serbia, President Aleksandr Vukic, who is called the Open Balkans, which aims to co-operate with the countries of the region in all aspects of economic, economic and security. Thus, the agreement represents a common interest in Serbia, Albania and Northern Macedonia, to improve co-operation in preventing and easing the consequences of disasters and to increase the preparedness of the countries of the signatories to respond in the event of possible disasters. In the last ten years alone, we have witnessed more earthquakes, catastrophic floods, and the great fires that have affected both our country and the countries of the region, which justifies the existence of such regional co-operation, which, ten days ago, Montenegro has shown interest. Is there anything more beautiful than when, after various unfounded attacks, our country and our President Aleksandar Vukic, Minister of the Interior of Northern Macedonia, Mr Oliver Spasovski, publicly thanked Serbia, President Vukic, as well as you, Minister Vulin, for your sincere help in putting out the fire. Is there anything more beautiful than when, after everything our region has been through over the past three decades, we hear from the mouth of a senior official of a neighbouring country how grateful they are that the state was not left to itself during these difficult moments because they were friends from Serbia. Is there anything more beautiful than having Serbia and its president and its citizens provide to all countries and peoples, both in the region and outside, with reasonable heads ready to accept it. This is exactly the kind of cat that confirms the regularity of the policy run by the Serbian state and its president, Vukic, has been leading on the international agenda in recent years. A policy that only ten years ago has barely survived with other people's help has become a country that is ready and, most importantly, is capable of helping anyone who needs it. That this is true tells us the recent exercise "System 2021" which was carried out at the same time at 50 locations in 24 cities and 26 municipalities, with the participation of more than eight thousand members of the Emergency Sector, Civil Protection, Mountain Rescue Services, the Red Cross, the Army of Serbia. During the exercise, the rescue resulting from floods, after earthquakes, dam shooting, gas leaks and technical and technological accidents, and what is most important is the fact that the exercise has been assessed as extremely successful, as well as that Serbia can be calm and secure because there is anyone to take care of it, even in the moments of the biggest disasters, and not only Serbia but all other countries that need our help. That's why Minister, it's an honor both to you and to all the participants of this great exercise. Dear Ministers, I cannot help but take advantage of your presence today to congratulate you on all the results of the MUP in the fight against crime, especially the worst, organised one that is also the most dangerous in the country and citizens themselves. The public of Serbia so to say is undivided in the opinion that in the past year, the members of the MUP have shown more than ever the exceptional professionalism of courage, perseverance, consistency, both in the fight against crime, and in the cleaning of their ranks from individuals who have shamed themselves and their profession, working with the worst, with those they were just about to fight uncompromisingly. Of course, our police have always had honest and honest members to whom we must confess, in the past they are not always allowed to do their job, but with a firm and determined attitude by President Aleksandr Vukic and nothing less firm and determined by your involvement of the minister, who, after returning to the reputation of the Serbian Army, is now returning the reputation to the Serbian police, allowing him to do his job freely and professionally, and of course, has a consequence of such good results. As one of the latest evidence of that professionalism in the work, the events of several days ago when police acted on more than responsibly and professionally and fully protected public order and peace on the streets of Belgrade. Finally, Serbia and Belgrade welcomed that they had such a trained and equipped police force, which allowed after a series of ruthless scenes in the past to finally happen to us that when they meet in one place the supporters of the totally opposed, we are free to say extreme political organisations, a timely and professional police reaction, all the unwanted consequences of such an event are prevented. First of all, the people of your ministry have been prevented from manipulating both the domestic and the world public and from presenting Serbia as an autocratic and fascist state, and the Serb people as genocide. Serbia, the first in the enslaved Europe of 1941, led an organized uprising against fascism. Serbia, which was the first in Europe during that 1941, had its own free territories. A Serbia in which 100 innocent citizens were shot like nowhere in the world for a murdered fascist, 100 for one as never and nowhere, not before or later. I would not now enter into the particular problem of happening on a mural dedicated General Ratko Mladic, because the mural itself is a communal problem and an attempt at a cheap performance of Soroš activists, but when I mentioned both the general and the failed attempt to push fascism on Serbia and the Serbian people, I cannot help but tell the truth from this place which is one and which no one will ever be able to change, as much as individuals try to do so. The truth that is said -- the Serbian people have never been on the wrong side of history, and the Serbian people have never been conqueror and conqueror, as they have never been genocide in their history. The Serbian people were especially during the 20th century on several occasions a victim of genocide and only for Serbian, Jewish and Roma children there were specialized death camps. Obviously, we were often wronged in the past when we were killed for the freedom of those whom we considered brothers, who later turned into our executioners and who then returned it to us with a coma and a pit, and we are such a people, a free people who are willing to sacrifice themselves for their freedom and for the freedom of all those whom they consider to be close, weak and unprotected. True, there is also this people, like all other peoples, their freaks, traitors, there are, unfortunately, criminals who did not cease to bleed their hands, both with the blood of their fellow countrymen and those who did not, most often to court their foreign masters. These freaks, traitors and criminals do not deserve to be mentioned today's names, but in the order of these freaks and criminals, in no way do they include the honorable and honorable Serbian officers who defended the Serb enemy and their centuries-old hearths from Dinara through Romania, to the Curse during the tragic conflicts of the 1990s. The Serbian people need no judgment of any court, brought without any evidence or grounds, so that they are aware that their generals and colonels and other military and police commanders were turned into Hague slaves only because they were Serbs and because they were determined to oppose injustice, to remain faithful to their military oaths and to defend their country and people, no matter how great the evil that prevailed over us was, and it was the greatest and strongest that ever in world history brought down upon a free and sovereign nation. The Serbian people know very well that like these same heroes who were often without even an act of ordinary soldiers, the reservers from the same war came out proud and unbeaten, as did the pure and bright cheeks of their ancestors through, unfortunately, the rich war history of our people. I can do all kinds of things. Activists of the Sorošev or NGOs sector are able to disrupt and destroy all murals dedicated to generals Mladic, Lazarevic, Pavkovic, Tolimir, Colonel Sljivancan and many other heroes, can wipe out from all the textbooks of heroism from Kosar, Paštrik, from Vodić or from the breach of Corridor, but cannot deny, delete and destroy our memory, our eternal gratitude for their sacrifice, heroism and military honor, our gratitude for keeping the Serbian people from the new camels and caves that were intended for him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-16-0.u10599	Thank you, Mr. Bag. The word is Adriana Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-16-0.u10600	I thank you, Your Honor. Dear Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, esteemed citizens and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, for my great pleasure, we finally had the chance to reaffirm our strong and unbreakable relationship with the Chinese brotherly people, a relationship that is growing stronger every day and thanks to which we have come to this opportunity to equalise our personal driving documents, and this is how we make it official. An example of the co-existence of our two nations, which is precisely at work in the city of Boru, through respect and joint work in the company “Zidjin” is a real example of setting goals of commitment, but also of progress. The daily increase in the population of Chinese people has unequivocally led to the need to recognise and equalise their driving documents with the rights of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Thus, a proposal that I hope we will all agree with implies and reciprocity, i.e. Recognition of driver's licenses and citizens of our country who live and work in the People's Republic of China. So far, the practice has shown that the co-existence of these two brotherly peoples is possible, respecting, respecting and daily teamwork, both on business and on social and cultural terms. The proposer of this proposal for a law confirming the mutual recognition and replacement of driving licences between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the People's Republic of China at the right time recognized the need for such a law to be passed on to the general satisfaction and as a result of a visit by the Ministry of Interior to the People's Republic of China, whose part of the team was also the head of the Police Administration in Bora Colonel Branislav Stojadinovic, as someone who was directly familiar with and addressed to the situation on the ground, and about the issue that will be regulated by this law. Both in international institutions and organisations, the Republic of Serbia and the People's Republic of China are sincere, and therefore the most mutual support for each other. That is why I am convinced that there will be even more opportunities and in the future that we are working more and more together on the great vision of President Si Jinping "One Belt, One Way", a vision which is selflessly contributed by our President of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandar Vukic. To the believers of the Serbian Orthodox Church who celebrate today, to my Borans, and also to the Chinese people who live and work in the city of Bor, I congratulate the cross glory of the city of Bor, the restoration of the temple of St. George – Đurdzic, with the desire to work together, to care for each other and to achieve with great respect, but also the responsibility of achieving the main goal, which is the development and economic progress of the city, with the peace and prosperity of our children, but also our families. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-16-0.u10601	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Luke Kebar.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-16-0.u10602	I thank you, the Honorable Chairman of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Dr Orlic, the Honorable Head of the National Assembly, the Honorable Ministers Vulin with his associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Parliament, dear citizens and citizens of Serbia, at today's session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, we are talking about very important international agreements, two very important agreements. First, I would refer to the agreement with the People's Republic of China. This agreement facilitates the exchange of staff and driving in the territories of these countries. This means that it allows our citizens resident in China to replace a valid Serbian driver's license for China under simple conditions, without passing a driver's test and without spending funds for medical examination, but it is guaranteed to Chinese citizens here, so there is reciprocity. I came up with an interesting analysis of the contents of this document. In fact, the curiosity is that the dispute settlement agreement itself does not prescribe that standard clause used in international agreements that any doubt, any misunderstandings will be resolved through norms or institutions of international public law. It is not prescribed in this agreement, however, that all possible doubts will be resolved exclusively by a peaceful, friendly route through diplomatic channels. Now, that's just proof that we have perfect friendships with the People's Republic of China, and I'm free to say brotherly relations. Also, I'll just mention a few projects. In fact, a mine of gold and copper “Peccaru” near Bora was recently opened. Chinese investments, as we know, saved the whole east of Serbia, and I can tell all of Serbia. Smederevo has experienced economic recovery, but the whole of Serbia, thanks to these investments. The Chinese are investing in infrastructure. I'm only going to mention some realized projects, but also some projects that are just about to be implemented. Part of the metro, part of the Fruscogore Corridor, end of the Cačak-Požega and Požega-Boljare highway, bypass around Loznica and Novi Sad. Also, the Chinese are also engaged in the work of the Belgrade-Novi Sad express track, but also on a bypass around Belgrade. The sinopharma vaccine, collectors and wastewater treatment systems, "Linglong" Zrenjanin, "Singju" Nis, "Mint" Sabac and Loznica, are just some of the examples of projects that will yet be realised. These are all indicators, i.e. indicators of successful co-operation and political, economic but also economic between our two countries, and all thanks to President Alexander Vukic and SNS. Another important agreement is the Agreement on cooperation in the protection of natural disasters in the Western Balkans, which represents a sort of continuation of the "Mini-Schengen" initiative or this project "Open Balkans" – "Open Balkans". In fact, the goal is to bring the three countries' common interests together, namely to improve their co-operation in the area of protection against natural disasters and to mitigate the consequences of these natural disasters. It will contribute to strengthening ties in the Western Balkans by raising co-operation to a higher level, working to save the population, but also material and immaterial cultural goods and the environment. The main objective of this agreement, such as that part of the Mali-Schengen initiative, is to bring positive changes to the whole region, encourage entrepreneurship and bring these three peoples closer together. I must point out that thanks to President Alexander Vukic, the Republic of Serbia has also sent huge aid to the people, that is to say, in the saviors, but also in the money and other means, that is, equipment when disasters, earthquakes, but also the fires hit Albania and Northern Macedonia with respect. With these great moves, we have shown how open we are to every kind of co-operation in the Western Balkans area, but also that we are always ready to help our neighbours in trouble, as North Macedonia has sent a team of 40 people with equipment, we remember when the floods were here in Serbia as early as 2014. So, the conversation that can be drawn from all these facts is that Serbia thanks to President Alexander Vukic and thanks to the SNS has one open policy, peace policy, stability policy, co-operation policy with all countries in the region. Bosnia and Herzegovina and Montenegro are also invited to join this initiative, so we are the promoter of this region's development, because we are the biggest country in the region's economy anyway. These brilliant results, unfortunately, want to humiliate and humiliate those members of the former tycoon regime, spreading various lies and lies about the family of the President of the Republic. The reason for such miserable behavior is only the frustration of Dragan Gilas and the members of the yellow Camaril with the successes of Aleksandr Vukic on the international agenda and on the internal agenda here in Serbia. No one here knows what the children of Dragan Gilas are called, and it's a good thing we don't know, and no one wants to know what his children are called, but we testify that almost every day, Gilas, members and yellow camels and their tycoon media are attacking the son of the president of the Republic of Serbia, Danil Vukic. However, these Gilas media and these party, or colleagues from the company's "Multicom", that is, the frat party, they without any scruples attack the son of the President of the Republic, Alexander Vukic, and all that he is the son of the President of the Republic. Look, I've got a bunch of newspaper headlines here in my hand, a bunch of headlines on the portals, on these Gilas and the School's tycoon portals, see how many titles I have in my hands. See what bothers them? They are bothered by the fact that the son of the president of the Republic of Serbia, Danilo Vukic, is in their way that he is always with his people. This guy, this honest guy, the Serbian host, he's using his spare time to spend with his citizens, with his people. Look how wonderful a picture and this bothers them, they make a joke out of this. And do you know why they do that? Well, they're doing it because they know the people broke in. Because they know the people will never choose them again. They know they robbed that people, they're aware, they're aware that the people remembered it well, and they hate it. Gilas, Solak, members of the yellow camels, they hate the people, they hate the common people, they flee from the people as the devil from the crosses, and therefore this beautiful image bothers them. A picture of Danilo Vukic with a Serbian housekeeper. Look, this beautiful picture bothers them. Gilas's portal says the most awful comments, and now, here I have, believe me, they shake my hands when I read everything they write about him. A whole bunch of papers of these headlines I hold, a shame, a real shame. Gilas is not the only one dealing with these heinous attacks and threats, Gilas' employee, employee of the "Multico", the fraternist party, Marinika Zivko hobana Tepic, she regularly throws trees and stones at Danil Vukic, but also on the very side of President Aleksandr Vukic, and on the other hand, this very saint, is called the saint, called "Audi Q7", "Poršeom", but we recently saw her driving in Vranje "BMW X5", worth tens of thousands of euros and seconded, and a new one probably over 100,000 euros. Indeed, modest has nothing to do with it. I am also interested in the way in which certain institutions such as the institution of the Commissioner for Public Information send some inspectors, which has been proven to be party activists of the yellow parties, were not intimidated by the son of the president of the Republic of Serbia. Is that the jurisdiction of the trustee institution, I wonder here. He's being chased at a bar, chased at work, just missing waiting outside his doorstep. It's a terrible thing to do. Namely, persecution is in the Criminal Code of the Republic of Serbia, Article 138a of the criminal act and the attitude of 1st Article 138a is currently talking about these matters. All that they're doing, these yellow tycoon media, members of the yellow Camaril, everything they're doing to this innocent child, everything can be recognized in the position of 1st Article 138 of the Criminal Code of the Republic of Serbia. I therefore call on all competent state, judicial authorities, all independent institutions, civil society organisations, NGOs, to respond at last. It is high time to stop with all these disgusting attacks and threats sent to the president of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandr Vukic and his family. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-16-0.u10603	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint principled single search, I ask if the presidents, or the authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The word has a folk MP, Milija Miletic. The remaining time for your group is four minutes and 20 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-16-0.u10604	I thank Dr. Orlic. Dear Ministers, dear colleagues, here, at the end of this evening, at the end of the session, where we have said many things today about the engagement of the activities of the MUP, about all the things we have pointed out, which are good, which is well done, I would now once again as an MP, as host to congratulate all citizens who are celebrating the glory today, Đurdzic, congratulating normal and citizens of Bora today who celebrate the glory, that all cities, that all municipalities, that all villages live better in the future, that we all work in the interest of every man. Once again here as a colleague, I would like to mention once again the late colleague Zukorlic, an academic named Zukorlic, who was here with us in the past few years, who left a trail. Another great congratulation to him as a man who lived and worked for peace, for the respect of all of us, that we all respected, appreciated, and respected. Tomorrow's his memorial. Once again I think what he was doing, I was with him at the MP's club and I'll stay there until new elections. I can say that we've really worked in the interest of all of us, to reconcile and respect every man of any faith that he is. Thanks again. The Honorable Ministers go ahead. Our government and our president and you all, and we're going to make a better way for our children and children with you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-16-0.u10605	Thank you, Mr. Miletic. The word has a minister, Alexander Vulin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-16-0.u10606	President-in-Office, gentlemen of the vice presidents, comrades and comrades, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, to thank you for this day too, to thank you for coming so patiently and carefully to the agreements that are before you. Convinced of your support, I am sure that once again we will make the lives of Serbian citizens better and that those who voted for you have reason to vote again, because you have shown how much attention and seriousness you approach each of your tasks. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-11-16-0.u10607	Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I am concluding a joint single search on the proposals of the 5th and 6th agenda. We'll continue tomorrow at 10.00 hours. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Sixth Session of the Second Regular Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2021. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 75 MPs. In order to determine the exact number of MPs present in the hall, I ask Members to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. Thank you. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 87 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. We continue to work and move on to a joint single search on points 7, 8 and 9 of the agenda. According to Article 90(1), I would like to inform you that the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly have been invited to attend: Vukica Kužić, Snezana Bjelogrlic and Jacques Pavlovic, election members of the High Council of Judges. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. I am opening a joint single search on a motion for a decision to suspend the role of the attorney general in the General Public Prosecutor's Office in Kursumlia, a proposal for a decision on the election of the President of the Court, on a motion for a decision on the election of judges elected for the first time in office. I ask the proposing representatives if they want a word to address the National Assembly at the beginning of the debate. Thank you. The word is Snow White. Here you go.
