ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-23-0.u11800	Dear ladies and gentlemen, we continue the work of the 14th session of the Second Regular Session. We move to a search in detail on the 4th item of the agenda - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Foundations of the Education and Education System. According to Article 90(1), I would like to inform you that the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly have been called to attend: Branko Ruzic, First Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Education, Science and Technological Development; Maja Gojkovic, Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Culture and Information, Dr Saša Stojanovic, Deputy Minister Slavica Trifunović, Deputy Minister Tatjana Djurdjevic Stepanovic, Head of Legal Affairs at the Ministry, Gordana Predic, Special Advisor of Minister. We have Minister of Finance Sinisha Mali with us. You have received amendments, which were submitted by MPs under the bill: Shaip Kamberi, Enis Imamovic, Selma Kučević, Nadija Beqiri, Mirsad Hodzic and Ajdend Bajrami, as well as the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development of the Information Society. You have received a report from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development, the Information Society, as well as the Government's opinion on the tabled amendment. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, I'm opening my rules of procedure to review the draft law in particular. The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Shaip Kamberi, Enis Imamovic, Selma Kucevic, Nadia Beqiri, Mirsad Hodzic and Aydend Bajrami. Does anyone want a word on this amendment? No, I don't. ) The Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development, the Information Society submitted to Article 50 of the amendment. The proposing representative accepted the amendment at the meeting of the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development, the Information Society, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. Do any of the MPs want a word, according to this amendment? Yeah. ) The word has Prof. Dr. Marko Atlagic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-23-0.u11801	Dear Vice President of the National Assembly, since the amendment has been accepted, allow me to express my satisfaction with that, but when I have taken the floor, let me say a few words, since the amendments are related to education and education. We have been discussing laws these days starting with preschool to secondary education. In this regard, it is very important in the overall process that we have achieved for the last eight years - the personality of teachers. I think that in the future and in the future, our colleges and the teaching departments should especially take account of what kind of teacher we need in the future in the 21st century. It's not just about educators. We, when we debate, are also looking for dignity in judges to avoid what is happening today in political life, which is plantings, lies, media attacks without cover and so on. While I'm at it, Vice President, let me say that we are witnessing continuous daily unremembered media attacks on the President of the Republic of Aleksandr Vukic, his family, citizens of the Republic of Serbia and the state of Serbia. The media attacks are carried out through the media under the control of Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic and Boris Tadic. The media attacks on President Vukic are being carried out by the tycoon mafia political groups, representatives of political parties unfortunately, individual NGOs, special groups and individuals, representatives of the so-called so-called. you want both domestic and foreign activities. Their goal is to satanicize Alexander Vukic with lies, half-truths and inventions, as the people would say, from the bottom of the serpent to psychologically break him in order to force him to leave the president's office. Why? Just because elections can't do it, because Dragan Gilas, you heard the overlaps, said he already has 57%. Whatever the results, of course they won't have so many, not all of them 12, whatever they are, they'll say they're stolen and they'll go to the streets. It's already been seen on October 5th. These media attacks have gone deep into pathology and are very dangerous for President Alexander Vukic's life. He's being followed by murder more and more often. Dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I am today going to say the name and last name, and I am going to try back four, five years to quote some of the things that certain cultural, scientific, academic figures have said at the expense of the president, his parents, but in the first place at his expense. Thus, director Goran Markovic said in an interview with "New magazine" number 555, page 20, quote – I still hope that Vucic has the end in front of his eyes, completed the quote, and thus directly called for Vukjev's murder. Please, whether it's true or not, check in this magazine. This failed academic candidate, Mr. Markovic, has been insulting Alexander Vukic for years. Goran Markovic insulted President Vukic in the words of a village coachman in 4.7.2019. He then said, quote - all those who praise and support the Wolf are prone and detestable. "He was and remained a percentage for hygienic reasons I do not want to stay with him in the same room. “, ” finished the quote. Dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, do you believe that this is a candidate for academics, failed, for an academic of the Serbian Academy of Science and Arts excused our president? I want today, now and here to meet the citizens of the Republic what Goran Markovic and Goran Markovici do. For each quote, I answer morally, if necessary materially or in any way. In addition to insulting and humiliating the president, Goran Markovic is also humiliating the state of Serbia. Yes, yes, the state of Serbia. He said on November 25th 2021, quoting: "Serbia is the bottom. “ The primates lead the country, ” he concluded, adding. “, ” finished the quote. Dear citizens, you can see who's attacking. Neither Goran Markovic nor his cultural workers are being attacked, but the president of the state, the daily state of Serbia and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, is being attacked. Not only that, Goran Markovic goes on to humiliate President Vukic. These humiliations are unrecorded in the history of debauchery, so I quote: “If I had to make a movie about Vukic, I would have to throw up all the time. “, ” finished the quote. Mr. Markovic, did you say that or not? Get on TV and tell the citizens of the Republic of Serbia if what I'm saying today is what you're saying or not? Is that appropriate for one professor and worker in culture or man? The moral gromada, Goran Markovic, also insulted Emir Kusturica just because he told Alexander Vukic nicely, so he told him about him, quote: "Kusturica is a streetie and a bit of a delinquent. “, ” finished the quote. The moral gromada, Goran Markovic, said on August 21st 2020, quote: "He invited his colleagues to fence themselves from Stefan Nemanje's monument. “, ” finished the quote. Look out, respected citizens, for what kind of man it is. Let's move on. The moral gromada, Goran Markovic, called the regime terroristly on August 30th 2019, so he said, quote: "There is no point in going to the elections in this terrorist Vucic regime. “, ” finished the quote. So it's about 2019. Let's move on. That Goran Markovic does not want elections, that moral gromada, he says on September 20th 2021 when he said, quote: "We are crossing a stage where there are no more choices only will accelerate and become more drastic and eventually the street will solve our suffering, now this moment is approaching. “, ” finished the quote. Dear citizens, do you know who he's calling? October 5th. That's why Gilas said he had 56%, and they don't all have 10%. Whatever the result is, they're ready to go to the street and spill blood and it's already been seen. Bloodthirsty Markovic threatened his colleagues on December 15th, 2021, when he said, I quote: "Many of my colleagues are just lunatics, ordinary lowlifes. “, ” finished the quote. "They represent occupiers, and they are known to pass. “, when freedom is reached, there is a final quote. So, you see threats to both your associates and when freedom comes to him some kind of threat to his associates, and you can think that he will pass through to citizens who insult him daily, especially MPs who are not his, Gilasov and Jeremic's options. Goran Markovic threatened Zoran Djindjic as well when he said a month before the assassination on 14 February 2003, I quote: "I would very much like to see a man who has a format that could oppose Djindjic appear. “, ” finished the quote. Mr. Markovic, did you say that or not? Go to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and deny it. Only a month later, Goran Markovic's wish came true as you know it. As early as July 4, 2019, Goran Markovic said, quote: "Vučić is a primitive figure, he was and remained a commoner, the crowd is its natural environment. “, ” finished the quote. All of you who voted respected citizens for Alexander Vukic and we, his associates, call us a mob. We can be both crowds and citizens and we, but we will never, ever, work against the interests of our country, the interests of our people and citizens of the Republic of Serbia. We will not lie, as Mr. Markovic lies very often. He's got a lot of these quotes, so he doesn't bother you, I recommend director Goran Markovic put all this crap he's said to Alexander Vukic, the state of Serbia and citizens, hours and put in his study to remind himself daily, admires his cultural and civilizational range, and we call bots and called lunatics, would never do what he did. Dear citizens, I recommend to Goran Markovic that every morning when he wakes up, let him look in the mirror, he will see a primitive bumblebee, full of hate when he learns that Alexander Vukic and his president are going to explode and destroy him himself. God help him. Markovic, visiting Gilas's "N1" TV, said he had written philosophy, quote: "To fill in the dark, watch out for the citizens, the dark blanks he has on him", finished the quote. Markovic has so many dark gaps on him that it appears from these vomits directed to Alexander Vukic, the state and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, that it takes him three lives to fill them. I'm afraid he can't fill them at all. I therefore recommend to him at the temple of St. Sava at Vračar for prayer and to enroll in pedagoggy at the Faculty of Philosophy, and for graduate work to take the topic – educational function of a person. Look at the wonders, respected citizens, supported him in his intention of killing President Vukic, none other than academic Dusan Teodorovic, in a people called the academic head of the earthquake, Why? Because as soon as Alexander Vucic is mentioned, he shakes his head with hatred. That's what you saw on TV. The moral gromada and the great patriot is on July 22nd 2020, and I quote, "Kosovo is not an integral part of Serbia," the quote concluded. Moral gromada, academician Dusan Teodorovic attacked Alexander Vukic on February 23rd 2019 when he said, quote: "The head of the country is a hooligan fan," finished quote. The moral gromada of academics Dusan Teodorovic also attacked Momčela Bajagić just because he sang on Vesic's, as he said, concerts, took pictures and supported what he said, modern barbarians, he also calls us citizens, and thus drew a target on the head of a man just because he sang for his city. He prepared Bajagi, and I quote: “Don’t let it be just later — I did my job. ” So you see what kind of revenge an academic is threatening. The moral gromada in the "360 degrees" show on N1, 18 July 2019, he said, quote: "National MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia are primitives", finished a quote, and his colleague Stuparu, a journalist, said in the show, "The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is a barn". We can, Mr. Academy, be primitive, but know, never, ever, these colleagues and colleagues who are beside me, behind me, will work against the interests of their country and citizens of the Republic of Serbia. A bunch of academics said on March 5th 2020, I quote -- that citizens who support Alexander Vukic are the same as residents of Nazi Germany and supporters of Adolf Hitler. Can you believe it's an academic with SANU? The moral gromada supported violence by giving public support on 28 October 2021 to the MP Nevena Djuric, in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, to be beaten. Watch out, the academics are sowing violence. He addressed his parents with this famous pedagogical statement, quoting: “Parents, beat the children on time. ” Mr. Academia, children don't fight, they raise. Look at the wonders, to make the accident bigger, Mr. Teodorovic is the chairman of the SANA Education Committee. I call him on behalf of the pedagogical public, if he has at least a little morale of a professor, and I claim he does, to resign to that post. The moral gromada was expelled from the Traffic College because of the fact that it was not working on May 31st, 1999. During the bombing of our country, Teodorovic fled, believe it or not, to the country that bombed us in the United States. He returned after two years, saving what the people would say was “tour, ” but he did not save face. At the Faculty of Traffic, behold, miracles, it was received by no one but Serbian Turajlic on the way back. The moral gromada on 16 November 2021 did not hide satisfaction by predicting the defeat of Serbia's team. He then said, "Vucic enters the plane and promises them a million euros," watch out for the term, "ball management peeks behind him and can't wait to touch him," finished the quote. Only a true patriot, Mr. Academyman, can do that, like Alexander Vukic enters a plane and encourages his football players as a true patriot. Secondly, do you know, Mr. Academy, whose words are "ball management"? If you don't know, respected citizens, I'll tell you, it's a dictionary from NDH, a Ustasha dictionary, ball management. On July 28, 2021, the moral gromada of academics asked for a boycott of everything, and he said: "The boycott of everything. Boycott's choice. A boycott of production and companies advertised on Pink and Happy, a boycott of cafes, a boycott of everything." Mr. Academyman, what are the people going to live on? It's easy for you, academic, but what will citizens live on if they boycott, cost production? He's fighting, and so are his fellow workers, to stop all production. That is what Gilas said back for five days, and I quote: “When we come to power, I will gather together a hundred of the best lawyers and stop all the works that this authority does. ” Dear citizens, no pensions, no salaries, no nothing, that's what Dragan Gillas has to offer. Dear Vice President, another member of the so-called You've seen, and that's Mr. Petricic. He said: "This people are unholy. It was the first time we had a leader to make fun of, he served as a joke," the quote concluded. That's that Petricic. Has anyone ever heard, honourable citizens, say MPs to the SNS and anyone from the SNS? Is that what the president said? Is that what the ministers in the government said? You've never heard of anyone. It's because of Alexander Wolfie. You know why? Because the editor of "Politics", in which he took two to three thousand euros a month for just four to five cartoons, Vukic is also likely to blame him for returning from Canada as a failed cartoonist. That Petricic was deprived of morale also shows his statement, I quote: "Vučić is one of the Fascism inspirers", imagine what he is saying, and he added: "He is a lunatic, a maniac from the stadium," finished the quote. Petricic continues to insult Alexander Vukic, a Serb people, and says, "Serbia is a country where stupid blind slaves live." Dear citizens, you see how he treats you, with slaves stupid and blind. "There is nothing good in it," a quote concluded. Mr. Petricic, there's a lot of good in this country. That's not what Ustashas would do. That's what they're saying. "There is an imbecileial and semi-literate world living in it, all except the civic intellectual elite," the quote concluded. Here, dear citizens, Petricic said who this civic intellectual elite is, and my little one here today and now will prove who these people are. I recommend that Mr. Petricic place these abominations that he insulted President Alexander Vukic in his desk to remind himself daily of the high proportions of his civilization culture. Look at the wonders, who else joined in cursing and Satanizing Alexander Vukic. No one else but Prof. Dr. Vesna Rakic Vednelic, on a daily basis, curses him for days at President Vukic, insulting him with an unworthy man's vocabulary. Vodnelicka supported Mark Vidojkovic in cursing the president's mother, when Vidojkovic was cursing, quote: "P* you mother-in-law, you disgusting, foolish one," finished the quote. That, believe it or not, Rakic Vodalić supported it. Vodnelicka said Vidojkovic curses colorically, in translation, citizens – picturesquely, and gracefully, which means pleasantly. To her, the swearing of Alexander Vukic's mother is picturesque and pleasant. Can you, honourable citizens, believe this man says it and this lady supports it? This professor continues to insult Alexander Vukic, saying, "I recently received a copy of the Belgrade Bar of Lawyers, which, under the regular number of 33, was written by Aleksandar Vukic, a Belgrade graduate, at the traineeship of lawyer Vladimir Djukanovic." This is what you wanted to insult Mrs Vodalić, Aleksandr Vukic and Vladimir Djukanovic. Mrs. Vodaelić, you humiliated yourself as a professor of legal science. You, ma'am, should be happy that Vlado Djukanovic and Aleksandar Vukic are better lawyers than you, especially that they were your excellent students and outstanding lawyers and excellent politicians, and you weren't. What kind of professor are you? I'm a lucky man that my students have outdone me, and all my life I'll fight to keep it that way. I guess you should have too, Mrs. Vodnelic. Insults, humiliations, insults continue by some journalists. Among them are journalists Kesic and Ivan Ivanovic. It is enough to list only Ivan Ivanovic who fell to the lowest bottom when he insulted the president by saying, quote: "You're going to have to put a dead butt of pizza to kiss me" finished quote. This is Ivan Ivanovic, this is the elite journalist, intellectual, second-Serbian, circle of two, those are respected citizens, moral gromads of journalists. Encourage this sentence to remember how pathetic you can be, the misery of misery and the miserable journalistic personality of Mr. Ivanovic. Did anyone ask you gentlemen journalists, react to these outbursts that I'm talking about today? Of course not. Do you know why? It is precisely because he insults Alexander Vukic, who, gentlemen of the press, has never offended you or the citizens, nor has he offended you political opponents. Give me a quote that he did it. Why are you doing this? Why do you hate Serbia? Why do you hate Serbian citizens when you call them that? I know why you still hate Alexander Wolfie. Because he built after several failures by your gentlemen for 13 years, the Museum of Contemporary Art and after 14 years of the National Museum. That's why you hate him. Because it builds and works, because together with the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, it built 286 factories. You hate him because he revitalised Jelizar Smederev, and you suggested that workers be sent home. In this high house you suggested. And you hate him for RTB Bor, you hate him for building and rebuilding hundreds of homes of health, clinical centres, as well as a bunch of hospitals. You hate him because he built the Belgrade-Novi Sad railway along with the citizens, which will soon be finished and you hate him because he builds and works daily with the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and builds our Serbia. Only you hate him, a self-called elite, but citizens love him even more. Look at the graphics on Serbia's cities. You can find them in dozens – the more defamation and lies the more we like and the more we like, the more the quote is finished. Look at the citizens in the cities of the Republic of Serbia. In the end, let me say two, three more sentences. Among the constant attacks against Aleksandar Vukic is Jeremic's vice-president Sinisa Kovacevic, in a nation called "pichutura". Kovacevic said in November 2020, quote: "Alexandar Vukic is a fat courier," you watch the expression, you know who he refers to. Shame on him, to tell one man. It's not his fault he's fat. Shame on you, Sinisha. Added – until yesterday he slaughtered cattle, and he is a plague and a traitor. These are all quotes. Kovacevic goes on to humiliate Alexander Vukic, so he says in 3.11.2021 – Vukic has a political talent below zero, finished quote. In his drunkenness, Kovacevic continued at the head of the state, quoting: “The souls sold, the head of the state and the soul sold, the head of the state is a plague and so should be treated. ” Jeremic Siniša Kovacevic goes on and spits on Aleksandra Vukic, so he says – the president is an arrogant pansy, an uneducated, uneducated, intellectually incomplete, misdefined, liar and slime, for all our sufferings from that evil dove's heart comes, finished quote. Can you, respected citizens, believe that this man says it, even though it's about piety? Finally, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia have more of these representatives, but due to the time, I won't talk today, but you've figured out what kind of people it is. So, the people who are looking for the murder and hanging of Alexander Wolfich. While Dragan Djilas, in a people called Điki Mafia, with 619 million, Vuk Jeremic, a member of the international gang of thieves and frauds, Boris Tadic, the great academicist Dusan Teodorović, Mr Petričić, Mrs Vodnelic and others daily insult Aleksandra Vukic with a dictionary, from the bottom of the river, until then Aleksandra Vukic, along with the citizens, is growing stronger and faster and better implementing the policy of peace, security policy, the health policy of all our citizens in the country and the region, the policy of our country's international reputation, the policy of accelerated modernisation of our country's Serbia, and all this for the future of our country. Long live the Republic of Serbia! Lived by our president and respected MPs and citizens, let's give support, pass on positive energy, which will end with Aleksandr Vukic for the greater and stronger modernisation of the Republic of Serbia. Long live Serbia!
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-23-0.u11802	Thank you. The word has a folk letter, Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-23-0.u11803	Thank you, Vice President of the National Assembly. As a member of the Education Committee, I simply felt the need to discuss a little, although as regards this amendment to Article 50(3), there is little to be said, because it is absolutely a technical error that is now corrected. I mean, it's of paramount importance for the development of our society, and especially for young people, it's a constant improvement of education, and we have to keep up with technology, because that's how we create future doctors and professors, but also machine locksmiths about auto mechanics, but also that of the ten most wanted professions now, professions in the world, seven or eight didn't exist ten years ago. That means we have to prepare the children for jobs that don't exist right now, which we can only do if we teach them to think. It's a function of both parents and kindergartens and schools. The whole of Europe is due to a poor education system in question, so they don't have many occupations. It progresses, for example, in East Asia, because they teach children to think and connect information, which is seen by the PISA tests that measure functional knowledge. The children rest the future, so the SNS, knowing the importance of what I'm talking about, also had a slogan in the previous elections, which is Alexander Vukic – for our children. Also, by presenting her exposé, the prime minister showed Serbia's attitude towards education, science and technological development, so that now technology parks, start-up projects are actually our reality and not just an idea. The education system is a projection of the future, so in the next 30, 40, 50 and more years and all of us who participate in law-making must be very responsible, because this affects the lives of citizens and is of great importance to the future of the country. Because it's a positive change engine. Nothing was done for a long time, for example, in the domain of higher education, and then shifts started, so some people didn't like it because changes prevented corruption and nepotism. Reforming the system is certainly inevitable, because we cannot remain at the level of the 20th century and technology to go into the 22nd century. Reforms in the education system are continuous and continuous and are an adequate response to the challenges that a whole society faces, because it is a engine that drives everything. It's more visible now than ever before. Now according to the epidemiological situation at the weekly level, for example, it decides what kind of teaching will be, on-line or combined, or when, for example, school vacations will be. Children are being created with their own character, ideas, thoughts and beliefs. What our children are, they talk a lot about us adults, because children are not things to shape, but people to discover. Education and education are most important, but time is also the most difficult task, because it affects the future of a child, their children, their grandchildren and grandchildren. I thank you, I just wanted so much to say a few words in general about education and the importance of all these laws that have been said about the previous days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-23-0.u11804	Thank you. The word is "Lav Grigori Pajkic."
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-23-0.u11805	Thank you, Chairman. My dear Vice President, Mr. Orlic, dear Minister Ruzic, dear fellow Members of the People, honourable citizens, I believe these amendments will contribute to better legal solutions. But when we talk about education, I think we should also talk about the education of the opposition, especially lately, although they may say they've been showing uneducated for years, but lately we can say they've really shown it on all fronts. But to take a step back, I really want us to look at one situation. The fact is that Serbia is under great pressure, both within Serbia and the Serbian people in the region. In Republika Srpska, Serbs are forbidden to think, in Montenegro we have already seen that the Serbs are at risk of freedom of religion, in Kosovo and Metohija our citizens are constantly being attacked, and, of course, those anti-Serbian leaders have been joined by representatives of the opposition in Belgrade, who are definitely trying to stop our Serbia's progress by organising any action that is truly suspicious of character, and I will explain why. When we notice eco-protests, we can say that these are protests that are clearly funded from abroad. These people get open, transparent, support from certain foundations, block highways, everything under the idea that they, for God's sake, are some environmentalists, and all we could see is the ecological extraction of citizens from cars, the breaking of windows, really ecological behavior, the ecological burning of containers, the ecological beating of people. That's all, my fellow citizens, one of many ecological actions. This burning container is probably good for the ozone or something. It's the air we breathe. Also, when firemen came, they blocked them ecologically, just to breathe some more into their beautiful ecological smoke. Also, we can notice the next thing. President Vukic and his family are constantly being attacked, it is already becoming a tradition. You can't be a representative of Gilas's opposition today without at least one member of President Vukic's family attacking. It's getting scary, day after day. I'm talking about Brother Andre Vukic, who's been attacked all the time, we see the most terrible morbid insults, the morbid inventions of Danil Vukic, and President Vukic, and we don't talk about what kind of fiction we can see on the daily level. It's all part of it, don't think differently, it's already become a fact, an overall campaign against Serbia. This way they try to destabilise the president, destabilize a government that really works great, which has top results, which have not been seen in Serbian history so far. Why did I decide to take it? Given that my profession, film, television, production, that's something I studied, I have to notice an interesting phenomenon, which is increasingly coming out. Namely, director Goran Markovic speaks the most terrible insults, threatens President Vukic, talks about what kind of shooting, and so on and there, of course, Srdjan Dragojevic and many other directors joined him. What's this about, dear citizens? You can finally tell it's the so-called. The film mafia that co-operates with all regimes, and since this regime is struggling with the mafia, and is not known for what kind of dirty compromises, and is not known as a regime that can be blackmailed, they are just prone to such behaviour, blackmail. Since, for God's sake, it didn't happen that the sixth time in a row Goran Markovic didn't get a project, he praised another million, because we didn't recognize his size and simply when someone dares to tell him something, then Vuk Jeremic, with his 10 members speaking, well, they attacked a Goran Markovic, watch out, one, it's like about our national treasure, we have to nurse this man every year, at all costs. Of course, that's the thing with Srdjan Dragojevic, the nonstop funding of his films and nonstop gets support, and when they don't get for objective reasons, when the commission that deals with this, and I don't understand it best, the establishment and that the chance of some new director, some young director, is immediately the most terrible insult against President Vukic, as if he's responsible for it. Imagine, please, he'll be angry that I'm talking about him, but I have to mention my father. He hasn't had any money to make a movie in 20 years. What am I supposed to be threatening by shooting or him now? We need to get out there and say, "He hates all of us." It's not about that, it's just there are things that are clear when someone needs to get a project, when they don't. So, you have simple objective reasons why some commission supports a project and some don't. That's totally amazing. So, what can I tell you, maybe I'm joining the attacks now with that logic, that's totally amazing. Of course, what else could we have noticed? After these sick insults, and threats to President Vukic, some people have decided to see it and answer it and say it is not normal behavior for an intellectual quasi. Minister Kisic replied, let's say Goran Markovic, and immediately as we could see, she also received this series of most terrible attacks, all joined against her, against one woman, the most terrible insults were made to her, in principle of insults received by Ms. Vladka Malovic, when she was threatened with a haircut, it simply became the established traditional values of the opposition. Insulting women, insulting insinuators, threatening death, that's something that's become a real classic. So there's only one thing left for us, we really need to team up and condemn these attacks, to say, stop blackmailing, to simply show this film mafia, that you can't blackmail the current government, as you normally did, that you can't blackmail all the people who don't support your movies nonstop, and your countless projects, which you fall into at once, just give everyone equal opportunities. Everyone should have a chance, not because you're part of the former regime, part of a mob that, you just keep getting funds. That's totally amazing. It's up to us to condemn it, to notice it. I'm truly hoping that the authorities will finally notice this and question what's going on here. Because I'm telling you one more time, it's impossible every year for the same people to get support, and that's when someone dares not to give them the most horrible insult they get. I don't know what it's called but mob blackmail. Thank you. Long live Serbia!
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-23-0.u11806	Thank you. The word is Natasa Mihailović Vacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-23-0.u11807	Thank you, Vice President Orlic. Education is high on the list of priorities of the Social Democratic Party of Serbia, not only programmeically, but essentially and worth it. We have also made this definition clear through the country of education party platform, and I would therefore like to say a few words about the importance of education for the progress and development of our society. There is no more important issue in one society and in a civilized country than the issue of education. Education depends on the overall future and progress of one society. Education drives societies and civilizations. Early, basic education is the cornerstone of the entire education system. The mission is to educate all its citizens in quality quality, to basically describe students from all areas so that they can connect and apply knowledge in later education, but also in life itself. One of the most important tasks of education is to develop knowledge, skills, attitudes, skills and values that are necessary and necessary for modern life in the modern world. This includes respecting adult characteristics, needs and specificities, the personality of children through the care and respect of diversity and their different needs and interests. The goal of education must be man, student, society, family. Children in schools need to be educated to be citizens who in various ways contribute to their community, people who have critical thinking, question themselves and the world around them with open eyes. There is no functional state without functional citizens, and we are creating functional citizens right through the education system. When a new Education Strategy was adopted by 2030, you, ministers, then said that the focus on education is on the student and the development of his competences, as well as the application of modern approaches, methods and techniques in the education system. We have defined the desired goal for the next period, and have we chosen the right path to go and if we have planned it well we will see, in fact in years ahead of us, when we are educated by this new system by the first generation. What I want to say and remind myself once again is that it is necessary, with mandatory primary education, to become a secondary education. For that, of course, it takes a change of constitution and I believe that it will soon become our reality and obligation. If that doesn't happen, and probably not, in this session, in another I'm sure it's in our best interest that we all go to the point where secondary education becomes mandatory. Let me get this straight. No matter what we do and do in education, education is necessary for the 21st century so that we do not fall into the trap that the most general impression of the quality of education in the general public, and that is what we are all users of the system of education, is the social and school’s horn that ignores personality and promotes obedience and mediocrity, as the famous Duško Radovic wrote and said in time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-23-0.u11808	Thank you. Since we've completed our review of the amendments, I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. Since we have carried out a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, detail and general. We move to the 6th point – Proposal for an amending and supplementing law on secondary education and training. You have received an amendment submitted by the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society on the draft law. You have received a report from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society. Since the National Assembly has carried out a search in principle, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society submitted an amendment to Article 28. The proposer's representative accepted this amendment at the Committee's session. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I find this amendment has become an integral part of the bill. The word has Dr. Ugljesa Mrdić, after the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-23-0.u11809	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, Mr Orlic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister, Mr Ruzic, the prominent representatives of government institutions, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Education, science and technology, respected fellow MPs, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and President Aleksandar Vukic invest a lot in education. We see concrete results here. Just as for the past few years, a lot of pre-school and school institutions have been built in Serbia. Many schools have either been renovated or built, but what makes me particularly happy and what prompted me to report is the news announced by the Serbian government that adopted amendments to the Financial Support Act to families with children. So financial assistance to families for the firstborn child will be 300,000 dinars instead of 100,000 dinars. So 300,000 dinars, three times more than it's ever been before. This best says how many states Serbia, led by Aleksandar Vukic, together with his co-workers in the government of the Republic of Serbia and Prime Minister Ana Brnabic, leads one responsible policy and, in the right sense, leads one policy for the future of our children. Three hundred thousand dinars today, by yesterday, were 100,000 dinars, and how many did the Serbian government give families for the firstborn child until 2012? Much, much, much less, and there were times when she didn't give and when she was late for that help. I can't remember exactly what that data was, but it was a dozen times smaller. I remember in 2014 that aid was about 30,000 dinars, and during Dragan Dilas, Boris Tadic and Vuk Jeremic was even smaller. So that's just saying that the policy of the Serbian government and Alexander Vukic is not only about promises, but also about concrete results. What is said is promised, and what is promised is done. Every family in Serbia is being helped. Also, assistance tomorrow for both the second child and the third child born has been announced that it will also be a great help. This is just saying that the government of the Republic of Serbia and President Vukic are taking care of both citizens and the future of our country. As far as Serbia is leading one responsible policy, not only on education, finance, family, economy, economy, but also on one responsible, regional policy, a foreign-political excellent policy and a policy of safeguarding state and national interests. Who implements this policy of preserving state and national interests? Our President, Alexander Vukitch. Because that is so, because today we have a reaction from the president of the provisional Pristina institutions, Vjose Osmani, who today made it clear that the only problem for independent Kosovo is Aleksandar Vukic. Alexander Vukic is the one who guards the southern Serbian province, Kosovo and Metohija as part of the Republic of Serbia. So, Alexander Vukitch is coming all the way. Serbia is leading the best policy in the area of economy and finance in Europe. It is not just my position and the attitude of us from the Legislative Group Aleksandar Vukic – For our children, it is said by statistical indicators. As for health care and the fight against the coronary virus, and fortunately we have a decline in numbers, we have one of the best policies regarding health and the fight against the coronary virus in Europe. As far as all areas are concerned, because Serbia today is as it should be, except as it is a democratic state, it is a country that implements and manages one responsible policy, and the achievement of state and national interests and the fulfillment of all promises. At the same time, when we say peace and stability in Southeast Europe, when we say peace and stability in the Balkans, we think of it as number one and only Serbia led by Alexander Vukic. Others learn from us. The only free leader in the Balkans and Southeast Europe and almost all over Europe is Aleksandar Vukic, who without any pressure or influence from the outside leads the best policy possible. We have shown that we can work well together with both the East and the West, and with regional forces, both with America and China, and with Russia and with Turkey, and with EU countries and with Arab countries. We are also helping the countries of the former Yugoslavia. We provide everyone with the hand and the hand of friendship and the hand of reconciliation when needed, and therefore we have these results because we look to the future. We look at how to help all citizens of Serbia and our neighbours and wherever we can. Whoever gives the hand of friendship to Serbia, we return it double because Serbia has a regulated system, and a regulated system corresponds to most citizens of Serbia and those who love Serbia, and we hope that Serbia loves the largest number of Serbian citizens, but such an orderly system does not match those who want to destroy the system and destroy the system. My fellow MPs from the parliamentary group spoke well before me and announced to the public how those who wanted to destroy the system, and they had taken it down well by 2012, and wanted to return to power to bring it down again, are Dragan Gilas and his fellow Members. Today the people know the truth. Today, the people clearly see the results. Today, the people for who knows which time understands who is guarding Kosovo and Metohija within Serbia. Today, the people saw who are fighting for all the families in Serbia, who keep their promises, who keep the health of Serbian citizens. It's Alexander Wolf. Who's the main opponent of Alexander Wolfich? Dragan Gilas. Why? Because it bothers him, because he is bothered by all these results that are being discussed today by the representatives of government institutions and my dear fellow MPs. In the end, I want to finish my presentation today with the words of President Aleksandar Vukic - Serbia is leading a responsible policy and because Serbia is leading a responsible policy our economy is growing faster because we are taking care of our children, the future of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-23-0.u11810	Thank you. The word is by MP Viktor Jevtovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-23-0.u11811	I thank you, Chairman of Dr. Orlic. Dear Ministers with Associates, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, esteemed citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I will talk about the amendment to the Capital Market Act on Article 113. After Article 3, a justification for the addition of this Article to Article 4, which would determine what happens to the company if it fails to register on time and all with the aim of raising the company's liability to the highest level of performance of that activity. The law, adopted on 17 November 2011, contained standard solutions that are expected to develop capital more dynamically. At the time of the yellow tycoon company, when everything was devastated and devastated, it was not for wages, pensions, health progress, education, businesses. The better life of the citizens couldn't even dream. According to the unwritten rule, everything was waiting as the young went off with their heads no matter what. It was waiting. Only then were the officials headed by Dragan Gilas not waiting to fill their overseas accounts, and they only did fantastically well, but the people no longer wanted to wait and watch a handful of privileged tycoons enjoy the suffering of the people, the Kabadish, leading their policies of Serbia's devastation and how foreign embassies, assisted by mercenaries, lead the state. That is why the people in the elections clearly said no and went into reform with the Serbian Progressive Party and Aleksandra Vukic. Today, these same manipulators are trying in every way, not choosing the means and methods to stop the country's progress without choice and will, aware of its impotence to the determined policy of progress that Serbia leads to with Alexander Vukic, they want to stop at all costs the progress of the state and return it to the bottom and only lie and speak, but when they should have shown themselves at work, there was nothing left behind but a wasteland, because no one ever thought of that camel led by Gilas, Marinika, Borko, Wolf, that at least they would move their fingers to do anything for the people while they were filling their overseas accounts. Today, many are not entitled to recognise Serbia's success in neither investment, factories, hospitals, the Open Balkans Initiative, the South Stream pipeline, and, primarily, the increase in wages and pensions, which in their time was a mental noun, and today is a factual state. Opening Cluster 4, joining the EU. We've opened 22 chapters, and they've opened none. Except for the bank accounts, they didn't open anything. Only criminal privatisations shut down factories and left 500,000 people out of work. It bothers them hundreds of miles of highways and a budget that is not ten but twelve times larger today than it was during their Kabadiah rule. While praising the most expensive bridge in Europe, on which millions of people have been crushed and sickened and debted to Serbian citizens, they now want to tear down "Belgrade on Water", which is the largest project in the region. While the story of the Green Initiative was not even in the entertainment program, we take care of health, family, children and economic stability. Gilas's tycoon media are constantly brainwashing us, because they were unable to do anything for children, nor for ecology, nor for economy, but only for their own personal interest and are trying today through various environmental organisations headed by Dragan Dilas and his facilitators Dusan Petrovic, Zelenovic and Šut, an imperfect student of dramatic arts and a failed investor, who knocked up money from Austria's Rivervoch, failing to build a mini power plant, now, suddenly, when his job failed, he is fiercely fighting to protect the environment, and he forgot what his mini hydropower plant was called. They were not able to clear the river, but not their own yard. In all this senselessness and unarticulated politics, all their unthinkers condemn themselves to a link just because they think differently, because the essence of the machine's brain, Dragan Gilas, is against everything that is in the interest of Serbian citizens. So there's a brilliant solution to the machine's brain for everyone. The president of Serbia and his family are daily threatened with death, where unfortunately individual environmentalists from the world of film art, with deep pockets and dirty tongues, ladies in the coats of chinchilla, although both for them and for Serbia, it would be much better to deal with art and to focus their energy instead of hating and calling for destruction on the creation of works of art. At least now in the country headed by Alexander Vukic, they have enough money for all their projects, because that same money was provided by the state run by Aleksandar Vukic, no one else, and that serious policy should be left to people who raised Serbia from the ashes and placed it at the top of the list of leading countries in the region. The people see everything. He can't be fooled. That's why the people will clearly say no to the lying-corruption chamber again in April and bring them back to the dump of the past where they only belong. Serbia chooses life, work and progress. Serbia chooses Alexander Vukic and the future for all its children. Long live Serbia!
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-23-0.u11812	Thank you. The word is by MP Nenad Filipovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-23-0.u11813	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Minister Ruzic and his fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, respected citizens, we from Unique Serbia are very pleased that every year more and more funds are being invested in education and we think that this is the right way, especially when we have different infrastructure facilities that have been abandoned for years, and now they're being solved. The second thing is, we're going in step with time, and it's the Internet, that every school, meaning in those border areas, has the Internet, every child that can access a computer or phone that Internet, so that especially at a time when we've seen that we have online teaching, everyone has the same conditions, and that's a good thing that the state and the government of this Republic of Serbia does. However, I would say here and a few things that are evident and in which direction will the Government of the Republic of Serbia, this and the future work, which is that we have more and more technological surpluses in terms of educators, which means that we have fewer and fewer departments, or fewer children. The natal and population policy that will be gained, of course, from year to year increasingly tells us that all the students in that system, which they are not, is not only one part of the system, but the whole system, will have to participate and contribute to progress, because it is in fact the survival of both Serbia and Serbia. Children must not only be numbers, but must be the main pillar of development around which everyone in the system will gather, start with parents, family, educators, teachers, teachers, teachers, professors, local communities and states. As we've heard, from next year, every newborn child will get 300,000 dinars to help, and that's a good thing they're doing in the country, but that's one piece of that puzzle. We start with the next thing, and those are kindergartens. We need to ensure that every child can be enrolled in a private, or in a state kindergarten. The other thing is free schooling. We mean a lot of things here, but one of the things is free textbooks. That's the second level we have to pay attention to. Then we go to quality education. Quality education implies that parents do not have to pay extra lessons to their child to meet those minimum standards of education. If he wants extra lessons, that's already his thing, and yet it means that if we want quality education, I have spoken here several times in this House, and I want to say before you, we should also increase the salaries to the educators, because education workers have salaries that are less than the republican average right now, and since the salaries in this year ahead will increase 7%, as well as educational workers, but since we plan to make 610 euros an average salary, that means that there will be much greater imbalance between that salary of educational workers and even the average salary in Serbia. Another segment for this natal policy is the local self-government that needs to be turned on as much as possible, because our children, if they go through the mud and come home at night, and they're not lit streets, we have to think about their safety as well. Also, in every village, there must be playgrounds for children, not children playing in the streets, etc. These are all some of the elements that are important to this naturalist, or population policy. I would also say that it is one of the characteristics of this policy and that it is not known which elements give the best results and therefore must be experimented, and these experiments are not, ladies and gentlemen, measured for days, months, for years, and that is why we have to rely on what is already working. So that's how it works by looking at local self-governments that have a growing number of departments every year compared to the previous year and such local self-governments have made some effort and result. One of those local self-government is Jagodina where every year we have an increasing number of departments where students are enrolled champions. This means that the natal policy led by JS President Dragan Markovic Palm since 2004, as a politician and in the 1990s when he started as a businessman, gave some results and we must all appreciate these results and we must all unite and respect each other about such results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-23-0.u11814	Thank you. Since we've completed our review of the amendment, I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide on the bill in the voting day. We move to the 12th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Change and Complementary of the Law on Electric Media You have received the amendment submitted jointly by Parliamentarians Marijan Rističević and Đorđe Komlenski on the proposal of the law. You have received a report from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Culture and Information, as well as the Government's opinion on the table of amendments. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. National MPs Marijan Risticevic and Djordje Komlenski submitted to the 1st amendment. Does the promoter want a word? The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-23-0.u11815	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the amendment refers to the influence of cross-border television, the electoral process and political opportunities in Serbia. In fact, Mr Komlenski and I believe that foreign countries should not be allowed through their media to interfere with the electoral process and run an election campaign and broadcast propaganda electoral messages on their media re-emissioning in Serbia's territory, that is, violate the country's sovereignty and can significantly influence vote schedules in the Republic of Serbia. No sovereign country, in my opinion, would allow it, and I appreciate that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which I was holding, wants in some way to please the opposition, to allow them to be here with us in parliament. In my opinion, it is not an army, the mandatory service of a military term that someone must be in parliament and that we must make concessions on this matter so that they can run in the elections and no longer boycott the elections, and I think that citizens will greatly boycott their electoral lists. I've already explained the incredible phenomena that we've allowed for tolerance towards the opposition, to call it that, that unregistered political parties who receive money from abroad, so-called. NGOs. I call it anti-government organizations, which, unlike political parties that require 10,000 signatures, form so-called. movements, NGOs. The movement register doesn't exist. There is a Register of Associations of Citizens, Sports Organisations and they register in the APR, the Agency for Business Registers as Associations, and appear in the elections, receiving donations from abroad. This is not allowed by political parties, and such NGOs are allowed to participate in the elections, despite outside funding. Previously, they participate in roadblocks, international roads, bridges, etc., creating an ambience before elections that are not suitable for political parties, whether they are registered or not. However, we have unregistered political parties protesting at undeclared gatherings, which are held on international highways, bridges, etc., without any criminal responsibility because the drem prosecution does not file appropriate criminal charges against those who block freedom of movement mainly or entirely. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, from these unreported gatherings organised by unregistered political parties, report unregistered in Serbia television channels owned by Solak and Gilas, United Group channels, United Media that go to SBB, SBB operator, Total and EON. These are television channels that are fictitiously registered in Luxembourg and which do not broadcast the programme in Luxembourg, but are being created in Belgrade, the workforce is from Belgrade, such programs are reportedly packed in Slovenia after their recognition and video signal is being sent to Serbia, which is not re-emissioning. Re-emission means the takeover of a media service to the general public that is not available in Luxembourg. So, such channels want to get seriously involved in election processes, and let me remind you that I am N1 and "New S", that there are thirty more channels owned by United Media that can broadcast a bunch of propaganda messages in the election process without any control, because they are not according to REM jurisdiction, which is contrary to the Electronic Media Act, which allowed such programmes to be broadcast allegedly, although there is no initial broadcasting. The convention on cross-border television, even if it broadcasts a programme in Luxembourg, would not again be able to re-transmit in Serbia, as the Convention on Cross-border Television, Article 24. "bis" says that media services from abroad cannot be fully or mainly for the state of reception, as this is considered to be abuse of law for avoiding the jurisdiction of the state in which the programme is re-emissioned, where a signal is received. Despite all these legal provisions, REM is probably taking a nap, there is no activity to prevent such illegal activity. We can expect foreign media who are allegedly re-emitting the programme to appear here and to be engaged in an election campaign for 24 hours and thus without any jurisdiction we cannot do anything because the Law on Electronic Media, the Convention on Transboundary Television and the Law on Advertising, Article 27, which says that the propaganda message must be an integral part of the original programme and that they cannot be re-entered afterwards, and since the original programme is not in Luxembourg, which has been answered by the Luxembourg regulator, means we cannot insert such advertising messages because they are being inserted into Belgrade. There is a program and it is produced and reportedly only by video signal to Slovenia and back. It's not re-emissioning, because re-emissioning is taking over the media service completely, simultaneously without changes, termination. So, I believe that because of the opposition's discount, for who knows which time, the ruling majority will give in, they will not be allowed to go to elections and we can expect in these elections anything. I can't agree to the country's sovereignty being violated, and that's why I suggested, along with my colleague Komlenski, this amendment. But to make the situation even more comical, you all know who Rade Veljanovski is? That's the one who welcomed RTS reporters with a stick on October 5th. It is a member of the city committee, so Comrade Veljanovski, a member of the city committee, according to Radovan III. Another member, in order for that to be, what, the red library, means the most rigid part when Communism was, he was a member of the city committee. So when the communists got in a fight, he was no longer a member of the city committee and stopped being the editor of Radio Belgrade, and he was thanks to being a member of the City Committee. Now, this Rade Veljanovski, in that famous dialogue, said he could do it from Luxembourg without broadcasting to re-air the programme in Serbia, because here, my God, the Convention on Cross-border Television allows it. And he represented it there. To my question why cross-border channels are called when it can be so that without broadcasting, it was not clear to the end, but it represented the view that from Luxembourg, a fictitious television that does not broadcast there can re-emission the programme here, in fact, it produces it in Belgrade and it is intended for the state of Serbia, which is also prohibited by the Convention, I said, Article 24, by which commercials, Article 27, and every day 200 thousand seconds are inserted. Only two euros each is 400,000 euros. This is the income that was taken from domestic registered media, because these televisions registered in Luxembourg are not registered here because they allegedly re-emission the programme, but therefore do not have the right to participate in the marketing market in the Republic of Serbia, which they do and damage domestic media. When you damage the domestic media, you have an important influence on the freedom of the media, and by breaking the laws, they are doing exactly what they are nagging us that there is not enough rule of law. What this Rade Veljanovski said could be re-emissioned from Luxembourg without broadcasting in the country of origin and could be completely not only in Serbian, but intended for the content market of the Republic of Serbia. It was recently registered in ReM TV "Rasa Tudej" in German in Serbia, registered. Now, according to this convention, it has the right to re-emission in Europe, meaning Germany, but it is a global network, television such as SNN, which does not intend to be substantively defined only for Germany, but has only the intention of making what it broadcasts is available in German, as in the global network, and Germany. Look at the wonders. Rade Veljanovski woke up. Despite the fact that the television channel in Serbia will not be content, exclusively for the German market, broadcast the programme, will be in German, but will not deal with the economy, the market, political opportunities, exclusively in Germany, will not attack Šolc, will not attack the ruling coalition, will not weigh the opposition, etc., all that those Luxembourgians are doing, as Rade Veljanovski said was allowed. So, this member of the city committee, this great democratic potential, I think that he, a colleague of Martinovic, in Germany, would be forbidden to deal with any social and political activity, because he was a member of the Rigid City Committee and it is not tolerated in Eastern European countries that have become democratic. Now, what does Rade Veljanovski say about the appearance of "Rasha Tudey"? In Serbia, who intends to broadcast a programme in Serbia, namely that it is re-emissioning on the European market, namely Germany, but again, the programme, unlike Luxembourg, is not intended exclusively for Germany, nor is it reaching the German government or the opposition, does not make pre-election videos, does not broadcast, is not engaged in a pre-election campaign in Germany, but this is the only global network that wants to be available in German as SNN, which is available to us, BBC etc., real cross-border channels. What does Rade Veljanovski, a famous member of the city committee, say, another member? He says this, if Russian television is not broadcast in the German language in Serbia, then REM should not have issued any permission. There's no doubt that it's a manipulative, bypassing path to appear where they want and have an interest, and to bypass certain regulations. Look, please. Watch how it came to your senses. It can, it is not manipulative, although it deals exclusively with our market, and those who only want to be available in the existing software content in German, and I repeat, do not engage in election campaigns in Germany, do not deal with ruling, opposition parties or leaders, behold, this is Russian manipulation, and that from Luxembourg, Šolakovo and Gilasovo is a great thing. It can't, this can't. So we have two other Villanowskis, so one that says he can do it, and the other one that says he can't do it in a mild way, so it's obvious that he's rooting for strangers. It is also obvious that the opposition's representative along with REM is in that surveillance body. It is obvious that another committee member's intention to significantly influence the ruling majority with this programme, namely to influence the political opportunities and results of the elections in Serbia. Therefore, Mr Komlenski's amendment and my smallities were tabled, first of all, to prevent such manipulation coming from Luxembourg and to be seen as making trouble at these famous demonstrations and blockades in Serbia and it is not difficult to conclude that it is the media sponsor of all the riots in Serbia and that in a certain way propagates this type of activity and not only reports from these unregistered meetings, unregistered political parties, but also actively participates in these demonstrations. So I have proposed this amendment and I understand that some colleagues will not vote, I would like to adopt, but I have understanding of the permissiveness of the ruling majority towards these unregistered political parties, boycotters, blockers, locators, etc. and I understand that the country is in a difficult situation and that sometimes they have to close their eyes, but I recommend that we don't close our eyes and recommend to the prosecutor, and we have filed criminal charges against this kind of activity from Luxembourg that according to the Law on Electronic Media, the Law on Advertising, the Law on the Protection of Competition and the Convention on Transboundary Television take criminal action to process the people of the United Group, United Media, the Darak Media, the Time of the Media, and as they are called from the School and Gilas' media. Imagine Gilas owning the media again. How can a politician own the media? They're allowed to do anything. We're not allowed to comment on that either. I recommend the D.A.'s office to carefully read all these laws, take the necessary measures, and I understand if you don't want to support the amendment, but I'm just warning you what's next, what we're going to give them. I've already spoken to the Justice Committee, since the prosecution has not done its job, the criminal courts, etc., have not been able to interfere and prevent freedom of movement, have initiated a procedure for which a year of imprisonment has been scheduled, have not done so, I can see that even the criminal courts have not applied the provision of Article 98. The traffic safety law on the roads that it says – every foot that gets on the highway will be fined up to 40,000 dinars or 30 days in prison, and those fines of 5,000 dinars, they would, you know, what would happen to them in Germany, Belgium, Luxembourg? In Luxembourg, no news was on these TVs. In Luxembourg, NGOs shared the shampoos of their NGOs, followed by Belgian, called the Belgian and Luxembourg police and water cannons, these were ours, bathed them, arrested them, and so bathed Mardela, which is why we signed the Convention, which is why we asked for a resolution here in the Assembly, it has not been 15 days, and you will also vote on this, a resolution on the excessive force applied to the protesters in the EU when they found without a single pendejo in Serbia, saying that our police have used excessive force. So I'm warning you only what's next that they'll think is allowed. All they have left to do is take the rocket launchers, take the sages, the axes and the kalashnikovs, and that's all that's left to apply to us, and that's not off either, since that famous director wants the shooting. I got a few dozen threatening messages and that shooting like Ceauseski, even a picture, but I don't intend to report it, because once I reported it, I had to go to the hearing three times and then nothing, he says -- the threat was sent from Brazil, I don't know what, so the unsub can't be found. I have an understanding for everyone, but be careful not to allow excessive violations of the laws, but I have an understanding of the situation in which the country and colleagues understand the situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-23-0.u11816	Thank you for your extraordinary explanation. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-23-0.u11817	I thank the chairman. Dear guests from the ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will look a little differently at the amendment tabled by my colleague Marijan Risticevic on the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Electronic Media. Namely, I'll read you an article – the snowstorms are a real mess. Hundreds of thousands of people without electricity. If you are under the influence of various tycoon media, precisely those media reported by counterpart Risticevic, you would think this applies to Serbia. I won't blame you, but I'll have to disappoint you. This applies to Europe, Canada and America. I will also read you the text – snowstorms continue to cause traffic problems around the world and major power supply disturbances, and California's last hit. After the first snowflakes, residents of California were warned to prepare for the days of heavy and snowfall, especially in mountainous areas. With no electricity, several tens of thousands of people, or households, were left because of the snow. In previous days, a strong storm struck Canada where more than 280 thousand people were left without electricity in southern Ontario. In Europe at the end of last week, snow caused a traffic collapse in Austria with injured people, while parts of Slovenia ran out of electricity, and heavy snowfalls affecting all of Austria caused major traffic problems. Due to the snowfall, electricity supply in certain parts of Koruska and Styria has been cut off. Another piece of information. Previously on Great Britain, some 30,000 people in Scotland and North England lost power for nearly a week because of snowfalls. Why did I read all this? Because today, when we discuss both electronic media and public media services, it is an ideal opportunity to touch the way electronic media is reporting. So, we have a situation as we have seen in which the snow and imagine it in December made serious problems almost everywhere in the world, from America, Canada over most of Europe, as every year so far, but only in Serbia have an attempt to make it a political topic of a couple of excellencies. Only in Serbia. In Serbia alone, there are media that have written and reported an incredible amount of weakness. In Serbia alone, there are media that have been most keenly looking forward to difficult traffic, due to interruptions in electricity supply. In Serbia alone, there are media that have openly liquefied over the fact that there has been a slowdown in the supply of electricity. You guess, these are Gilas, Solak Media, N1, News Max Adria, Nova, Today, Directly, etc. So for days you couldn't live off their joy, so these are your headlines, these are articles, they're shows, they're debates, they're round tables, they're experts, they're all experts. They are mostly the same as environmental experts, and, where appropriate, experts from the field of electricity supply. Well, the way it's supposed to be, they're one thing today, tomorrow they're the other. I have not noticed in any country that their media is looking forward and party is being made because of the fact that someone has run out of power or that traffic has been difficult, although it has been far more difficult for all of those countries that I have listed, as I have not noticed, the truth is that in other countries, a political topic is being created, but I have also not noticed that another president has taken the way that Alexander Vucic has carried out, that he quickly responds, calls for a complete state summit, sees all the new problems and a rapid reaction, lightning reaction starts to eliminate problems, and as soon as possible, the state is stabilized, the current has arrived, the roads are cleared, the system works. The responsible suffer the consequences and life goes on. No, we don't need your gratitude either, we don't need a confession, we don't need any of that. But what citizens need is for you to finally stop being a propaganda service to Gilas's company, to stop running a twenty-four-hour campaign seven days a week against Alexander Vukic and SNS, to stop looking forward to any elemental accident that affects Serbia, to stop wanting to break a water pipe somewhere, or to lose power somewhere, to stop any possible topic, and also to use snow for a daily political purpose, to try to do political damage to Alexander Vukic, because it's a waste, it's not working out for you, it's not helping you. He knows the people who are trying and who is 24 hours in the position of that same people. Is there ever a mistake? Well, of course it is. Well, in which system there's never been a mistake, but it's important that citizens know who works hard, who struggles day and night for their interests, and who on the side is kibbling, throws, and tries to criticize. So, the man's fame was not celebrated by Aleksandar Vukic, president of Serbia. He was in Kostolc with the miners for his glory. So, in one word, you need to stop acting on the pattern that's worse for Serbia, it's better for you, because in practice it has proved that the better Serbia, the worse it is for you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-23-0.u11818	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-23-0.u11819	I thank the chairman, who as well as colleagues who spoke before me and Mr. Markovic and Mr. Risticevic, all these things they said were quite accurate. The bottom line is that we, like most people and as people who have received the maximum support of the people in the previous elections, have, with a dose of tolerance, found the possibility of providing places for people who don't think the same as most, but something different. It means that we as people are ready to talk, for tolerance, we are ready at any time to hear something different, but just because it's different doesn't mean it's bad. I think the positive things are when you say, let's say, some things that are in the middle of things like Svrlig, the White Palanka, don't need to be fixed, you need to hear that voice, so within that voice we all need to solve these things together tomorrow. But if in every place we want to insult, to spit on what is done, the results are visible, new roads, new streets, new jobs, new infirmarys, new homes of health, new schools are seen in each part of Serbia. These are all things that are good for everyone. If what we're doing and what we're doing bothers someone, what they say to a colleague before, that it's better for us, I'd always want it, but somebody wants something bad to happen to us, so it stays that way. Well, gentlemen, we don't want it that way, so we won't. We here from this place and in the next period will continue to work for every citizen, for every village, so whether it is a village in eastern Serbia, whether it is a village in Svrljag, Knjižvac, Majdanpek, Bora, Negotina, whether it is a village in Prepolje, Tutin, whether it is a village near Sudotica, or a village near Belgrade or Belgrade itself. We want to help every man to get what he didn't have so far, but on the other hand, we normally want to talk about it, and we showed it in these previous months when we talked and where, with the support and representatives of the EU, we have had certain results that have now been translated into legislation. I will once again point out that we as people who represent certain political organisations here, I am the President of the United Peasants' Party, that we have the opportunity to get from the Assembly's pay phone here and here, but normally on television, on public service, that we can bring out certain things that concern life in our country, let's say in southeast Serbia. We don't have access to the work because the simply great need is to hear every man. So some places when these public debates are held, those places are occupied by some people, who have neither, nor two, let alone three voices. I respect that, it's a difference. We want these people to be heard too, no matter what no one supports them. Dear colleagues, I think our country, our president and we are doing our best here, and so we must continue. All those who don't think the same way we do, we want to give them what they want to say, but the final word will be given by our people, will be given by the citizens of our Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-23-0.u11820	Thank you, Mr. Miletic. The word is made by MP Borisav Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-23-0.u11821	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members and fellow Members, Mr. Minister and your associates, I am on this subject, as we all did yesterday, at those points when we discussed REM and the media, listened, if you remember, to a heated debate. Yesterday I received a very good discussion from Mr. Risticevic, and he did a lot of things today. I'd like to say something about this, which I think we didn't catch yesterday, and today when it comes to the media together and electronically and printed, etc. We have a situation that the media has multiplied in recent years, especially I think it's electronic. We have strong attempts and efforts in the country, all of us here every day saying, that opposition or call the opposition, using these media and, since in a large number of media owners, that on that line, I would say globally not to detail, make huge and possibly very big damages to society's divisions tomorrow. On the other hand, we have something we didn't mention here. I remind you, remember the national security strategy where it is said, among other things, in the end, and who are the bearers of these strategies and national security systems, so the military along with many other structures of the institution are placed barbarians, shoulders and media. I also, when we were bringing that strategy, if you remember here in the Assembly, talked about the fact that when it comes to the media and the role of the safety and security system bearer, that we must be very restrictive. We can't take the mass media as safety carriers. On the contrary, they are very used, as we see here now, very much used to break the security system and weaken security in this country. Now let's remind ourselves of something else. Some big countries in the world, I'm not going to, since this is being broadcast publicly, I'm not going out with any details, but I'm going to finally propose something. Some countries, or their intelligence services, are known to have downed several hundred regimes in the world so far. A negligible small number of those regimes that have been shot down by the assassination, or otherwise, by the president of the state. They shot down everything just leading the way, leading the situation, primarily through the media and the agent network to divide the country and to bring civil war or other kinds of regimes to a standstill in the country. I ask you not to forget that these states and these services have never given up and that what is growing in our country can be erased tomorrow, and it has already been wiped out, and it can happen that they are escalating in that direction. For that reason, I suggest... I'm just asking my colleagues not to hit the story, because I think I'm going to suggest something that we haven't mentioned before. I suggest that we also agree here in the Assembly to go very studioly, profoundly and broadly into reviewing our entire security system. I can't stand here right now, I suggest that the government determines by it and then determine the format in which all these things will be discussed, because I think that only such system reconstruction, both human and organisational, and in any other way, can we do the most of these ways to stop this trend, which Mr. Risticevic and many of you have talked about both yesterday and earlier, which we have in the country. No one can do me, since I've spent my entire working life on these jobs, but no one can convince me that what they're doing and here in the Assembly every day we mention from Gilas and beyond, all that they're doing, that they're doing it out of their minds. I'm willing to sacrifice everything for a bet that's not the case. Someone on the outside dictates and conducts. The question is how many of us, with the current organization and the setup and the national security system bearers and everything else, are able to track and find intelligence services behind all these moves that reflect us here, but we need to reorganize ourselves so that it comes to this. Remember, since the 1990s, there have been conditions in this country that have never existed since the First World War, and so we say, there have been conditions for the easiest possible agent work of foreign intelligence services and that in that period there has been a number of large structures of foreign intelligence that certainly do not sit outside the country, but there are plenty of inside the country. That's what we need to find. We need to clear this up. We need to see who's behind it. It's the only way we can stop this trend that's going on right now. Here, I don't want any more. I'm sorry I couldn't have been more open, but if we start doing it, then I'll get involved, but I think we need to make an initiative for the government as soon as possible, so the government can sit down, determine according to this idea whether we're going to go into it or not, so let's see what we do. Otherwise, talking like this about what's already at work, there's no success. We need to intercept things. We need to find out, and we have our services and security and intelligence ahead of everyone else, including everyone else. We need to find out things before they do, to stop them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-23-0.u11822	Thank you, Mr. Kovacevic. Since we've completed our review of the amendment, I'm concluding a search of the bill, in particular. Since we have conducted a review of the draft law in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide in the voting day on the draft law in principle, on the amendment table and on the draft law in general. We move on to the 7th item of the agenda – Proposal for a LAW ON CAPITAL MARKET. You have received amendments submitted by MP Zoran Tomic on the bill. You have received reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds, as well as the Government's opinion on the submission of amendments. Since the National Assembly has carried out a principle search, pursuant to Article 157(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I'm opening a review of the draft law in particular. The amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Tomic to Article 113. The government and the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending have adopted the amendment, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives considers that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I realize that this amendment has become an integral part of the draft law. The word of the People's Messenger is Adam Shukalo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-23-0.u11823	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister Sinisha Mali, the distinguished fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, here are a few things that in this discussion will primarily tend to unite and previous discussions that we have had under these amendments, but in any case here are two sentences just to say about the capital market. I believe that the regulated capital market in the Republic of Serbia is, in any case, giving any other predisposition to finance, budgetary and any other stability of the Republic of Serbia, as well as its overall development. I think that this area is fully and well arranged in the Republic of Serbia, and in any case these are things that we don't have to take too seriously. However, given that I have applied to the previous amendment where the amendment of Mr Risticevic concerning electronic media has been discussed, I wanted to say, given that so far I have not had the opportunity to say a few things about electronic media these days, so I must also say in certain written media and general media, and it is primarily about the attack on our, in my opinion, the most important national company, which is the "Telecom" of the Republic of Serbia. The continued campaign aims and a strategy to bring down, above all, business and position not only on the regional but also on the international market, in terms of providing services and all that the "Telecom" of the Republic of Serbia is doing. It aims to break the "Telecom" of the Republic of Serbia in the way it was already known in the previous time period, and the breaking of "Telecom Serbia" went primarily in the context of the functioning of the former regime and above all Dragan Gilas, who through his several multiflex companies, which were founded in both Serbia and the region, repeatedly robbed both the parent "Telecom" of the Republic of Serbia and the daughter of the company "Mtel" Montenegro and "Mtel" of Republika Srpska. However, what is important in all of this is to say that these attacks that have taken place these days, and I see that they are repeated in continuity, that yesterday Marinika Tepic was given her homework again, apparently because she has a dual role, we know her as someone from the world of politics, but the public of the Republic of Serbia does not know enough that she is employed by Dragan Gilas, whose companies are in the context of the United Group are opposed to the market "Telecom" of the Republic of Serbia, and the attack on "Telecom" of the Republic of Serbia, "Telecom" of Republika Srpska or "Telecom" of Montenegro are going in that direction, which means to strengthen the potential position of competing companies or competing media firms for whose story and everything else is done by Marinika Tepic. In that context, I'd like to point out a few things in particular. I consider attacks on the director of Telecom, Mr. Lučić, as well as on MTL BiH Director Elena Trivan is heading in that direction and being attached to the fact that a more concrete attack would be designed to cause direct damage to the "Telecom" of the Republic of Serbia and its position. What they hope to regain power in some of their parallel universes, so that the parent company "Telecom" of the Republic of Serbia robs both here and in the region. What the public of the Republic of Serbia doesn't know enough, and apparently these are the kind of attacks they want to emulate, given the prosecution we discussed today, which we're going to vote on today, they're not doing their job in the context of research by all the companies in the region that are related to the parent company of Dragan Gilas. I can talk a lot about companies dear Gilas has in BiH, more specifically in Republika Srpska. For dozens and dozens of jobs, not only in the media area but, above all, setting up a different network in the context of digitisation and everything else, it has a whole range of companies that serve exclusively to extract money from the "Telecom" of the Republic of Serbia, including "Telecoma" of Republika Srpska and "Telecoma" of Montenegro. He must have been doing it for at least a decade. Of course, when you stop that funding source that you are filling in millions of amounts, that you are frustrated, that your only desire and political platform to return to power, and the position you will get, they are not interested in many positions, state, mayoral, they are interested in positions where they will be able to continue their business in the context of a story that implies that they extract public funds from our most important public enterprises, first of all, from our most important national company, which is Telekom Serbia. In that context, I also mean attacks on Jelena Trivan in her role as director of the Serbian Film Centre, by Goran Markovic, who was just instructed on this side, for a simple reason, because these attacks, however much they were not explained why. I want this opportunity to say a few things that are extremely important to this matter. Serbia's film centre refused to screen the film Goran Markovic for a simple reason, I fully justify that fact, because the film's scenario was meant to humiliate the entire Serbian people in the region, above all in Republika Srpska, mocking through the scenario of the first president of Republika Srpska, Dr Radovan Karadzic, and the overall struggle of Republika Srpska's people in the context of the creation of Republika Srpska. By putting in a certain fragment, I should say, in the context of everything that Dr Radovan Karadzic had experienced and the persecution that he had in the post-war period and everything else, in the context of such an ugly moment, which is described in this scenario as going in this direction to introduce Dr Radovan Karadzic as someone who was hiding the BIA, led him, neither I, women, to some situation that is shameful, and to make such a film and to finance it from Serbia's budget, i.e. Serbia's Film Centre, and to pay for all Serbian citizens. That is how they put pressure on the institutions of the Republic of Serbia in the context of what they really want because they disgust everything that is Serbian. Here's how disgusted they are, maybe you'd best describe a sentence in an interview, since I'm following all the media, and I especially like to follow the media that are from this concert, the multiples of Gilas, the Schools that finance, and their weeklys. Among other things, in one of these Sundays, so as not to particularly advertise them, Goran Markovic, who has now become a star, says of Serbia today – Serbia today, I quote Goran Markovic – today's Serbia was created by the collapse of Yugoslavia, with no joy or ideal. She's a dwarf of a former country. This is how Goran Markovic experiences the Republic of Serbia. I also love "The National Class" Goran Markovic and I am a normal man and we all looked forward to these films and "Masters, Masters" and "The Collective Centre" and "Variola Vera", but I don't like "Turney". I don't like "Turkey" because she humiliated every normal Serb in Republika Srpska, in Krajina and introduced us there in that film that was funded by the former government, like some savages, like some other people, etc. What is Goran Markovic's valuable opus towards refugees who have found their home from BiH, Croatia, from KIM, here in central Serbia, Vojvodina, perhaps the best talk about his interview where he wrote about refugees in the following way, so he says – I look at their views, bitter views, I listen to the scarce dictionary, which is expressed, I notice speech defects, which become a new style of communication. Thus, Goran Markovic experiences all Serbs who were not born on Dorćol or Vrakar, who is being courted and tried in a certain way to impose this valuable form as dominant. What is crucial in all this, and what is telling all those who are telling those who support these violent insults, threats and shame, which Goran Markovic has directed towards Jelena Trivan, and above all to the President of the Republic of Serbia, that they may read something about the scenario for which this avalanche and a series of insults have been launched, which are headed towards the President of the Republic of Serbia, which is that he has not received the money, that he can do what he wants and now I need, is to separate the money from the budget, to spit on our people, in his history, in his own struggle, so that he will be satisfied and to keep quiet. We will never agree to such blackmails and insults, regardless of what it means tomorrow when he does an interview in one of the weekdays, he will go out on some ecological quasi protests, not in an interview that has six or seven pages, mention any topic about environmentalism, but will spit on our national identity, in history, and anyone who wants to preserve it, upgrade and do something important for everything that is a memory culture, etc. So, let's separate things that are important in all of this, let's call things a real name, we'll never let certain things go the way that minority, minority, I don't know what I'd call them, who are trying aggressive campaign, along with the channels of communication, that are presented through this multiple company of Dragan Gilas, the School, press all of us and that we're withdrawing, because they're more aggressive. With us there is no aggression, there is reason, there is national dignity, there is our proud history, there is our KIM, there is our Republika Srpska, there is our people who live in the region, with an honorable history and an honorable role, and we will never comply with these pressures. I recommend that Goran Markovic, and all his followers who call him these days, read the tweet of his daughter Radovan Karadzic, who is vice president of the National Assembly of Republika Srpska, Dr. Sonja Karadzic, what she said about the script and what she said about Goran Markovic himself.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-23-0.u11824	Thank you, Mr. Schukal. The next is MP Vladica Maricic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-23-0.u11825	Thank you, President-in-Office, honourable Minister Mali, distinguished fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, now discussing the amendment, two amendments submitted by counterpart Zoran Tomic to the Capital Market Act, which is an extremely high-quality law, which continues to reform, accelerates, makes the dynamic and better capital market, and the two amendments that counterpart Zoran Tomic submitted further improves the law, which, as a government proposal, was extremely good. All of this shows the quality of our legislative procedure, which includes the government as a proposing, our MPs as potential amendment applicants, the debate in principle, the debate on committees. I would also refer to educational laws that were recently spoken of, or amendments that were submitted to educational laws. On Tuesday, a set of laws reforming our education system was discussed, today on amendments, and all of this shows how much this country has studiedly accessed the reform of each segment, a concrete reform of education. So the most important thing here is the introduction of a state degree as a capital project in reforming our education, which should further determine the path and fate of a generation of students. Of course, we approach this in detail, and we carefully reform the system, so that for those entering the education system, whether it is basic, school, high school, it is less stressful or more predictable. That wasn't the case before. Those of us who were younger and who were then educated, but also those who followed the education system know that the reform of education started there in 2000 and that the five-eyed people entered this reform purely because of the reform, the aim of the reform was not known, it was known that a valid system of education which was good but which did not meet the objectives of the state they wanted to establish after 5 October 2000. They, of course, didn't reform the system according to the needs of the economy, we'll remember that at that time the economy was almost and it wasn't, the little economy that was lagging behind after the sanctions of the 1990s, they destroyed their looting, burassing privatisations. The real reforms of the state system, which stemmed from economic and fiscal reforms, began in fact only in 2014, when President Aleksandar Vukic became Prime Minister. It came from economic reforms, to be accompanied by all other social reforms of all systems, including education systems in our country. That's when we started reforming the education system. The first thing that was seen as a problem is the catastrophic state in which our schools were located after decades of neglect and neglect. Many schools still had Polish toilets, and those who had classic toilets were extremely messy and dysfunctional. Then they started to invest in the reconstruction of these schools, in the reconstruction of the toilets, and someone from the opposition wanted to say that Aleksandar Vukic was the president of the government for the toilets, which he was ready to welcome and answered that he was the Prime Minister for Clean, Clean and Re-edited toilets, unlike all those who had led this country before him, the president, prime minister, ministers, who were actually prime ministers for the messy toilets, prime ministers for the Polish toilets. A decade ago, when President Aleksandar Vukic visited the Nisav Management District, specifically in Raznje, he said that since 2014 the state has invested in the reconstruction of 181 schools. If we know that there are 169 units of local self-government in Serbia, it is at least one reconstructed school per unit of local self-government. I am returning to that visit again by President Alexander Vukic, who was three days in the middle of this month, the Nisaw Management District. Last week I talked more about visiting Nis, now I would like to visit two small municipalities, specifically the municipality of Razanj and Doljevac municipality, and it is about the reconstruction of schools in those cities. The first phase of reconstruction of the primary school was completed in Raznje, which before the reconstruction, as the president noticed, looked creepy. Now there are smiles on the faces of children, the school looks much better and enters the second stage of reconstruction. The second municipality visited by the president is Doljevac municipality. There he visited a reconstructed public library building with a concert hall. The president of the municipality of Doljevac, Mr. Goran Ljubic, is ready to go out with projects for the reconstruction of the elementary school in Doljevac and the construction of a missing water and sewerage network, which President Vukic, of course, immediately approved. It is one million euros for the reconstruction of the school and six and a half million euros for the construction of a lacking water and sewerage network, which in fact sent a clear message to all citizens of Serbia, both those living in large cities and those living in small municipalities, that the speed of development of these sites depends solely on local self-government and preparedness to come out with ready projects, and that the state has money and that the state is ready to invest in every municipality, in every city, in every village in Serbia. The problems of small places we know are different from the problems of us coming from the big cities. They often face a lack of infrastructure, perhaps permanent schools and, of course, a lack of jobs. In Raznje, President Vukic promised to open the plant of the dedicated industry, just as it did in Kursumlia. In many small places where infrastructure is missing, it's impossible to find a larger investor, a private foreign company to invest there. The state sends a clear message that even these people will not remain at large, that state investments are coming there, that state factories are opening up there. As we have today production of Lazar and Milos fighting vehicles in Kursumlia, so soon in Raznja, a small town in the Nisavska Management District, we will have production of the dedicated industry, a particular drive, meaning Serbian dedicated industries, a concerted Serbian dedicated industry. An important segment in reforming our education system is the introduction of dual education, followed by President Aleksandar Vukic. That dual education already shows good results. Students can easily find jobs in industry after finishing high school, where they attended certain dual education modules. Of course, dual education couldn't have been introduced for these reasons in 2000, 2004, because we didn't have an industry at the time, then the school served to educate staff for the labour market in that negative sense, for the work bureau. Today, we are studying personnel for the labour market in a positive way, so that these personnel can immediately after school or completed studies to find a job and apply what they learned during school. The very crown of linking the education system to the economy is science and technology parks. There are currently four in Serbia -- Nis, Cačak, Belgrade and Novi Sad. Serbia will not stop at that. The plan is to build new scientific and technological parks and further integrate the education system with the economy. In voting day, at the beginning of the speech, I said, as well as the Government of the Republic of Serbia, I will support amendments to the Capital Market Act submitted by my colleague Zoran Tomic, as well as amendments to the educational laws tabled by the Education Committee, of course, as well as my colleagues from the parliamentary group "Alexander Vukic – To our children". Long live Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-23-0.u11826	Thank you, Mr. Maricic. The word has been made by the MP, Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-23-0.u11827	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Minister Mali, it is not absolutely an accident that today we are talking about these topics, what we have and what we are exposed to as a state of enormous pressure on geopoliticals, in terms of our country's international position. It is no accident, Minister Mali, that you are also the subject of a brutal multi-year campaign, since you are a man who is in one real, good and quality way, I must point out that you have followed the policy and vision of President Alexander Vukic and led this country to be champions of economic growth this year. I guess that's something to define, in fact, by which Serbian citizens are assigned when it comes to assessing who leads this country in the right way, who has the right vision, who is the leader, and not because a small number of people in the circle define themselves and he defines himself as the only court who is of quality, who is good, who is capable of managing the state and who is able to manage the budget. You, Minister Mali, have proved it. You have also shown yourself during the Kovid crisis, you have also shown yourself in a postcaved period and of course in the coming period you will also have the support of us and our President Alexander Vukic as long as you have such results that affect the improvement and the standard of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. As long as we keep track of the results concerning strengthening and speeding up the business environment in our country, the acceleration and attractiveness of our country in terms of both foreign direct investment and domestic investment, we will, of course, fight and we will not be silent, as my esteemed colleagues have spoken throughout the day, on all those and charges and on all those attacks that have been going on in a brutal and continuous manner for several years just and solely because they have the sole goal of reaching the budget, to get the money. In that sense, and in their intention, the only major obstacle and interference is Aleksandar Vucic, who has led to this country being and becoming a modern state in just a few years, economically strong, militaryly strong and respectable, which all possible partners with all the world's meridians respect, and this also shows that Serbia today has investments from all parts of the world, that it, what is most important in foreign policy, what President Vucic has managed to make of our country, is one reliable partner. Of course, I must also look back on the amendment of my distinguished colleague Marijan Rističević, who has been making a lot of trouble and annoying you for a long time. Other Serbians, the so-called Democraticists, democratic order, freedom of the media, freedom of speech, economic freedom, as if that were the case with SNS and Alexander Vukic for the past few years have not been the most established for Serbia, because during the SNS we have the greatest economic freedom, because we would not invest people and not invest companies from America, Russia, China, Germany, Italy, from many, many countries in the world that there are no economic freedoms here in Serbia, that Serbia is not a stable state and that it is not a country where business can be predicted and in which we can predict what will happen in the next few years and this thanks to the fact that we have at the head of a country of man, a leader who knows what a state, who knows how to protect vital national interests. Marijan Risticevic talked about it many times, I have to admit, not just now, many times over the past three, four years and I have to support his amendment and all that he said because of what it was simply true. It is true that all these media that he mentioned, the tycoon media, the media funded by, at the very least, the speculative capital of tycoon Gilas, the school lobbying around the world, from Brussels to Washington, to naturally achieve their own single goal, the goal of the media used for these purposes, which is to bring down President Aleksandr Vukic and in that domain they do not choose the funds. There is no democracy and there is no democratic freedom, Mr. Martinovic, when they, as the main news the other day, place a completely irrelevant man who, you can imagine, cursed such a greasy president of the state of Aleksandr Vukic. This is one of the main news on the "New S" portal. Imagine that freedom, these fighters and those freedom seekers who offered Serbian citizens the announcement of such important news on the portal? And so day after day, month after month, year after year we have now one situation that we have come to the point that it has become normal for someone to curse the mother to the president of the Republic, to draw a target on the head of his son, his brother, his father, his children, his wife. It became a very normal narrative, and we here from the SNS are saying that we will always fight for telling the truth to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, that we are telling the truth that they were made to participate in the destruction of President Aleksandar Vukic, and thus in the destruction of the pillars of our country, our prosperity and the future of this people thanks to this very commitment, thanks to the true patriotism that Alexander Vukic introduced when he became prime minister in 2014. Of course that's what we're going to talk about all the time, that we're going to fight for all these freedoms that I was just talking about, but in one real way, given the interests of our citizens of our country. I remind our citizens that we have identified at our large assembly of our political party as one of the most serious, major political parties in this part of Europe, in all of Southeast Europe, 10 points for the future. Ten points not for April 3, 10 points for the next 30, 40, 50 years, 10 points for our people and for our citizens and one of the key points is to keep our country's independent and independent policies and determine the interests of Serbia, the Serbian people and all citizens living in the Republic of Serbia as a key priority, and not to have priorities concerning foreign states, foreign centres of power, which aim to exploit our resources, our people, even if it's free, even if they can pay someone for it, even if they pay a small price, of course they will. It is normal, and what is the job of every state and every serious statesman, and that is done by President Alexander Vukic is to fight hard, on a daily basis, 24 hours a day, of course, against it. There's going to be a lot of pressure in the next period. You see now that the main pair in all of Europe is Viktor Orban only because he offered assistance and support to Republika Srpska, only because of several of his statements that were sincere... Well, don't we all live in democratic, don't we seek these European standards that, as the first liquid of these democratic standards and civilization values, have just the freedom of speech and freedom of opinion? Now Victor Orban is on the pillar of the shame of a part of that so-called "orban." Europe's liberal left because it has expressed its opinion and only because it supports the people and people and the leadership of Republika Srpska and will be these challenges in the coming period, but Aleksandar Vukic and the Serbian Progressive Party have shown that they have the capacity to fight this kind of challenge and our people, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, should not be absolutely concerned about their economic position, our national interests, for their defence as long as Alexander Vukic, who we strongly support here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-23-0.u11828	Thank you. Member of the 154th amendment was submitted by MP Zoran Tomic. The government and the Finance Committee, the republican budget and the control of public spending accepted the amendment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives believes that the amendment is in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, so I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. The word is from MP Zoran Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-23-0.u11829	Thank you, Mr. Orlic. Dear Ministers, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, the amendments I submitted to the Capital Market Law are in fact only one small addition to an excellent law that has the intensities to further improve and develop the capital market in Serbia as one of the new forms of financing business in Serbia, and this is one way that will further enable the development of our economy and economy and the achievement of those objectives set out in the "Serbia 2025" programme, but also other measures that are foreseen for further improvement of life and the quality of life of citizens in the Republic of Serbia. What is certainly commendable is that this law is fully in line with European directives and another indicator is that we are persistent on our way to the EU and that everything that is good practice and an example of the EU we are taking over and implementing in our area and thus making our area and our economy more attractive for new investments. We are witnessing ourselves that in the last few years we are truly champions when it comes to attracting foreign direct investment and that countries in the region, when they add up the total amount of investments that they have attracted, can't mate us, because it is proof that we are indeed these legal solutions, and also those that are before us today, which we will certainly vote for at the end of this assembly, have contributed to the further development of the improvement of this business environment. They are also a positive environment and signal especially for young people, innovators and people who have ideas how to turn something they created during the study into a concrete business. Absolutely and this way of regulating the capital market in which we include some of the new types of products that we have, such as crypto currencies that have emerged, which are very interesting to young people in particular, can be implemented and traded on the market. Otherwise, specifically when we talk about the amendment to Article 154, what is proposed is that the period for submitting the requirements of the IFR investment funds after obtaining the Commission's consent is reduced to 15 days, which would be one way to keep the scale above the European Directive competitive, but making our market a more serious story and allowing serious investors, serious investment funds to come forward to our market. The very statistics behind us show that, when it comes to our capital market, all market participants are really serious players who fully respect legal norms and regulations. I am sure this cutback will also be no problem when it comes to attracting new investment funds, i.e. the creation of new investment funds in Serbia. Indeed, this only solution today is something that is in line with another global and European solution and, as I said, I am sure it will improve the business of our capital market in Serbia. Unlike the opposition, the extraparliamentary opposition whose mouth is full of words that they, I don't know, will advance this country, how they'll solve all the problems that exist in Serbia, how they'll offer, I don't know, what programs they call the programme for the day after is something that's a lot associated me with certain pills that we can find on the market... They do nothing in particular, and most of the problems that we are dealing with today and this legal solution, but also what we have done in the previous period led by President Aleksandr Vukic are actually the problems they have created, the problems they have left us and the problems that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia remember well and will never forget. It is very interesting that one of the people, the leader, to say the opposition, whom the people of Triestenik remembers well by establishing a dynasty regime of government of Trstenik, which during the period when he was at the head of the Triestenik damaged the budget by increasing his own illegal salary, by spending money on car fuel, the services of local communities that did not exist, by providing his friends with the job of gasification of the Tristenik without providing any relevant documentation, and especially the permission of the competent institutions, is now found to speak accordingly about how they are some rescuers, as they say freely, some of the meats that will reemerge this Serbia and solve tyrants, dictators or how they already use those phrases for Alexander Vukic. In these discussions, he calls for citizens, and when it comes to citizens, I am absolutely sure that he did not find it appropriate or five minutes to spend with those citizens he calls on, to ask them how they live today, unlike when he was all and everyone in Triestenik, when he allowed the first five-year-old to fail and when he tried to make that giant who was the backbone of the Trieste economy disappear in some way in his era. Fortunately, it was stopped today. Today the first five-year-old is working successfully, purposeska. Today, workers, thanks to the support of the Republic of Serbia and state programmes, have succeeded in relaunching the company and production, and today are indeed one of the firms for example how workers can, with the support and help of the state, successfully realise their business plans. He finds it appropriate to, of course, talk about some rematch, because in fact all the politics they promote is a policy of hatred, a policy of threat, threatening anyone who disagrees with their policy, who actually has the cheek and honor to say that they are indeed who they are, and that is judicially certified both thieves and liars. Of course, they threaten with some sort of rematchism and support the phrases of their fellow Members who say that each one of them will chase. We have nothing to really be afraid of, because unlike them, we have seen, and that is what President Vukic has shown, and every week you have the opportunity to see on social networks and in the reports of our municipal committees, every day we are with the people, to talk to people, to exchange opinions, to listen to the problems they have and to work with them to solve these same problems. One of the ways we worked with citizens is the constitutional amendments that we are talking about here and what awaits us on 16 January in a referendum where, unlike their period, when they were doing a shameful reform of the judiciary that they agreed on within the DS offices, we worked transparently, we worked together with citizens who had opportunities and insight into the texts of the draft proposals themselves, to give their suggestions and they had the opportunity to participate in a large number of public debates organised in major cities in Serbia, of course, here in the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. When asked about the question of journalists, when they asked this famous Obor Prince Aleksic, what is it that you will offer Serbian citizens, and something that is different from this government, in that interview itself, in two sentences, has not said anything special, except some programme that, to paraphrasise, will be something better than what Vukic offers, and we will solve the problems with that programme. Nor does he turn around to say specific problems, and he forgets that, as I said, when he talks about these problems, that they're the mahogany problems that they left us. What is interesting is that another group of members, I say, this boycott of the coalition today says that Aleksandar Vukic artificially raises the value of GDP, or that in some ways he is trying to trick Serbian citizens into having real GDP growth, which will be over 7% at the end of this year. I can only say that in fact, all of these movements, foreigners or whatever they are called, although, according to distinguished counterpart Marijan Risticevic, they are all really nothing but NGOs or associations of citizens, artificial formations that have been created by the disintegration of the yellow Thai party that has just made all these great problems that we are successfully solving today, and that, as I said, in collaboration with the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. On what is real, and what is not, Serbian citizens are those who decide and who can feel great about the money they have in their wallet, by the accessibility of products on the market, by whether they can go on vacations, by whether they have enough money to feed their families, and I will remind you only that by 2012, especially during the period of those major economic crisis that the then coalition partners of this yellow tycoon regime claimed is a great developmental chance of the Republic of Serbia, they left more than half a million people without work, on the street, have nailed our factories, and together with them and a large number of families without bread, without the means of surviving. Unlike them today, we are opening new jobs and my esteemed colleagues have talked about science and technology parks, the investments that are expecting us in Serbia, and we see for ourselves that, under this law that is ahead of us, we will stimulate the opening of financial institutions and companies that will deal with the trade in the capital market that is one of the perspectives of our country's further development. We have nothing to fear, nor when it comes to the referendum, nor when it comes to the elections that await us on April 3rd. We're going to the public with the program, we're going out with new goals, with a ladder that we've raised even more, because we've proven in the previous period that we can really win, that we can really be champions when it comes to economic development. We see this in statistics that not only says our Republic Statistics Institute, but says Eurostat statistics, such as World Bank statistics, such as the praises we receive and the forecasts from the IMF and the IBRD. They're all relevant institutions that tell these unbelieving Toms that we're falsifying are saying that we're working on a real basis. Unlike them, we go out in front of the public. It's the same story when it comes to ecology. Unlike the period when they didn't care about the environment, when they didn't think about it, when they did those factory closures, they didn't think about whether or not some of those factories would because they didn't work to create a possible ecological disaster, we're dealing with it today. When can we decide? When we have a full budget. When the citizens are full, when the stomachs are full. This is what we did after those reforms in 2014 which were very unpopular, but have yielded results and today we never allocate more resources to ecology, to open waste water treatment plants. We're investing in the sewer systems that this yellow tycoon regime promised and didn't realize. It's just one of the segments we're working on, and what we can clearly see is that we're also resuscitating the dumps that they were just talking about or selling better to Serbian citizens, let's say collecting cheap political points. And how many environmentalists, they tell you their conferences where, come on, we understand what they have to lie about and what they have to lie about, what's coming out of their brain, the engine brain of their boss tycoon, Dragan Gilas, but they have to spend a lot of paper and print those lies in order to turn them into something material and in this way directly affect them negatively when it comes to environmentalism and not to the protection of the environment, but to needlessly spend tons and tons of paper to serve some lies, but lies that don't pass on to Serbian citizens, because they've already burned themselves on what they've offered them. This marketing policy of Dragan Gilas will never go away again and he's free of everything he's trying to do and let's say it drives that fog - industry that's just making some kind of fog of lies, but it's unsuccessful. So, in any case, this legal solution that is ahead of us will further contribute to the acceleration of the development of our country's economy, will contribute to improving the conditions for an even greater economic growth that awaits us in the coming period, and on April 3rd, Serbian citizens will make it clear whether Serbia is making progress and development or for Serbia's fog - industry and marketing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-23-0.u11830	Thank you, Mr. Tomic. Last reported for discussion, MP Bratimir Vasiljevic. The remaining time to argue, just sign in, six minutes, and we're not on the air right now, so you know.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-23-0.u11831	Dear Vice-President of the Assembly, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I would only briefly guarantee the scheme to mention as one of the great contributions made by the Government of the Republic of Serbia to the head of finance, Mr Mali, and our country president, Mr Alexander Vukic, and to remind Serbia during the pandemic that has affected the whole world has helped to survive large systems and all small and medium-sized enterprises. This resulted in more than eight billion euros being allocated for a small country such as Serbia and as we know what financial difficulties it was in. She could because the right policy was conducted in the country and because the financial system functioned impeccably, and thus we saved the economy from the purest destruction, and certainly also the citizens of the Republic of Serbia who through various donations received various aids, received the means to survive the most difficult moments in the time ahead. I would like to remind you that the guarantee scheme has also produced good results for small and medium-sized enterprises, where over two and a half billion euros in addition to the eight billion euros given as aid, two and a half billion euros in guarantee funds have given small and medium-sized enterprises the opportunity to fix their financial situation and to survive on the market. So, a guarantee scheme is being extended, so agencies, primarily tourism organisations, can continue to use the scheme, given those who managed to return borrowed funds in time. I'd like to look back, a few months ago I was here saying that you should be supported when it comes to research like geothermal waters. What I can praise is that the ministry has responded to such a proposal and it has been seen that there is a good chance for renewables, renewables such as geothermal waters and that the Nis has defined the means to open a well that can rebirth the city of Nis. We know that the situation, when it comes to the pollution of the town of Nis, is very unpleasant, so this well may also bring about the truth of experts' suggestions that the town of Nis is located on the lake of geothermal water that can be used to heat the city of Nis. By doing so, the entire environment would improve and a city of Nis would become one of the cleanest cities perhaps in Europe. I cannot turn aside without looking back, in an inhuman way and calling the distinguished director, Mr. Goran Markovic, to call for a Romanian script, and what is even more tragic, Serbian citizens, i.e. The people of Serbia are humiliating and thus humiliated the MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Throughout history, we know that there have been such cases in the Serb race and there have been such traitors who have been used to do so and that Serbia has paid a very high price. Just lately, to remind you, that the entire state summit and the military summit of Serbia has been issued, I would say sold. What is even more dangerous, and what is even more dangerous, and what is even worse, has kept to the point that no less or more calls the president of the state to put him on the Romanian script, no less or less, for a shot. Why would the president of the state, Alexander Vukic, need to be shot in the Romanian scenario? Here, I'll try as soon as I can, underline it. Because unemployment was reduced from 2014 to 2021 from 27% to below 10%, because the country's public debt from 2014 to 2021 was reduced from 78% to 58%, because the country's gross product from 2014 to 2021 increased from 33 billion euros to 52 billion euros, because the average salary by 2014 was 320 euros, and today over 620, because it provided all the necessary machines and medicines for treatment from Kovida-19, because GDP growth for the year 2021 was the largest cumulatively taken in 2020 and 2021, the biggest growth in Europe. Then, because 10 highways and fast roads are being built in Serbia in 2021, because dozens of highways are being built across Serbia, because in Serbia, the fast tracks of Belgrade-Novi Sad, Subotica and in 2022 Belgrade-Niš-Dimitrovgrad are being built, because the construction of subways started in 2021 after talking about it over 50 years, because five clinical centres are being built in Serbia, Nis, Belgrade, Novi Sad, Kragujevac, Novi Pazar, because more hospitals have been built throughout Serbia, because more and more national theatres, homes of culture are being built in Serbia, because schools are being built and renovated. Then, because there were three billion and 200 foreign investment in Serbia in 2021, because more than 275 new companies were brought to Serbia, because health was raised to the highest possible level, because the Republika Srpska Army is well-armed and trained, which today represents a serious and respectable force for the preservation of peace, security and sovereignty of Serbia and which will continue to be armed, desecrate mandatory military service. Is it because of all this and just because a pipeline has been built in all of Serbia and because it continues? Is it because of all this and many other unlisted building conditions that we can invite the people to a Romanian script, and that's unrecorded, and I think this people see great what they're doing and how much they're never going to be anything from that scenario? Only in the end, for Serbia everything, for Serbia for nothing. Long live Serbia, lived Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-23-0.u11832	Thank you. Since we've completed our search on all amendments, I'm concluding a review of the bill in particular. After we have conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, the National Assembly will decide on the bill in the voting day. Ladies and gentlemen, according to Article 87(5). I now set the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on Thursday, December 23, 2021, starting at 6:00 p.m., as the Day of Vote on agenda items of the 14th session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2021. I remind you it's voting day for the 15th session right after this vote. I call upon all the MPs to enter the great hall.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-12-23-0.u11833	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before we move to a decision on the agenda points, we need to determine the quorum. According to Article 88(5), The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a quorum for the work of the National Assembly, exists if most of the total number of MPs are present at the meeting of the National Assembly. I ask the Members of Parliament to insert the cards into the MPs' units. Thank you. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 169 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and therefore there are conditions for deciding. We're moving on to a decision. The first item of the agenda – Proposal for an INOVATION WORK LAW. I remind you that the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bills in principle, and since they have not submitted amendments to the Bill, the National Assembly will, in accordance with Article 160(3). Rules of Procedure, to decide only on the draft law in general. I put to the vote the Proposal for an Innovation Labour Act in general. Please press the corresponding key. Stopping vote: total – 172 for – 172. I find that the National Assembly unanimously adopted the proposal for an Innovation Work Act. The second item of the agenda — Proposal for an Amending and Complementary Law on consultative Inspection. I remind you that the National Assembly has carried out a search of the bill in principle, and since no amendments have been submitted to the bill, the National Assembly will agree to Article 160(3). The Rules of Procedure shall decide only on the draft law in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Educational Inspection in general. Please press the corresponding key. Stopping vote: total – 172 for – 172. I find that the National Assembly unanimously adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Educational Inspection. The third item of the agenda – Proposal for an amending and supplementing law on primary education and training. Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the draft law in principle, and since no amendments have been submitted to the draft law, the National Assembly will agree to Article 160(3). The Rules of Procedure shall decide only on the draft law in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on basic education and education in general. Please press the corresponding key. I am stopping the vote: total – 172 for – 171 did not vote – one. I find that the National Assembly passed by majority vote a bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Fundamental Education and Education. Fourth item of the agenda – Proposal for an amending and supplementing law on the basis of the education and training systems. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the basis of the education and education system in principle. Please press the corresponding key. Stopping vote: total – 172 for – 172. I find that the National Assembly unanimously accepted the bill, in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendment. The 9th Amendment was jointly submitted by MPs Shaip Kamberi, Enis Imamovic, Selma Kucevic, Nadia Beqiri, Mirsad Hodzic and Ardend Bajrami. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please press the corresponding key. I am stopping the vote: total – 172 for – four, against – four, did not vote – 164. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendment, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the basis of the system of education and education in general. Please press the corresponding key. Stopping vote: total – 172 for – 172. I find that the National Assembly unanimously adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the founding of an education and education system. Fifth item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Preschool Education and Education. I remind you that the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bill's proposal in principle, and since no amendments have been submitted to the draft law, the National Assembly will, in accordance with Article 160(3). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, to decide only on the draft law in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Preschool Education and Education Act, in general. Please press the corresponding key. I am stopping the vote: Total - 172 for -171 did not vote one. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority a bill on amendments and additions to the Preschool Education and Education Act. The sixth item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on secondary education and education. I remind you that the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bills in principle and in particular, and since the amendment of the Committee on Education, Science, Technological Development and the Information Society to Article 28 has become an integral part of the Bill's proposal, the National Assembly will, in accordance with Article 160(3). The Rules of Procedure shall decide only on the draft law in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on secondary education and education, in general. Please press the corresponding key. Stopping vote: Total - 172 for – 172. I find that the National Assembly unanimously adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Middle Education and Education. The seventh item of the agenda – Proposal for a law on the capital market. I remind you that the National Assembly has carried out a search of the bill in principle and in particular, and since the amendments submitted have become an integral part of the bill, the National Assembly will, in accordance with Article 160(3). The Rules of Procedure shall decide only on the draft law in general. I put the draft capital market law to the vote, in general. Please press the corresponding key. Stopping vote: Total - 172 for – 172. I find that the National Assembly unanimously adopted the proposal for a capital market law. The eighth item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on electronic invoices. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill, we are moving to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on electronic invoices, in principle. Please press the corresponding key. I am stopping the vote: Total - 172 for -171 did not vote one. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill, in principle. I remind you he's a 6. The bill provides for this law to enter into force the next day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". According to Article 196(4), paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and other acts shall enter into force on the eighth day from the day of its publication and may enter into force early only if there are particularly justified reasons for this when they are adopted. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. Please press the corresponding key. Stopping vote: Total - 172 for – 172. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. We approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on electronic invoices, in general. Please press the corresponding key. Stopping vote: Total - 172 for – 172. I find that the National Assembly unanimously adopted the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on electronic invoices. The ninth item of the agenda. I remind you that the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bills in principle, and since they have not submitted amendments to the Bill, the National Assembly will, in accordance with Article 160(3). The Rules of Procedure shall decide only on the draft law in general. I am putting to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the establishment of a second guarantee scheme as a measure of additional support to the economy due to the prolonged negative impact of the pandemic of COVID-19 caused by the SARS-COV-2 virus in general. Please press the corresponding key. Stopping vote: Total - 172 for – 172. I find that the National Assembly unanimously passed the bill. The tenth item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Completion of the Law on Specific Authorisations in order to effectively protect intellectual property rights. I remind you that the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bills in principle, and since they have not submitted amendments to the Bill, the National Assembly will, in accordance with Article 160(3). The Rules of Procedure shall decide only on the draft law in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Special Authorisations in order to effectively protect intellectual property rights, in general. Please press the corresponding key. I am stopping the vote: Total - 172 for -171 versus -one. I find that the National Assembly has adopted, by majority, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Special Authorisations in order to effectively protect intellectual property rights. 11th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Cultural Heritage. I remind you that the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bill's proposal in principle, and since no amendments have been submitted under the Law, the National Assembly will, in accordance with Article 160(3). The Rules of Procedure shall decide only on the draft law in general. I put the bill on cultural heritage in general. Please press the corresponding key. I am stopping the vote: Total - 172 for -171 did not vote one. I find that the National Assembly has passed most of the votes a bill on cultural heritage. 12th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Media. Since the National Assembly has conducted a search of the bill in principle and in particular, we move to a decision. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Media, in principle. Please press the corresponding key. I am stopping the vote: Total - 172 for -171 did not vote one. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill in principle. We're moving on to a decision on the amendment. National MPs Marijan Risticevic and Djordje Komlenski submitted to the 1st amendment. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please press the corresponding key. I am stopping the vote: A total of -171, for -9, against – one, abstention – one, did not vote 161. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. After we have completed our decision on the amendment, we approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Media, in general. Please press the corresponding key. I am stopping the vote: Total - 172 for – 162, abstention – one, not two. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Media. The 13th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the European Union on the participation of the Republic of Serbia in the Creative Europe programme from 2021 to 2027. Before we move to decision-making, I remind you that, on the basis of Article 105 paragraph 3. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly, decides on laws governing the conclusion and validation of international contracts by majority of the votes of all MPs. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the European Union on the participation of the Republic of Serbia in the Creative Europe programme (2021-2027), in principle. Please press the corresponding key. I am stopping the vote: A total of - 172 for – 170 did not vote two. I find that by the majority of the votes of all the MPs, the National Assembly has accepted the bill, in principle. I remind you that the government has proposed that Article 6(2). The bill has a feedback. According to Article 197(2). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 160(4) The Rules of Procedure, when the draft law contains provisions for which a return fact is provided, specifically determines whether there is a general interest in this feedback. I would like to vote on the Government's proposal that there is a general interest in the feedback of the provision of Article 6(2). It's a bill of law. Please press the corresponding key. I am stopping the vote: A total of -173, for – 172, did not vote one. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there is a general interest in the feedback of the provision of Article 6(2). It's a bill of law. I remind you it's Article 4. The bill provides for this law to enter into force the next day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia - International Treaties". I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. Stopping vote: total – 173, for – 173. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the European Union on the participation of the Republic of Serbia in the Creative Europe programme (2021-2027), in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. Stopping vote: total – 173, for – 173. I find that the National Assembly unanimously passed the bill. The 14th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Framework Agreement on LD 2079 (2021) between the Bank for the Development of the Council of Europe of the Republic of Serbia for a Project Loan – University Infrastructure, in general. Before moving to a decision, I remind you that, on the basis of Article 105(3), paragraphs 4 and 6. The Constitution of Serbia, the National Assembly, decides on laws governing public borrowing and the conclusion and validation of international contracts by majority of the votes of all MPs. I'm putting the bill in general. Please press the corresponding key. I am stopping the vote: total – 173, for – 172, did not vote – one. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, passed the bill. 15th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Loan Agreement (Land for Contracting a Foreign Project in Construction) for a State Road Construction Project 1.B row No. 27 Loznica-Valjevo-Lazarevac, part of Iverak-Lajkovac (a link to the E-763 Belgrade-Pozega highway), between the Chinese Export-Import Bank, as a Borrower and the Republic of Serbia represented by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, acting through the Ministry of Finance, as a Borrower. Before moving to a decision, I remind you that, on the basis of Article 105(3), paragraphs 4 and 6. The Constitution of Serbia, the National Assembly, decides on laws governing public borrowing and the conclusion and confirmation of international contracts by majority of the votes of all MPs. I'm putting the bill to the vote in principle. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. Stopping vote: total – 172 for – 172. I find that the National Assembly unanimously accepted the bill, in principle. I remind you it's Article 3. The bill provides for this law to enter into force the next day of its publication in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia – International Treaties". I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. Stopping vote: total – 172 for – 172. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. I'm putting the bill to the vote, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: total – 172 for – 171 did not vote – one. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, passed the bill. The 16th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Kingdom of Cambodia on the lifting of visas for holders of diplomatic and official passports. Before we move to decision-making, I remind you that, on the basis of Article 105 paragraph 3. The Constitution of Serbia, the National Assembly, decides on laws governing the conclusion and confirmation of international contracts by a majority of the votes of all MPs. I'm putting the bill to the vote, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: total – 173, for – 171, did not vote – two. I find that the National Assembly, most of the votes of all the MPs, passed the bill. As we now move to a decision on the lists of candidates for a member of the Council of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media (points 17 and 18 of the agenda), I remind you that the National Assembly, according to Article 8(2). The Law on Electronic Media, members of the Council of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media, elects most of the votes of the total number of MPs. Given that, we're moving on to a decision. 17th item of the agenda – List of candidates for a member of the Council of Regulatory Body for Electronic Media. We approach the vote on candidates for the election of a member of the Council of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media on the proposal of an association whose aims are to achieve freedom of expression and protection of children. The candidates for the election of a member of the Council on a proposal for an association whose objectives are to achieve freedom of expression and protection of children are Radoje Kujovic and Zoran Mirovljevic. A member of the Council has been elected a candidate who receives most of the votes of all MPs. 1. I am voting on the proposal to elect Radoje Kujovic as a member of the Council of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media. Please press the corresponding key. I am stopping the vote: total – 173, for – 172, did not vote – one. 2. I am voting on the proposal to elect Zoran Mirosavljevic as a member of the Council of the Electronic Media Regulatory Body. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: total – 173, for – one, did not vote – 172. I find that the National Assembly, starting with the number of votes received, has chosen Radoj Kujovic as a member of the Council of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media, on a proposal for an association whose aims are to achieve freedom of expression and protection of children. 18th item of the agenda – List of candidates for a member of the Council of Regulatory Body for Electronic Media. We approach the vote on candidates for the election of a member of the Council of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media on the proposal of a university accredited in the Republic of Serbia. Candidates for the election of a member of the Council on the proposal of the university accredited in the Republic of Serbia are Prof. Dr. Vesna Baltezarevic and Dr. Nemanja Tasic. A member of the Council has been elected a candidate who receives most of the votes of all MPs. 1. I am voting on the proposal to elect Professor Vesna Baltezarevic as a member of the Council of the Regulatory Body for Electronic Media. Please press the corresponding key. I am stopping the vote: total – 173, for – 1, abstention – one, did not vote – 171. 2. I am putting the motion to elect Dr Nemanja Tasic as a member of the Council of the Electronic Media Regulatory Body. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: total – 174 for – 172 did not vote – two. I find that the National Assembly, starting with the number of votes received, has elected Dr Nemanja Tasic as a member of the Council of the Electronic Media Regulatory Body, on a proposal from the university accredited in the Republic of Serbia. Allow me to congratulate, on your behalf and on my behalf, the members of the Council of the Electronic Media Regulatory Body in the selection and wish them success in their work. Nineteenth item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Interim Regulation on the Payment of Taxes on Public Media Services Since the National Assembly has carried out a review of the draft law in principle, and since no amendments have been submitted to the Bill, we approach the decision on the draft law. I'm putting the bill to the vote, in principle. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: total – 174 for – 172 did not vote – two. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill in principle. I remind you it's Article 2. The bill provides for this law to enter into force the next day of its publication in the Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: total – 174 for – 171 did not vote – three. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. We approach the vote on the bill in general. I'm putting the bill in general. Please press the corresponding key. I am stopping the vote: total – 174 for – 172 did not vote – two. I find that the National Assembly has adopted, by majority, the draft law amending the Law on the temporary regulation of how to charge a fee for public media services. The 20th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Media Services Since the National Assembly has carried out a search of the Bill in principle, and since no amendments have been made to the Bill, we approach the decision on the draft law. I'm putting the bill to the vote, in principle. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: total – 174 for – 173, did not vote – one. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill in principle. I remind you it's Article 3. The bill provides for this law to enter into force the next day of its publication in the Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia. I am putting the motion to vote to determine the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to enter into force earlier than the eighth day of its publication. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: total – 174 for – 173, did not vote – one. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. We approach the vote on the bill in general. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Media Services in general. Please press the corresponding key. I am stopping the vote: total – 174 for – 173, did not vote – one. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Media Services. Since the National Assembly has today carried out an examination of all the points of the agenda of this session and decision on them, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the 14th session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly in 2021. Thank you.
