ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2642	I thank the president, distinguished colleagues, the citizens of Serbia, I would ask the first question, now the current question, about the problem of supplying electricity to citizens of certain parts of the Svrljig municipalities, Bela Palanka, Gajin Han, a number of municipalities that did not have, or villages that had no electricity and which had food damage, where the freezers broke down, and where more home appliances were broken. My question – will the EPS have the opportunity to deprive these citizens of return to them in some way, how much damage has been done or, in the end, to reduce electricity bills for a certain value to be estimated? This is very important because more of those areas, which I said earlier, and perhaps in some parts of Serbia, because of the icelocks, did not have people with electricity for 10, 15 days. And when it comes to the process of reconstructing this low voltage network because it is necessary that every citizen in any part of our country of Serbia has the same voltage, has the same rights, the same opportunities to live and enjoy the benefits of our beautiful country of Serbia. It's an EPS issue. The second question, which I wanted to ask, is, specifically, to the public media service of RTS because in these shows, "The Word of the Word", "The Eye" has a larger number back several months and years never had the opportunity to come and some parties, regional parties, specifically the United Peasant Party, whose president I am, have never been invited to debate to talk about problems and to present the programme and what many people support. My question is – how are people or parties to come, is it a custom to be more national or otherwise called. I see myself as a man and a person who respects Serbia, loves the country and in every way I talk about it. My theme is southeastern Serbia, the village, agriculture, and I think I can, and I know I'm talking about problems and saying certain solutions to these problems. This is very important to me, and I would like the public media service RTS to have the opportunity to invite us here in the Assembly, not just some national or quasi-national political options or some civil service that have fewer votes than I have as president of the United Peasant Party that I have chosen here in the Assembly from the list SNS Aleksandar Vukic – For our children. I think it is fair and correct to hear and a political option that represents all agriculture, which represents the southeast of Serbia or parts of Serbia that are not represented. We at RTS, we from southeast Serbia, if it weren't for weather forecasts, certainly wouldn't have been able to hear about some of our municipalities, some of our problems, if it wasn't for those weather forecasts. That is why it would be good for the public media service of RTS to be able to hear and say some of the problems that I or some of my other colleagues can bring out, or some colleagues from Prepolje and other municipalities represented here in the Assembly. I think it's very important. That is why I would like to see criteria made in the next period and to know tomorrow who is calling and that RTS has the opportunity to invite me or some of my colleagues who have political options to pass on citizens' problems to say the solution to these problems. One of the things that is very important to me, which has been said more about this in the previous period, is the conclusion of the reconstruction of the railway line, it is the question of the Minister of Construction and Infrastructure, that is, the completion of the construction, that is, the reconstruction of the railway line from Nis through Svrljig, Književec, Zaječar, towards Prahovo. As we know now, we have all passed the law that it is a complete reconstruction of the railway, but as it was heard in the previous period, it is only to Književec, and about Književec to Zaječar, this railway will not be reconstructed, as it is from Nis to Književec. It is very important that this railway is done, that it be reconstructed as planned, so that it can function in the best way, because the economy will also be in a better light and it will certainly be much better, because it is in the Prah's elixir, it is a zone of the chemical zone of industry, and it is a place that will be very tempting for investors, and from there all the goods that go through the Danube, through that port, will go over that railroad, according to Sofia, Macedonia, etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2643	Dear Millie, your time is up. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2644	I thank the chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have several parliamentary questions, and the first is addressed to the Ministry of Trade and Tourism and Telecommunications, as well as to the Ministry of Culture and Information, which refers to incorrect and very malicious allegations, and in fact it is the real hysteria that has been being conducted in recent days against the state telecommunications operator, the company Telecom Serbia, by some media close to Dragan Gilas. This negative campaign is nothing new when it comes to attacks by N1 and others from that United Group against Telecom, as well as other state-owned enterprises, because they have been doing it for years, but these days it reaches its peak, where even now, watch out, accuses Telecom, because it plans to develop, because it has a business plan, because it has a business strategy, a business idea, because they have a strategy to further strengthen that company and strengthen its position on the market. The aim of these attacks is to harm the state telecommunications operator by lying and replacing the thesis, to prevent the rise of Telecom from allowing Telecom to be a regional leader when it comes to telecommunications. What's very interesting here is that the "Telecom" hack begins the moment when the United Media realizes that the market share of SBB is falling in favour of Telecom, so let's attack the competition and campaign them every day for our own private financial interests, through our own private media. You're right, Mr. Risticevic, the Luxembourg media and, of course, the on-call political diletaries, always ready to take up service against their country. They immediately hired their spokesman, Marinika Tepic and others, to lie on TV for days and hold pointless press conferences. And it's not just a financial moment, many of them simply hate every success of Serbia, as if they can't live with Serbia getting good results somewhere, that we're in something good, that we're in something, that we're in something of a leader. They are also able to make the best possible decision or move to attack only because it comes from Alexander Vukic. Just look at an example of the vaccine that madness goes to. Now, when they can no longer argue that we are among the best in the world when it comes to vaccination, that we are the first or the first in Europe, now that they can't argue, well, let's now run a campaign as all those who have been vaccinated actually sold to Vukic. I can't imagine what it would have been like if Alexander Vukitch hadn't been able to provide the vaccines, what a hack would have been. Look at the hysteria around Stefan Nemanja's monument. In particular, there is a low-cost tabloid that every day writes about this whole magnificent event, a magnificent monument, and it is on the headlines every day of that low-pitched tabloid, and then they say that they will find a new place for Stefan Nemanja, and then there is one, it is a new hero, a dejan Atanacković, who says they will remove the monument to Stefan Nemanja when they come to power, except that they will never come to power. Take a look at the shameful cartoon of that Petricic who mocks and says, "Go to the Middle Ages", a monument to Stefan Nemanja. It shows: ‘Forward to the Middle Ages’. Take a look at the recent example of the Goldibor Gondola, and in this case you will see all the hypocrisy of this part of the opposition. For years, they forged the stars of Milan Stamatovic, president of the Municipality of Cajetin. All the best talk about him, praised the Gondola project, said it was good for Zlatibor, that it was good for Serbia, and then Vukic appeared at the opening, supported the project, and at that moment the gondola ceases to be important, the gondola ceases to be important to Serbia, good for Serbia, for the development of the economy for Zlatibor etc. Stamatovic ceases to be a hero, Stamatovic becomes the worst man, sold himself to Vukic, etc. There's nothing more going on than what they said. Also, you will now notice that they are crucifying the famous Dusan Dudu Ivkovic just because he dared to invite Alexander Vukic to mark the 100th anniversary of the Sports Society "Workic". We who come, or live on the Red Cross, but also many others know how important “Worker” Sports Society is but we also know how much Alexander Vukic, Alexander Vukic, is precisely responsible for preserving the “Worker’s Sports Society”. That's how all those who dare say it's good for Serbia somewhere, get the strength to admit that Vukic did something good for Serbia. The campaign against them immediately starts, immediately being placed on a pillar of shame on their media or passed as one viewer who got involved the other day in a TV show, led by one, apparently, neurotic lady. After trying to disagree with the leader’s position, the manager rudely interrupted her with the words: “Are you normal? “ and cut off her relationship. She literally said: “Are you normal? “ That’s how Olja Bećković experiences the concept of impartiality and objectivity. So anyone who dares to think differently is declared abnormal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2645	Thank you, colleague Markovic. The word has a national emissary, Selma Kučević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2646	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members of the People, the President-in-Office, at the very beginning, I wish for much happiness in the work of this plenary in the new calendar year, and I hope that at least one of us has spent these holiday days in peace and dignity. The people of Sandzak, and as I hear some other parts of Serbia, have not spent the previous days in peace or dignity, but in total darkness. Ladies and gentlemen, at the very beginning, I would like to introduce you to the situation in the Tutin Municipality, where, between 24th and 28th December 2020, there was a break in electricity throughout the rural area of this municipality. Then, between December 26th and December 30th, as much as 40% of the rural area were excluded. Some villages were even without electricity for 20 days. During this period, supply in the city area was also disorderly. I also have to mention that when the power lines were turned on, there were major malfunctions and huge material damage in many households, especially when it comes to the damage to the heating boilers due to low voltage. I think it is necessary to find an adequate way to compensate for the damage to these citizens. Many households have also experienced power cuts, as water pumps are powered by electricity. The culprits and the reason for this catastrophic situation in the 21st century are found in snow and snowfalls by the responsible persons in electricity distribution. Apparently, they were not hoping for snow in December and winter on the Cave, so the smaller rainfall caused the electrical grid to be set up. So, preparing for the maintenance of the power grid this year is obviously missing. An extremely bad power grid makes it impossible for citizens of this municipality to have basic conditions for life in the 21st century. As a representative of citizens from the territory of this municipality, I have an obligation to call on all relevant factors to engage in solving this problem, especially the Ministry of Energy, given that there has been a threat to one of the basic objectives of the energy policy of the Republic of Serbia. I think it's a total absurd to talk about energy stability while certain parts of this country are cramping in the dark. So I ask Mrs. Mihajlovic, Minister of Energy – how will she try to solve the problem of power supplying this area, because we must not allow snow and rainfall to affect, or lead to interruptions in electricity supply. I expect you to send professional people to this area as soon as possible and address this issue that is of existential importance. Temporary measures need to address this issue urgently and allow citizens of this municipality to return to their daily obligations as soon as possible, and I do not think that it is necessary to flee from the reconstruction of the power grid that is being imposed as a permanent solution to this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2647	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Zagorka Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2648	Thank you. Dear Vice-Presidents of the Assembly, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, I am referring a question to the government of the Republic of Serbia. First of all, I would refer to Mr. Branko Ruzic's initiative, which suggested that private enterprises which organise a large number of extracurricular activities for children, sports, entertainment, and educational character, should be taken away from the possibility of being called schools. It is necessary to make a clear distinction, because schools, first of all, are institutions. These are institutions that create a highly formalized, yet individual school culture and they are one of the key factors for the socialization of individuals. With great caution, the term of schools should be used. On the other hand, we do not want the current school case to play us discouraged, because there are many companies that provide children with quality content within extracurricular activities and in which it works highly qualified staff. The minister also spoke about education to identify inappropriate and illicit forms of behaviour. The Single Serbia MPs will support any platform aimed at preventing, educating minors on issues involving their full protection, body protection and personal dignity. My questions are as follows - will the future more check on how to set up, determine the activities of enterprises that organise children's extracurricular activities and profit from it, of course and the key issue is control? How will the work of these companies be controlled in the future, what mechanisms will be used, and will this be discussed in the near future? The minister said it was an interresor question. Also, we can't ignore the violence that exists in all educational institutions, so I'd like to ask if there's going to be an increase in control. The issue of child safety is one of the priorities of the Single Serbia. When I say security, I mean not just physical security, but a sense of security, so maybe it's more appropriate to use that word. It is the task of all of us to try to make this society as safe as possible for each individual, and above all for our youngest citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2649	Thank you. The word has a national emissary, Rosalia Ekres. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2650	In front of the SVM group, I would like to refer one more question and present a problem to the Ministry of Finance. The issue is about extending the deadline for the introduction of gender-responsible budgeting by 2024. Birth budgeting is a partially new practice in Serbia, but also in the world. A few years ago, we started with the gradual introduction of gender principles into the budget process. Officially since 2015. We are free to say that we are going almost to step up with the countries that are leading in this area. Supporting the introduction of this process in Serbia at the republic and province level was provided by the UN Agency for Gender Equality and Empowerment of Women, and at the level of local self-government, the Permanent Conference of Cities and Municipalities, as well as the Gender Equality Institute. Despite solid results, unfortunately, there is still a lack of understanding of gender principles, and for this reason there is likely to be some resistance in application. My question is – will birth analyses be carried out by the deadline proposed by amending and supplementing the Budgetary System Act? Is there an idea, a plan or a method to work on? What is the situation with birth statistics, and would improving these data help to better conduct this process given that we need first of all a gender analysis for meaningful birth budgeting? The problem I want to draw attention to concerns the matter governed by the Budgetary System Act. It is about planning capital investments in cases where capital investments are transferred from a republican or regional budget to investment holders, mainly local self-government units. Although capital investments are involved, the transfer, as a expenditure of Class 4, in terms of economic classification, cannot be shown in the three-year budget. In this context, the idea of supporting the investment of local self-government through transfers must be planned either in whole for a number of years by means of an annual budget, which makes it possible to capture funds that are certain that will not be spent in cash in that year, or planned in the annual amount of co-financing, thereby relying on the source of other levels of government to further secure the source of funding. We believe that the possibility of amending the Law on the Budgetary System, the provisions of Article 54 on commitments, in terms of defining the three-year statement in the capital part of the budget, other than the capital expenditure of Class 5 and the expenditure of the capital character of Class 4 intended for investment investments. On the one hand, the result of this standardisation would be more predictable budget planning, on the other hand, the allocation of the burden of the entire investment on several budget cycles. Of course, it should also be taken into account the fact that multi-annual planning is a commitment for many years in advance, and in this respect the need to set limits, such as in the case of borrowing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2651	Thank you, colleague. The word is Diana Radovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2652	The Honorable Chairman, colleagues and fellow MPs, in previous days due to the snowfalls in Zlatibor County, we are facing problems of the frequent power outage. As we have had the opportunity to hear from previous speakers, this is happening in other parts of Serbia. However, citizens of the Priboj municipality's territory, especially those in border areas where the large number of inhabitants of this municipality are gravity, face not only the previous days, face not only the previous months, but a whole series of previous years with the problem of messy and disorderly supplying electricity. In this territory, i.e. on these parts of the municipality of Preboj, there are frequent failures on electrical networks, frequent haematarias, but also various types of problems in electricity supply. I particularly stress that these are areas where a large number of citizens live and that this area covers more than two-thirds of the territory of the Municipality of Priboj, especially in several local communities, and that of the local community Krajcinovići, the local community of Zabrnjica, the ingredients, Bučje and Strmac. In this way, life for these citizens is extremely difficult, due to the frequency, especially now in these months of frequent power shortages. The problems of supplying electricity in conditions of modern life, under the conditions of the 21st century, prevent daily, normal life, especially considering that during the pandemic of the coronary virus we were disabled, i.e. students in these rural schools to monitor teaching, and the working-active population to participate in the ability to work from home. Not to mention specifically the use of any telecommunications services that have been disabled due to a lack of electricity, which happens extremely often. I also point out that this is an extremely agricultural area, that in this area there are a large number of plantations of different agricultural cultures, where there are plantations of raspberries, that there are a significant number of coolants in the coastal area, and that due to every break in electricity, there is a huge loss that is irreparable, but I am also talking about this happening in the summer months when there are absolutely no weather problems and disasters, which you will admit is really difficult for the functioning of this agricultural area. Since the SPS Parliament Club has addressed a large number of citizens from this area, pointing to the difficulties it faces almost daily with a few minutes of power outage, and then several hours, and at these moments and several days. I ask the question of the Ministry of Mining and Energy – how will we try to solve and solve this problem in order to facilitate the lives of the citizens of these local communities and thus enable the survival of these coastal villages in such circumstances that their survival has now been extremely endangered? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2653	Since there are no more reports, we continue to work and move on to a joint single search on the proposals for acts referred to in points 9, 10 and 11 of the agenda. According to Articles 90, paragraphs 1 and 239 of Article 2. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the sittings are invited to attend: Marko Janković, President of the Securities Commission, Dragan Kovacevic, Chairman of the Management Board of the Regulatory Agency for Electronic Communications and Postal Services, Dragan Pejović, Director of the Agency, Dr Vladimir Krstic, Member of the Agency's Management Board, Dragoljub Stefanović, Technical Director of the Agency, Ljiljana Jakovljevic, Director of the Market Analysis and Economic Affairs Agency, Miodrag Ivković, Director of the Agency's Electronic Communications Sector, and Biljana Agovska, Director of the Financial Business Committee of the Securities Commission. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. Consensually. Paragraphs 3 and 238, 3 and 157 of Article 2 respectively. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint single search on: Proposal for a decision to give consent to the Financial Plan of the Commission for Securities of the year 2021, Report on the work of the Regulatory Agency for Electronic Communications and Postal Services for 2019 with a proposal for a conclusion of the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications, Proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the selection of members and alternate members of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the SPS parliamentary group. Do the representatives of the motionor want a word? The word is Dragan Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2654	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Dear Members of the People's Parliament, I will present to you very briefly the work of the Agency for Electronic Communications and Postal Services in 2019. Jobs were carried out in order to preserve a competitive market, improve conditions for the operation of telecommunications and postal services operators, leading to improved services and more protection of end-users, as well as to the improvement of information security in the Republic of Serbia. Now I'm going to give you a few statistics on the type and size of business done at the Agency, to give you some information on economic indicators on the market for telecommunications and postal services and the Agency itself. A total of 12,419 individual radio frequency permits were issued in 2019 and 4.455 was withdrawn. Six temporary permissions have been given to use a radio program in a digital format. During 2019 1,042 new cases were formed in connection with complaints from users, of which 423 were resolved positively in favour of users. 450 certificates of conformity of radio equipment have been issued, 40 solutions for the award or withdrawal of numbering have been made and one new authorisation for the provision of postal services has been issued. In part of the work related to the coordination of radio spectrum use, with the administration of neighbouring countries, it is responsible for 16 requests for coordination where 365 radio links have been analysed, and we have sent three requests for coordination with 91 radio links. Technical agreements on frequency coordination with the administration of BiH, the Republic of Northern Macedonia and Montenegro were signed in 2019, thus improving the use of frequency spectrum for mobile operators in border areas. 16 new locations for remote-controlled control cells have been built in the framework of the activities of improving the infrastructure of the spectrum monitoring system, and activities have been continued to expand the network of sensors through which continuous monitoring of electromagnetic radiation levels is carried out. Here I have to say, the agency's socially responsible behavior is seen first of all in putting sensors on the most sensitive points -- kindergartens, schools, dormitories. At the end of 2019, we covered 11 cities with 26 sensors, and I can tell you that last year we had 33 covered cities and 74 sensors. During 2019, the third year in a row, a parallel measurement and analysis of the quality parameters of mobile network services was carried out. The work analyzes the performance of mobile voice service networks and data transmissions. The measurements included 50 cities, 10,000 miles traveled, 6,000 calls, 20,000 data transmission sessions, 20,000 Internet searches and 5,000 YouTube video tests. In these three networks are also covered by testing in all 2G, 3G and 4G technologies. When we started this in 2017, the average number of points of the operator was 55.4. In 2019 he was 77, and last year he was 81. Obviously, this activity of ours, this comparative analysis, has contributed to the great effort of mobile operators to improve their quality and performances, as shown by the data provided by the measurement. In 2019, RATEL continued to contribute to improving the prevention and security of ICT systems. A national CERT that receives and handles incidents reported on the territory of the Republic of Serbia on our part and internationally, has been found to have 152 incidents in ICT systems. As far as international co-operation is concerned, the area we do not know the limits. So neither in electronic communications nor in postal traffic, so this activity is always very intense. In 2019, RATEL concluded two new Memorandums of Cooperation. One with Romania's ANKA regulator and one with Turkey's ICTA regulator. RATEL continued to participate in the work of the European electronic communications regulators' Tel. Berek. We hosted two large gatherings, the European Committee for Postal Regulation, which took place from 20 March to 22 March in Belgrade with 60 participants from 25 European countries and the 29th meeting of the European Cyber Security Working Group. As regards financial indicators in the telecommunications market, i.e. electronic communications, the total revenue achieved on this market amounted to 206 billion dinars in 2019, which is about 4% higher compared to the previous year. In Serbia's GDP, this revenue took part with 3.8%. As for the share and the structure of these revenues, mobile networks took 59.4%. Fixed, broadband internet access took 12.8%. The fixed network took 12.7% and the distribution of media content was 12.1%. Total investments in the electronic communications sector in 2019 amounted to 84.2 billion dinars, almost twice as much as in the previous year. The income structure singles out investments in the distribution of media content of 41 billion dinars, nearly 50% of revenues. Investments in mobile phone were 25.5 billion dinars, and that's about 30% of total participation. As for postal services, 59 postal operators operated on the postal market, and they provided 309 million postal services, which is about 124 services per household. The postal performance has reached 21 billion dinars of income, which is about 0.4% of GDP. The universal postal service carries 87.4% in volume and 42% in revenues, while commercial services carry 12.6% in volume and 58% in revenues. The current rate of growth of commercial services is significant, it is 13% and it is obvious that there is a growth of services resulting from shipments based on distance trade. This is particularly said in 2020, given the pandemic we had. In the end, just a few details about the Agency's business. The agency made total income in 2019 of two billion 14 million 147 thousand and 175 dinars, with expenditures of 926 million 523 thousand 118 dinars. The total earnings for 2019 amounted to a billion 87 million 624 thousand and 57 dinars, which was paid into the Republic of Serbia's budget, of which five million 183,000 509 dinars in the AP Vojvodina budget. All this data is about the Agency's successful business, and we'll try to keep it that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2655	Thank you. The word is made by Marko Jankovic, president of the HOV Commission.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2656	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, let me express my great pleasure to be back in the National Assembly Hall, which gives us the opportunity to talk about the business of the HOV Commission. As you know, in the previous period, we have had more opportunities to discuss the subject and I think that every discussion that we are having contributes to further development not only of the Commission, but also of the capital market regulated by the HOV Commission. I will give you some of the most basic data on the work of the HOV Commission in order, above all, to illustrate the importance of the Commission for the Capital Market Regulatory Framework in the Republic of Serbia, and then we will go through this factographic data relating to the Commission's own financial plan for this year. What is extremely important is that the Commission is responsible for the tasks of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The powers of the Commission are defined by a whole series of laws, above all by one roof law, i.e. The capital market law and the Act on the takeover of stock companies. The Commission also draws its competences from the Law on Open Investment Funds with a public offering, the Law on Alternative Investment Funds, the Law on Audit, the Law on Stock Exchanges, the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and the Financing of Terrorists and the latest law recently adopted in the National Assembly, the Digital Property Act. As you can see, by simply listing the rules that define the work of the Securities Commission, we are coming to the importance of the institution itself for this legal framework of the Republic of Serbia and we are trying to improve the quality of our work to contribute to the further development of the capital market and I think this year will be one of the key for making, I would say, absent steps towards revitalisation and further development of the capital market itself. What awaits us in the coming months is the adoption of sublegal acts relating to the Digital Property Act. We are expected, hopefully, to have the first registration, i.e. the first licensing of alternative investment funds. As you know, this law was passed in 2019 at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. What we sincerely hope for and what we are working intensively with our colleagues from other institutions, above all from the Ministry of Finance, NBS, the Belgrade Stock Exchange and the Central Charter Register is to create a strategy for the development of the capital market in the Republic of Serbia and I sincerely hope that in a relatively short period of time, and certainly during this year we will have a strategy. What awaits us in line with our commitments on the road to EU accession is the creation of a new law on the capital market as a single roof law defining the functioning of the Securities Commission, its status and, let's say, the details of the functioning of the market itself. It is our obligation to adopt this law, namely to bring the new law in line with European legislation and about a dozen European directives into force by the third quarter of this year. I can say with, as I would say, great joy to say that working on this law will be extremely difficult, but I am pretty sure that the final result will lead to the recovery of the capital market in the Republic of Serbia and to take the place it deserves in the context of financing companies that want to find an alternative to a bank loan. What is certain is that through several laws that we have passed in the previous period, above all, we have paved the way for access to sources of funding that have not been available to them so far, and we hope that the results of all these activities will lead to the social product in the Republic of Serbia reaching those growth rates that have been designed for this year and next. What's for sure is that our work isn't done. We also expect some new innovative laws. What we, as an institution, are going to insist on in the coming period, is the adoption of a Krautfanding law, to try to make another alternative way of funding, primarily the start of a company app, primarily innovative companies in the IT sector, to make it possible in one, let's say, an innovative way, that is, in a way that Europe already recognizes somewhere. I say, it's also one of the legal solutions we expect to work on in 2021. I will now give you just a few key data related to the Commission's financial plan for values for this year. The Commission planned total revenues of 127.2 million dinars. The largest part of these revenues are the revenues that the Commission collects in accordance with its tariff Regulation, in some amount of 124.6 million dinars and are higher by about 6.97% compared to the planned revenues in 2020. As I mentioned earlier, the Commission received a whole series of new competences in the previous year, from competences in accordance with the Law on Audit to New Jurisdiction, as I mentioned, which were allocated to the Commission in accordance with the Digital Property Act. All of this will have positive consequences for the Commission's revenue this year. Therefore, the dominant part of these revenues is realised by our charter sector and the Public Society Register, primarily by the approval of bids for the acquisition of stock companies, i.e. on the basis of the approval of the publication of prospectuses for the public offer of securities of value. What I would also like to point out is that in the previous year we had more emissions of corporate corporate corporate bonds in the Republic of Serbia that took advantage of the first opportunity given to them by the Government of the Republic of Serbia during the duration of the emergency, and afterwards by amending the Capital Market Act which simplified the procedure for the broadcasting of corporate bonds. The general idea during these changes was that the very procedure prescribed by law for their emissions was simplified and that the state simply in one comprehensive way to support these companies to further develop and finance their future business activities through the use of capital market instruments. On the other hand, we also have the expenditure of the Securities Commission. They were built in line with the guidelines for the budget preparation of the Republic of Serbia for 2021 and projections for 2022 and 2023. What we do regularly is look at both our incomes and our expenses over the last three years and, based on these revenues and costs, design our forecasts for next year. That's what we did this time. We have taken into account the revenues and costs for the period from 2018 to 2020. I can freely say that the costs are planned at a level that is necessary to cover the most basic costs of the Commission itself. They are planned at a level of 125.5 million dinars and are higher by about 6.83% compared to planned expenditure compared to 2020. What is a fact is that the cost of profit is about 72% of the Commission's securities and total is at some level of 90 million dinars. What I must mention is that in the previous period, the Commission has strengthened its human resources not only because of the adoption of new laws, but also because of the need to further innovate and raise the quality of our work. What I can say freely is that we've taken over people who control the quality of the work of audit houses from the Chamber of Authorized Auditors. This happened in March of the previous year and all of this simply affected the increase in costs the Commission has on this basis. The Commission currently has 44 employees. This includes both the President and four members of the Commission, and I think that this is an optimal number of employees at this time for all those challenges that the Commission is waiting for both in this and in the coming years, and I am pretty sure that by simply getting some new competencies in the next period with these legal solutions that I mentioned in the previous presentation, this Commission will have a simple need to further strengthen its human potential. I'll take a brief look at some of the other less cost that may be interesting to you in your consideration. For example, the costs of official travel are planned at some level of a million and a half dinar. I can tell you that it's very unlikely, given the state of the pandemic of the coronary virus, that these costs will be realised this year. The costs of the team are at a symbolic level of 0.4 million dinars. These are all the costs planned to cover, again, some of the Commission's most basic activities. Simply as one conclusion, I will simply say that the current costs are fully covered by the Commission's own revenues and what we will have as one additional activity is the purchase of the Commission's basic resources, which is planned at some level of 3.3 million dinars, which we will also fully cover from the Commission's own revenues. Once again, I want to thank you for your cooperation in the previous period. I hope you will support our financial plan for this year and I look forward to our further co-operation this year, and as I mentioned earlier, I am sure there will be more opportunities for us to see each other in the plenary sessions of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2657	Thank you. Catarina Rakic, chairman of the Committee on Spatial Planning, Traffic and Infrastructure, spoke. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2658	I thank the chairman. Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, as you have already heard today, there is a report on the work of the Regulatory Agency for Electronic Communications, postal services or a shortened RATEL, with a proposal for the conclusion of the competent committee, i.e. the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications, to accept this report. The procedure adopted by this report on today's agenda has been clearly defined by the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, which describes in more detail the procedure for the supervision of the work of state institutions, agencies and other bodies. I also want to remind you that RATEL was founded by the Law on Electronic Communications as an independent organisation with the property of a legal person who exercises public authority in accordance with the law under which it was established, in the field of electronic communications and postal services, also in accordance with the law defining these two areas. As for the very procedure that today's report came on the agenda, it looks like this. The Regulatory Agency reports to the National Assembly, i.e. to the President of the National Assembly, the President of the National Assembly, delivers a report to the MPs, i.e. the committee responsible, in this case it is the Committee on Spatial Planning, Traffic, Infrastructure and Telecommunications, which today has empowered me to say so, defend myself against the National Assembly. In this way, on December 15, 2020, we discussed this report, discussed it in detail, and came to a positive conclusion, i.e. a proposal for a positive conclusion that today a report, a report on work for 2019, will be adopted. As you heard in the opening statement from a gentleman who is the chairman of the RATEL Board, RATEL was in the course of 2019, really had good results, and I really welcome that, since it is one of the basic objectives and the Government of the Republic of Serbia headed by President Aleksandr Vucic, and it is the more digitisation and transition to the largest number of digital services, and certainly the better and more income from electronic communications, we can also invest in further digitisation and electronic media. As I have already cited by Mr RATEL, this report has been explained in detail, and I will repeat only a few of the details that the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications has made and has proposed to Parliament one such conclusion, i.e. the conclusion that the report on the work of RATEL for 2019 should be adopted. However, as far as the most significant details in this report are concerned, all RATEL’s activities were indeed aimed at preserving the competitiveness of the market in 2019. This is one of the goals why this agency was founded. Then, to improve the quality of services provided, as well as to improve the conditions for the operation of operators on the electronic communications market and postal services. Then, what is very important is to ensure a greater level of protection for end-users. So they also cared about the citizen, who was the last in a row in the entire chain and, of course, what is particularly important to me, they cared about increasing information security in the Republic of Serbia. I will also look back, that is, repeat what has already been said, and these are the revenues achieved on the electronic communications market and on the postal services market. As we have already heard from these markets, they had a significant increase compared to 2018, as regards the revenues made from electronic communications, during 2019, that revenue amounted to 206 billion dinars, and it is higher than the income in 2018, and this is in favour of taking a share in GDP of 3.8%, which I really believe is a large share. This stake was primarily achieved from mobile phones, then broadband internet access, as well as from media traffic distribution. What is also important is that, just as I said at the outset, investments were returned practically to electronic communications and that amount in 2019 amounted to as much as 84 billion dinars, which is twice the amount invested for this same purpose in 2018. I'll also look back on the post office report. As for 2019, as many as 59 postal operators operated in Serbia, they achieved 309 million postal services, which means that in 2019, the turnover of postal services was reached by 21 billion dinars and, most of all, thanks to the increase in distance trade. I have to say I can't wait for the 2020 report, because I believe that this agency here will record such an increase unexpectedly compared to all other industries, given the pandemic of the coronary virus, I believe that in 2020, a larger number of people moved on to the one where you recorded your growth in 2019. I would not speak more extensively, I just hope that all these good results will be a good incentive for the Agency for Regulatory Communications and Postal Services to continue and in the future to work better, and I would like to ask you, in the day of the vote, to support the conclusion of the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport and Infrastructure, which gives a positive opinion on the report on the work of RATL for 2019. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2659	Thank you. The word has a folk MP Dr Aleksandra Tomic, chairman of the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and control of public spending. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2660	The President-in-Office, respected representatives of the Commission of Values, RATEL and honourable fellow Members, today we are talking on the agenda about the financial plan for this year of the Securities Commission, after three points that we adopted at the end of last year, and we heard a lot about how this institution is doing in the jurisdiction of the Serbian Parliament and the Finance Committee. What is good, what we see really is that the Assembly is bringing new laws and these new laws to many powers of the Securities Commission and that's why we couldn't put this financial plan for 2021 into the package when we discussed the end of the year last year, because in the meantime we had many legal solutions that had to come into effect first, such as the Digital Property Act, to simply get those new powers into this plan. In fact, this preparation of some other legal solutions is an indication that indeed, at the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Assembly is making certain innovative solutions, making some major steps, especially when it comes to the digitisation of Serbia and economic growth and development in the most difficult times, when it comes to the Kovida 19 pandemic. This is what gives us this optimism that according to the results that Serbia achieves when you look at that rate of GDP, when we talk about this decline that is the smallest for all countries in the region and when you look at both these most developed EU countries and when you look at the level of investments that ended last year with 2.9 billion euros, which was projected at 2.3 billion, in fact shows one really good and political stability and economic stability of the Republic of Serbia, but shows the interest of all investors to come here to Serbia and invest in the most difficult times. When you look at it, the world's economy and the EU and the region's economies are completely changing. The picture of who's strong and who's weak and how we're going to get out of this pandemic somewhere is very difficult to predict, but what we see according to our results is the road that the government of the Republic of Serbia led with the president of the country, which is the preservation of the lives of Serbian citizens and the preservation of the economy. Finding that path, that balance between measures and those relating to health care people who simply, not only crisis headquarters, but doctors who simply show us which way to go when it comes to pandemics and the one that simply dictates when it comes to adopting economic measures and support packages to survive this period, shows that we are on the right track. And this good path is also the draft budget for this year, which we planned to reduce that deficit, which last year was 8.8%, and we found that at the end of the year with rebalances, but we bring it down to 3% and this growth that we are projecting, the high growth rate of 6% actually shows that these institutions that are not direct budget users, but who are in the power of work of the Assembly and who care about the capital market such as the Securities Commission are really doing this job together with the government of Serbia, along with the finance ministry and along with the National Bank of Serbia. So this consensus between institutions holding Serbia's economic system is really comprehensive and constant and therefore we have good results. There is not some dysfunction or some conflict between jurisdiction, but simply everyone is on a common path to make it easier for us and as citizens of Serbia, but that the state simply has no problem with public finances. Why am I saying this? Because the financial plan for the 2021 year, the Securities Commission, which has been set up precisely by the fact that, in collaboration with the Ministry of Finance, the Commission has clearly done what the Commission has done and financed from certain fees and tariffs has become smaller and smaller and that it has simply become smaller and smaller in these new drafts of the law which has given them certain powers, such as the laws on commodity reserves, such as the Open and Investment Funds Act, on alternative funds, such as the Audit Act, this control role and ultimately we have the Digital Property Act, is in fact the way that this Commission is revenue in a certain way that it can cover its costs. Under the law, it means Article 260(5). The Capital Market Act 1 shows, in fact, that this Commission is obliged and, on the basis of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Assembly of the Finance Committee, by 30 November, we have submitted a proposal for a financial plan for the following year, namely this article 259 which defined the fees on which they are financed, we have had opportunities on the Committee on 28 December, first because of these waitings to adopt new legislative solutions relating to the Digital Property Act and the new jurisdiction we adopted at the end of the year, means a plan for this year. As you can see, if you compare last year, in 2020, when the Commission's total revenues for securities amounted to 118 million 895 thousand and the expenditures were 117. 441 thousand, where the surplus of those revenues was a million and 454 thousand, have shown that this year's plan for 2021 will be significantly higher. This is in fact an indication that this Assembly is doing a good job, adopting really good laws that are in the interest of institutions that are in the power of the Assembly simply being able to function in a certain way, can do their job, not only executively, in terms of laws that are implemented by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but also institutions that have tasks in the capital market to simply worry that the market exists, that we are developing and that in a certain way we are monitoring modern flows, especially when it comes to the crypt of currency and we have talked about it here in parliament. We all see, we follow trends when it comes to informing society, which is very important. It is to see that in the economy there is one general, not to say conflict, but also different opinions, a struggle of opinion on whether to go to electronic money or to stay in that so-called. still real money, whether you need to go to real investment or you need to go to investments relating to securities of value that are actually represented, say the American economy, because when you say in America -- investment, then think about securities of value, but when you say -- in Europe, then you mean real goods, factories, jobs, equipment, something that's money, gold. We have today in the world a really large number of information that changes every day. The situation on the stock exchanges when you look at real stock exchanges that include securities of value and money, but also new exchanges relating to currency crypts, you see that situations change from minute to minute. You see that the young people, most of all in our country, are following these trends, and I just think they've very well supported what this Assembly has adopted when it comes to money, meaning concrete, gold, so we have today in the world a really large number of information that changes every day. The situation on the stock exchanges, when you look at real stock exchanges that include securities of value and money, but also new exchanges relating to the currency crypt, you see that the situation changes from minute to minute. You see that young people, most of all in our country, are following these trends. I simply think that they very well supported what this Assembly has adopted when it comes to the Digital Property Act, because they have seen that as a state, we are really following the situation that is happening, and on the other hand that we are simply giving the possibility that these young people who are dealing with this work, too, which we may not be following so much, have the opportunity to really invest here in Serbia and to deal with this business in an extremely legal way because many things in these areas are somewhere in the world characterized as some grey economy zone. We've simply made it possible for all the people who deal with this really demanding job to make it possible for themselves to work here. The state will benefit multiplely because it has allowed new start-up companies to actually release them for the first three years at a large percentage of tax and contribution payments when it comes to their incomes. Why am I saying all this? Because when you see the Commission's financial plan for securities of value you see that the planned revenue, what was, say, 118 million, is now 127 million and 178 thousand. When you see most of it, of course, comes from taxi fees and these fees go to the most for this section of the Securities and Public Society Register when it comes to the publication of certain bids for acquisition by shareholders, but you can see that there is an increase in a certain number here when it comes to the Market Participants sector because the Securities and Value Sector is increasing the database when it comes to public society registers and you see that a certain part of direct supervision has started to gain. This means that the new Audit Act that we have adopted when it comes to audit houses dealing with this business, means they have a certain kind of supervision by the state, which is the Securities Commission of value, and therefore they really need to deal with the ultimate responsibility of their business and that supervision, of course, includes certain financial resources that they have to pay as a particular type of compensation, and therefore it is an additional job for the Commission itself. This is why we have control of the quality of the reports themselves, so if you remember that we as Serbia are in negotiations with the EU the first chapter we have opened is Chapter 5 - Financial Control. So, when we started negotiations with the EU, it actually shows that we as a state are really doing this job in an extremely responsible way, with high international standards. When we see the revenues that are increased, it should be said that they are greater by 6.90% than the previous year, when we talk about percentages, and when we talk about expenditure projections, they are made based on what was arranged in 2018, 2019 and 2020. This is an indicator of how these expenditures should look and they are mostly for employees' salaries, means for earnings, and a certain amount of profit also goes to costs related to official travel within the Republic of Serbia. It is important for us that these business results, which we have opportunities here and as MPs to see based on their reports that both the board and the tide, are, in fact, the most important part. Because, otherwise, according to the law itself and the financing method, they are financed on the basis of the delegated powers and the possibility that, on the basis of fees and tariffs, they will earn and function. What is most important is that they are not directly users of the Republic of Serbia's budget. So, Serbian citizens have no obligation in terms of funding a single institution like this, because it is, by its functioning, competences and control role in the capital market, in fact, that has ways to secure revenue for the functioning of this institution. It should be said that indeed these last four or five years, this institution has been able to rationalise all costs, well, ultimately, and streamline its salaries. Because, in 2012, when some others ruled here, there was no idea who was a member of the Council when it came to the Securities Commission, and even less was known what were the fees and salaries of the employees this Assembly had chosen. So, I think full transparency in the functioning of this Commission has been ensured. I think that's why she's been commended not only by our institutions, but also by the international ones in which she's a member. I think this is indeed an indication that we can also as a National Assembly to change the awareness of people working in institutions that are within the jurisdiction of the Serbian Parliament, about how we should behave when it comes to salaries and how the people representing these institutions should behave and how this work should be done, in a very responsible way, in co-operation with the competent institutions of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the National Bank of Serbia, because it is the only consensus that actually gives results. In fact, we also have these results today when it comes to the budget of the Republic of Serbia and when it comes to the adoption of new laws, but also when the IMF and the World Bank come here and when they say you're good at these and those segments, but maybe there's something else that needs to be fixed. Then it is very important that all these institutions really intervene together both promiscuously and comprehensively. As we had the opportunity to see, the possibility for the economic measures that the Government of the Republic of Serbia brought last year was practically the announcement that Aleksandar Vukic made for this year, which is that we are economically capable of supporting the private sector again, of course, now in a much smaller scale than last year. So, you have an announcement by Mr. Vukic that in this year, three half of the minimum personal income will have everyone who registers for economic operators and employees of business entities, that they will have opportunities for all citizens of Serbia, what was the measure condemned by the Fiscal Council last year of 100 euros this year will be 60 euros for every citizen who applies, and that pensioners will receive 110 euros this year. Why are we even doing this as a state? Because we want to increase spending and help each and every one of us specifically to service the costs that it has in terms of both accounts and life, means a lot of people who simply need to survive these difficult times. I think that's actually an indicator of how much the state cares about its citizens. After all, last year we had a two-billion-euro guarantee scheme, and this year we will have a 500m-euro loan guarantee scheme. This is what shows in fact that the economy must be supported by the state, but in an extremely rational way, in such a way as to keep its jobs employed within its companies, to maintain a simple level of production, that is most important when it comes to manufacturing companies, but also to keep the part where services are concerned, because the service sector is the most affected in this pandemic. You know that the general economy has so far been based over 60% on the service sector, and that's what's happening right now in the world, that's why it needs to be maintained. So Serbia has shown great responsibility to its citizens, according to its foreign and internal policies. It is indeed a feature in our President Alexander Vucic and all those who think that it might be better to do so with some leaders who are sharply criticising all these measures today show in fact that they are immature to participate in the fight for Serbian citizens' votes in the next elections, because they do not have a plan and programme that could indeed respond adequately to all these challenges that are being put forward, not only in front of Serbia, but in front of the whole region and in front of the whole world. I think this is an important topic that we are talking about, and is due to the financial plan of an institution that participates in the economic life of the Republic of Serbia, but I think it is important that we talk today about the future of Serbia, in 2021, about the measures that, when it comes to the economy itself, we again bring back as a state, and in order to do really good results that are very important for the future. If we don't make decisions quickly, and if we don't respond quickly to the challenges that really affect the whole world, you can see that you simply can't recover so quickly from such blows as this pandemic. We had the opportunity to see on the boards, when she presented her report to the governor of the National Bank of Serbia, if the forecasts hadn't brought these measures to a truly record time, you know, some developed countries were completely late with the adoption of these measures, we would have gone back to the level of three or four years ago when it came to GDP decline, when it comes to borrowing, when it comes to wage cuts and pensions, and we are talking today more and more about the increase and wages and pensions and projections that we drew before this pandemic, which is Serbia 2025 and about the average salary of 900 euros by five years. So we wouldn't be able to think about it at all, let alone talk about it, if we hadn't really implemented such strong measures as they did at the most difficult times for the Republic of Serbia and for the whole world. So today when we talk about the measures that are waiting for us in this year, we also show great responsibility, first of all, to our generations, children and older people who are at this moment the most risky group when it comes to the Kovid-19 pandemic. Vaccination, the possibility of you as Serbian citizens choosing between three or four producers, at a time when people are about to start a war of great forces because of whether a country will be vaccinated, and Serbia has the opportunity to choose, shows only how much political weight there is in general, how respected Serbia is, thanks to Mr. Vukic, who has good contacts with both China and the EU and Russia, and even with America when it comes to these topics. So it shows in fact how stable we are as a state in this political part. The fact that we are now going to have problems, of course, as we know, and the great pressures when it comes to the subject of Kosovo and Metohija, we are used to it, and we know here that we have to fight all the forces, all those that apply to political methods, and it is simple for us that this fight is continuous and we can never give up this fight, but at this point we should all be together when it comes to preserving the lives of people and citizens of Serbia, when it comes to maintaining the economy, to survive these difficult times in the best possible way possible. I think that this financial plan is just a reason for the topics that we can discuss today and that the Securities Commission has shown from value that it has really responded adequately to all the new laws it has received new competences and that, in accordance with this and this financial plan, it will actually implement these laws, along with all the relevant institutions it participates in this process. I therefore believe that this financial plan should be supported in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2661	Thank you. Before we proceed with further work, a brief notice regarding today's work. Honorable Members of the People, pursuant to Article 27 and Articles 87, 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will be working today after 1800 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to bring in acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Do the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, want a word? The People's MP, Muamer Zukorlic, came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2662	The Honorable Chairman, respected representatives of the competent bodies, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, the subject of the Financial Report of the Securities Agency, of value belongs to that category of topics of bureaucratic, essential, necessary and certainly that, with all the suggestions that we can hear today, this plan should be supported in the day to vote. But this is an opportunity to question the administration itself, to deal with red tape a little deeper. Bureaucracies is an essential part of the functioning of society through a state apparatus, but that doesn't mean that every administration is always good, that it's adequately organized, that it's always effective and that it's always in the extent that it's really needed, especially in so-called. This challenge to transition societies, the challenge of organising bureaucracy, or administrations, is greater and very often risks are such as to show the anomalies to which they should be identified, i.e. to which they should have a preventively reserved attitude. I remember a statement by former Secretary-General of the United Nations of the famous Butros Galli given in an interview, though, after he extended the secretary-general's mandate, because they usually speak honestly only when they leave those positions. When asked about the impressions through his mandate, he said, among other things, he did not find an answer to the challenges of the United Nations administration, saying that this administration has so many papers, so many acts, so many regulations, regulations, norms, that it cannot fit into more trucks, and that efficiency is far beyond that scope of administration itself and formal administrative productions that they have, and he dared to set an example of the mafia, on the other hand, where the mafia has no administration, no decisions, no regulations, no regulations, no regulations, and unfortunately it seems very effective. Of course, there can be no example of any mafia to us, but certainly this statement points to one reality that is always in front of every society about the very role of every administration, and that is the question – yes, what is the purpose of the administration? Is the administration purpose itself? That, among other things, is another challenge. In the democratisation of society, bureaucracy always tends to be the most significant factor in one society. The society that manages to keep bureaucracy in its role, and the role of bureaucracy is to serve citizens through the service of certain sectors in the country itself. The company that manages to keep bureaucracy in that role to remain at the service level, and to prove its quality through efficiency on the one hand, and on the other hand through adequate abundance, i.e. Not to be any bigger than necessary, that society has succeeded. We need these questions very openly and transparently to ask ourselves and analyse the work of certain or all agencies, competent bodies and administrations in general we need to follow precisely indicators to confirm whether the administration is in its real and defined role or whether it exceeds that role. Overstepping the role of administration is when it becomes a purpose itself. If in one society we have a prominent desire for citizens to be employed in the state administration, it is not a good indicator, and unfortunately we continue, even in sectors where wages are very low, we have the tendency of citizens to work in the state administration. The question is why. Why does someone want to get a job in the state administration and pay is low? So this suggests that we may be at risk or perhaps not yet, but that should be indicated, that the administration is actually trying to become the main elite in the country. In any society where the administration has become a key elite, this society can slip into certain totalitarianism. The administration can't be an elite. The intellectual community should be the elite of a society. It is it that should be on the surface, to create the direction of one society, then the spiritual elite, therefore, what essentially has a basis for being an elite. However, the administration must remain at the service level. As long as we do not achieve this balance that we have a citizens' desire in employment and in other areas beyond the administration, this risk exists and needs to be pointed out. On the other hand, an indicator of the amount or volume of the appropriations spent on administration. So it's undeniable that actually the administration, i.e. bureaucracy, eats, or spends most of the budget. To a significant extent, it is necessary, but the question is whether it is necessary to this extent. Is it just as much administration needed and is it just as much funds justified to spend, or eat the state administration at all levels? These are topics on which we certainly cannot get answers at a parliamentary session, but we MPs must not fall into the trap that we are only procedurally considering the topics that are being imposed here, but it is necessary to address the deeper meaning of these topics, or the roots from which certain good phenomena are being developed or possibly certain anomalies. As for the subject of the Regulatory Agency for the Control of Electronic Communications and Postal Services, it is also a very interesting area. The report should certainly be supported because it is about what they did. However, this subject is much more important than the ordinary procedure for adopting the report itself. We heard in the explanation that Rattel is making the most of it and that he succeeds in ensuring the security of the use of electronic communications. I believe that's the way it is with regard to the pursuit, and perhaps also with regard to the real and the possibility, but I'm not sure that's exactly how it should be with regard to what's supposed to be a final achievement, in various ways of security, or the safety of citizens, whether it's possible to use electronic communications. If we have a phenomenon that it is possible to listen to the president of the state in this country, I am not sure that we have achieved the highest degree of security, or security from the abuse of electronic communications. Yes, it is not the only one who, or perhaps not at the top of the scale that should provide it, but it is important that we also get a signal from that side that we have certain processes incomplete with regard to insurance, abuse, or the security of citizens from the abuse of electronic communications. Now, if we have the possibility of the abuse of electronic means being tapped, of course and abuse of position, being tapped by the president himself, what is it, gentlemen, only with us ordinary citizens or with citizens at all? So it's a subject beyond which you can't even cross exclusively politically, unfortunately it mostly gets a political sound. It is much more important than the interpolitical, inter-party relations themselves. It is an indication that in three decades we have failed to bring all these reforms to an end and simply put certain powers under control, that we have them under control so that they are not abused. On the other hand, the issue of security, or the security of citizens from certain means of communication, electronic communications according to their health. Unfortunately, you know, especially in this crisis of the Kovid 19 pandemic, the question of the impact of the 5G network, etc. Anyway, when these topics open up, we get what is instinctively the easiest, which is to divide into two camps; the ones that support everything unconditionally and unconditionally, and say – whatever we get is the truth, and the others who say – no, this is all a conspiracy, they want to kill us, etc. Both extremes, as I've pointed out many times, are never to the end true. Not everything can be justified by conspiracy theory. The existence of a conspiracy theory does not eliminate the possibility of a conspiracy, but the only way to avoid the polarisation of society between these two extremes, where everything unconditional is being served on either side of us is to accept from other extremes where we all refuse and consider everything a conspiracy, is to be further transparency, additional information, and that would be my request to RATEL, but also to the competent scientific institutes that should be helpful to RATEL and other competent authorities. We can't just try, here as a folk MP to simply be informed about these topics, I've been trying to get full information on the harmfulness of the transmitter, let's say various electronic communications transmitters that are being installed today on buildings. You can't get full information, you get an answer in two, three rows that's safe. Who do you get that from? So you get from the interested party, you get from whoever cares about installing that transmitter on the building or some facility where we have a mass presence of citizens. We can't just do that. We can't have any valid information from an interested party. The one who cares about installing that transmitter, yeah, yeah, it's all for sure, so they show you some paper as it's all, I don't know for sure, but as a layman, take, stick a simple pole and install a regular satellite dish of what's now less and less, what we've all had, install it and stab it on the grass, so I've personally convinced myself, so after a while, you'll get a certain circle around that satellite antenna where the grass has dried up. What's dried up, was her boring program, what's it dry of? Don't tell me now, and now you need to completely rule out reason and say, no, according to that anecdote -- the paper is right, what you have here to see your eyes. We can't act like this, we can't. So, we have to from the level of government, from the level of competent agencies, from the level of professional institutes, we have to have full information equipment, scientific information to the end, so where there are no risks, then we have to stand on that side, show the arguments, and bring out information, not people, that's not harmful, and that they do both competent bodies and professional institutions, and not just leave it to interested people who tell stories, and then they find some of their partners in buildings as they are now called, some managers, home councils, make a deal with them, a little bit in the pocket of money, and then install it around buildings as much as possible. It is equally harmful to confusion, it is equally harmful to the lack of information and ignorance that citizens have, and everything that stems from mental deformities in terms of ignorance and confusion, the development of various theories and mistrusts that in this case spread among citizens. Citizens' mistrust with the state, according to state authorities, is very important. It can't all be held under a pendrect, police, law, punishment, sanctions. No, sanctions are for a minority like we said yesterday. Most people need to be convinced that it's good and we have to offer arguments so they can be convinced. What I want to look at today, although it may have an implicit relationship with today's topic, which is the issue of the media, the more accurate issue of public service abuse. Gentlemen, we must not make peace here, first of all as MPs, as people whom this people, whom the citizens have chosen, have represented, as they think it is best. We must not agree to taboo theme. We cannot allow tabulation of any topic, we cannot allow RTS, as a public service, to declare "panda bear", some protected species that can do whatever they want. No, gentlemen, the point of public service is to actually be how his name was defined, to be a service to the citizens, to serve the citizens. They cannot be some inquisition category that determines which parties are desirable, at that service, which are undesirable at that service. Here, a colleague of Milly's has already come up with this subject and I want to express my support for it. So, they can't determine and take parties, here's this show, quite accidentally I got the information, come on I meant "The Word of the Word", it seems to me to be called, they have determined which parties are valid, which will represent this people. They don't care if these parties are parliamentary, whether these parties are parliamentary and they're parliamentary in a few weeks and a few sessions, they've set up a dozen guests to invite, and the rest of them, you gentlemen don't exist. They have ruled out several parliamentary parties that do not call at all, because they are obviously undesirable and unsuitable, I do not know on what basis, and in the context of whether or not they are entirely excluded minority parties. The minority parties represented here in parliament according to the last census of about one third of the citizens, therefore, do not have access to RTS, or have it so selectively, and here on this show are quite impertinent and rudely excluded. It's unacceptable, and we can't allow gentlemen in the leadership and editorial policy of RTS to behave like that and think that they can exclusively decide who's decent and who's unsuitable. Unfortunately, I was in a position 20 years ago to publicly call not to pay a subscription to RTS. I'm on the verge of doing it again, if they continue this way no matter what the law is, gentlemen, because when you disable it, when you impose one law, you know that another lawlessness will appear. This is illegal behavior of RTS, and they can't be funded legally, and they can't behave illegally. They must, therefore, face it. This is the last warning, but surely, if they continue this way, not just the financing issue, we will use other legal, judicial means to put an end to this oligarchy, because it is one media oligarchy, which actually has a relationship with the state, or society, just to take money, and then no responsibility, no legality, and I'm not talking about ethical codes and press codes. This is something we're going to talk about, and we're sure to insist on, because this kind of insolence, this kind of attitude towards a large number of citizens and their political representatives, unfortunately, has not happened in any totalitarian systems, so they gave themselves the right, simply, to them. They can't. We'll show them they can't. They are a service, they should have certain independence, but they should also have the same independence that is determined by laws, which are determined by ethical and journalistic codes and which respects certain human and civilizational principles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2663	Thank you. The word has a representative of the JS parliamentary group, MP Vojislav Vujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2664	Thank you, the Honorable Chairman, Vice-President of the Assembly, Mrs Yevdzic, Mr Jankovic and Kovacevic with his associates, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament. Before I move on to my exposure, I have to lean on my colleague Zukorlic. I watched the same "word by word" show last night, and I'm not sure everyone could fit into that studio. I am also sure that just as the president of my party Dragan Markovic Palma will receive an invitation to visit such a show, you will get such an invitation I am sure. Not everyone can be on one show. Now whoever has the right to participate, and who doesn't, that's another topic. Let me get back to this subject of ours. The first item of the agenda is the Commission's financial plan for securities of value. I first became a member of the 2012 Finance Committee in front of Unity of Serbia. That was the first time I met and met with the Securities Commission. That first introduction and experience with them wasn't good at all, to tell you the truth. I know you're new to that function. At that moment, the government's decision, one of the government's decisions, was actually to pay in the public sector to limit to 165,000 dinars. It was one moment when the economy with all the savings was supposed to move forward and we were all going to take that burden together. Your predecessor, I don't remember his name, it doesn't matter, is at that point, I think the only one representing the Agency that the Finance Committee hasn't adopted is the financial plan. I believe this will not be the case with you. I've seen your financial plan, and I've seen what was most important at that moment, and it's not that it doesn't matter now, what the salaries of people working in your sector are. At that point, regardless of the ban that was 165,000 your colleague had over 400,000 salaries. The amount of business that was then and the volume of business that was now not the same. I've seen your financial plan, more than correct. I heard your exposure today and it's maximum correct. It may be a financial plan, it may have arrived a little later, but I think it's justified, as you said, you've received a new assignment this year, and that's the result of the Digital Property Act, which this Assembly voted in December of the month. I believe that along with the NBS that you are in charge of controlling this implementation of the Digital Property Act to make a maximum contribution. What was interesting in that assembly, and I'm glad that perhaps you can help us now, too, was the question sent by the head of my parliamentary group, Dragan Markovic Palma. I'm saying interestingly, it's become viral on social networks. He's got a few million hits. I'm not sure that everyone was able to understand then, and I'm not even sure the minister was able to give the best answer because it's a little time to answer one of those questions. The minister explained to people who had some insight into it. I would take the opportunity to ask you now to try a little more concrete and more detailed to answer the question that Dragan Markovic Palma asked at the time – what is actually a currency crypt, what is your responsibility when it comes to digital property in general, to make it clearer for the citizens? Because in the time in which we live digital assets and in general the way we trade, the digital way of trade is increasingly present in our lives. If we inform citizens well, I believe that we will all or that everyone will have equal chances of being able to profit precisely from one of these activities. Of course, what is very important, as a colleague earlier, the chairman of the Finance Committee and said – not only is the NBS responsible for the stability of the dinar course, you are with your people. I congratulate you on that, because it is, of course, the basis of every strong economy and I am sure that the course in Serbia will continue to be stable. When it comes to the report on the work of the Regulatory Agency for Electronic Communications and Postal Services for 2019, first of all, first of all, that's how things develop quickly, we're talking about 2019, I believe that a lot of things have changed with you, but what's interesting and what I think all citizens should know, it's not a problem again, and that's what you're doing. So the scope of your operation is not small at all. You cover public fixed telecommunications networks and services, public mobile telecommunications, regional roaming services, broadband Internet access, media content distribution, different service packages, postal services market and so on. The Regulatory Agency for Electronic Communications and Postal Services has an obligation, first of all, to protect all citizens when it comes to every type of digital service, first of all I think about the Internet, because there, as time goes by, more and more, let's say, insecurity. I also urge you to work more on citizen education as your predecessors do. That's a lot of newspaper. You've been developing very quickly and the market is developing very quickly. I think you should have a little more time at RTS to do citizen education, because I don't know what's a better and faster way, but to approach citizens. Of course, in any case, I will now take the opportunity to commend all the people who work in the post office or distributions of different goods and services, because at the time of the covid, when the pandemic started, in such a way as the largest, really, all the employees of all the courier services were maximumly active while we were all, come on, I can say, conditionally and were in that reinforced quarantine. I have two questions for you that I would ask you to give me an answer. The first question is exactly what the colleague said earlier – how justified is this fear of citizens from all these antennas? I'm not talking about whether it's 4G, whether it's 5G or any other network. You said they're in kindergartens, they're in schools, I believe that that's what you wanted to draw attention to, that it's safe technology, so I'm asking you once again, because of the public, that you say, that it doesn't stay unarranged, or that your colleague was just asking a question, I think that this question can cause more panic and fear than a real explanation to the citizens. What I'm interested in, as a citizen now and as a MP, I think that's your job, to tell me by what criteria is there on which channel is the television? I'd like to ask both colleagues, since you're here to give answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2665	Thank you, colleague Vujic. The word has the mandated proposaler Marko Janković, president of the Securities Commission. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2666	Thank you. First, I should like to thank Mr Vujic, Mr Zukorlic, for his support so far, when it comes to the Commission's financial plan for securities of value. I'll try to make a little introduction, and then I'll answer Mr. Vujic's questions. Essentially, this issue has been raised by the administration itself, as well as by some previous calls from the Securities Commission. I'll be very open and honest. Before I came to the Commission, I didn't have too much contact with the state administration and this is my first experience in one of those roles. I try to transfer some of my experiences from a real sector, but also from the financial institutions in which I have previously worked, to a very important institution for the financial stability of the Republic of Serbia, and that simply one approach to work, which is very pragmatic and which is tasked with solving the problems facing, above all, market participants, we try to solve, or at least lead to the regulatory framework that defines our work, in order to be able to solve the problems that market participants are facing. As you yourself have concluded, the Commission has indeed many powers defined by a number of laws. Our profits are, I'd say correct at this point. I can't say that probably all of us wouldn't want to be better, but the simple market we're currently regulating is not able to finance bigger employees' earnings in the Commission itself. We're all aware of that. So, the people who are currently working in the Commission, I think they are aware of the situation in which we as a society and a state are. It is our job to make the capital market progress over the coming years and that, as a result of the progress of the market itself, the Securities Commission is also making progress as well as the institution. We are very rational here, simply, somewhere sharing the fate of the very market where we are and which as such we regulate. What we're going to do anyway, and I mentioned the very Capital Market Development Strategy, is to make all relevant state institutions come together in one place and make one development plan. I hope that he will be five years old and that in those five years, we will be able to really improve not only the Commission's employees' earnings as one state institution, but perhaps, first of all, earn, say, profits in brokerage houses or profits in investment funds. I'm pretty sure there's going to be some space as a result of that and we're going to talk about some elements, but I'm saying, it's up to us to work hard and to get us to be able to finance ourselves from our own resources and simply, our financial plan to be significant in some years to come. I'm just gonna take another chance. You mentioned the education of citizens when it comes to RATEL. It's one of the key things that the Commission is expecting for securities from the next period. We will certainly, in communication with all relevant institutions, including the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, try to expand the financial education of citizens through different programmes in order to simply expand the information in the broadest possible sense, in order to open up some new aspects for investing in the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. It seems to me that the potential for further increase in the number of investors is enormous and, I say again, I am sure that, with the support of all relevant institutions, we will be able to increase that one investor base. Let me get back to this question about virtual currencies. I heard a discussion between the president of your parliamentary group and the finance minister. Here, you'll let me quote what virtual currency is in accordance with our law and then I'll try to explain to you what our approach was in what context and where the competences of the National Bank of Serbia and the Commission of Papers are divided when it comes to the Digital Property Act. Therefore, the core virtual currency is defined as a type of digital property that has not been issued and whose value is not guaranteed by the Central Bank. It does not constitute a legal means of payment, there is no legal status of money or currency, but natural and legal persons accept that virtual currency as means of exchange and can be bought, sold, exchanged, transferred and stored electronically. What is the essence of this definition? It is simply that we try to distinguish what is a fiat currency as something that the central banks of different countries in the world are behind, something that the state essentially guarantees in the ultimate instance, from something created by different market participants in this one digital ecosystem, where very often we cannot identify the creator or publisher of a particular virtual currency and try to give citizens one clear information about how far the possibilities of the state come when it comes to protecting them. So the possibilities for us as the regulator of this ecosystem are limited and at the National Bank of Serbia is that, through better information from citizens about what virtual currencies and digital assets represent, we even lead citizens to make more rational investment decisions and to invest their resources in those instruments that are best suited to their appetite for the risk of defining it. So, that those citizens who are willing to take more risks and want to participate in one less regulated, less secure market have the opportunity to do so, and that those who want to be safer and want to make themselves slightly lower yields, but, I say, with one greater security and in certain situations and guarantee of the state through different forms of protection that the state provides, let's say, through the Fund for the Protection of Investors that has a Securities Commission, which is run by the Deposit Insurance Agency when investors are on the capital market, to simply enable citizens to have a choice. So whoever wants to take more chances has that option. By the way, there's a chance of a bigger profit. Anyone who wants to be safer and wants greater protection of the state clearly has defined the frameworks in which it moves and it simply was our thinking when creating this single regulatory framework. When the division of competences between the National Bank and the Securities Commission is at stake, therefore, the basic idea was to try to divide the National Bank and the Commission somewhere and to share competences based on the equivalent activities that we already have in this real world, when financial instruments are at stake. So, the basic idea was that the National Bank where it has the most experience and knowledge, let's say, when it comes to trading transactions, when it comes to, say, ATMs, it can apply these experiences to cryptomats or gearboxes that are going to change the crypts for Fiat currencies, so, for these traditional currencies, and that the Securities Commission, first of all, its expertise in the digital property market segment, and when it comes to investment companies, when it comes to managing portfolio investments, that we apply those experiences to the digital property market segment. The bottom line is that because of the nature of the digital property itself and the flexibility that the creators of these digital assets have, we will often come into a situation that both the National Bank and the Securities Commission have competences in certain areas. We were able to achieve a great consensus between these two institutions. I think we're in a practical sense, and we're working on that right now in the context of writing sublegal acts, creating a single portal for the delivery of documentation when all those who have a legal obligation to contact these two institutions are concerned. So we have reached a consensus that, practically, for the end-user and one who has to do something in line with the legal solutions, therefore, it does not matter whether certain documentation arrives to the National Bank or the Commission. The deadlines are identical for both institutions. The methods of action are identical to those of both institutions. The types of answers, the way in which we deliver answers are identical and what we have achieved is to try to reach some smaller but more advanced economies, such as Singapore, South Korea, so let's say Malta, when it comes to some EU member states, where they are trying to make innovative digital solutions and digital access to different state institutions easier, simple, approach and investors on the one hand, but also issuers of different financial instruments on the other hand. I think that these legal solutions are quite quality and I am quite certain, given the interest that has arisen since the adoption of the law itself and when the Commission, but also the National Bank, is concerned, that we will have a significant number of companies that will decide to appear in this segment of business activities in the next period. The whole point and this solution was that some of the activities that are already happening, therefore, that companies that are already broadcasting some kind of digital property, that some IT companies that are already providing services to certain companies from that ecosystem, are going somewhere into the regular frameworks of business in the Republic of Serbia, to give them all the opportunities that they, above all, want. So they had big problems in the context of "legal" business, since the legal framework for what they were dealing with did not exist. So they now have a clear picture of what their real and obligation is, as well as what it is necessary to do in order to do business in accordance with the law. I think we've been very correct in terms of the level of burden we've imposed somewhere, in terms of the weight that administration can sometimes have. We have made sure that, simply, all of us as regulators, I am talking about both the National Bank and the Commission, be at the least possible level, absolutely comparable, very often and simpler than some equivalent examples in both the EU and the world. When we look at some very developed markets, let's say, American, the market that will define digital property is pretty little there compared to that traditional paper market that America already has developed, what is the situation in the Republic of Serbia is that our securities market is quite modest. It has significant potential for further development, and it seems to me that this digital property market in all its forms will soon have the potential to arrive, practically, this market for traditional financial instruments. We even took one step more. I'd also like to thank my colleagues from the Ministry of Finance. So we also created certain tax incentives. In this context, we have made an effort in this segment of financial instruments, so let's say one form of digital property that has all the characteristics of the financial instrument, to further relieve issuers and cases when, for example, they emit debt securities of value which, I say, they again have all the elements of the financial instrument, but they emit them in digital form, are practically relieved of all those administrative obligations that the Capital Market Act imposes. What we all need to be aware of is that in this process of approaching the EU we will have two parallel tracks. One is the alignment with the European directives. They are often not too friendly when it comes to the business community. Very often, they burden their business significantly, and we try to make sure that all these obligations that we feel are not necessary before our membership in the EU are delayed for some of the following periods and that only those elements that we believe will promote the development of our market by that moment are adopted and implemented, practically, from the moment the laws themselves enter into force. So what our task is to make this next period until the moment of EU accession very friendly to all those who want to use the capital market to develop their business. We're really trying to do it. I say again, we're off those salaries. It may be the least interesting topic I like to talk about, but what is essential is that they will be monitoring our further market activities somewhere, as people would say, depending on how good we are, how much we contribute to further market development, so much will be good for us as employees in the institution itself. I'm pretty sure we'll do our best in the coming period to further improve our business. I've already mentioned some of the activities that are waiting for us this year. I am very happy to have a very good cooperation with the Financial Committee and I would be pleased to discuss all these topics on some of the following committees, if necessary in more detail. I'm sorry if I've been too busy, but if there's any need for further explanations, I'm here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2667	Thank you. Only information for Mr Zukorlic - you will receive a replica. Just so the promoters finish this show, you'll get the replica you asked for earlier. You asked for a replica? (Muamer Zukorlic: Yes.) You'll get it when the promoters finish. Next up is Mr. Dragan Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2668	As for this very sensitive topic of electromagnetic radiation, I may have missed it, maybe it was too short in exposure, repeat. So, RATEL's working on establishing a network of sensors. We currently have 35 cities of 73 locations. Our goal is, and I think we'll fill it in to get to 100 locations this year where we would completely cover the entire territory of the Republic of Serbia. We place sensors in the most sensitive places – kindergartens, schools, dormitories, etc. You can find all the results on our website. The results are real time. So, you go on the site, you find which location you want that's there and you see how cumulatively radiating all electronic communications means is, and you'll see that there's a gauge, or the limit of the allowed radiation that's not in any place at all exceeded. Therefore, all electromagnetic radiations stemming from electronic communications are completely safe and in accordance with the regulations. Unfortunately, the story and the conspiracy theory have a lot. The newspapers probably love it, because it raises the circulation, but this is a fact. So you can see on our site, without any dilemma, in real time. As far as channel distribution is concerned, we don't do it. This is not the jurisdiction of the Regulatory Agency for Electronic Communications. TV channel schedules, I think, are in the jurisdiction of REM. As far as education is concerned, thank you for your advice. Interestingly, this particular topic would probably require a little more information from the public and some education. We are at our disposal and certainly in some contact with RTS all of our personnel capacity are available and I think we can do it easily. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2669	Thank you. The next word is Mr. Muamer Zukorlic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2670	I thank you, colleague Vujic, for trying to explain this phenomenon to me on RTS. Unfortunately, it's not like that. I thought the first few shows were like that – it's okay, there's a large number of parties, one, the other, the third show, it's going to be the next and the other. But it's not like that. So, I think there's been four or five of those shows lately. You can return that, and see that some parties were on each show, and even some minor parties that failed to even get close to the censorship were either on any show or on more shows. Therefore, there is no dilemma that there is any intention, which they need to explain, but that it is neither a failure nor a mistake, nor a technical flaw. Besides, we all participated in an election campaign. We had a public presentation service, and then we were able to introduce ourselves in two circles. So it's not about that, it's about some background, I don't know which, I don't know, that's why I'm looking for answers, that's why I'm reacting this way. So, simply the intention of someone being, I repeat, from minor parties that I don't know if they've crossed 1% on almost every show, and that a few of us parties, especially from minority communities, we don't. So I'd like to be given an answer that's principled, but it's gone, it's not possible to give. Unfortunately, it's not just about that show, it was the most drastic. However, the fact is, here, personally, so this is my second term in the National Assembly, I've been able to say something at the public service for the entire term once or twice, if we shut down the election campaign. What should be and what is the practice in all civilised countries is that parliamentary parties are and to whom the public service of the minority is available on a daily basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2671	Thank you, Mr. Zukorlic. The word has Vojislav Vujic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2672	Mr. Zukorilich, I was just talking in that direction. If you will, neither will the president of my party, Dragan Markovic Palma, no matter how many more than two mandates we have in this Assembly by the will of citizens, I believe that on the fingers in the last 10 years you can count the number of guesting in shows of a similar type. I just told you that I believe that just today you've started one such topic, which is the sher ratings of the Assembly very small, RTS two, right now, doesn't mean that the people of RTS didn't get the information we talked about. I believe it will be a consequence and a moment when they will now turn to us to be guests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2673	The word is Mr. Zukorlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2674	I thought you were justifying them, and that's why I reacted. So, in that case, you join this conviction, and it's totally fine, and I think these are things that shouldn't have a party sound, but you're also witnessing that we have a selective relationship and a selective approach. That RTS, that public service can't happen. I repeat, we must find the mechanism as the most legislative body in this country. The National Assembly is the largest legislative body, the highest legislative body, but also the highest supervisory authority in this country. So, the National Assembly is the supervisory authority of all surveillance. So we can't shut up in front of the floscule - we're on our own and we can do whatever we want. So, these phenomena must be condemned and not just condemned, but simply now we call them public, condemning, to make these papers, but unless they want to, and if they do deafen, we need to find a mechanism to stand up to it. Of course it's very important, here, when, like you colleagues, you get involved in that conviction and, of course, that effect will be stronger. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2675	Thank you. The next speaker is MP Branimir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2676	Dear Chairman, respected representatives of the Securities Commission, respected representatives of the Regulatory Agency for Electronic Communications and Postal Services, it is commendable that we are also considering in plenary today the financial plan of the Securities Commission and the Report for 2019 RATEL. It's a good practice we've established here in parliament. I spoke about the work of the Securities Commission and the MPs of the SDPS recently when the subject of the agenda was the Digital Property Act, so I will look back today, or say more about the RATL Report. I will focus on some segments of the report, of course not all, and I will focus on those, above all, concerning users of legal services, their protection, security, or citizens of Serbia who use mobile phone services and other means of communication from this area. Of course, before that, I must point out and point out that when the Agency for Electronic Communications and Postal Services was established 16 years ago that it was then set up the task of this agency, which is to ensure the effective implementation and improvement of established policy in the area of telecommunications and to ensure that it is aimed at further development of telecommunications and the creation of conditions for the establishment of an information society. Just when we talk about the 2019 Report, it's another one in a series of reports where we can see how far along that road, how the tasks set before the RATL are fulfilled and how the objectives set out are achieved. The report states that the activities, i.e. the objectives of RATEL for 2019, were, above all, the achievement of a competitive market, better quality of services, protection of end-users of services, i.e. improving information security. I believe that the best indicator of work and RATEL, as well as the Ministry of Trade, Telecommunications and Tourism, is precisely the satisfaction of the users of services in this area. When citizens are satisfied, it is only an indication that RATEL is doing well, that the competent ministry is doing well, because this agency and the ministry, they can say freely, closely cooperate, are simply directed towards each other in this area. In 2019 1,042 cases related to objections were registered and 423 were positively resolved. That is, therefore, what is in the jurisdiction of RATL. I think this indicator is good. So over 40% of the cases have been solved and I say that in that context when I talk about protecting consumer rights, with the fact that when we talk about consumer rights, consumers are first talking about consumer rights, if they are not satisfied with the service. If I'm talking about mobile operators, first of all, so if they don't respond within a certain time limit or they don't respond at all, then the ministry takes over part of its responsibility, and RATEL is working in this situation by trying to find an out-of-court solution where everyone would be satisfied, and above all, end-users. When I talk about these 40% of cases that are positively solved in open objects, I think it is actually a good indicator that consumers have somehow understood their own mechanisms, or how they can exercise their rights. Data also show from the report that the complaints relate most to the level of the account, the quality of the service and what is interesting, above all, to the quality of the Internet, or data transfer. When we talk about this, my impression is that when we talk about the first problem, which is the amount of the account, consumers, or citizens, can often prove that the mobile operator who delivered them a certain service account was wrong on the basis of documents and other visible parameters. When we talk about the quality of the service, i.e. specifically on the network or data transfer, the Internet, it is hard to prove to citizens that the quality of the service is not as agreed, that it is not in accordance with the contract or with certain standards. It really happens with certain mobile operators that the network is not covered enough, that the Internet is not good on all parts of the territory. I especially think of people who often travel, even on certain parts of the highway from Belgrade to Nis, at the exit from Belgrade and from Cačka to Belgrade, Milos the Great, it seems to me, so I got information from the citizens, before turning Ub from the direction of Cačka towards Belgrade, that the network is weaker than usual. I think in that case the task is also RATL, but we should also be in the Assembly in the future to support mobile operators to strengthen the quality of their services. Again when I talk about this subject, about consumer protection, when I say that these two other cases that are often hard to prove, there is another problem for consumers. In fact, if they're not satisfied with the mobile operator's service, they can ask for the termination of the contract, but that termination of the contract goes to their expense if they can't prove it, or they have to financially settle the whole contract until it's over, if they want to break the contract. That is why, of course, it is important that we insist on improving the network, on the quality of services, so that such situations do not occur at all. We can also see from the report, and Mr Kovacevic recently said that the measurement and analysis of the parameters of mobile operators' services has been done since 2017. Indeed, the data reported was encouraging that in 2017, this average score on scales from one to 100 was 55.4, I think, and in 2019 77 point was some percentage point and that in 2019 the best rated operator had 85.06%, another 76.79, and the third 69.9 points. The data I have available, I think, in the current year, that the average rating of all three mobile operators and Telecoms and VIPs and Telenors was 81.4 if I'm not mistaken and that's an excellent data. If we look at the average, given that as a successful parameter in EU countries, we take every estimate over 80 to be a good result, now, I guess that the average score is 81.4, I didn't have any insight as to how each operator is assessed, but I think the task should be that each operator should individually meet, to get to that scale above 80 points, not some that has much more, some lower, and on average to be satisfactory, but I think that in the future we should pay attention to everyone, especially RATEL to each operator to get to that level to make the score more than 80 points. In this way, we will surely achieve an outstanding quality of all the networks operating in Serbia. It's commendable that all this data can be seen on the RATEL site, they're visible. Citizens when they want to commit to an operator can simply go to the RATL website to see the data and they will show them, suggest in which direction they should go. As for the international co-operation also mentioned in the report, it is said that in 2019, two Memorandums of Understanding with Romanian and Turkish agencies were actually signed, but I believe that in 2019 the most important agreement again concerning international co-operation is the one signed, it is the agreement to lower the prices of Roma services in the Western Balkan countries. We'll see the full effects of this agreement this year, 2021. The transitional solution will last until the end of June, and since July 1st, full effects will be achieved and thus we will get closer, i.e. we will adopt that principle that applies in the EU, the principle of "roming as at home". What does he mean? The principle implies that if Serbian citizens travel to Western Balkan countries, they spend time there, they will be able to use the services of all mobile operators from Serbia at prices that are also valid for the domestic market. It is also good for Serbian citizens who travel as tourists to those countries, of course, and for those who deal with business activities, but of course we open our market and consider other people more favourable when they come to our country, i.e. citizens from the environment will have more favourable conditions for the use of these benefits. This agreement is being implemented jointly, i.e. a project jointly conducted by RATEL and the Ministry of Trade and Telecommunications and Tourism, and I must highlight in this context and certain activities of the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications. I especially need to highlight the project that is under way, this is the Connected School Project. He refers to improving information technologies. In fact, it involves establishing a standardised and sustainable wireless local network for all schools and larger facilities across Serbia, thus enabling advanced electronic services to be provided. It is especially important for all those who participate in the education process because they will be able to use without problems and digital journals and learning remotely, but will also be able to access digital educational content. And this is actually very important because we are thus creating equal opportunities for all citizens of Serbia to school under the same conditions, to have educational materials available to them under the same conditions and thus to say freely to reduce the gap between rural and urban areas, and these are some of the basic ideas that SDPS advocates. So far, the project has completed the construction of wireless computer networks in 46% of schools. In this way 479,000 students have access to wireless internet and over 20,000 classrooms are covered in this way. The project aims to cover 1,880 school facilities, or about 760,000 students. That it worked out well in this area for years shows us the experience we had from last year when the pandemic of the coronary virus really made the system work great. It was organized for a very short time online teaching for all students. In this way the students successfully brought in the end of the school year, they adopted, I believe, a certain quality of knowledge, perhaps not the one as they were in school benches, but in any case, they successfully operated the entire system that allowed teaching to be organised in this way. Also, when we talk about this area, my colleague Natasa Mihajlović Bacic will say something more about it, but I have only to point out that security on the Internet is one topic that we need to talk about more often, which we have to deal with more seriously in the future, especially when we talk about sensitive groups like children. I don't think parents have taken this issue seriously enough, that it's simply not the same society as the one where we grew up and it's going to be necessary in the future for more education and for parents, how to direct them to address this problem, or how to protect children from being safe on the Internet. I hope that RATEL will continue to work with its powers in the future, to meet its outlined objectives, that the Securities Commission will continue to work at the same pace as it has so far, and therefore the SDPS Group will support both the financial plan and the RATEL report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2677	Thank you. Next People's MP, Djordje Milicevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2678	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Respected representatives of the RATEL, respected representatives of the Securities Commission, of course the SPS Group will support both proposals in the voting day. Excuse me, respected representatives of the Committee, given that the Committee is a proposing, distinguished colleague Tomic, of course the SPS Group will support both proposals in the voting day. We simply believe that the National Assembly is continuing with what is a good practice, and that is, in the tide, discussing the work of regulatory bodies, the work of independent direct bodies, and we think that this and this approach of Parliament is of multiple importance. First of all, on the one hand, it contributes transparency of the work of these bodies in front of citizens and closer citizens can learn about the competences of all regulators, and on the other hand, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is considering work reports in this way, financial reports are carried out directly and directly accomplishing its control function. At the end of 2020, we also discussed in the plenary the reports of most regulatory bodies and independent bodies when representatives of these bodies were allowed to address the MPs, speaking to the MPs in fact also to the citizens of Serbia because parliament is the voice of the people. We talked about work, we talked about the results that are being achieved, and it seems to me that in public, in one part of the public there was a false perception that we as MPs want to influence and pressure independent bodies and regulatory bodies. No, we're just having an open dialogue, an open debate on topics that are important, especially on issues that concern life when it comes to citizens of Serbia, and we think that, as I said, it can be a multiple benefit. It is not impossible for independent regulatory bodies sometimes to have a different view than the ruling coalition, from the parties' views that make up the ruling coalition, but I see absolutely nothing controversial about it. That's why we're here to talk about it right now and debate it, but there's no way we're doing it, it's not our goal to put pressure on the work of independent organs and regulatory bodies. On the contrary, our goal is to strengthen and strengthen the work of independent authorities and regulatory bodies, because this is our obligation as MPs and to look together with all of you to respect certain legal procedures. The fact that sometimes there are different opinions and different attitudes, so you know what, on the other hand, the question can be asked – if everyone always thought the same thing, they would not think enough, and why the existence of independent and regulatory bodies.? I think that this kind of debate in the tide, not only at committee sessions, is multiplely useful for both citizens and you, but also for us as MPs, because you and we have a different level, but yet a certain level of responsibility and obligations towards the citizens of Serbia. When it comes to the Commission's draft financial plan for securities for the year 2021, to which the National Assembly gives its consent, I will briefly look back, i.e. to support the committee's proposal. Otherwise, we spoke exhaustively about the work of this independent body at one of the previous sessions of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, considering the 2019 Report. The SPS parliamentary group, as I said, will support the proposal for this financial plan, but today another report is on parliament's agenda. It is the report of the Regulatory Agency for Electronic Communications and Postal Services, short for 2019 with the proposal for a conclusion of the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications, which as the committee responsible within the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia considered the report. We had a REM report as a regulator in electronic media segments. RATEL has a somewhat wider spectrum of public authority because it covers the entire area of electronic communications. As a national regulator, RATEL was first established in 2003 by the Telecommunications Act, but over time there were more changes to which it was extended or precise, as I would say, the competence of RATL. Since 2014, RATEL has also received the regulation of postal services as a regulator, and since 2016 it has been doing tasks of the National Centre for the Prevention of Security Risks in Information and Communication Systems in accordance with the Information Security Act, which is to coordinate primarily the prevention and protection of the security risks of these systems in the Republic of Serbia at national level, which is of great importance because new communication technologies require exactly what the colleague has been talking about, require a high level of protection against unauthorized use and possible abuses. So RATEL now covers three segments of regulatory work, electronic communications, postal services and as a third area - information security. One of the most important tasks of RATEL is certainly radio spectrum management, and in this context radio frequency distribution. In this respect, RATEL is responsible for the management and control of spectrum, the issuing of frequencies licenses by keeping account of, above all, how clearly it is specified, of rationality, of user records of radio frequencies, broadcasting, radio communications, technical inspection of radio stations, etc., all that is defined by law. So it's a matter of very important management, I'd say to national resources. To remind you, the policy in the field of electronic communications is determined by the Government, and this policy is just defined by the strategy for the development of electronic communications. The strategy is currently in place for the period from 2010 to 2020, so I guess a new strategic document will follow for the next period of time. Otherwise, we can say that the current strategy has been operationally translated into a digital agenda, as we call the strategic direction towards the development of electronic communications and information society. Now at the end of the period of application of this strategy, we can say that Serbia has stepped into a world of more progressive digital societies, with certainty we can make such a finding. When we analyse the results of the implementation of the strategies, and I believe that the outcomes of the previous ten-year period will be analysed by other competent authorities, I think we can be satisfied. One of the results is the digitalisation process, primarily the transition from analogue to digital broadcasting of TV programs, then the enviable level of availability and coverage of Serbia's territory with internet and mobile telephony, increased the number of cable operators and services they provide, reached a solid level of implementation of electronic communications and public sector e-government services, but also in the domestic industry. The development of electronic communications as a strategic goal includes the introduction of new multimedia services, the construction of telecommunications infrastructure and the achievement of Serbia's greater competitiveness in the electronic communications sector, including domestic production of telecommunications equipment, but the roof goal is primarily the formation of a national electronic communications network. This sector operates in a very complex legal area, because it is a multidisciplinary area, so that, in addition to the roof law, broadcasting and postal service laws, many other rules that have been harmonised in the previous period, harmonised with European legislation, are applied in the field of electronic communication. Starting from strategic definitions, RATL as a regulatory body, has public powers that should also contribute to the promotion of competition between electronic communications networks, the improvement of their capacity and quality, the development of the electronic communications market as well as the protection of the interests of users. When we analyse the RATEL report for 2019, we see that a large part of the activities in the framework of regulatory activities have been dedicated to precisely practical implementation of the objectives and implementation of legal powers as a national regulator. The report said that in 2019 it started a phase of testing, the introduction of a 5G network, so the fifth generation network, that a temporary license was issued for testing the 5G network to operator Telenor and Telecom Serbia. According to information in June 2019, the first 5G base station in Serbia, which was intended for both domestic and foreign companies, appeared to be in the Zveztara scientific research park. At the time, Serbia was said to be one of the leaders in the region in the field of digital communication development, as the 5G network is a prerequisite for the fourth industrial revolution that involves globally connecting the world with electronic communications, mobile telephony above all. I wouldn't talk about the good or bad sides of global telecommunications connection right now, but I wanted to take advantage of the presence of a RATL representative here in the National Assembly and ask to clarify the 5G network dilemma that has drawn great public attention to our citizens, above all, whose citizens we are representatives of, which I've already talked about. I would ask you to make it professionally clear whether and how healthy our population is and how much of a living world is, because there was such a dilemma, a dangerous 5G network, and what possible negative consequences can be spoken of if there are any negative consequences at all? A few more details from the RATEL report for 2019. Therefore, RATEL responded and resolved, among other things, to the complaints of consumers, and there was also an intensive coordination with other countries' administrations regarding the use of radio frequencies, RATEL issued close to 12,500 individual radio frequency permits, which speaks of the great use of broadcasting space. In 2019, an agreement on reducing the prices of roaming services in public, mobile communications networks in the Western Balkans region was signed, with the aim of achieving a high level of consumer protection, competition and transparency in the electronic communications market, which is also positive and good. Also during 2019, a very important comparative measurement and analysis of the quality of services parameters provided by mobile operators in the Republic of Serbia was carried out. The report's been exhausted. I wouldn't stick to certain details. What I would ultimately like to underline, is that RATEL has great powers, and therefore a great responsibility as a regulatory body for the overall state of affairs in the field of electronic communications and of course needs to be supported by RATEL that even more responsible, more professionally, he is more committed to the tasks that the state has entrusted him with. I repeat once again in the end, you have the support of the SPS parliamentary group for the proposals we are discussing today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2679	Thank you. The word is Mr. Dragan Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2680	Thank you. I will start with Mr Jovanovic's presentation that started with coverage and analysis of the network, so that it would be good for him to have this information and what coverage it is. I'd like to refer you to the RATEL annual report on our website where there are a number of details from the telecommunications market, i.e. electronic services. One of them is coverage maps where you can clearly see the coverage of all operators in all parts of the country. I think she's very good. As far as quality is concerned, the reference to "bench marketing" and the parallel analysis of all users that Mr Milicevic was talking about afterwards, I think we succeeded by having RATEL run such a measurement, to strongly encourage operators to deal with quality and invest more in quality, because from the moment we started to measure it, they have invested much more and the result is obvious. Dake, and the data you just provided on the average number of points tells us how many operators have tried to show their market power and their quality. We've reached 81 points on average. Of course, all data on individual operators' website on all measurement criteria can be found. I hope that in the next measure, we will get to 85, which is what Europe finds excellent. We're on our way. I have to thank Mr. Milicevic for the really good and exhaustive exposure and knowledge of the matter we are dealing with, because a lot of the things you said actually mean we did well. As far as this very sensitive issue is concerned, the 5G network, which is probably the most powerful, RATEL is ready for all the 5G deployment activities that are in its jurisdiction. We, by financial plan for 2020, have foreseen our financial activities for the jobs that we need to deal with. The decision is of course made by the Government, or the Ministry and the Government, and we will do our part. We're ready for that. Again we come to this very sensitive topic – health and radiation. As I said earlier, this network of sensors measuring the cumulative radiation of all electronic means of communication does not exceed the limits allowed. As for 5G and all the stories that were, I think it's a little more media attention than it is objective, and I'm just going to give you an illustrative example. The released frequencies of former analogue television, so the sixth channel from Avala, 10 from Chota will be intended for 5G. So 5G will have a network with very high flow and will have at very small distances of the base station. So, with a very small force. If you compare that to one force that went from Avala, which should cover, I don't know, 50, 100 kilometers, it's incomparable. So, they're going to be working on the 5G frequencies where we've all watched television and no one's ever thought to complain and there's going to be a lot less power. So I think it's got more media attention than it really deserves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2681	Thank you. Anyone else in power? There's no one here. Then we move on to the list. The first one has the word Mr. Samir Tandir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2682	Thank you. Dear Chairman, colleagues and fellow MPs, today we are talking about giving consent to the Commission's financial plan for values for 2021, the report on the work of the Regulatory Agency for Electronic Communications and Postal Services. As far as the report of the Regulatory Agency for Electronic Communications is concerned, we have discussed it here on the committee of the Assembly and I can commend your report and consider it to be content, quality and evidence that it was working. The existence of independent regulatory bodies is evidence that we seek to establish essential democracy and fundamental rule of law and are very important to these two institutions. What I particularly want to point out is that the MPs' Club of Justice and Reconciliation and the United Peasants' Party will vote for these two documents in the voting day. What we could see through the reports and what citizens expect from us is, especially when it comes to RATEL, the key word is protection. So, the protection of electronic communications and we've heard from the media that the state's largest representatives, we have evidence that their communication has been compromised. Clearly, then, why an ordinary citizen asks the question of the security of his personal communication. As far as the 5G network question is concerned, I think it's clear, but let me tell you one thing that as experts, it doesn't have to mean that neither the MPs nor the citizens are clear. When the public, the media imposes a topic, no matter how much skeptics or analysts are real or falsely loud, you must be louder, because the state has set up institutions that need to give us adequate answers to these questions, not only in your area, but also in other areas. What I'm interested in is protection, and when we talk about other devices that are spoken of, such as cell phones, etc. that they produce certain radiation, not only do I think that's what we're interested in as adults, but mainly because they care about our children and children of all the citizens and citizens who are watching us right now. Also, today we have a very sad headline in the media is that a minor died playing a certain game through a challenge in this game. Now I'm interested in what your legal options are, what is the scope of your actions, because almost here in the Assembly we passed a law on digital property where the order is slowly introduced and in that area and then whether we can now go through legal entities, those persons that they bear responsibility, because we have shows where it's clearly indicated, I don't know, that they match up to 15, 16, 18, plus 18 years, etc. Now I'm curious about video games, when YouTube content is in the path, etc., what are the possibilities to influence? In particular, we have something that is modern-day fluid that we have certain YouTubes that work exclusively for children, and in my opinion, the content they place is not adequate for that age. Now, I'm curious, we can't say that it's democracy, that it's freedom of speech and you're doing, I don't know, on social networks what you want, and only your content is, your target group is kids and you make money on it. So we need to see how we can get the content of this program that they produce if there's a lot of vulgarity, swearing, etc., that it's consistent with the age that it's being placed on. According to this, like I said about shows, where you say children's program 10, 12, 13, and you as a parent can easily influence children's education. As for the MPs who spoke about RTS, I absolutely support what our party leader Muamer Zukorlic said, as well as the leader of the United Peasant Party Miletic, means one third of the citizens and citizens in the Republic of Serbia make up the minority national community Here it is not just about the show "Sword by word", we also have "Magazine About", we also have "Dnevnik" which is the most visible information show, and the content of these shows must really represent a picture of this Parliament, but must also represent a picture of all citizens and citizens if we really want all of this media service to feel as our own. We can also go into a deeper analysis of the quality of TV programs, and we'll see that we have reruns, I don't know, some series, 30, 40 years of watching pretty brena movies and zika's dynasty, and we pay that subscription every day. Now I as a Messenger of the people, but as a citizen, I say, "What do you gentlemen do?" No one can be above this Assembly, because in fact this Assembly is a representative of citizens, and everyone here needs to pay the bills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2683	Thank you. The word is Mr. Dragan Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2684	As far as these most sensitive things are concerned, he would immediately move to that, the Republic Agency for Electronic Communications and Postal Services does not deal with the content of what has been broadcast through the means for which we provide the conditions to work. So we prescribe and define the market on which electronic communications operators operate and we control how they do it, but we don't control the content of what they deliver to their users. We control whether this YouTube has arrived in quality, whether it's electromagnetic radiation within permission, if we've covered all the points of the territory. And what's on the channel, we don't control it. That, I mean, controls REM, I'm not sure, but it certainly isn't in our jurisdiction. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2685	Thank you. Next on the list is counterpart Natasa Mihailovic Vacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2686	Thank you, Chairman. There is no doubt that the telecommunications sector is one of the most profitable and perspective sectors in Serbia. The rapid development of electronic communications and their growing share in the global and domestic economy is one of the few trends that manage to maintain positive results. Electronic communications are an integral part of all sectors of the economy and one of the basic factors, not only economic but also social development. Therefore, investment in electronic communications directly affects GDP growth, competitiveness of all sectors of the economy and, of course, improves the quality of life of citizens. The list of RATEL's competences is long, and I will specify three of the most important roles and tasks that justify the existence of this body. In addition to ensuring stable development and protection of freedom of the market, there is also a third task, perhaps slightly more visible, but not less important, which is to protect users, in fact human rights to free communication. In fact, these reasons together give full meaning to the existence of the agency as an independent body, especially in today's time when we are globally facing a number of challenges precisely in the field of telecommunications and electronic communications in general. Support for the regulation of the electronic communications sector is provided by the natural resolution ministry, the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications. Why am I specifically referring to this? Because, as you know, this has not been exactly the case since the establishment of the agency in 2007 and the adoption of the law then, and because the best and greatest co-operation and the largest number of projects, good projects important for improving the quality of life of Serbian citizens, implemented from 2012 to 2020, when Rasim Ljajic was headed by the Ministry. Let me say, he is a rare politician, if not the only one, who announced and kept his promise by giving up ministerial functions, and this trend of successful and good co-operation has continued in this government mandate, since Tatjana Matic was headed by the ministry and, of course, according to the activities that the Ministry is currently implementing in the field of telecommunications. Let me also refer to the fact that the Ministry has been working intensively for eight years on the development of digital society. Digital literacy is accessed as one of the carrying pillars of a digital society, involving the population in an online environment accompanied by programs for the development of digital skills and digital literacy and infrastructure projects for the construction and development of the network. Yesterday, a 1,700,000-euro grant grant was signed with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, to build a broadband internet in rural areas. The project is part of a wider initiative and represents the first of three phases, with the second phase of the project, i.e. connecting 900 schools to networks and public institutions and up to 135,000 households planned as a separate project for this year and next year. The government's goal is, in fact, that by 2025 all households in Serbia have fixed access to the fast internet. Serbia, therefore, has a strong and constantly growing digital society. The Capital Project Connected School, which was discussed by my colleague, is also in the portfolio of information and communication technologies and includes building a standardised and sustainable wireless local computer network in all major schools in the country. It is important for me to once again underline the importance of this project, because it is particularly important for us in the Social Democratic Party of Serbia, and in particular one of the objectives of this project, since our social democratic view of the world rests on equal opportunities for all, and goes hand in hand with the Social Democratic Party of Serbia's strategy - the country of education, whose key elements are just the availability, quality, openness, flexibility and lifelong education. Thus, the Connected School project provides equal opportunities for education and reduces the gap between rural and urban environments. Of course, this project also makes it easier to involve parents and guardians in the educational process of children and achieves a higher level of safety in schools. The Law on Electronic Communications expresses the interest of the development of telecommunications and the needs of users in all parts of the territory of the Republic of Serbia, respecting one of the major problems, which is uneven development. In this segment, of course, RATEL and the competent ministry successfully realise the objectives set. I'll say something about security on the Internet. Namely, the Ministry of Telecommunications, Trade and Tourism launched the "Smart and Safe" platform, which was established four years ago along with the National Contact Centre, precisely for the safety of children online. It's never enough to talk, especially about child safety and especially on social networks. I'm going to name an unfavorable event two days ago, when a nine-year-old boy took his own life to meet the challenges of a game on a social network. We live in an era of the Internet and in a world where, unfortunately, we witness numerous challenges and problems in the field of information security and every day we become increasingly aware of the importance of this area and every day we become aware of the vulnerability of our devices that we use, the systems we use, software, and that is one, as I said earlier, a global problem. So we are not facing anything special compared to what other countries are facing in the world. However, when we talk about the safety of children on the Internet, we must all be much more effective in finding ways to make the safety of children on the Internet even greater and the level of safety of children on the Internet even higher. In fact, more than two thirds of children and young people, about 74%, have a profile on a social network or a video game platform. Of these, 41% of them are nine and ten years old, as well as 72% of children aged 11 and 12 say they have a profile, although the minimum age limit is prescribed by social networks usually 13 years. About a third of the students surveyed have problems due to the amount of time they spend online or conflicts with family and friends. A little less than half unsuccessfully tries to spend less time on the Internet and neglects socializing and its school duties and tasks. He feels bad when he can't be on the Internet, while almost a fifth ignores basic biological needs, the need for food, the need for sleep, etc. The number of children who have often experienced disturbing experiences is the largest in the adult group of 13 and 14 years. Risky behavior on the Internet affects 13% to 51% of students, depending on the type of behavior. The most common is the sharing of personal data to friendships on social networks and contacts, first online, and later live, with unknown persons, hiding behind a false identity, etc. Parents in Serbia rarely use technical protection measures, i.e. parental control to ensure the safety of children on the Internet, and it reports less than a fifth of students surveyed. So much less often in our country, parents are involved and apply technical protection measures than parents in other countries. I think that Ratel could do a lot more in the next period. As I said, the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications functions as a service for citizens through the Smart and Safe Platform, but also as a Centre for Education and Information. So far he has received more than 20,200 calls, applications and online enquiries, as well as presentations held are not insignificant for 14,500 students and five vebinarians for 190 teachers. Other competent authorities and institutions are involved in the work of the centre, of course, because inter-resorial co-operation in the field of digital development, and thus media literacy and security on the Internet, because all of this is somehow closely linked, necessary. I would only remind that the CERT, which you mentioned in the opening presentation, is extremely important, the establishment of a single system for the reception of information on incidents is significantly improved, especially in 2019, when we adopted amendments and additions to the Information Security Act and the Protocol on Cooperation of the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications and RATEL in order to exchange information on incidents that may have a significant and significant impact on the breach of ICT system's information security is of particular importance, as well as the Protocol on Cooperation, which includes the establishment of a Centre for the Protection of Privacy and Security in the Digital Space. Perhaps not, and perhaps it is a time to underline once again that, thanks to the activities of the Serbian government, especially the Resort Ministry, the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications, every day is growing awareness of the importance of information security and its development. You work together with the Government and the Ministry of Telecommunications, Trade and Tourism. But somehow I think, because I was getting ready for the debate to look at something that might be important to the citizens, in terms of further approaching information security through three criteria through which it can be observed, and in light, if you will, and this unkind event from two days ago that I mentioned a moment ago. So the three criteria through which information security can be observed is the type of action, interception of data, interference with data reception, illegal listening, data destruction, sabotage, etc., types of perpetrators, hackers, cyber criminals, cyber terrorists and the type of target, whether the attack is directed at individuals, companies, public institutions, state bodies, etc. Anyway, it is an extremely serious issue that we need to talk about more often and more comprehensively, so that solutions are better in the next period. The Social Democratic Party of Serbia and the parliamentary group will, of course, support both the report and the financial plan.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2687	Thank you. The word is Mr. Dragan Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2688	I'll do it again. So, as far as the Republic Agency is concerned, we are primarily a technical agency dealing with cybersecurity, the technical aspect. Our participation in the CERT, and I said in the report, I think 159 reported incidents indicate that there were incidents of a hacker attack, which was from abroad, which inside, which was aimed at something. We exchange these data with other competent authorities in order to prevent it. We don't do content. I share with you this impression of the tragedy that happened, but the content we don't see. We are obliged to provide conditions and rules for operators in the electronic communications market to work well and to deliver their services to users, and what will be in them, that is not what we are looking at. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2689	Thank you. Next in line is the MP of the people, Ugljesa Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2690	I thank the chairman. Respected representatives of independent regulatory bodies, respected fellow MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I would also agree with some previous speakers when it comes to the Financial Plan of the Committee on Papers itself, which is one bureaucratic matter and since it has already been discussed on the board of directors and that it has been addressed here to the National Assembly for the vote, I would not spend a lot of time positing on it. What I would just point out is that the Commission itself, for its existence from now on, for almost 30 years now, is one of its own roles that it has actually justified, is that business in the capital market is both legal and transparent, to prevent potential monopolies that can occur on that market and, of course, to protect the investor himself in that capital market. What I would also particularly like to point out and praise is the recent amendment and addition of the Capital Market Act, which simplified the process itself to draw up a prospectus on the issue of bonds, which significantly reduces the possibility of abuse itself. As far as the report on RATEL's work for 2019, i.e. the Regulatory Body for Electronic Communications and Postal Services, I would point out, as someone who finished the economy, is my first indicator, and my colleagues have already talked about how many areas you regulate and which you deal with, which are under your supervision quickly and development and how dynamic they are. I think the best part of this is the fact that, compared to 2018 and 2019, the total investment in the electronic communications sector has increased by twice, i.e. 84.2 billion dinars, and that the revenues from electronic communications account for 3.8% of the GDP of the Republic of Serbia. What I would refer to is, my colleague has already talked about it, and you've already given your answer, what your role is, what your task is, I fully understand that, but I have to point out that I'm getting ready for this speech and you've already noticed that when it comes to the Internet in our country, those who are dominantly using it are the younger population, they're younger people, and they're mostly when we're talking about a 16- to 24-year-old age, even some data when compared to a social network account, over 95% of that age group use the Internet. I think again we somehow owe all of us together that and we are witnessing what, unfortunately, happened yesterday and it's not the first case, it's not the first time that it happens for the outcome to have a fatal effect, that somehow we all find a way together, and you as the Regulatory Body to make your contribution, of course, and the Resort Ministry that already has one action that aims to protect the youngest from some abuses on the Internet. But here, first of all, I'm talking about us taking part together, so if we need the Ministry of Education and School, to work out a little bit on education and parents themselves, and to explain to them what social networks are, what these YouTube channels are, who these YouTubes are, what they're doing, what they're doing, what the content that's being placed on their children is uninterrupted, that even these people can be one step ahead of time, with these technologies that are really rapidly developing. I am a witness of children, or children of my brother and of my sister, who are entirely on those contents, and I, as someone who is once again on some side, have just been informed about it five days ago, thanks to them, what this Tic-Tok is, which has this time led to such fatal consequences as the outcome of a child's death. I think we all have to make our contribution together, you from one professional aspect, knowledge, competence that you have, we from some public space, from this congregation hall, to insist that these parents, but also those children get the necessary information that I hope, in some future period, would prevent these things from repeating and happening. As far as the SPS MPs' club is concerned, we will support all points on the agenda in the voting day, or today, and we will vote for all of them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2691	Thank you. The word has a folk emissary, Ana Čaapić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2692	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia, as we heard at the beginning of today's debate by the President of the Securities Commission and by the President of the RATEL Management Board, but also during the debate by colleagues of authorised representatives of parliamentary groups, today we have on the agenda a proposal for a decision on granting consent to the Finance Plan of the Securities Commission for the year 2021 and a report on the work of the Regulatory Agency for Electronic Communications and Postal Services for 2019. Given that I am a member of the Commission for the Republic budget for the control of spending and public funds, during today's debate I will refer to the Financial Plan of the Securities Commission for 2021. What is good and should be commended is that the Committee for Charters of Value in the Financial Plan plans revenues for 2021 totalling 127.1 million dinars, which is even 7% higher than 2020. The reason for the planned higher revenues for 2021 compared to 2020 is the newly adopted laws, which were initiated by the Ministry of Finance and that is the Law on Alternative Investment Funds, the Law on closed investment funds and the Audit Act. All these laws came into force during 2020 and not only allowed the Securities Commission to plan higher revenues for 2021 compared to 2020, but the Commission also achieved higher revenues during 2020 thanks to these laws, i.e. higher revenues than the initial plan. It is also very important to note that by the third quarter of 2021, we will have a brand-new capital market law that will allow the Commission to make more revenue in the year 2021 compared to the financial plan we are discussing today. The new capital market law will be fully in line with EU legislation and this is actually of multiple benefit to Serbia. On the one hand, foreign investors will invest their resources in our domestic securities of value. On the other hand, we will have higher income in the tax-based budget and capital gains, based on corporate income tax and other types of tax. So, the law to be announced, which I will be sure to be adopted by the third quarter of 2021, will actually enable the development of the capital market. Serbia can boast that it has the oldest stock exchange in Europe, it is a Belgrade stock exchange and our Belgrade stock exchange was founded in 1894 and was considered the best organised business facility. Unfortunately, for decades back, no one was involved in the development of the capital market, in fact, some attempts between 2003 and 2010, but, of course, unsuccessful, we all know that the period until 2012 was characteristic of robbery privatisations and domestic and foreign investors invest their assets in strong and stable companies until 2012, we had companies that were operating on the edge of existence doing business with loss, they were bankrupt, so it could not be expected that any investor would invest its assets in charters of the value of such companies, which means that the capital market was not even developing. Today after eight years, the situation in the economy has changed dramatically, of course, we have a better private sector that is stable and profitable. This is evidenced by the fact that during 2020 we had a major inflow into the budget on the basis of corporate income tax. With a six-billion-euro economic support package, the state has fully protected the private sector, and above all, I mean economic support measures in terms of postponing tax payments and income contributions, in the form of payments of as many as five minimum employees to micro-small and medium-sized enterprises, etc. through guarantee schemes, of course. The state has, therefore, protected the private sector and continues so that as announced by the President of the Republic, Alexander Vukic, we will have another economic support package worth 2.5 billion euros by Sunday or two, i.e. until the meeting. So in total, Serbia has provided eight and a half billion euros to strengthen the private sector to cope with the crisis more easily. Please, which country in the region and Europe can boast of such a large and comprehensive package of support, I do not know that one country in the environment has done such a thing to help the economy. Also, Serbia has adopted the Digital Property Act among the world's first countries, and this has allowed the Charter Commission to plan higher revenues in some future. Therefore, it will allow the Committee on Papers of value to generate higher revenues in the coming period, among the first in the world, we have arranged the trade in bitcoins in order to move forward with innovation. Last week, more specifically, Serbia's Finance Minister Sinisa Mali and US Ambassador Anthony Godfrey signed an interstate agreement to boost investment and this interstate agreement is the best proof of how much the US administration respects all that the Republic of Serbia has done in terms of economic reform. So were those before us who led the country actually able to dream that an American development agency covering the entire region would be opened in Serbia. And this isn't all. We achieved huge results when it comes to the international capital market, Serbia took a seven-year break in June 2019, went to the London Stock Exchange and achieved a historic economic score. We have broadcast our Serbian bonds with interest rates ranging from 1.25% to 1.6%, and this low interest rate is the result of the huge interest of foreign investors in our government bonds and, in fact, because of the macroeconomic stability Serbia has. And in 2020, we also achieved historical economic results and I say this for a reason because we expensive loans from the previous government with interest rates of 7% and 8% were replaced by cheap loans and made huge savings in the budget, only by interest rates, and thus saved the measures in tens of millions of euros. Serbia was the last in Europe by 2012, when it comes to economic growth, now we are the first in Europe, Serbia has disappeared as a transit country, and now we have the best roads in the region, which we continue to build in 2021. When it comes to the health care system in 2012 we were the last in Europe now in front of 14 EU member states. By 2012, foreign investors had been bypassing the Republic of Serbia, and now we are absolute recordmakers and leaders in the region and in Europe by attracting foreign investors, and this is the responsible policy led by the SNS and, of course, by the legislator group Aleksandar Vukic - For our children, they will support all draft laws on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2693	Thank you. Mr. Jankovic, I apologize. I wanted to give the word to Katarina Rakic but Marko Jankovic, president of the Securities Commission, answered.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2694	Dear President, thank you for your word. I won't be long, just to thank you for this exhaustive debate, for the properly identified activities we've been trying to carry out over the last few years. As you said yourself this year will be very challenging for all institutions that are trying to take care of the economic system of the Republic of Serbia and I am sure that we will all do our utmost to move forward and further develop, and what is, I would say the common goal of all of us is to eliminate first and foremost all the negative phenomena that can happen on that path. And to enable domestic companies and domestic economy on the other hand is the widest possible mix of funding sources and ways to support their further growth and development. You mentioned yourself several laws that were passed in the previous period. Each of these laws was intended to enable a new way of financing domestic economy and certainly the arrival of international financial institutions is a good sign, in the context of identifying a general regulatory framework that will allow them to carry out some of their ambitions in this area, but also for us to continue to develop economically. What I can say is that in the coming period, we will work closely with both the World Bank and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development in order to simply coordinate all our activities with foreign partners and to further develop our economy as intensively as possible. Again, I say, each institution, especially institutions that make up the Financial Stability Committee, has its part of the task in the coming period, has its part of the goals to be achieved. We'll do our best to make our contribution. I thank you once again for your support in the previous period and I sincerely expect it in the next. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2695	Thank you. Just to let you know that we'll be working in continuity until 15 hours and then an hour's break. At 16 o'clock, as you know, asking parliamentary questions to the government of the Republic of Serbia. After that, 19 hours is a vote. The word has the People's MP Katarina Rakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2696	Thank you, Mr. Dacic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here I would like once again to take the opportunity to commend once again the report of RATL, which I spoke more extensively in my opening statement as rapporteur of the committee responsible, who has also proposed a proposal for a conclusion that this report be adopted in the day of voting and acceptance. As I have already said, I would like to commend the revenue made during 2019, which certainly represents a larger amount compared to all previous years, and above all I commend it for the reason I hope and believe that this money will be spent in most parts again, or returned to some new digital infrastructure. I believe that we will do something like that because one of the priorities of the Government of the Republic of Serbia is that Serbia becomes a leader in the region in the field of digitisation. As you know, corruption is reduced in this way, bureaucracy is reduced, many things that are important to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia are simplified daily. As we already have information, as we have talked about, in the next five years, the goal is for as many as 30 services that are important for the everyday lives of citizens to be digitized, to be digitized to the extent that citizens will be able to access them even through a mobile phone. However, I have already stated in the opening statement that I am looking forward to the report of RATEL for 2020, because I believe that it will show an even better result in both postal services and electronic communications for the simple reason that the pandemic of the coronary virus has made us all simply sit at home. I believe that a large number of services have moved to a remote store, a remote purchase, and that in such a way, a causal relationship is that postal operators should have had more work to do. I say again, we'll see it on the 2020 report, and I honestly believe that this income, unfortunately, again, will be caused by the pandemic of the coronary virus will be greater. However, what I have reported today and what we have discussed on the Committee, of course, on the verge of this not being a RATL issue, but we can certainly look back, as my colleagues who had previously spoken and looked back, it is the safety of children on the Internet. Unfortunately, the pandemic of the corona virus has made the children's computer screen, pills, phones, classrooms, playrooms, windows to the world. We had a situation earlier, co-worker Vacic Mihailovic instructed examples of the analysis that has been made, but I have to tell you all these analyses that have been done, which, at the very end of the hand, were worryingly done before the pandemic of the coronary virus. Also, I have to go back to making it clear to the citizens, we passed the Information Security Act in 2019, and that law provides for a national CERT that is part of the RATEL. However, as the RATL gentlemen have already stated, Mr Kovacevic tried to explain that it was simply a technical support. We can't legally arrange here for every child to be followed by a man who will follow what your child is doing on the Internet. The first defense of children on the Internet is just parents. We need to educate parents to know what the problems children face online are. I know that maybe now that we're talking about software or something, maybe it's still a long way off, but we all have to send a message here to worry about it. Let's get those funds, which I believe will be bigger in 2020, at least focus on parent education. Those challenges we had in our childhood are not the challenges our children face today. Most parents can't even recognize these challenges. Statistics from 2019 said that only 18% of parents can identify which media content is not suitable for a child of a certain age and only 18% of parents can limit children's content. Again, these are the data from 2019, when we also had an alarming data that said that more than 85% of children spend more than an hour on the Internet. In 2019, you can imagine the percentage of 2020, when our children had online classrooms, and online workshops, the online theater, when everything went online, you can imagine how much that percentage is now without talking about that hour. We had, when we passed the Information Security Act, an example in which we said that perhaps parents should be an example to children, so that both parents and all of us would restrict access to the screen, especially the mobile phone screen, to limit ourselves to an hour a day, to use an hour a day. Now I wonder if we can do it? Can we set a good example for the kids, make them stay on the phone for just an hour a day, not on the phone, but on any device? If we can't do that then we have to stand behind them and watch what they're doing, because they're dark tunnels that can drag your kids in, and you're not even aware that getting out of that tunnel isn't easy at all. We had, unfortunately, an example that my colleagues spoke of recently, but don't let such examples make us think and work about it. Here, we don't have the budget for it, but it doesn't cost us to talk, to repeat, that kids on the Internet aren't safe, that the law can't send you a person to stand behind a child, but I certainly want us all to send a loud message from here that we have to keep an eye on what our kids are doing on the Internet, that if we don't know it's not a shame, we're still learning and we're going to follow new technologies, because we're just going to send and save our kids if we follow all their digital steps. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2697	Thank you. The word is from MP Zoran Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2698	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, distinguished representatives of the regulatory bodies, dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, are ahead of us sets of decisions that I will try to be brief and precise. I will first comment on the proposal for a decision to give consent to the Financial Plan of the Securities Commission. As we could hear in the explanation, in fact, the financial plan itself implies all capacities and opportunities for the Commission to continue to do its job successfully when it comes to regulating the financial market and Hartia of value, but also to adapt to the work that awaits them under the Digital Property Act that we adopted last year. What I would like to point out and remind myself is that we are the first country in Southeast Europe, among the first countries in the EU to ever adopt this Law, and which, when it comes to digital property and crypts, has decided to put it in order for regulators to do so. What is important is to point out that this is a great opportunity for further development of our economy, especially startup companies, small and medium-sized enterprises, as well as large companies, which a new kind of innovative way of funding their projects, to realise their further development, and all with the intensification that tomorrow they become regular participants in the classical financial market of capital that can bring additional benefits when it comes to the development of their businesses. This is otherwise clear evidence that we are indeed a country of innovation, that we are indeed a country of young talent, that we are fostering, that we are trying to keep in the country, that we are trying to return to the country, that we are living here and working and that the state of Serbia gives the greatest incentive to these people to further develop in the segment of entrepreneurship, especially industry, which is our country's 4.0 developmental chance. All of this would not be if President Aleksandar Vucic, then prime minister, and later Prime Minister Ana Brnabic in their programme of government work, had not put digitisation as an important segment for our country's development, so thanks to the government's work, thanks to the work of the Office for IT, today we managed to make our public administrations extremely efficient and effective, so that we put in the right sense those words of the state authorities in Serbia's service and that phrase FTJP or "failing one paper" is an ad act, or no longer exists. Also, thanks to the digitisation that has been carried out in the health sector, today when the whole world faces a major challenge when it comes to the coronary crisis, we see how important the results in this segment are, when it comes to the realisation of this fight that we are successfully fighting. Otherwise, we had the opportunity to hear from my distinguished colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliaments about statistical indicators that we are not talking about, but are talking about foreign media, foreign experts, foreign organisations, when it comes to the realization of collective immunisation, i.e. vaccination as one of the important segments in this fight against the crown and coming to the final victory, so we know and we saw that Serbia is in the top three countries when it comes to Europe. The seventh in the world will continue to progress when the success of the realization of this important activity, and all thanks to the successful work of the eGovernment, thanks to the fact that citizens can apply for vaccination via the coll-center and through their site, and of course, to get feedback on the timing of their vaccination order and with a minimum waiting for the vaccination process to be completed. This is also one of the examples of effective and effective communication that the state has with citizens, and the confirmation of all this is the words of praise that citizens are referring to for pleasure when it comes to the efficiency and effectiveness of the realization of this activity, and even of those people who write and speak against President Aleksandr Vukic, against SNS policy, and even some who speak against the state. It is in fact proof that this government sees all citizens equally, that all citizens are equal to them and that in fact it is our nation's interest above all, above all, and politics. Also, I can literally say that this is proof that the state of Serbia is a mother to all citizens, not a stepmother, as it was during these yellow ones, who ruled until 2012. What is important is just to point out, for the sake of the public and citizens, the information we could have just heard from President Aleksandr Vukic, that new amounts of Sputnik Ve vaccine will arrive in Serbia tomorrow, 20,000 plus 20,000 doses, and that the prime minister announced that a further 9.800 doses of the "Fajzer" vaccine were expected on Monday. So, we're one of the few countries that we have opportunities to manage to have enough vaccines to go into this process properly, so that this process doesn't stop and you can see that both the president and the prime minister and the entire team are struggling to reach the necessary amounts to end this process successfully. It's actually a real example of government policy, a real example of a leader fighting for his citizens. Otherwise, yesterday, we had opportunities on the RTS' word show to see this difference between the state-run policy led by SNS with Alexander Vukic and the politics of the opposition's work led by tycoon Dragan Gilas. They promised earlier and towers and cities and free textbooks, in fact everything that could happen to voters' ears, and in the hope that they'd get back to their jokes and their phases, those same citizens. Otherwise, if they were honest about everything they say and what they promise to the citizens in that period when they came to power, they wouldn't introduce a market economy and actually keep socialism, they would keep the central-plank economy and the state monopoly, exactly what they promise, is that characteristic. When they talk about schoolboys, if they're so caring and taking care of them, why didn't they do digitisation in schools in their time, but it's been done now since 2012, and we know that this process will be over by the end? Why didn't they introduce an academic network in every school? Why didn't they make sure that the students weren't wearing those giant books in their backpacks, but they had digital textbooks, because in their time, when they ruled, that technology existed? Why was this story about sharing free textbooks we used for promotional purposes, when it had to be used for the campaign, and later it turned out that these textbooks had to, unfortunately, be returned. So, in fact, it was just a classic public deception, because, let's say, by what logic is the largest tycoon in Serbia that we know can promise the equality of all citizens, that they will all be the same, can promise socialism, and we know that during the time that it has performed significant public functions, that money has accumulated and that these same citizens have been robbed with 619m euros? Did he decide to pay that money back to the citizens? I wouldn't say anything. Perhaps the only way he tries by writing to Europarliamentaries is by suing Serbia for fighting for its citizens, because it is fighting for their health and to successfully implement the collective immunisation process. If it were their way, they would certainly be satisfied that Serbia, when it comes to obtaining vaccines, would stand in line and wait for all other countries to reach them, because they do not care about the people, but rather their personal interests are important. In the end, they have no arguments, no politics, no vision of how to help citizens of the Republic of Serbia. The only thing they have are colorful lies, fictitious promises and promises without cover. All these moves actually demonstrate to their media on social networks, but they won't be able to do it, because, simply, citizens said no to politics, citizens said no more to colorful lies and caliber politics. In fact, they only give trust to those who work in their interest and whose results can be seen, to feel both in the lives of citizens and in the bills of those same citizens. As you can see, we don't do politics here. We are working in the interests of citizens, and therefore today we are discussing an important step and a successful further process of implementing innovation, digitisation and certainly that the vote of this Financial Plan, when it comes to the Committee on Securities of Values and the work of RATEL, is something that will contribute to this in the next process and how, so that, when it comes to the Parliamentary Group, Alexander Vucic – for our children, vote and support these proposals, as well as any other proposal that is in the interest of further improving the standard of living of citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2699	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2700	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear fellow Members of the Commission and the honourable Members of the Commission, today we have before us the adoption of the Financial Plan of the Securities Commission for the year 2021, and I must comment on the importance of this sector. Until recently, there was little knowledge about the stock market, about the securities at all, about the bonds at all, and now, well, we've been talking about bitcoins. I'm really sorry that this organization, meaning the Commission, wasn't at the time of 2000. It'd be a lot more order. At that time, the most privatization was done. Powers have increased the Commission's securities of value, which is good and has led to an increase in revenue, and we also saw in the Financial Report that they are planning, although this year is very challenging, 6.9% of revenue increases in 2021. Foreign investors and funds can now invest in domestic securities of value in both the Serbian capital market and thus improve. The Commission has so far co-operated with the Department for the Prevention of Money Laundering, then co-operated with the Prosecutor's Office and co-operated with the MUP, i.e. with the Department fighting organised crime. Capital recovery is visible and this is, in fact, a momentum for the creation of a regional market and there are a lot of quality actions in our market now, which colleagues have already talked about. These are actions that are in continuous trade, and I also have to mention how quickly our government reacted, and, for example, corporate bonds, made it possible to make it much easier for procedures to invest better. By increasing the availability and attractiveness of domestic charters of value to foreign investors, we reduce the cost of funding and provide better diversification of investors investing in domestic securities of value. Last year, a 20-year-old state bond emission was broadcast, which is a unique case. So far, it's been at a maximum of 15 and mostly to a smaller number of years. What's he saying? This tells us about the trust that was returned to Serbia, and yet it did not come from itself. It came with great work and perseverance primarily from our president, as well as from the entire government of the Republic of Serbia. Serbian bonds are listed for potential inclusion in Morgan's state bond index of developing countries. The house isn't good, if it doesn't have a foundation, and we started really from the beginning, on the ruins left by the previous government. Maybe this is someone I'm talking about so dry, but unfortunately this is life and this is investment and this is progress. Maybe people don't understand this, but they see new highways, new buildings, new schools, new hospitals. And not only that, but in the coming period, in fact many things are being prepared. We don't wander, we know exactly what direction the economic support and support of citizens is going, so direct support to the private sector -- three times 50% of the minimum earnings, and that payment will start from April 1st. Then, sectoral support to the road transport passenger sector -- six months per 600 euros per bus, then measures to preserve the liquidity of the private sector -- 500m euros to expand the guarantee scheme for companies and businesses and measures to increase consumption to all citizens -- pays 30 euros in May, November and pensioners another 50 euros. So these are all things that can be seen and that are tangible. I must finally mention last night's wonderful event to discover the monument to Stefan Nemanja and the entire Sava Square from a place that will become a truly inevitable point in Belgrade's tourist map. Part of the city we were ashamed of earlier, a monument that was eight centuries late, Stefan Nemanja, who gave strong Serbia. This has been a long time for our history, because if you don't know who you are and you don't know where you come from, if you don't know the past, that people don't have a future. I would end up with the words that the President of the Republic of Serbia Aleksandar Vukic said at yesterday's event and which gave me a deep impression – the monument is great because our history is great, difficult because our destiny is difficult, often as difficult and beautiful as our existence is. I would end up with these words, so I welcome you all very much and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2701	Thank you. The word is made by MP Boban Birmancevic. Is he present? No, I don't. ) The word has a People's MP, Milimir Vujadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2702	Thank you, Your Honor. Today is before us, among other things, and the report on the work of the Regulatory Agency for Electronic Communications and Postal Services. Mr. Kovacevic, the role of the body on which you are headed is important. The report you delivered is quite extensive, I think 130-140 pages, at least the way we got it. The Committee's conclusion is here and the Committee itself has positively assessed what you have stated in the Report and we from the SNS will certainly support this report, but ultimately our opinion coincides with the opinion of the Committee. Namely, the role of the body you lead is important. You've explained a lot today about the role of the house you're headed on, and that's good, because often citizens aren't familiar with all the details, but they're not obliged to know everything. We are here today, together with you, to explain this to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia through this report and this conversation. The whole job, that is, all the jobs and tasks you do are divided into about 20 segments, if I've seen well at your official presentation. There is not one job that is less important, but sometimes some socio-political and historical moment one of these jobs can point out to the others. Why am I telling you this? I'm going to ask you first of all, in some future period, in the coming months, in the following year, especially, to pay a little more attention and to that first task that you listed, probably as basic, and that's the arrangement. Keep account of postal traffic services, establish certain quality standards, and also control the application of the same standards. You're a man who's been at the head of the Post Office for many years. You were also the head or director of the Task Force in Sremska Mitrovica. Yeah, I've studied your affairs carefully. During that period, the Post Office of Serbia made serious progress in revenues, over 130 million, and in that period it was resolved by that international arbitration with OTE and Mobtel, etc. That says you're a man of the profession and you'll understand what I'm saying. It is known to the public that some strange decisions and unusual elections in Republika Srpska, i.e. in the municipality of Srebrenica, have at the very least been annulled in the last few days. You know that from Republika Srpska and from the area of Srebrenica and the environment a good part of people live in the Republic of Serbia today. These are citizens of the Republic of Serbia who are the origins of the waters from those areas. Many of them have come under pressure from some public events, some have come looking for a better life, but they are citizens of the Republic of Serbia today. But one moment is very interesting. The right to vote in Srebrenica and Republika Srpska will also be achieved in the future. It is interesting that the vote in Srebrenica and Republika Srpska and the rest of Bosnia and Herzegovina is certainly done in the post, besides the regular one that already knows our society. As time passes, much of that part of Serbia's citizens use it in a greater extent, and this is directly conditioned by the quality of the postal service provided by operators, and you are the body that regulates the area. I know you don't do it directly, but I know how you can affect that area. Why are citizens increasingly using this right and why is this increasingly significant? In recent years, the president of the state and government have been increasingly entering both Srebrenica and Republika Srpska and the region in general. Thus, citizens' interest is greater, and they themselves want to make one contribution when they see what the actions of the President of the State and the Government are. It is a reflection of a spiritual, or national unity that is certainly a policy of both the Government and the President, and with respect to all those international norms, that is, the Constitution, the legal frameworks in which our community lives today in neighbouring societies. I'm guessing you've figured out the importance of this job that's going to be more and more represented in the coming years. The elections in Srebrenica will be repeated, beware, by chance or not, mainly in the environments in which the Serbian voting body lives. With this in mind, I urge you to pay more attention to this first task of yours that you have put in place as an initial job and task in the work of your agency, so that this election post coming from Srebrenica and coming will be quality and orderly delivered to all citizens of the Republic of Serbia who have the right to do so, and will be increasingly trusted this year and next year, which is the election year in Bosnia and Herzegovina, i.e. in Republika Srpska. It is a minimum that you owe as a single regulatory body to citizens of the Republic of Serbia, taking into account how much effort and work today's president of the state and government are investing in improving the standard of living of citizens living today in Srebrenica and Republika Srpska. I think the minimum of it is that you and we who work with you join in this business and provide quality delivery of this voting material, because it is crucial, we have seen, it affects the lives of our fellow citizens, or our countrymen in Republika Srpska, especially in Srebrenica. I hope you will have this in mind, and the citizens of the Republic of Serbia will certainly have in mind how much effort and work both the President and the Government are making for a better standard for all those living in the region today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2703	Thank you. The word has a National MP, Dr Vladimir Marinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2704	Thank you. Dear President of the National Assembly, Mr Dacic, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, on the work and functioning of the RATEL and the Securities Commission, I view as the work of institutions that need to complete what the Government of Serbia is doing, our majority here in parliament, led by the SNS, which is to maximise the business and economic environment in our country and in the area of telecommunications, in the domain of encouraging what it is, is slowly becoming one of the key sectors of our country's development, which are alongside telecommunications and new technologies, innovation technologies and everything that belongs to the Corps of those areas that we have definitely shown that we can be competitive not only in relation to the region, but in relation to the whole world. What is essential to our citizens to point out, that in this area of telecommunications, new technologies, information technologies, we have created a very good base and a very good base of company experts, opportunities to attract both domestic and foreign investments and to strengthen our GDP, so we have the opportunity to employ as many people as possible, to retain young people who are the most qualified, most educated in this domain and thus strengthen our economy from that segment. What I can say as a MP is that I encourage the people of RATEL to be a little more controlled by all those who want to enter the market for telecommunications in our country. What is fundamentally our policy, i.e. Our parties, it is a free market, it is a liberal market economy, it is a match of human abilities, knowledge, the ability to and knowledge that capital is fertilized, but it is very important that our country never enters speculative capital again, that they never enter especially when it comes to foreign and direct investors who want to understand and understand Serbia by 2012 as a country where they will invest little money, where they will have cheap labour and that they will provide huge profits for speculant activities and tomorrow escape and leave this country. With that kind of policy, it's over, that kind of policy is over. In 2014, President Aleksandar Vukic clearly defined the country's economic vision. It is therefore very important that, with the policy of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, with everything we do in the field of improving and raising GDP levels at the labour market level, our institutions, especially those in charge of controlling certain markets and controlling certain players on a particular market, that they work well, that they work functionally and carry out the control process in the best possible way, that it does not happen to us as it did in this sector, especially to your telecommunications sector, that companies that are practically free of charge use of the infrastructure and the resources of this country. I don't want to hide it, I want to say it publicly, the company SBB has been using for years, stretching optics, cables and using the infrastructure of both these countries and our state-owned companies, but ultimately the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. It took years, and they used it for years, doing it completely illegally, completely illegally and completely free of charge. In this country, we want as a party, headed by our leader, Mr. Alexander Vukic, to make a country in which rules will be known, in which laws will be clearly respected, where we will have clear rule of law and where the law will be equal for all, no matter how influential he is and how much money he has and how much he is willing to invest in this market. So it is very important that we have the same relationship with everyone, and with that small company that deals with IT or telecommunications services and with the biggest players who think, they actually thought until Vukic came to power that they could come to Serbia and that they could do what they wanted and do what they wanted. With such things, of course, it's over. Of course, we encourage both RATEL and all other institutions and agencies to do their best work, with a particular focus on the control of the execution and on the control of the realisation of jobs by those involved in the market. As far as the HOV Commission is concerned, it plays a very important role in our country's economic life. I believe that when this crisis is over, caused by the KOVID virus, 19, that our country will very quickly and dynamically, thanks to what we have done in the past few months, safeguarding our economy, keeping the substance and keeping all those who have invested in our country, that we will quickly rise, that we will quickly come to a GDP growth level of over 5%, that we will succeed in developing in parallel with the monetary market, despite attracting investors and investment in production and information technologies, that we will be able to develop and develop a securities market of value, and that we will become a single country, in which I am definitely sure, we are already economic leader of this region. We are already attracting the most investment in this entire region and we are the first in Europe to see how much our GDP is growing. So, best and best quality to deal with this crisis. What is essential, to send a message to investors, to send a message to domestic companies that they are not only a bank source and the ability to borrow capital to do what is called expanding labour reproduction and production processes in their companies, but that this is also possible on the capital market, i.e. on the stock market, to encourage foreign companies that today have a lot in Serbia. I'll remind you, it's very important for our citizens to know, yesterday I was talking about how important it is for our party, for Alexander Vukic, for us here in Parliament, this traffic light, how important it is for our citizens to have investments from Germany and German companies here employ 70,000 people. American 25,000 people. Chinese companies hire a lot of people here. What is very important is to say, there is no more actual speculative capital in Serbia. The SNS accounted for speculative capital. No more robbery privatisations. There is no more use and abuse of the essence of this economic system and economy and, in particular, the budget and resources of the citizens of this country. Today, this party and this Government of the Republic of Serbia and we here in the SNS-led parliament are taking care of every dinar that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and the economy, which we finally started in 2014 to appreciate and to put in the first place, and to tell our people and our citizens these are the people who pay taxes, these are patriots, of which this country is domestic, smart, visionary made 250km of the highway from that money, and to tell our people in the middle of the pandemic to maintain the same level of capital investment, to deal with equal regional development, to build a pipeline, to take care of what will happen to our country for 10, 20, 50, 100 years to be energy-sustained, to be energy independent, to build infrastructure, to build capital projects, and that's what we manage to pay Alexander Vuk and this party of all those who worked by 2012, using this telecommunications infrastructure, because they had a small amount of money, so they had no money for their families, so they had to use their own money, so much of money, which they had to the money, which they had no money, which they had to the money, which they had no money, which they had to the money, which they had to the money, which they had to the money, which they had to the money, which they had to the money, which they had to the money, which they had to the money, which they had to the money, which they had to the money, the money, which they had to pay, which they had to keep the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, which they had to the money, which they had to the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, which they had to the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, which they had to the money, which they had to the money, which they had to the money of the money, which they had to the money, which they had to the money, which they had to pay, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, and the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, the money, Now, as far as you can see, some other people have come, Alexander Vukic has come, there's a SNS that builds infrastructure, builds roads, encourages all industries, encourages tourism. Last night we all had the opportunity to see the opening of a magnificent monument to Stefan Nemanja and we want to remind ourselves of who we are, what we are, what we are, what we want to tell the whole world that we are not ashamed of, that we are an old, serious people who are ready and modernized, but who is ready to manage their country in one quality way for the benefit of their citizens. Therefore, of course, any activity that involves the introduction of order, control, which means that this country is making economic progress, will be supported by the SNS and of course we here in the National Assembly, but also the Government of the Republic of Serbia will try to work together to meet our goals to bring the best possible investors here. These investors are in the area of telecommunications, these investors are in the area of production. So everywhere we've managed to bring the best ones -- the best from America, the best from the United Arab Emirates. You could all see last night when the drone was filming the Sava Square, you could all see Belgrade on the water, everyone could see, all Serbian citizens could see the dream turning public. We will continue to do this, we will continue to act domestically towards our budget, to bring in the best companies, to hire our people, to develop an economy, and of course we will support every institution and every agency such as yours on the path of savings, on the path of reform and of course the promotion of economic life, the economic environment in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2705	I thank my colleague Marinkovic. The word came from Marko Jankovic, President of the Securities Commission. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2706	I thank Mr. Marinkovic for your presentation. I'd just like to touch one of the topics you mentioned. This is primarily one future drive, one future intensive work that we must have, which must be shared in further attracting above all these portfolios of investments. So we are a defacto leader in the region when real investment is, or foreign direct investment. What needs to be done in the next period and where I am pretty sure that we have the support of all relevant institutions and where we will certainly cooperate, where we will find adequate solutions to return one trust above all institutional investors to the capital market, that is, in all the opportunities that the capital market provides at the moment, because it seems to me that we have reached one level of regulatory development that in the most of the way, absolutely corresponds to one European level, and now it is up to all of us to restore one trust above all quality investors who are interested in these portfolio investments that, on the one hand, domestic economy and domestic businessmen, we encourage them to use the opportunities it gives them, and on the other hand, to restore to foreign investors somewhere that may have been thrown into some previous periods, because we are all aware of what happened when the global economic crisis there was somewhere in 2008 and everything that happened. Our industry, investment funds, for example, then suffered a real collapse in the context of what was expected at that moment. Practically in its pendulum, the industry was wiped out of the market. What we are trying to do now, and we have already talked about concrete legal solutions, is to help them and give them all the tools and mechanisms that they need to continue to develop further, to continue communication and some new investors that will appear on the domestic market, but again I say that some of the internal potentials here and the insurance houses that they need to exploit their internal potentials, which they have to continue to support the development of the domestic economy, for example. These are some other domestic potentials that can be activated in the coming period. So, simply with one synergy of all these elements of the system, we need to make sure that domestic companies simply have one of the widest possible mixes of funding sources and choose the ones that suit them the most. We are all aware that the whole of Europe is quite a single banking system when it comes to financing the economy and Europe has certain challenges when the capital market and funding models are at stake through the capital market. So we're trying to tell some, let's say, by jumping development, we come up with some creative solutions that maybe some of these dilemmas and problems will solve in the next period. I say, it is certain that the support and further co-operation in this respect in the coming period will be valuable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2707	Thank you. The word has the People's MP, Ugljesa Mrdić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2708	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Dear representatives of two extremely important state institutions, both the RATL and the Securities Commission, the honourable fellow MPs, what is particularly important, and what has been addressed by several of my fellow Members of the People's Parliaments is the safety of children. The safety of children on the Internet, and they have in mind everything that's going on, and what situations we have about the Internet and what kind of operators we have that appear and who are increasingly present, should not surprise us that there is not enough control of the Internet and certainly that certain state institutions, the superior prosecutor's office and the police, have a lot of work to do about it. As far as the Internet is concerned, the Internet is not only a threat to the safety of our children when it comes to these video games, where there are often these various YouTubes and Twitters people who don't present themselves under the name and last name, so we can't determine who they are or what they are, but that's why we often have certain phenomena, so I have to say, that they appear on the Internet under the name and last name and nothing is sacred. Such people are often politicians from extraparliamentary opposition parties, so-called analysts, individual public figures, etc. from various areas of society, they often criticise what should not be criticised, and this time I simply have to comment on a tweet by Mrs Vesna Pesic, who is not the world of Stefan Nemanja, or the Holy Sava, or the Memorial to Stefan Nemanja, so so Mrs Vesna Pesic, and I apologize to the citizens of Serbia for having to read this shameful tweet, says Vesna Pesic – the monument to Stefan Nemanja is a very sad thing that happened to this people and it is under Vukica. Nemancessa committed a genocide against the gods, and our generation in Nemanja's name continued genocide in Srebrenica. Ratko Mladic is a continuation of the Negativity. This is a step back from Serbia in the Middle Ages. That, dear Serbian citizens, Vesna Pesic, is your representative of the fake elite in Serbia. This "twitter" best shows that there are still people in Serbia who are unfortunately both teachers and present in policies that are not the world nor Stefan Nemanja. So, I'm not talking about SNS here, I'm not talking about President Alexander Vukic, who opened this wonderful monument, where most of us were present last night, but I'm talking about now on the Internet, by Twitter, and I believe that this "twitter" will convey the majority of electronic and printed media that is under the control of the opposition of Dragan Gilas and Dragan Šolak, so they insult our people, too, insult our history, insult the formation of the Serbian state. So, are we aware that the fake elite in Serbia, which also belongs to Vesna Pesic, and Djilas, and Vuk Jeremic, and Bosko Obradović and Dragan Solak and their comrades insult everyone. So it's no longer a target just Alexander Vucic and SNS, now it's the target and the Germans. It's not just the Vucic family that's being attacked, it's also Nemanjeci. They are now targeted by the Holy Sava, for this power, led by Alexander the Wolf, has done and ended the temple of St. Save. They're attacking Stefan Nemania. Why? Because Alexander Vukic opened up the Sava Square and discovered the monument to Stefan Nemanja, they attack everything. They attack everything, their hatred gets bigger and bigger. They also attack the presidents of municipalities who have criticised today's government by yesterday, but if Aleksandar Vukic shows up in the company of the president of the municipality, he opens something that is beautiful, like the gondola in Zlatibor, which my colleague was talking about, they immediately start attacking everything. They began to attack not only the living who shake hands with Alexander Vukic, but also the most significant figures in the history of the Serbian people. Therefore, I know that both you and RATEL and REM and all the institutions that are somehow and competent to control everything we see in the electronic media and regarding electronic communications are not easy, but in addition to these shameful attacks by the opposition we have one and the hypocrisy of the opposition, I'm just going to remind you that it seems to me that RATEL in RTS last or before last year 13 of the opposition parties that none of whom, I think, have crossed the censorship, so we're saying how much they are worth, that they haven't even been able to cross the 3% censorship, they've complained to you at RATEL and RTS that they're not sufficiently represented at the media public service. Well, here today we talked about one "word to word" show, we talked about other shows. Well, they're so present on RTS, they're often more present than both SNS and SPS and all the parliamentary parties together whose representatives are here today. So, they don't have 1%, 2%, 3% support, they often occupy more than 50% of the media space in electronic media. And that's not enough for them, and then they use it to attack you. Not to talk about what the SBB was doing. I'll just remind you that last year, the Belgrade power plants filed criminal charges against the SBB, because it was found that SBB illegally set up 59km of cables and did not pay a dinar for it to Belgrade, and as far as the market value is concerned, so the SBB damaged the city of Belgrade and Belgrade power plants worth 3.5m to 5m euros. Only once will SBB, Dragan Šolak, Dragan Gilas and their partners. Therefore, today, unfortunately, we are witnessing such a situation and in the media, primarily by electronic, even in print, that certain opposition to the false elite of Serbia, the false elite of Belgrade is nothing sacred, is not sacred nor what Stefan Nemanja started, who gave a lot to our people, and that he continued later and his successors Stefan Prvenčeni, etc., that we do not list and that today we have the situation and today we are fortunate to continue on the path of Stefan Nemanje and through Stefan the First and the Holy Sava, and the team they founded by Nemanja, Serbia today continues to lead Serbia's government, SNS with coalition partners and primarily led by our President, Alexander Vukic, who leads Serbia into a secure future, the future for our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2709	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Alexander Mirkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2710	Thank you. Dear President, honourable representatives of institutions, distinguished fellow Members of Parliament and fellow MPs, I will try to be as brief as possible, to be as concrete as possible, because there are a few speakers left to discuss, so I'm going to sublime somewhere along with everything that the previous speakers have talked about, and that is that you represent very important two institutions that are most often spoken of here, but often your powers are not within what we are most interested in, something that we are talking about most here and we are discussing, but you have to understand both us and our position. So we sit here because Serbian citizens voted for different lists, specifically in my case for a list of SNS called Aleksandar Vukic – For our children and we here represent citizens who voted for us. We also represent those citizens who have not voted or participated in these elections or have voted for some options that have not crossed the censorship. And when we ask you these questions concerning certain specific things, they concern, above all, citizens of Serbia who are concerned or are curious about finding out something more concrete. You all represent the institutions here, and your expertise is thus not questioned as soon as you sit in those positions where you sit and represent what you represent, but you have to understand one thing, that when we talk about RATEL as a body, citizens who watch this transmission, maybe some of the MPs don't know what it is all about your frameworks and what you represent and where you can help and where you can't help. The fact that you're online and as you just said, it's trying to reach every point in our country, doesn't mean that every citizen in our country knows whether you can influence some of that content on the Internet or not. You have repeatedly commented in your presentations and answers, Mr Kovacevic, that you cannot and that your goal is to deliver it to the consumer in fact only, but you need to know one thing. You, if we look at it the roughest, you have this initial responsibility somewhere, because you provide that Internet to everyone in our country, if that's how we look at it. Then we must all work together and as a society and if you want us to define it both as a parliament and as a government, all together to work on it and to make education about using the Internet even better, to keep the safety of children and the youngest at an even greater level. In the previous period, the MUP had an action carried out with different institutions. It was about the security of Internet use. What's the situation, we'll agree that it's better, but unfortunately, more than once, this example shows us that perhaps even parents are not aware of the dangers on the Internet. Don't think of this as a criticism now that we are here accusing you of being directly responsible for this, no, consider this an invitation for all of us as institutions to do something so that we don't have such disastrous things happening to this child the other day, that because of some "tic-tic-tock" helmet or whatever it is called, the challenges have done something disastrous. What I'm trying to say is the fact that in your discussion you've brought out a lot of good useful things and that's where you can see the progress. Indeed, we can talk about this for a very long time, and these are things that everyone is proud of. We're talking here today, I think that one of the previous speakers mentioned this, regarding a related school, a famous project that only paints how far Serbia has progressed in the previous period where we are discussing it today, and this law is designed to replace 50,000 computers, to acquire 48,000 laptops, so that that child on the Savaweave, in Old Town, Vozdovec, has the same conditions as some child in the most remote village around Vlad's Han, Piroth or anywhere. This is an indicator of how far Serbia has progressed in every respect and sense and how far we have now come in the situation that from Belgrade where we had no VC schools but have used the Polish VC in the 21st century believe or not, we have come into a position to discuss that we will also be able to conduct online teaching, that every child in Serbia will have that opportunity. Your work has also proven well in this crisis situation of a period when you are very quickly organized with the help of the entire state, the Government of the Republic of Serbia to organise this online teaching as soon as possible and as easily as possible. There was the biggest challenge about internet connection, Internet availability. I know it was a very big challenge for all of us because no one could predict the situation we were in. Therefore, in this direction we must continue in the future, and I am convinced that we will have full agreement about it because it is in our best interests for all of us that our children and generations who come live in an even better, more orderly society and even better Serbia. What my colleagues mentioned was about using the Internet. You are witnessing yourself that the maximum abuse of the Internet is for political purposes. You'll say again that you can't influence it, but it's a de facto fact that you have various social networks. Here is the mention of this "tweeter", on which some people behind hidden orders are able to say all the worst things, to call for anyone's murder that they disagree with, is often targeted by President Aleksandar Vukic and his family, but that there are no consequences after that and there are no consequences. I think in the next period, this is again a suggestion and something that came first hand from the citizens, on that consciousness of functioning and using the Internet, we all have to work together. I want you to consider it the most well-intentioned suggestion. I understand your authority, I understand everything, but somewhere in that chain someone who delivers that internet that's the most responsible, I've only caught up with the Internet because it's something that's the future, which is the present, but some future close, it's very important for generations to come. You know, I believe you have children or grandchildren, they've been trained for all computer operations since they were six years old. We must take care of them in the earliest days. I'm not going back to the RTS story. I think you explained that well. This is about the 5G network. Believe me, I think you could react better here, if anything else in the next period, I would ask you just for the explanation and education of people, just to explain that it's not that some failed politicians, opposition politicians today are trying to get cheap political points by threatening that 5G network of people in Serbia. They say - that's how the government of Alexander Vukic wants to poison you. It's just some kind of well-intentioned suggestion. You know there's a good part of the people in our country that I don't know, and I was in some part of it, but I'm counting on you to have a sense of it, too. As far as the Securities Commission is concerned, I think you've been very thorough in your presentation. I'm glad that you approached us that way, and I'm glad that in your presentation you showed that the situation in our country is more than good. I followed your answers closely, as well as Mr Kovacevic's answers. I haven't come anywhere to notice that we have some problem, that we're complaining about something, which is in a situation where the whole world is facing a coronary crisis, when in some countries that are much stronger than us economically, who haven't had any problems like we had in the past, or until 2012, when a group of politicians gathered us together into DS regime, and led by Dragan Gilasas into a position on the edge of the past, we today don't fire people, our Charters of Values now have totally some other form. Today's situation is much better than the previous period, until some 2012. You mentioned one very important thing – digital property, currency crypt. It's also a very large unknown in our society. You mentioned that you would initiate some other laws that would define and help closer. In the previous exhibition, when Minister Sinisha Mali was here, I insisted that we lead that part to perfection. Why? You yourself know that there are various currencies, bitcoin, etherium, not to mention. This opens up the possibility of any abuse of these currencies, you know for yourself in any way, but what are we going to do in a situation where, for example, a politician in our country has 619m euros in income, a bitcoin today is worth about $30,000, it was worth about a week ago $50,000, what are we going to do when its value falls to seven thousand dollars, how much bitcoin can that politician buy, and are we going to define this law to control the functioning of the money transfer, the purchase, and what can be done with that bitcoin? So, to translate for ordinary citizens who watch this transmission, which may not even be clear, to stand out from the corner of an ordinary man who doesn't rule this, defacto means that someone can make a quick fortune by reducing the first bit, then by increasing his price, by selling and thus being in a huge advantage for various machinations and various kinds of shops. I see you're nodding, you agree, you know what I'm talking about. I'm telling you all this for the simple reason that people who want to go back to power today are no longer complaining about any single dinar in that dirty campaign. I'm asking all of this as a matter of time before everyone in this country feels even safer and even safer, because you know why everything is already being abused by that bitcoin in the environment, and God knows what in the world. I'm glad you brought the data out, and I'm finishing it to leave time for Mr. Atlagic to discuss, too, and I'm glad that the overall impression, whatever it is that he came from, that Serbia today is a different country, a better, better, more beautiful, more effective for foreign investment, attracting. This suggests that in this year, in addition to all the crises, we had more than 2.3 billion direct foreign investments. It just shows we're on our way. It is a policy it implements, which President Aleksandar Vucic insists, which is being followed and followed by the Serbian government, but also by parliament. I hope that in the next period we will have the opportunity to discuss it constructively, to understand ourselves this way, because all of what we are doing on this side, if we are going to see it that way, as MPs, and all of what you are doing as representatives of institutions is in the interest and the only interest of the citizens of Serbia, our children and generations to come. Thank you and live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2711	Thank you. The word is Dragan Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2712	Just to be clear and to be sure what we're saying. The Republic Agency for Electronic Communications and Postal Services does not supply services to users, RATL defines a regulatory framework in which operators in the electronic communications and postal services market function. I must say, thank you for reminding me of this pandemic and the operation of the operator. I have to say that really post-service operators and electronic communications have done a fantastic job on security and online teaching and online orders and delivery of these orders home, which is really an extraordinary growth in traffic that they have achieved. I'm sure we've at least contributed a little bit to it by regulating their frameworks, their actions. As far as this other part of prevention is concerned. We are at our disposal with all our capacities to engage in any prevention activity, as well as all activities related to the provision of information to citizens around 5G, which is how it works to prevent the practical abuse of the information system and the distribution of false information.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2713	Thank you. Marko Jankovic picked up the phone. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2714	First, I'd like to thank Mr. Mirkovic for his discussion. The point is exactly what you said at one point, that you only heard positive things today, etc. So I can't say that everything we face in our daily work is only positive and only good, on the contrary. But, frankly, my colleagues from the institution and I don't take our job as something we should come and complain about and grieve over some situation we're in right now. On the contrary, we view our work as a job where we should propose concrete solutions and find a way for these situations where we find ourselves, most often not our fault and most often because of some other circumstances, to resolve and not to come into similar situations in the next period. You also mentioned this digital property, which is one, so-called hot topic, not just with us, but in the whole world. So what's certainly one reason for lawmaking is to make it impossible for individuals to function this way and work with digital property. We are all aware that every innovation carries positive and negative sides, i.e. good inability and bad ones. It's up to us to stop these negative possibilities. Basically, we have relied heavily on some previous experiences, we have used PT-AML experiences, an EU directive that deals with the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing. So our task is to prevent individuals of the company and all those who have the idea that they will succeed in such a harmful activity from profiting, earning and exporting money from this country, from simply preventing them from doing so. On the other hand, the law itself allowed the Ministry of Finance to tax the activities that are related to digital property, so what you've just mentioned. Anyone who earns the value of digital property will either be taxed by income tax on citizens, if they are natural persons, or by capital gains tax, if they are legal persons. On this side, the state of Serbia must simply charge taxes, in order to allow all the basic services that the state needs to provide to its citizens. It's simply, I say, the idea of a modern, effective legislative framework, which we have in this context, is to simply introduce these activities into some regular flows. What I am extremely pleased with is that market participants themselves have recognised the values that such a modern legislative framework brings. So there are those who would like never to pay taxes, never to have their activities under the supervision of a regulator, etc. There may be situations where this is justified, but in this particular case the state recognized its own interest, as well as the interest of its citizens and companies, to regulate these activities. What we will certainly do is monitor real life events and adapt the legal framework to what we see in practice in the context of all these events. Of course, every legal framework, especially the one that is first passed, and the Digital Property Act does not have an older peer, or any predecessor in that sense and, frankly, we do not have many examples in the world where we may have been able to look to other people's experiences, will certainly suffer certain changes in the future. The very ecosystem of digital property is such that it rapidly develops, changes, inovirs etc. It's that famous cat and mouse game, so, markets and regulators, where it's our job as regulator to adapt as quickly as possible to change in real life. How successful we will be in this depends on our abilities and on the support of all other institutions of the system. It is my great pleasure to say that for now we, as a regulator, feel this support and that it is a great pleasure to have an extremely good and correct co-operation with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2715	Thank you. The People's Messenger Milos Bandur has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2716	The Honorable Chairman, distinguished guests, dear colleagues and fellow MPs, to begin with the praise of the RATEL report, which is indeed abundant and it is seen that from year to year the Regulatory Agency reports are becoming more and more extensive, i.e. more relevant. I looked at the 2012 report, it was only on 15 pages. I see that the 2018 and 2019 reports are on some 70 - 80 pages and are really detailed, so everyone can get familiar with your agency's work and activities. What I would still notice is that RATEL has managed to bring himself closer to the users, i.e. citizens, through various services, and simply to every person, every mobile phone service user or some other RATL service is closer. I wasn't at the beginning, so I don't know if anyone was talking about applications that users can download from the google play store or applet store and simply at any time check the speed of the internet incoming and outgoing and measure the quality of the service, simply to see if what the operator offers them in the contract and tariffs and charges it and what they really get when they use that service. It refers to both wireless and internet that is cable. In addition to this application, Benchmarking is also interesting, i.e. the comparative measurement of service quality of all three mobile operators, which gives each potential mobile phone user the opportunity to identify which type of mobile operator to choose from, with the information and quality of individual services and services compared to the location where it is most often located. It was really, I see from the report, a very complex job in 50 cities where measurements were made. Ten thousand kilometers was driven by a car. When we add what engineers have crossed on foot, or carrying devices in a backpack on their backs, then it is a really impressive job, but all of this has resulted in something that citizens, or end-users of mobile phone services, can also see and end up exploiting. Also, it is very useful that RATEL increases the number of cells per year, control cells for measuring the strength of the electromagnetic field in a certain range of frequencies and overall measurement of the cumulative force of the electromagnetic field, because we know that there are certain thoughts, perhaps not quite biologically and medically fully proven, there are conflicting opinions that the strength of the electromagnetic field, or non-ionising radiation, can adversely affect health. I see that the number of these measurement points is increasing, and at this point they are over 70, 75 to 35 locations, or 35 cities, near objects that are sensitive on that side, hospitals, schools, kindergartens. So, where people, or children, are being held back for a long time and the results of all these measurements are within the framework of what is prescribed. So what is obtained as a result of measurement is compared to what is in the regulation, i.e. the regulation, and it is seen whether at a specific location the electromagnetic field crosses the limit value or not. From what we've heard, everything's fine so far, the force of the electromagnetic field in all measured places is within the limits allowed. I think it's about an uninterrupted twenty-four-hour monitoring. I think that's what you said in answer to the question of an MP. What's very interesting and perhaps a central part of your job is monitoring the radio spectrum in the country. Of course, those who use it legally with permission should use it in accordance with the permits and regulations, and those who use it illegally should be sanctioned. It's good, we have two centers, one is in Belgrade, the other is in Nis, and somewhere around 16 of those measurement-control stations that, I say, are remotely controlled and aiding the work of the centers. From the point of view of security, both national and air traffic security, etc., it is very important to detect and detect a source of major interference or interference that could compromise the transmission of significant signals. It's a good thing that the number, to say the control-measured cells aren't large, but it's significant and it needs to be maybe bigger, in order to measure several points as accurately as possible to determine the location from which the source of interference that is later, of course, has to be neutralized, because interference can also be a security very dangerous one. Let's say, in air traffic, it's a threat to aircraft communication and flight control. Also, the National CERT is something that re-enhancing that communication with citizens. I see that you are open to receiving all security threats, namely security threats in the area of information and communication networks and systems, that the centre publishes these data and warns citizens and legal persons that there are certain dangers and simply, simply to say, warns them not to fall for it. I see they exist on the Fishing Notice site when someone tries to introduce themselves as a certain bank and asks for information from the user. Of course, colleagues mentioned the safety of children online. I've seen you do this, too, that you have videos, very customized video clips adapted to your child's age, which in some ways teach them not to buy different provocations in that part, that is, in that area. It's about praise, but since I'm never just boasting, I have to ask some questions like this, or maybe bring up some thoughts that are subjective, but they're not scary. I see that in 2012, the revenues were about a billion and 400 million and that more than half of the revenues went to the Agency's expense and the rest was paid into the state budget. Of the 720 million that went to expenses, 300 and a few million went to pay. Compared to 2019, revenues are significantly higher, over two billion dinars, 900 million went to costs, so 200 million more compared to the previous year 2012. I look forward to the fact that the wage mass has not been increased, although you had to increase the number of employees because you were also associated with the Post Office, and you had to establish the National CERT. So in that sense, I have no objections, but I have a dilemma that is now not addressed to you but to my fellow Members and the public. I think that when it comes to independent regulatory agencies and independent bodies, they're independent in their professional work, the domain, but that doesn't mean they're independent in the sense that they have to determine their own salaries. I am of the opinion that the state, in this case, is the National Assembly or the Ministry of Finance, someone who needs to give a framework in which to move salaries of employees in independent regulatory agencies and bodies, because, I say, independence refers to independence in the profession. It's like university autonomy. You know, some concept of university autonomy is being abused, so they think it's some island where they can establish all their rules now. No, they are autonomous in terms of the creation of study programmes, curricula, freedom of choice of teachers to call, etc., but they must apply the regulations and regulations of the state in which they live, especially as the state in the budget finances the university. This is about something else right now. You earn all that money whose share you pay in the Republic of Serbia's budget, I do not dispute it, but the fact is that you and other regulatory agencies make it through the use of national resources, because the radio spectrum is the national treasure, property and resources of this country. He's not unlimited, at least in the part used to transmit signals. Therefore, the use of that resource, i.e. income or profit from the use of that resource, should belong to the people. Therefore, my view is that independent agencies cannot determine their own profits, regardless of what you, I've seen, have stopped somewhere. So, a few years ago, you didn't increase those profits, and the most dramatic thing was, I think, at first, that they were at the beginning, somewhere there when they founded RATEL, in 2005, and then somehow abused that position, which was an independent agency, and then using incomes that actually belonged to the state and people a little bit more on their salaries. So, basically, this isn't a criticism, it's more of a commentary. All I have to do is look back at the contest to elect the director of RATEL. The report we are considering refers to the time when we had a second director, in August 2020, a new director of RATEL was elected. I tried to find his biography on the Internet. It's interesting that there's no biography, or there's only a few sentences, that he's graduated from Traffic College, the CTU department, and that's that. Somewhere in a congregation report, I dug up that he worked at RATL and was the director of the Post Office. I happened to find that in some congregation report. What is the public's main concern in the field of electrical engineering, specifically telecommunications, about the selection of the director of RATEL? It is that for the first time, it happens that the precedent is that a person who is not an expert in electronic communications is elected for the director of RATEL, but for postal traffic, and for the hand-to-heart, in this whole story, electronic communications is represented, even when data security is added, 95% to 98% of the job. The post office has long solved all the dilemmas, the postal alliance exists for a hundred years, all conventions have been passed, all regulations, something little remains for the Post Office, which is why it is added to the RATEL. The opinion of the people of the profession with whom I have communication is that it is logical, such as the director of the University Clinical Center, for example, the regular professor of medicine, the opinion of the profession is that the director of the Telecommunications Regulatory Agency should also be from the profession of electronic communications. Because, watch out, and in your report, nine chapters are dedicated to electronic communications, and one chapter is dedicated to postal traffic. There, that's it. Some small, I say, criticism at the end, but in any case, since the Agency is young, it was founded in 2005, that there is indeed great progress in the work, that the spectrum of action, i.e. the sector and activity is expanding, that RATEL has drawn closer to citizens and that using modern methods all these data measurements that RATEL has come to or which are actually open data, are on the open data website. I know you've received a reward as an agency on that matter. It's a matter of only objection, let me say, the expert public is that RATEL is quite incarcerated, bewitched and not open to experts who aren't in the RATL, but that RATEL somehow, as one closed organization always chooses from its own ranks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2717	Thank you. Dragan Kovacevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2718	As for the control centres, let's spread five more this year. So we're going to have an even better coverage and, of course, the very important aspect of our operation is the control of electromagnetic spectrum. As for the salary, right, they didn't grow, our salaries aren't in our jurisdiction. Our financial plan provides for salaries, the finance ministry adopts it, and we are completely under the control of everything that other state agencies have set up. I have to tell you that this is causing us a serious problem in the preservation of human resources, because the telecommunications market is highly developed. The operator's got a much bigger salary, and that's what's causing us a problem. We'd be lucky to have bigger salaries for our experts. The incomes we make on the basis of giving the permits that are the resource, of course, the state, when you look at how they are distributed, when you look at what our revenues are, how much we've paid in the budget, it's clear that it goes into the budget, we cover our expenses adopted by the Assembly through our report, and that's that. As for Director Dragan Pejovic, director of the agency, sitting next to me, I am sorry that he did not make CV a little more detailed, but here, it will be more detailed. As to whether he is an expert in telecommunications, or postal traffic, we are an electronic communications agency and postal traffic. This is now in our country for the first time in a post office. I guess the mailmen deserved to have a man of their own. Otherwise, when we look at other agencies in Europe, you'll see that most of them are lawyers, because we're dealing with regulation, and somehow it's by its nature the closest rights, and it's the most lawyers, not experts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2719	Thank you. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint single search, I ask if they want the word of the president, or of the representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Rule 96 of the Rules of Procedure? Nobody. I'm finishing a joint, unique search. I thank the guests for their participation in today's session. I now set a break until 4:00 p.m., when, in accordance with Article 205, part of the session at which MPs ask questions to the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2720	Dear People's MPs, we approach the question of MPs in time from 1600 to 19.00 hours, according to article 205. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Before we move on to asking parliamentary questions, allow me to remind you once again of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly relating to the way MPs are asked: the presentation of a MP who asks a question cannot last longer than three minutes; after an answer to the parliamentary question has been given, the MP who asked the question has the right to comment for a maximum period of three minutes on the answer to his question or to ask an additional question. Upon receipt of an answer to the additional question, the MP shall have the right to declare a response of no more than two minutes. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia shall be applied accordingly during the duration of asking questions and answering, by not allowing replication and reference to the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Accordingly, I would ask the MPs to file applications to ask questions. At the same time, I remind you that the order for asking parliamentary questions will be determined according to the current practice of the work of the National Assembly, first of all by Members of Parliament who do not belong to any of the MPs and then by MPs of the least according to the largest group of MPs. We're moving on to asking MPs questions. I would like to welcome Prime Minister Ana Brnabic and members of the government to thank them for their presence. Ten MPs have been reported to ask parliamentary questions. The word has the People's Messenger Samir Tandir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2721	Thank you. Dear President of the National Assembly, honourable vice-presidents, colleagues and fellow MPs, respected Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, respected ministers, at the beginning I would like to thank the government of the Republic of Serbia, the president, the resolution minister of ecology, who, after 50 years, solved the problem of the non-sanitary dump of Stanjevina in the municipality of Prepolje from which I came. I also want to point out that I want to commend the government for a new package of economic assistance to citizens and citizens, especially the most vulnerable groups, which are our pensioners. Also, I want to commend the government on the fight against Kovida-19, meaning pandemic, where we are the third in Europe to what I read when it comes to the number of vaccinated citizens. As far as my specific question is concerned, it is addressed to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, and as to when large foreign investments will begin in Sandzak? Sandzak municipalities form the order of the devastated, most underdeveloped municipalities in the Republic of Serbia, the average salary is below the republican average, and unemployment is also much higher than the republican average. We need, President, one big foreign investment, at least in the two largest Sanjay cities, in Novi Pazar and in Prijepolje. One of the functional solutions that could permanently solve this problem is the establishment of free economic zones. We have 15 of these zones in the Republic of Serbia, I will not talk about big cities like Belgrade, such as Kragujevac, Kruševac, etc., so I will talk about the free zone that we have in the Municipality of Priboj, which has proved to be an effective solution where we have made a prosperous municipality out of a valley of hunger, of course a colleague who comes from that municipality of Krsto Janjušević is certainly very responsible and we believe that we should consider this solution and see if it can be implemented in a shorter period of time that Novi Pazar and Prijepolje get a free economic zone. So I'll remind the citizens that traffic in these 15 free zones in the Republic of Serbia in 2019 was five billion euros, that 200 companies operate and that we have 37,000 employees. I think it was about one of the models where we could solve the unemployment problem in the Sanjay municipalities and change the negative trend. We have an eviction problem. He is present in all of Serbia, but I represent these municipalities and I want to point out to you to get to know you and see how in a partner relationship through dialogue we can solve and send a positive message to people living in that area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2722	Thank you. The word has a prime minister, Ana Brnabic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2723	Thank you. First of all, I want to thank you for your kind words about our efforts and results in the fight against the Coronus virus. We are indeed doing our best continuously since the first case was discovered in Serbia on 6 March last year, but also before that, when we started testing to identify the first Kovid case in Serbia as soon as possible. I think we should all be proud of that fight. Today Serbia is second in Europe by the number of vaccinated citizens. We are behind the UK, seventh in the world, right behind the United States, the United States is sixth, so I think it's really enough to talk about the struggles and efforts of the state summit, first of all headed by President Alexander Vukic, the entire Government of the Republic of Serbia and all other relevant and relevant institutions. We'll keep fighting like this, even though it really is in that sense, I don't think I know when the time was harder. You can see for yourself how difficult it is to fight for vaccines, in what situations other countries across Europe and around the world have not yet begun to vaccinate other countries of that so-called region, the Western Balkans. Of those Western Balkan countries, only Albania started with 975 vaccines. So it's extremely difficult and we should all be proud of how we fight. I will repeat, I will use this time also to say once again to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia who are following this transmission that we are getting another 40,000 Sputnik V vaccine tomorrow, already in our warehouse, in Russia tonight a plane leaves late, tomorrow will land about five o'clock in the morning, that is 40,000 vaccines for 20,000 people, we get on Monday, I said - 9.800 today, the exact number is 9,360 "Fiser" vaccine, and then next Monday another phaser vaccine. We fight for everything else. Today we had a meeting with the Kovaks mechanism, and we expect that something in February. But believe me, I just finished my meeting with President Vukic before I get to the Assembly, we're fighting further for some more vaccines, we're doing our best, and I hope we keep going like we started. Thank you for commending the announced new aid package for both the economy and the citizens. We were among the world's first five countries in 2020 at the level of support for citizens and businesses. This level of assistance has reached almost 12% of our GDP, which is amazing. At the same time, thanks to the timely assistance of our economy's rather generous and toughness, the Republic of Serbia has ended and this will be officially shown in the next few months, when European statistics show all these numbers. It will be seen that Serbia came first in economic indicators in such a difficult year, 2020, so I hope and expect these new support measures, both economics and citizens to produce the same results. In parallel, it seems to me that we should be proud that Serbia remains one of the world's leaders in attracting foreign direct investment and, despite such economic challenges throughout the world, foreign direct investment in the Republic of Serbia has not been reduced, or any foreign investor who has planned to invest in the Republic of Serbia has not given up. That's why we managed to open new plants during the crisis last year, to start building several factories among which is certainly one of the most important Japanese investment "Tojo Tyres" in India. When Japanese investors invest in one country in a time of such a major global crisis, such as this curve of crisis, then it says a lot about that country and then indeed all countries and all investors pay attention to that country and we will continue to do so. I expect in the next few weeks that we have some more good news for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. In this regard, we are really trying to bring foreign direct investment to all parts of the Republic of Serbia, including Novi Pazar, and Tutin, and Sjenica, and Prijepolje, therefore, and all these municipalities. The first condition is, of course, infrastructure. That's why I can say I'm glad we're on our way to the construction of Novi Pazar – Tutin. If I'm not mistaken, that path should end by the end of this year or mid 2022, and it will really change into a lot of perspectives here. I invite you to sit down together and see what are the options for opening a free economic zone. It's been a really good result in Priboj among other things, but I say, among other things, with a lot of other things that we've done together, so let's see, if there are possibilities, we can, but until then parallel to the construction of the infrastructure that's under way, where we've had the initial delay, primarily because of some ambiguity and delay in adopting the urban plan if I'm not mistaken in the Tutin municipality. Now it's really going with good dynamics. We're satisfied. It continues without a break, so we expect to finish it too. Let us, together, pay attention to domestic investment, to the economic council of municipalities, if they are not there, to establish them, to see what further we can do for existing investors and, within these measures, to support the economy that the Government of the Republic of Serbia together with President Alexander Vukic is now preparing and which we will officially present soon, but my doors are always open to you to see what we can do together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2724	Thank you. The word has the People's Messenger Samir Tandir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2725	Thank you, Prime Minister. The next question is, since tourism is a great development opportunity for both Serbia and all our parts of our country, how much investment in the area of tourism is specific for the Sandzak municipality projects? A question for the Minister for Labour, Combat and Social Affairs - why students of the Medres High School and other religious schools do not have the right to children's allowance and health care and to take this opportunity to solve this important segment of life, this problem through one dialogue. As far as tourism is concerned, I would like to remind you that the Sanjak municipalities have a great natural cultural potential that is completely untapped. When we talk about this economic development, tourism is certainly one of the chances that we can take advantage of with all this talk about free economic zones. So we can't keep our eggs all in one basket, but we can see that we're going at more than one goal to solve the unemployment problem permanently. I would like to remind you that the president of the state, in the context of an explanation of Serbia's development plan 2020-25, mentioned Stone Gora near Prepolje as one of these points of development, so I'm curious about what is planned, how long has it been and what are the ideas, etc.? I would also like to appeal to the Prime Minister to see little with the Public Business "Skivals of Serbia" to run something that we would call socially responsible business. Well done, we have the development of our winter tourist centers. However, we must pay attention to these smaller centres such as the Apple and the Komaran near Prepolje, Zlatar near Nova Varoshi and the Ski Centre Žari near Sjenica. So, apart from this profit that is achieved, every honor, we are proud of our winter tourist centres, but let's see in these smaller municipalities, such as the Srljig municipality in eastern Serbia, let's see if we can start some centres that were known in the former Yugoslavia as pioneer centres. I think there's a lot of potential here and let's see how to use it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2726	Thank you. The word has Tatjana Matic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2727	I thank you, Chairman. Dear Prime Minister, honourable members of the government, honourable MPs, when it comes to investing from the tourism sector in the Sanjak area, I must say that the last six years have been a significant investment in this area primarily through the various projects that we have funded, where mainly local self-government from these parts have applied for projects. I must say that right now the competition is under way and in the Serbian budget, the tourism ministry has allocated 600 million dinars for various projects in the area of infrastructure in tourism and we hope and have already received first applications from the municipality and Priboj and Prepolje and Novi Pazar, of course. I would point out that one of the more important things about these major infrastructure projects that you mentioned is, above all, the production of project-technical documentation. What we have often faced so far has been one big job that we have managed together with local self-governments with huge funding and education somewhere and with the Ministry of State Administration and local self-government, and somewhere with bilateral donors above all to carry out a kind of education related to the way and procedure that is necessary to respect certain projects to get and compete and get funding from a forward ministry, but also from bilateral donors, because, among other things, as you know, the development agencies of the Republic of Turkey and other international donors are quite interested and have already implemented some projects in the region in the previous period. I would also refer to concrete amounts for these areas, and for these municipalities I can give you later for a period of six years. When we talk about Serbia's Public Business and tourism potentials in the Novi Varosha area, you said the Apple, and other places, we are fully agreed that even fewer local tourist destinations have their own developmental chance and we have not forgotten them together and with the Public Business "Skids of Serbia" we are working on it, but there are certain standards and I want to say that there is no need to mix "Skids of Serbia" with this type of tourist activity. In order for you to be able to get ski center status at all, there are certain standards and preconditions that must be met. These smaller places, of course, do not have that kind of capacity, but they may be what you were talking about, some pioneering centres, or where one specific type of tourism can develop, maybe focus on more, on developing youth tourism and where these potentials can be used to develop both the local community and further economic progress in the region. I note once again that together with local self-government, such projects will be funded and the role and importance of local self-government is crucial in the realisation of such projects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2728	Thank you. Do any of the members of the government still want to? The word has the People's Messenger Samir Tandir.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2729	Our policy is a policy of reconciliation. The creator of this policy and leader of our party is academician Muamer Zukorlic. In order to establish lasting stability in the Balkans, a good, fundamentally good relationship between the two peoples, between Bosniak and Serbian, Serbian and Bosniak and the whole idea is necessary and this conversation is aimed at ensuring that all citizens and citizens living in Serbia feel that we are taking care of them, that we really care about them, and that the government, Parliament and all other institutions are their services and that they should experience them as their own, and that this economic agenda is very important to us and that these people in Priboj, in Prijepolje, in Varosha, in Tutin, in Sjenica, they feel an economic improvement, that they can find a job, that they do not go, because from every city and in Serbia, but also in Sandzak, we know that we have a bus and a van line towards the largest centres of Western Europe. We don't need that and we need to reverse that trend and that's why we need investment and investment. Thank you, Prime Minister and Minister for your reply.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2730	Thank you. Since Minister Daria just called, I'd like to explain the procedure one more time. Government members can report when someone asks the question the first and second time, after the third, there is no answer. Let's move on, and you answer what they asked you when you heard from me next time, about some other question. The word has a folk letter from Nadia Beqiri.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2731	Thank you. Mr. President, members of the government, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, as we have pointed out more, one of the most difficult problems facing young Albanians in the Presevo Valley is the issue of non-recognition of diplomas they receive during academic studies at the University of Kosovo. Since 2008, thirteen generations of young people whose diplomas are not recognised have been taken away from these young people every opportunity to hire and contribute to the environment in which they live, and our municipality is slowly left without the necessary staff. This is a question that has been said a lot over the years, but unfortunately nothing has been done. First, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia declared an unconstitutional one regulation by the government on the recognition of diplomats from Kosovo, and the new Regulation on the special way of recognising Kosovo diplomas from 2014 never came into force and produced no positive outcome. So this is a question that was covered during the technical dialogue between Pristina and Belgrade, which has been going on for years without results. How important this issue is and that it requires adequate treatment can also be shown by an example of its coverage in the Washington Agreement of September 2020. Article 6 of the agreement says both sides will recognise school diplomas and other beliefs. International agreements under the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia produce obligations as well as domestic laws. That's why I think it's necessary and it's high time to do something about this issue that depends on the fate of a large number of young people, but also the need for young people who need our undeveloped community. Dear members of the government, my question is for the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia – will the issue of recognition of school diplomas and other certificates that young people from the Presevo Valley reach in Kosovo during academic studies be resolved? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2732	Thank you. The word is made by the Prime Minister, Ana Brnabic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2733	Thank you. I'll give you a shorter and longer answer. The short answer – it will be resolved as soon as we have an adequate talker in the interim institutions in Pristina, who is ready to discuss it seriously, make compromises and come up with solutions that would be in the interest of young people. I'll give you a longer answer now. So, the Republic of Serbia as a future country, as a country seeking regional stability, integration, trust and, as President Aleksandar Vukic himself has courageously said, the historic reconciliation between Serbs and Albanians has also insisted on resolving this issue for many years. Regardless of all agreements, regardless of EU mediation, regardless of US support, I think this is in the interest of all young people in this region and is a good step in the right direction. For this reason, I say again, regardless of all the agreements signed that I agree should be implemented, met, constantly appealed to it, we included this in the framework of the Mini Schengen initiative launched by the President of the Republic of Aleksandar Vukic, who was also supported by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Albania, Edi Rama, who was supported by Prime Minister of Northern Macedonia Zoran Zaev. So this issue is one of the basic issues within the Mini Schengen initiative. We invited everyone else, including the interim institutions of self-government in Pristina, to join the Mini Schengen initiative to build a better future together for young people in this region. Unfortunately, the provisional institutions of self-government in Pristina have not yet responded to this call, so, after all, neither the Republic of Albania, which enough, I think, unfortunately speaks of how ready they are to think about the future for young people. It would be very easy to resolve this within the Mini Schengen initiative. In addition, as you have noticed yourself, that is true, this question is also raised in the Berlin process. On our part, on the part of our Working Group that participates in this, you had not only full co-operation, but we were the ones who led this process and gave the standards, suggestions how this could be overcome and were there to keep looking for new and new ways to solve this issue. Neither we nor the people in Brussels nor those participating in the Berlin process have come across adequate answers, nor preparedness by temporary institutions in Pristina. This is also part of the Washington Agreement and one of the things that not only we didn't have against, but it's a real part of our initiative, so we're not just running away from it, but we insist on it. But, again, every tango needs two. So as soon as there is readiness, enough courage and some vision by the provisional institutions in Pristina, this can be resolved within 24 hours, I think. Thank you for saying that the agreements, so you mentioned the Washington Agreement, have to be implemented. Please, you have good co-operation, good communication with political leaders in Pristina. Ask them to implement the agreements. First of all, the first normalisation agreement between Belgrade and Pristina, so-called ‘Brissal Agreement’. Appeal to people in Pristina, political elites to implement their obligations under the Brussels Agreement. This will help all of us, and most of all young people in these areas. So, the community of Serb municipalities is a prerequisite for further talks if you want to have serious sides.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2734	The word has a folk letter from Nadia Beqiri.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2735	Dearly, I just asked the question why would Kosovo be guilty of the lack of rights of Albanian people living in Serbia? I am a Member of the Republic of Serbia, I am not in Kosovo and I want to defend every right for my citizens, and especially for young people whom we have every day off from that municipality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2736	The word has a prime minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2737	Thank you. I totally agree with you one more time. So, AP Kosovo and Metohija are not to blame. Kosovo is not to blame for this. It is the temporary institutions of self-government in Pristina, a political elite in Pristina, who must sit down and agree with us how diplomas are treated and from the University of Pristina, moved to Kosovo Mitrovica until the situation in our AP is resolved, and then by the principle of reciprocity to solve all other diplomas. So, very simply, it seems to me, quite logically, according to everything, I think, to normal world principles. Kosovo is not wrong. The Autonomous province of Kosovo and Metohija in this regard is absolutely not guilty. The temporary institutions of self-government in Pristina, which do not have enough courage, do not have enough visions and do not have enough seriousness to address issues concerning the everyday lives of citizens in these areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2738	Does Ambassador Beqiri want another word? (Nadie Beqiri: No, thank you. I thank you. National MP Dr. Muamer Bacevac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2739	From the famous judicial reform that took place in 2010 in our country, the problems of the Sandzak judicial authorities begin. The courts in the municipality of Tutin and the municipality of Sjenica were then abolished, and this was used to reduce the constant and drastic number of judges and prosecutors, but the case numbers rose dramatically from 10% to 20% year-on-year. This problem is partially solved in 2014 when the basic court is re-established and formed in Sjenica, which is now former and in which five judges work today. All criteria for the existence of a basic court in the Tutin municipality today exist. I think of those criteria set by the judiciary, and I must say it is not fair that one of the largest municipalities in our Republic, with 31,155 residents from the 2011 census, means 31,155 and which is also a border municipality, has no primary court, while some municipalities, I will take for example Petrovac at Mlava, which I will say is less than one local community in Tutin, such a court has. Right now, New Market judges are traveling to Tutin and I can say that in these winter days it's very risky and problematic. The Tutin Judiciary Unit has its own judicial building in which the court and municipal prosecutor's office were located by 2010, so that there would be no financial expenditure, but rather, they would be reduced since judges from Novi Pazar would not receive compensation for travel. On the other hand, it would really come out very much to meet citizens living in this municipality, who is very disillusioned, because today citizens living on Caves must, because of the simplest situation, travel to Novi Pazar and it requires both financial costs and all other costs. So I would like to ask Justice Minister Maja Popovic, for the sake of all this, to initiate the return, i.e. the re-establishment of the primary court in Tutin. Here, give us a comment on that.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2740	Here you go, Minister Maja Popovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2741	Dear President, honourable Members of the People, I must answer these questions by saying that the judiciary does not make criteria, they are made by laws, provided for by these laws. On the very first of January 2014, the Law on the Seats and Areas of Courts and Public Prosecutors, which began to apply and the criteria for determining and creating a network of courts and public prosecutors, was adopted as follows: The coverage of the territory on which the jurisdiction of the court was extended, the level of organisation of local self-government, the number of residents and geographical positions, the cost of arrival and departure from work of the holder of the office, the accompanying judicial and prosecutorial staff, the number of cases, the number of cases, the seduction of letters in the judicial unit and the divorce of the main register. These are exact figures that are determined by numbers. These are variable categories that change over time and certainly VSS for courts as well as DVT for prosecutors, it follows from month to month. There is a working group within these organs and we will certainly consider this your proposal. I consider each of your proposals constructive and together we will entertain these figures in the next period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2742	Thank you. The word has been given by Ambassador Bacevac.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2743	Thank you. You've just made the best arguments. All the things you've counted, the criteria, the Tutin municipality meets, believe me. I'm glad we have a quality conversation, I'm thinking of you specifically. I know you want to solve problems in the judiciary that are piled up. I'll keep going. I'll say something about the prosecution. The main prosecutor's office in Novi Pazar currently has five of the expected eight deputies, since the sixth, who had recently worked, retired, and one took over as president of the basic court. I have to tell you that there are serious problems today because our prosecution is covering both the prosecution in Tutin and the D.A.'s office in Sjenica. We have a lot of problems because we have a lot of objects. I can tell you that we have about 5,000 items a year in New Market. It's equal to the number of objects he has, for example. King. That's 11 of the D.A.'s deputies. Secondly, it's a very good thing the Court of First Instance is open. I have to tell you that there are twice the number of cases in Tutin, which is the basis for forming a new court. I must certainly remind you that in 2016, the State's Major Prosecutor's Office formed a working body whose task was to determine the real needs of public prosecutors in the Republic of Serbia and that it was also a member of that body. According to the analysis at the time, given all the criteria, the New Market General Public Prosecutor's Office, I repeat the New Market Public Prosecutor's Office, which has the most work to do, should, instead of the eight so far, have five, there are 14 deputies, which would be the monthly norm equal to some of the standards that exist with you. In the D.A.'s office, I can say that the situation is slightly better, significantly better even though not all capacities are filled. There should be five deputies, and there are three, but with good organization and one engagement they meet the needs. I have to call again, ask you, suggest you consider the justification of returning public prosecutors to the municipalities of Tutin and Sjenica. You know how much I have a desire to strengthen the institutions of the state. I think it's the best sight and the best defense defense of our country in all its parts. It restores citizens' trust in this country. Citizens get the impression and get the impression that the state takes care of them. She's really worried. We have to use this in every way and try to strengthen these institutions, especially if they are borderline, scattered, when the appointment of two prosecutors could solve a major problem, and there is no ministry of some economic loss, but can even make income in that field.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2744	Thank you. Is there something the Minister wants to say? Here you go. Since you're entitled to another round, that's why.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2745	I thank you for that proposal, but you've made a parallel with the King. However, there is a particularly corrupt department in the King, which is why there are more prosecutors. I even believe in the King a small number of prosecutors, given the specificity of the territory, the specificity of these procedures that are being conducted in the King. Certainly, the prime minister gave us, as we would say, a green light to think about the network and the prosecution and the courts, and all in order to resolve disputes as quickly and quality as possible. So, in any case, the new network and the prosecution are being considered, i.e. strengthening the quality and capacity of the prosecution, especially the corrupt departments, as well as the network and increasing the number of courts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2746	Thank you. Ambassador Bacevac.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2747	In the end, I want to say that one of the great problems in our society is domestic violence, above all, violence against women and the laws we have created and passed. In the first place, I think of the Law on the Prevention of Family Violence results. A special place has this multi-sector approach and co-operation of all competent authorities. According to data I succeeded in a meeting with the Justice Minister on January 26th to obtain the obvious that there is a huge involvement of the Ministry of Justice, the prosecution and the courts in the application of this law. Certainly, our common goal and goal of the National Assembly of Serbia, the Committee on Human and Minority Rights, is zero tolerance and violence. I would like you to have the opportunity to show us statistics and how much your ministry and judicial authorities have really done to prevent violence and prevent the prevention of action in that field in our country, since it seems to me that the public knows little about it, but we have seen in this recent case of endangerment, the Alexic case, that the state reacted quickly. A trial has been initiated, and I think your ministry is doing well in that field. It is very important for us to strengthen and protect victims of violence. The absolute priority is to provide the victims with safety and support. Of course, on the other hand, it is also necessary to consider the presummation of innocence and not to put pressure on judicial authorities in the process of reaching justice and truth, which is our ultimate goal. If you could give us comments or some data, I would be very pleased, given that, as chairman of the Committee on Human and Minority Rights, I have indeed come across a good answer and openness to quality co-operation, we are solving this crucial problem that is present in the country.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2748	Thank you. National MP Dragan Markovic Palma.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2749	Honorable members of the government, ladies and gentlemen, ministers, MPs, my first question is about the vaccine. I'm sure you've heard the stories that young people shouldn't receive vaccines, those who want to make a family for reasons I don't know some of the vaccines aren't good, so let's inform the citizens if it's true. I'm sure he didn't. It's so different when someone more professional than me says it. The second question is for the Minister of Agriculture. Given that the price of live cattle, I was saying that the other day, but I didn't get a concrete answer, the pig has dropped almost 60%, for the tolerants 70%, can you give a recommendation to the agricultural producers what to produce these in 2021? Can the agricultural producer get a subsidy to what belongs to him, which he received as aid for production per hectare and on the basis of the livestock kept and what agricultural producers do? Given that pensions to agricultural producers are small, so that people continue to deal with agriculture, of course it is not because they are small pensions, it has been the starting point of very little for the last six, seven years, I have a question for the minister of the military – what is the motive and what has preceded that there is a proposal to be reintroduced by a binding military deadline, given that we are a state that has a professional army? I won't say what I think about it, but I want the minister to answer me – will it be realised the way we heard it in the media or are it just empty stories?
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2750	Thank you. Minister Lonchar has a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2751	Dear President, honourable MPs, I think this is an opportunity to ask all the responsible people in Serbia, and I think there are plenty of them, and it takes too long for this crown and all the stories about the crown and the situation in which we are fighting, and there is really no need to talk about things that are not supported by facts and that we can tell the least that they have said. The state, the ministry's portfolio, the government, the president, would be the first to come out and tell me there's a problem, that the vaccine can cause some consequences or that it's not good to have someone. Let's not get into those theories. When someone tells you that something affects, say, pregnancy, anything else or can't be accepted for some reason, it's extremely simple, just asking to show you where it is and when it's proven, who published it, who's behind it. Here, I'm just asking you so much. Whoever tells you about the vaccine or any medicine or anything else is just asking you to support the fact that a study was done, that he published it, that I don't know, a serious medical journal or that it was accepted in another country or that it was seen that way. It's the only way we can get out of this and not make ourselves even more of a problem than we have and lead citizens astray and who they are. I think it's the only way. If we act quickly, we'll get out of all this and stay literally healthier and more able to move on. I'm asking you one more time for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2752	Thank you. Deputy Prime Minister, Minister Nedimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2753	Dear People's MPs, Mr. Markovic, the other day, more precisely, we had a similar discussion the other day, and it's very important for the public, you're absolutely right, to point out the facts that are on the market today in the field of livestock. Especially in areas you asked, and I'll expand, if you don't mind me for the rest of the livestock. It's very important because people who look at this and who do this job, because livestock is the hardest part of agriculture, are people who most often have to work literally every day and in the morning and in the evening, and sometimes we ignore them and sometimes we don't put them first in the area of agriculture even though they really should be there. I just have to say because of the public that the government of the Republic of Serbia in the incentive budget, 70% of the funds are certainly set aside for the cattle sector. Of course money is never enough. That money is three times what it was eight or nine years ago and it's very important to say. But at this point, it is 53 billion dinars in total in the distribution of the Ministry of Agriculture, but as GDP grows apart from this year 2020 because of all the problems associated with the crown, when we have had a minimal decline in relation to all other European countries, and the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture, and hence the cattle farming sector will grow. But let's get back to the specifics. You're absolutely right, last year at this time maybe just before that, the pig was about 400 dinars, 380 to 400 dinars. These were movements on the world market, and then there was an incredible disturbance, which is with the emergence of again, one virus, African swine fever in Germany, and there was an incredible break in the market in the pig sector. Why does it break? First of all because of China, because China is the largest consumer of this kind of meat on the entire planet. We, for the same reasons as many European countries, cannot export to China because of this African swine fever, but I have only to say for the public that we have managed to contain this African swine fever and bring it down to border areas in the pirated, Zaharic and fighting district. The public works, it's a space where we don't have that population of this kind of stock. God forbid, now I'm here as the black raven, that it happens to us in the space of the Sword and the space of Srema, because there's our main capacity. Not excluding the rest of Serbia, but I'm telling you by the numbers. What matters is what the numbers say. The fact is that the pig at that time was 380 to 400 dinars, that at one point they fell to 230 dinars and that it was a completely invaluable business, but at this point the trends are such that the price is up and I expect us to get to 270, 280 dinars very quickly, to return to the airships. Not all of them work on farm feeders, hence the production of pigs, but a bunch of people who deal exclusively with it. In the last few years, we've had a perfectly decent average figure if we're looking at the annual average. The price ranged between 157 dinars, as it was in 2014 until 2019 when it went up to 167, 170 dinars. You will agree all of you who are in this business, who you understand, you, Mr. Risticevic and a bunch of people who are in this Parliament in some way in contact with people who are dealing with this type of livestock production, and also who manage some areas where agriculture is like dominant activity. Those were good numbers. For all of this, the Government of the Republic of Serbia paid 1,000 dinars each for each throat, regardless of whether the price was 190 or 140. Now of course someone will say - so where is economic logic when you have a low price to give the same subsidy and you have a high price to give that same subsidy. Our goal was to raise this part of the livestock production to the maximum. Don't forget that 100 years ago and 200 years ago this type of livestock production in this country on the one hand gave enough financial resources to be able to achieve its independence, and on the other hand to be a respectable factor in this space. I'm talking first of all about that customs war that was in the early 20th century. Now, what are the trends in this type of livestock production? The price of the customers at this point is 130 to 135 dinars depending on where we are. If it's a more remote place than the slaughterhouse it can go five dinars lower, but the trends are such that we expect that in the next two to three weeks the price will go 10 to 15 up. Then we come up with a figure of about 145, 155 dinars when we can say, hopefully you'll agree with me, let's take a breath and say it's some number that's enough to produce depending on the kind of technology you're applying. Why is this all happening? Why are there disturbances going on? Someone's going to say, so that we have high prices of instructions in terms of corn, soybeans, other necessary nutrients, and on the other hand we have a low price of living cattle. I'll just say one thing, last year we had record yields in the corn field, and we had record prices. It's one of the amazing years that rarely happens in contrast, it seems to me, if you let me, not to be wrong, in 2017 when we had a drought, something lower production, and also had low prices. It's definitely something that's going on. So from the point of view of the instructions, there's enough of them. I'd just like to say for the public, you won't mind me, this has nothing to do with livestock farming, it has to do with warfare, there won't be any ban on corn exports. The corn at this point has an incredible number and it's perfectly natural for our warlords, our warehousekeepers, the millers, everyone in this business, to make some money. For example, at this point, some countries that are the world's largest producers of wheat, corn, limit trade. I'll set an example for Russia. For example, when it comes to corn that is very important because of this type of production that you were talking about. They introduced so-called. quotas for exports plus one more thing that breaks the price on the domestic market, which is the tax on exports. It is not normal and common for something when you export to pay, it is usually natural to stimulate it to export, but for their internal reasons they introduced a 25 tax, then later than 45 tonnes per hectare to lower the price of this type of food for their livestock production. Russia used to be a market for Serbian goods, with respect to pigs. Today they have mastered this technology and today they have quite enough farms. I have to say that one of the first tasks after, I hope, the establishment of such a regime of communication between people will be our job to win the market of the Far East, primarily in Vietnam, I mean Indonesia where the huge consumption of pigmeat is right now. We shoot, of course I speak under quotes, plain and Chinese, but here, above all, depends on their administrative reasons, whether they let us do it. One thing we've done in the last few days is, you remember a bunch of stories about vaccination from classical swine fever. This is the story that killed Serbia, did not give room for the development of this type of agricultural production, and on the other hand, it is also likely that counterpart Joksimovic will agree, in the part concerning accession negotiations with the EU, that was one of the brakes in terms of agriculture. Why was it all those years ago I really have no idea, I wouldn't even get into it, but we've solved it for the last year, a year and a half. First we abolished the vaccination to open the EU market, then we did each other old, which is to do monitoring and we applied at this point so-called. "DG Sante" which deals with food safety to open the market for us over the next few months. Why am I saying all this? The bigger the market you have, the more demand you have. The higher demand you have, the higher the price, you can develop your production. I think it's very important things. I would take the opportunity to say that just today from the People's Republic of China we have received information that these days we will sign a protocol on the export of corn to the People's Republic of China. It's one of the world's largest corn-space markets. I know that probably a bunch of people who listen to this, follow this, and in this room, these aren't things that are so interesting, but maybe a colleague next to me who's sitting down with one thing that the impact of agriculture on GDP in 2020 was such that a bunch of problems that we had that caused the crown managed to neutralize. We have already had three years, and 2018, 2019 and 2020 incredible growth in agricultural production. Of course, in 2017 we had a drought and these are the things you can expect. In 2021, it's still early to talk about it, but I hope we can preserve these indicators. As far as perspective is concerned, we keep our space from disease in this cattle production sector. It's very important that we find the channels that we're going to place the goods on, first of all, in terms of opening the market. I'll say one more thing, don't take it from me, maybe I've taken too much time. Some people in 2009, some yellow people, I don't mean in the context of what someone else might have thought, signed a Stabilisation and Association Agreement. I mean, first of all, the yellow party, I don't mean people, so don't let anyone take me for harm, or tomorrow, I'll probably hang on all the tabloids.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2754	Don't make excuses, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2755	I'm not apologizing, Mr. Dacic, and don't take evil from me for 12 minutes and 40 seconds. Let me continue, if you give me another minute, I'll finish. They sign the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. He's got that famous pen... I agree, from the point of view of one part of economic activity, fantastic old, good thing, but in agriculture we didn't need a bigger channel. At that point, we buried ourselves so much, so I could use this, don't mind me, maybe some cheap dictionary, if we'd put our customs rates down to zero or something close to zero and opened our space, and we didn't have a food safety lab that we opened a year and a half ago, the prime minister opened up to control the quality of food, let it all go to us, and then what? You've got pressure, you're narrowing down the area where you can sell and you've got nowhere to go. You just get in a situation where you don't know what to do. That's why new markets are important to us, so it's important to us, now I'm going to say one thing about what happens every day most often in the diet of young people, children, it's salami, pate, hot dogs. We have here a customs zero rate for EU imports. Does anyone know? To change the SAA, it takes one 27 countries to negotiate every moment. That's what he's Here's someone, I hear behind me, he tells me, it takes 27 years. Oh, my God, for 27 years, we'd have done it quickly. But the SAA is a two-sided legal business. In Article 26. The SSP writes a provision that goes in favor of us and which we will use in the coming months for the benefit of our country and for the benefit of our livestock fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2756	Thank you. The word has the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister Nebojsa Stefanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2757	Thank you. Dear Mr Markovic, what is important to us is that this topic, therefore the return of the military deadline, and how it fits into our current current current professional system, is a fundamental and serious debate. I am pleased, since I know that you are seriously following all topics and, of course, the National Assembly is a place to take part in this debate, in addition to, of course, professional circles, which, of course, we will leave to our General Staff, our people who understand it, the modality, the ways, everything that relates to the professional, professional part of the performance. But what we're talking about here is the idea that, with the 2011 decision, it's frozen, so to speak, to unfreeze, to reactivate the regular service of the military term. This is a topic that we've been having for a long time and we're having a debate so that we don't be insecure people, that we make decisions overnight or that people say that we haven't considered all aspects. This is an aspect that from many angles must be seen, above all, the need of our army, the need to defend the country. From a financial point of view, because he has his own price and, of course, the money that would be spent to serve these young people would be four generations with about 2,500 per generation of soldiers, so about tens of thousands of dollars a year, besides that money needed for their uniforms, equipment, food accommodations, heating, water, transport, fuel, vehicles, all that was needed to serve the military deadline, we were thinking of course and how much money that would be. Today we talked to the president about it, because he had some useful suggestions, if we gave these people a certain portion of the money as a salary, as much as that would be, and that's one of the aspects. Although the decision has not been made, I will tell you why I am for it, why I truly sincerely support the return of a regular military deadline that does not mean the abolition of the professional system. I've heard some of those stories. To make people very clear, therefore, it does not mean that we will have fewer professional soldiers or give up the professional system. That is why this subject is being considered so extensively and seriously. So, the professional system remains, but today we have a situation that is important to us to strengthen the strength of our army, to teach young soldiers military skills that are not only important to what they need in the army but also later in life, which they can achieve through various visions in the military. It is very important for us because of the patriotic spirit of our country, we want to teach our young people and what our country's pride looks like, which is our army, to learn something about the history of our army, about our patriotic tradition, to listen to our country's anthem every day, to return to a certain kind of discipline and to learn something that is very important for the future, which is, of course, how weapons are used, how complex combat systems are used. What's part of the professional frame, this professional frame will work on the most complex systems, but as it used to be in wax, any recruit can learn to drive a vehicle, an armored vehicle, learn to drive a tank, learn to be part of an artillery system, can be a very useful part of the system of connections, anything that's important for the battle of our army. What's also important, which I also think we may have lost in the classes that we lost, perhaps not serving the army, is an active reserve. You know it's an active reserve up to 65 years old, but God forbid we have to call tomorrow at a 65-year-old reserve. So we need to have every new generation being introduced into the reserve, and how do we get into the reserve if these people didn't serve the army? These people don't even know what a gun looks like. There were a lot of questions about that. So does he have any right to object? It's a constitutional category, people have the right to do it, but that doesn't mean they can't perform other duties in the military. But I'm from that experience I've seen before, realistically, it's a small percentage of people who would appeal to conscience. Most people would serve an army with guns in their hands. So, by managing complex systems, less complex systems, learning patriotic values, we strengthen our military, strengthening Serbia's security, because the strong army is Serbia's strong. It's always been like that. I'm sure it's much better to fight that our children, I've read in the papers, I've seen terrible things, I don't know if it was a reason, but the suicide of this child who looked at some challenge on "Tic-Toc" or something. I would like our children and our young people to spend less time on such activities and spend time learning about the strength of their country, the strength of its spirit, the strength of its army and, of course, learning much, because the army is a huge system in which you have military health, which can also pass by young people who are interested in it. You have different types of units in which recruits can also be from the regular group, can come recruits to 63rd Padobran, 72nd Special Unit after basic training, can be in various other systems, can be defined on the basis of this and for an active professional career. So that's why I support the idea of returning the regular service of the military deadline, I think it's important for our country, that it's important for our army, which has always been a pillar and a foundation of Serbia, and of course when it's well designed, when the plan, and already the public debate, is designed, the models are designed, they see the possibility, what it is we can change, every good idea is welcome. If Serbia is defined for this decision, if we make such a decision, I think it will be well invested money that will mean that our country is stronger, the young people will get, I think, one important, is neither there to learn nor to educate, nor to raise, that someone does not say that I want to say it, but to do a very important role in their lives, and also to teach them something about a military call, which has been shown through our history that the stronger the wax was, the less chance of being attacked, because this is the key role of our army. Serbia's army is there to be a deterrent factor, so no one thinks of attacking Serbia. When he knows that Serbia has a capable, modern, well-organised and trained army, then the chances of doing so are very small. That is why I think that with the support of the National Assembly in this debate we can come up with the highest quality solution. I said, I support that idea, but of course that decision has not been made, we will see in the future all the factors, although I honestly think that would be a step forward for our country's security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2758	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Dragan Markovic, Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2759	Thank you, Minister Stefanovic. Mr. Lonchar, your answer seems to me like you've answered me as if I've asked. You know, I'm very well-informed and this country has done a lot, not only when it comes to vaccines, but also protection and prevention of citizens, so please correct yourselves afterwards. When it comes to agriculture, Mr. Minister, what's the problem? The problem is that it hasn't dropped the price in meat products and butchery markets. There's a victim agricultural producer and we let it happen. CEFTA is a trade agreement and we cannot stop imports, but we can tell the meat and meat products processor – you cannot import frozen meat a year old and process sausage, salami and sell to Serbian citizens, to protect our market. It's a question of prime minister and crisis staff. Let's let us increase the number of people in one place for wedding weddings. People are waiting, here, at least I know 20 families, waiting to take down the measures, to be 150 people, it's one of these set neither big nor small, and even if they're vaccinated to allow a wedding wedding. How are we supposed to fight the white plague? She sleeps at Dad's, he sleeps at Dad's, he says, "We will, but we wait for measures." In the meantime, they're fighting over measures and there's nothing out of marriages. At least we can do that. The question for the Minister of Education – dual education is most important, Minister. What kind of dual education from home? How is the guy from the house going to make furniture and make products I don't know what's called car parts? If this factory works and the workers go to work, that the children in the day they have to go to practice – they go to practice, because without dual education and without practice there is nothing we can do. Today, it is very difficult when young people finish college and have done nothing in their lives, this training takes a long time for them to learn what is called in their degree and to be professional.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2760	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Lonchar.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2761	Dear Mr. Markovic, you know that we are doing everything here in the interest of citizens and don't feel like I'm answering anything at all, this is something that all Serbian citizens should go to and ask that question. I repeat once again, my fellow citizens, everything you hear and what they tell you about the vaccine, about the Corona, just ask on the basis of which fact it is presented and we'll solve, we'll solve a lot of problems, that goes for everyone. As for this second proposal of yours, I'll tell you, the Prime Minister will tell you for sure, and I can't understand it. We're not in a phase so we can let wedding cheers take place and stuff, and I don't really understand that what you're saying is that she's at mom's, that he's at dad's for not getting married. I've never heard of love waiting for signatures to show up. It may still be in black and white movies, if someone kept watching, but recently it wasn't or will be. So, the joke aside, we need to achieve a level of vaccination like that, we need to reach the level of the infected in order for your wish to be fulfilled and to prevent the risk of human disease, spread of the virus and all the consequences it carries. This is our first priority, and I am telling young people and all of them – feel free to live together, make children and everything else that goes along with it, you do not need the signature of the mothermaker and the wedding joy. The gifts will arrive later or they can be sent in the mail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2762	This is an individual thing after all. I don't want to give any advice. The word has the first vice president and Minister Nedimovic, but not 15 minutes, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2763	I'm in no hurry. If you, Mr. President, are in a hurry...
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2764	I'm in no hurry.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2765	I'm all in line with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2766	I really want to, and that's what I said to the prime minister at the beginning. There is no parliamentary limit as long as you government members answer the questions of MPs, but above all, you came here to hear the questions of MPs, and so that MPs can come at all to ask a question we must have time for, and therefore I ask you that regardless, because there are no parliamentary restrictions I said that we have 11 MPs who need to ask a question, so that they can ask questions to answer all questions, if we fail then we have not reached a common goal. That's why my request for answers is consistent with the time we have. That's it. Oh, not if we have time or not. As you know, we stay here and work when you leave, because we have to vote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2767	Thank you, Mr. President. I apologize, if you've misread me, it wasn't my idea to take any time at all and be concise, at least one nine times faster than it was in the first interval. I must say one thing that, in the context of the conversation, the debates that Mr. Markovic and Mr. Loncar had in the context of what you're saying reflects everything in the system around rivers, hotels and restaurants. No, no one eats, 70% of our beef consumption dropped and 25% of pig meat consumption fell, so I'd be happy if Mr. Palma said this, but people, health comes first and we have to run it. As for trade and prices, there's been a certain drop in prices. I was just a moment ago while you guys were out looking at the prices. In the last year there's been a drop in prices not as much as it should, somewhere pork but last year some cost before this entire circus around the crown, about 429, 439 dinars per kilogram, now it's 399 dinars depending on the action. You've got a lot of problems coming up right now. It's only very important to me that in this whole story we say that, in the pig sector, it's very important to us, especially to have bovine animals of unquestionable importance, it's a difficult time. The government has intervened several times, but with measures to preserve this production process in bovine animals, because it takes a little more than a year to complete the whole cycle. And we'll do our best to settle this, and I apologize for taking the time.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2768	No, you're welcome. It's not a warning at all, but just so you know, the estimated time is 16 to 19 hours per Rules of Procedure. In those three hours, we have to stop by the questions and answers, and therefore we have to, because for MPs, time is limited twice in three minutes, one time two minutes to be able to get it all together, so it was my suggestion at first, and I think we're going to make it through today. Prime Prime Minister Branko Ruzic and the minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2769	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament...
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2770	It's easy for me and Ruzic to take away his word, but I don't know what to do with the others.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2771	You can only do business, Mr. President. We're kidding, of course. Our inner jokes. Of course you can always take away the word, but I think the honourable MP Dragan Markovic...
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2772	You see I can take your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2773	Thank you, Mr. President. You have proven your strength and I think it is good that the public of Serbia knows who the head of parliament is and that the citizens and citizens of Serbia recognize it, and even when you take away my word for no reason whatsoever, of course, but I do not have the opportunity to appeal to Business because I am also familiar with the Rules of Procedure. I would like to say that this is a question, which the honourable MP Dragan D. Markovic asked, very well founded and very important, and I want to give one clear answer, because shooting online hours and hours away was a big job for our entire education system. It was particularly challenging when we talk about teaching for secondary schools and three-year profiles in which a very successful dual model of education is applied, because it certainly implies one type or process of learning and learning with company instructors and what I want to say to Mr Markovic and to point to facts, it is that by the end of last year, 1200 lessons have been recorded, 764 of which are practically subserved in an online national base and which was created for eight areas of work, of course it is not an ambience and a situation in which you can expect practical teaching in a way that corresponds to those needs to acquire competences of knowledge, skills and all that is needed, but I think that all those who have worked on it, above all teachers and teachers, and those who have contributed to making no discount in acquiring and these practical knowledge. I hope this emergency situation, and given this immunisation, will be comprehensive, which the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Ministry of Health, all the reference institutions will implement, that this comprehensive immunisation will help us to return to normal and that those involved in dual education, and I will remind you that we will have both dual education and standards we have already adopted for vocational studies and for academic preparation, and I think that this is a good link between knowledge of economy, labour market needs and those that can contribute to our country and our economy and our economy, move forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2774	Thank you. Prime Minister Brnabic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2775	Just to answer it quickly, I really have nothing to add to what Minister Loncar said, I totally agree with him, and that's just the way it is, but I'm going to say one more thing. Guys, look at what's going on around us, look at Europe, look at what's going on in other countries, what are these measures, what are these bans, what are they, what life is not even quite normal, look at Holland. If you're reading a press like Daley's e-mail, for example, Holland is on the verge of civil war. In Great Britain everything is closed, in Germany everything is closed, and these people when they come to the Republic of Serbia today, someone from those countries, think you live normally, how is this possible? We fight great, but what we have out of measure, we still have to hold on at this point, because it's the only aid with the vaccination going back to Europe again, if you exempt the UK, and we're the best at it, and we're trying to keep it that way, we have to endure a little bit more and above all because of the lives of people, and our health workers. We wouldn't be able to explain why we're giving in at this point. So, for now, a little while longer, but if you look at any other country, Serbia is the most normal living out of all of Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2776	And finally, once again, MP Markovic, just don't talk about this love without signature or signature.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2777	Well, you see, Mr. Lonchar seems to have gone away from his mom and dad a long time ago, so he doesn't know what he's like. In the village, people live for the wedding, for the wedding feast, especially Grandpa and Grandma, who say to wait for my grandson to get married, to play the bike, and someone dies tomorrow. Furthermore, we are the best at everything and not to speak statistics, but to say the fact that we have the least infected, that the largest number of citizens are vaccinated on the basis of population, economic standards, etc. If more than 35,000 people die in Serbia every year than they were born, how are we going to fight the white plague? Then it's called co-existence, Mr. Minister. Do you know what co-existence is? That's when two young people go somewhere to live, don't get married and wait for better days to come, and when will better days come? I've been tracking all the media and domestic and worldly. They tell us this will take years. And for years we've been waiting, if so many numbers were vaccinated and a huge number had already had a crown, when we look at the number of inhabitants, it means, at that wedding joy, maybe of 150 people, 5% would be at risk of a face, or with some fear of getting a crown or not. Allow me in the end. The factories have to work, to fill the budget, but I have three factories in Jagodina where there are 250 people in the factory shift, in one shift, and I haven't heard anyone get infected, except in the administration. I don't know if you've been following this, but the largest number of people infected in the economy is right in the administration, because the offices are small and when one person gets the virus, they pass it on to other colleagues in the office.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2778	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. It's been two minutes. (Dear D. Markovic: I want Mr. Lonchar to give me an answer. There's no answer since it's the third round. The word has the People's Messenger Balin Pastor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2779	Mr. President of the National Assembly, Madam Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, would have two groups of questions for the Prime Minister, and I will launch both groups immediately in the first address so that we can have time and opportunity to discuss both issues. These two topics are not in co-ordination, but at this point most important to the citizens that we of the Alliance for the Duchy Hungarians represent here in the National Assembly. The first group concerns treatment of illegal migrants. What does the state do to guarantee the safety of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I will present concrete data and cases a little later, and another group of questions refer to the entry into the Republic of Serbia from the territory of Hungary? As for the first group of issues and the specific issue, what does the Republic of Serbia do to guarantee the security of citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I would like to say that the situation is alarming in certain areas of the Republic of Serbia. I would like to mention two inhabited towns of Majdan, Iraba in the municipality of Novi Knezevac in the northern-banat County. They're villages of 200 people. It is an ageing household, and in these villages more than 500 migrants are constantly present. These illegal migrants enter not only the empty houses, but also the houses where the citizens live, they burn out the inadequacies of that house, our citizens are terrified. These people are bringing taxi drivers there, and I think the state should act on this, because our citizens' safety should be first. A similar situation is also in the area of the municipality of Kanjiž, in the area of the town of Subotica and in the settlements of the western part of the district. Another issue regarding entering from Hungary -- why is it still necessary for a PCR test to enter Hungary, if this is not necessary for people entering the territory of Northern Macedonia, Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Montenegro and Bulgaria, who is also an EU member, as is Hungary? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2780	Thank you. The word has a prime minister, Ana Brnabic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2781	Thank you. This is certainly, the honourable MP, our constant topic, unfortunately, since when, not since 2020, and now in 2021, but since 2015, when the problem of migration started, that is, a large number of migrants on the territory of Europe, and hence the Republic of Serbia. You know that we are really trying daily, and the MUP, and if we need an army of the Republic of Serbia that has helped us very much when we started fighting the Corona crisis, March, April, May, that somehow these two crises, to manage them in the best possible way, to protect all citizens of the Republic of Serbia as much as possible, so we do our best. I can tell you, I received data from the IPO by police officers, the Regional Border Police Centre, that, according to Hungary in 2020, 930 people were prevented from trying to cross the state border illegally, so we also have the best possible co-operation with Hungary. As for the security of our citizens and cities and municipalities where, after all, there are reception centres, the MUP reacts when we are approached by representatives of local self-government, citizens and you, as a national MP, have very good co-operation. I'm going to order another M.O.P. that if it's necessary to investigate and every case by case, to see if it's necessary to send and members of the gendarmes to make people feel safer. It will remain something that we together will constantly continue to do, and whatever it takes, we will make our citizens feel safe in their homes and in their communities where they live. As for the entry into the Republic of Serbia from Hungary, this is a question that I will raise at the crisis headquarters, so we will see in any case, I will also ask our medical section of the Crisis Staff to look at the parameters currently in Hungary, Serbia, and we will do everything to ensure that if it is safe or we do not see any excessive risk that what is currently in force for Bulgaria, the countries of the Western Balkans, which I would say to us, the best possible partner, both politically and economically, and in any other way, so I promise you that we will work on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2782	Thank you. The word has been made by the People's MP, Mr Balint Pastor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2783	Madam Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia, thank you for your answers. They're huge topics and they're extremely sensitive and important and I haven't had enough time to talk about everything, but that's why I'm going to use a second address right now, to thank the police, the military and the gendarme for being in the field and doing their job. Indeed, every honor to the members of the police, both the military and the gendarmes, but the armed forces are working by order, armed forces are working if there is a command. I would ask you, as we asked President Vukic on 13 November, when we signed a coalition agreement between SVM and SNS to keep our armed forces on the ground constantly. I also noted that when it came to the elections of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, we are a national minority who not only doesn't mind when our armed forces are on the ground, in the area of units of local self-government where we live, but we expect this because of guaranteeing the safety of our citizens. I'd ask you to look a little bit more closely, look for information from Majdan, Rabe and other populated places, and control a little bit more and more about what taxi carriers do. It's smuggling people and it's a serious crime. The army, the police, the cops, the cops, they do what we agreed, but in two days or the next day, the same number of migrants on the ground. The military, the police and the gendarmes can't spend time there every day, I'm aware of that, but that's why we need to control what the carriers are doing. On the other hand, do migrants even have the right to stay in our territory, except in reception centers? I don't think they have a right. So, migrants are a place in reception centers, and it should also be controlled. And there's something else the citizens ask -- can they count on the damages? The damages are huge from migrants on the property of our citizens, our physical faces. As far as the border is concerned, I would ask you to convince the medical section of the crisis headquarters, it is in our best interest that Corona goes by as soon as possible and we are responsible people, but we cannot understand why without a PCR test can be entered from Bulgaria, and it is not possible from Hungary, and our citizens are not primarily going to Hungary for buying or something else, but rather connected by various threads. That's where the kids go to school, go to college, go to practice. Business relationships are at stake, families are separated, and I would ask you that what worked during the spring works now. Thank you very much, and I thank the President for letting me speak 30 seconds longer.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2784	I hope you don't answer the phone the third time, but we'll see.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2785	I will, of course, but for a little while. The word is made by Prime Minister Brnabic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2786	Thank you. Once again, just a promise that I will deal with this, that I will continue to deal with this and, first of all, with the Ministry of the Interior, we will see how we can figure out how people can feel safer. You're right, migrants have to be in reception centers. Europe is also facing this crisis at the moment, which is now so overshadowed by this crisis. What can I tell you? It's not like we can stay with them anywhere, they don't want to stay in the Republic of Serbia anyway. They don't let them go, I'd say, left or right, so we're fighting as much as we can, and it seems to me again, given all the circumstances, and we're going pretty well and we're going thanks to our Ministry of the Interior and all the members of the Ministry of the Interior and I want to thank you this way, but we're going to see, if we need to step up, we're going to step up anyway, that people feel safe. As far as the damages are concerned, it now depends on many factors and whether they are secured and how this damage is proven and many other factors. As for everything else, the government of the Republic of Serbia is here to talk to you, with representatives of local self-government and citizens, to see what we can do, but there must be clear and unequivocal criteria in order to avoid abuse. What's our job is to be the most disciplined possible, to keep money in the budget, to have a smart, homely mood with it, especially at times like this, so we need to see what the criteria are to prevent any kind of abuse of it. I'm open, therefore, to talk, but it would certainly be best if that property were secured and then, I believe, there would be no problem with that. Once again, we'll do our best. I would also now like to express my gratitude to Hungary, Hungary's government, Prime Minister Orban and Minister Sijart for everything they have done and to help the Republic of Serbia and at this point I am in almost daily contact with Minister Sijart regarding vaccines. We fight together, we exchange information. They helped us with some of the things that mattered to us, including the Sputnik V vaccines and the Sinofarm vaccines. Really like that, I'd say, partnerly and brotherly, we fight. That's a lot of gratitude. The citizens of the Republic of Serbia should know that, at any time of the day or night to invite our colleagues from the Government of Hungary, they are there for us, so we will consider that when we consider it. I'll start this topic tomorrow at the crisis headquarters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2787	Thank you. The word has an MP named Balint Pastor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2788	Thank you very much, President. Madam Prime Minister, I want to thank you for your answers. I hope I don't have to prove that we are partners, that we want to be correct and that we are together in these problems and we want to help as MPs of SVM and Government. It would be really good if once you set a term we went together to the populated towns of Majdan and Rabe in the municipality of Novi Knezevec, so you could see the situation on the ground, what kind of nursing households there are, how many people there are, how old the population is, and how much of a general picture of how you live there now when not only at night, but also by day enters the house and because it is cold. These are the weather conditions. These people want to get a little warm and then burn your house down. It happens every day. I get from citizens on a daily basis dozens of such messages, and that's why I restarted this issue. You're absolutely right. On many occasions we have discussed this here in the National Assembly, but the topic is extremely current. I took the example of these settlements, but, as I said, in many other areas, in other municipalities of Serbia, the situation is similar because of the migrant crisis Serbia has not caused, nor can it solve, but once again I urge that we keep the southern border, so that these people in this issue could not enter. As for the border and entering from the territory of Hungary, I did not purposely want to talk about what good political relations are, we all know it well, but it should also be manifested in everyday life. Citizens expect that they can normally cross the border as possible in other relations with other countries with which Serbia has agreed, and we expect to do so in connection with Hungary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2789	Thank you. The word has been given by MP Hadji Milorad Stosic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2790	I have a parliamentary question for the Minister for the Ministry of Care for the Village of Mr Milan Krkobibic, the Honorable Chairman, respected Prime Minister of the Government with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament. Dear Mr. Minister, after last year's parliamentary elections, for the first time, the village's ministry of care was formed as a dry need for Serbia's village to be seen in a more comprehensive manner. Reorganisation of the current structure of the ministries and the establishment of this ministry is essential for the remaining village, and thus the survival of Serbia. As the minister said in a previous discussion, a strong army is a strong Serbia, a strong village is also a strong Serbia. Taking into account your previous work on the issues of rebuilding and reviving Serbia's village, as well as your successful co-operation with the SANU Village Committee on various projects on the village, I am primarily referring to the project "52 weeks a year, 52 mails in the villages of Serbia", where we have provided the possibility for village residents to meet their requirements and to realise their needs in a civilized way. The 500 Cooperatives in 500 Villages project, which was planned for three years and formed under the project over 700, seems to me to be 750, a cooperative that has received certain benefits from this country and is working successfully today. The state of Serbia in Serbia's villages where we have allowed residents to have a doctor, to have a civil servant and to have a postman and to directly resolve their needs in the place of life, or in the village. Would you please give us a closer explanation of what this ministry is planning to do in the next period? First of all, I think of the continuation of the programme relating to the establishment of cooperatives, the construction of infrastructure, the restoration of cultural homes, the purchase of rural households and other types of assistance to allow the residents of Serbia's village to live in a dignified way, that is to say, to realise their needs through everything that city residents can and can. That's the first question in this.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2791	Thank you. The word has Minister Krkobic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2792	Mr. President, Mrs. Brnabic, honourable MPs, citizens of the Republic of Serbia, it is a great pleasure to answer questions in this house, especially when it comes to key life problems. Mr. Stosic has already indicated in his question some answers, some directions of action. It was a good start. What it says -- a strong army -- a strong Serbia, and then it says -- a strong village -- a strong Serbia. Will we have an army if we don't have strong villages? That's the question now. Minister Stefanovic said something so we could call the reserve up to 65 years old. I'm afraid at this point, we can only invite you. Stosic, Palma, Zarko Obradovic, not to mention, were always ready to fulfill their duty to the country and will always be ready. At the same time, a key issue has been raised right now by Mr Markovic and Minister Nedimovic. Markovic did not raise the price issue to enrich the case's theoretical practice – Theory and Price Policy. Here's what's bothering our farmer, the host, the peasant? He's troubled by suspense. He wants to be sure, he wants to have certainty, that his income is regular and secure. Just now, Minister Nedimovic gave a very detailed answer. If he allows, I'll find out here today. We talked about one important thing for farmers. We want to define something, see what it will be called, a guarantee fund for one set of essential strategic agricultural products, that the farmer knows the rules of the game in advance, that he knows what he's going into, that he knows what he's waiting for and what he's going to face. This will be one of the key measures, which is the answer to the question of certainty, security, and then we can think that this host is going to stay and think about these parts that are important, how to organise that wedding. Of course, in addition to these existential things, I have to take the opportunity today, regardless of the time limit, I'll try to be brief, we have to define the position of the village, but in the right way. Let's get him into the legal frameworks. It shouldn't be a casual nostalgia, the story of this or that minister, the Prime Minister, the president of the Parliament, the journalist. No, I don't. The village must have a clearly defined position in the country's law. So we will go to something called – a proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Territorial Organization. The model, with all respect of course to Ivica Dacic and the system before us, is a model that was from 1965. My colleague Đura Peric, who has just worked and been a key man from that time, will not be angry. That model still doesn't fit the real situation today. We want to define the concept of a rural community, to define something that will allow communities of people in small communities to survive, to practice, to negotiate, to plan and to decide. That's the road ahead of us. Of course, I didn't make this up. It was invented by gentlemen from Europe. It has recently been signed the Leipzig Charter, which defines the position of sustainable cities by 2030. That's where he insists on the so-called. an urban rural partnership, but also based in law. So, our hosts, our villagers, if this goes by, if this Parliament and these MPs accept it, they can count on having their true rural community again in which they will be able to get full expression. So that's the first step, and then we draw a series of measures Mr. Stosic has already stated. It is a reconstruction and assistance to Serbia's cooperatives in the right way with the help of tourism cooperatives, with the help of social cooperatives. Simply find all existing sources of existence that will be available to the inhabitants of the village. Of course, there are issues of infrastructure that are crucial. I'll look back on the President of the Republic, but in that real light. Its concept of the "Serbia 2025" investment plan envisions, gentlemen of the people's MPs, citizens of Serbia, five billion euros in detachment for local regional roads, 5,000 km, three billion euros in water and sewerage in 80 municipalities, if I understood it well, and I understood, south of Sava and Danube. These are capital steps, the steps that this country has never done in its history – she did not remember the village. This is a way to remember him, to position him, and not only when the trumpet blows, so we do the mobilization. These are the real things we're going to be dealing with, at the same time, areas of social standards, health care, education, cultural content, the restoration of cultural homes, and not to be obliged. I could count for half an hour, and then a visprene host would come and give me another 10 minutes of different problems and torments that plague the host of Serbia. So here we are, we have a good will, the willingness of this government, the Prime Minister, its participation in the work of the national team, when the National Programme for the Rebirth of Serbia is promoted, is a guarantee that we are turning to this part of Serbia, and in it, gentlemen, lives 40.45% of Serbian citizens. Of course, less than 60% is farming, but alive. Therefore, the jobs ahead of us require a lot of unity here, in the government, in parliament, because without the support of MPs and the adoption of new legal solutions we cannot go on. Of course, all citizens of Serbia, including those who are following us today, media. This is a joint mission, and we will end up, a fellow Member of Serbia, without the village of Serbia, not telling Serbian villages, speaking on purpose the villages of Serbia, because they live in both Bosniaks, and Hungarians, and Croats, and Romanians, there will be no Serbia, and Serbia will be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2793	The word has an MP named Stosic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2794	I thank you, Mr. Minister, for these exhaustive answers, and I am particularly pleased with the proposal for a law on territorial organisation. Our village does not exist in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. We're talking about different laws. For example, a law on housing that regulates a residential building that has three apartments and, let's say, three times four, twelve residents. We don't have a village law that should regulate a community of villages where we have about 10,000 residents today. Great villages in Pomoravlje, Vojvodina, etc. I am particularly pleased by these initiatives from a territorial organisation, possibly on the Law on the Village, which would define all the needs of villages and ways of functioning these needs both through funding and through the achievement of all their rights. It can be said that the image of the village today is dreary and there is a full justification for the formation of this village's ministry, given, as the minister said, that more than 40% live in the village, or exactly 40.5% of the population of Serbia. Does it mean, Mr. Minister, that they can be more calm now that they have, to say the least, their own ministry and that certain needs will be regulated legally and have security and tranquility in a better life? What will it mean, first of all, for young people, young people living in the country today or young people wanting to come back to live in the country? Are there realistic grounds that this ministry will now, for the first time in the government through the Government of the Republic of Serbia, launch some programmes that will not be in this mandate, but programmes that will be adequate in the coming period? Are there realistic grounds for the village residents to have about the same conditions of life and work as the residents of the city? Without these conditions, we can neither bring back the young nor keep the young in the country, and the foundation of each community is young. What Mr. Palma said was the problem of weddings and gatherings at weddings, and the rural households, or the rural population, are eager to keep their grandchildren in the country, to remain their sons and children, and in some ways live successfully on their holdings, on their land. There, that's a second set of questions.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2795	Thank you. Minister Krkobic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2796	Just for a little while. You said, Reverend, would the citizens of the village be more relaxed when they have the Ministry of the Village? Are Serbian citizens more relaxed when they have the Ministry of Health? Are they more relaxed when they have the Ministry of the Interior? Are they more relaxed when they have the Foreign Ministry? I don't think so, but they're calmer if these ministries work and change things properly. Then they are calmer. So they taught the citizens of this country that there were also valid ministries that have changed important living conditions here since 1945. So, in advance, let me answer you whether you'll be more calm -- I can't, although I believe we'll do everything we can to make them calmer. That's the answer. What I'd like to tell you more is that we started this story. The citizens of the village woke up, the citizens of the village or the villagers or the hosts were right, feeling they could ask their questions. That's the key. It's the first step. Everything else, I repeat, depends on us. There's the finance minister, he's keeping a close eye on it, it's crucial how ready we are to raise the money. This is a very expensive thing. If you allow, 30 seconds after Germany's unification, the German state has singled out in 30 years, I repeat this, two thousand billion euros to improve the situation in East Germany. And 30 years later today, 56% of the population of eastern Germany when the statement claims to be citizens of the second order. This is a long-term process, requiring full commitment, a lot of money, a solution, and definitely this is a mission, a mission for this government, a mission for this president, for these ministers. There are ministers here for me, I said yesterday, and that concludes, this is enough space for all the ministers in this government, I used one term to not get me wrong, "play" and show how ready they are to change these things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2797	Thank you. The word has an MP named Stosic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2798	I thank you, Mr. Minister, for explaining to us the role of this ministry and finally giving the village the opportunity to create conditions to be a desirable location for life, especially young people. You can't guarantee that there will be a more peaceful life, but I am this program and this project and everything you are doing on the restoration and resuscitation of the Serbian village still give some hope of a more peaceful life in the country, because through this ministry that they already see as their ministry will be able to participate in making various proposals, to launch various projects. I call on our hosts, I call on those 40.5% of our beautiful Serbia residents to take full part in the realization, i.e. creating conditions for their lives. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2799	Thank you. National MP Marina Ragush. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2800	Thank you, Mr. President. Would you please just tell me how many other colleagues are on the list after me?
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2801	Four more.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2802	Okay, thank you. Then I'll just have one round of questions to get the rest of my colleagues in line, and the questions will apply to one man. His name is Djordje Joksimovic. His children were taken away in 2015. Six years a man's been fighting to get his three daughters back. I know these aren't pleasant questions, and I know a certain impression has been made in public. I even think the public decided somewhere after a film inspired by the drama of this man in the Kragujevac area was shown at the national frequency. It's about the Father movie. According to what Mr Joksimovic claims, he has made more than 130 demands. For six years he fought, addressed all state authorities, institutions. Several times he walked from Kragujevac, a pardon, around Kragujevac to Belgrade, to draw attention to a problem he could not cope with. Mr. Minister, Mr. Mitrovica, this is a very sensitive subject that should be based on facts, but I'm afraid the impression has recently exceeded the facts we'd like to hear here in the public eye. I'm aware that you know how social networks reacted, how certain media reacted. What we're interested in here is what really happens to Mr. Joksimovic's case and is there any chance that Mr. Joksimovic will get his children back? That's the first question. The second question, I apologize for being a little over the top, but I won't use the rest of the time, is, of course, about the impact of the crown on demographics in the Republic of Serbia since, we've talked about it several times, we're having serious analyses in Europe for the first few months as the pandemic situation has affected certain geographical areas in Europe, what are the trends and what consequences can all individual European countries expect? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2803	Thank you. The word has Minister Dmitrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2804	Thank you. I welcome all present. I'm going to answer the second question first, because the first question, of course, is not pleasant not to me, but rather to the public and how it is perceived and how it echoes, but to say this second, because it's very difficult and the question and the answers and the results, or the data that I'm going to present at the shortest, that we're not getting deeper because it's a really big topic right now. So, only that segment is due to the Corona demographics. This cannot be said except mathematically, which is available at the moment, but of course, as in all segments of society, both in the economy and in the culture and in the sport of the crown, i.e. the pandemic has brought and will deliver particularly very negative results, so is the sphere of demographicism. There was such a cute duel between Markovic and my colleague, Minister Loncar. I'll give you one piece of information from, so the composition of what you've been talking about is now that I don't know who it's coming to, you can judge for yourself. In 2020, 10,000 marriages were completed less than a year earlier. Don't listen to Markovic. A very, very sad and sad number. I comfort myself, what Markovic said was the Serbian custom. It's okay for them to get married and get married and get married and get married, but if there's no car, if there's no day and night celebrations, it's like nothing happened. Everything that is being done is being done in terms of pandemics and silences in Serbia more than in almost all other countries of Europe, and there are better results. I'm sure she'll have the consequences of having more weddings in the year we went to, having more cars, singing, and all that's about the wedding. Now let me present these data that are really very, very, I can't say defeating, but they're not good. In particular, we had an almost phenomena in the end of 2020 when in December we had an increase in mortality, i.e. mortality to an incredible number. So, compared to November and compared to the month before that increase was 100%. In December, therefore, the one behind us died 17,320 people. In the month before that, twice as much. In the month last year, twice as much. Why is it so I don't have an answer, of course, and the question of whether it can be answered at all. That produced, as I say now, an increase in mortality compared to last year by 14%. Last year, 100,963 people died. When I say last time, that goes back to 2019. In 2020, 114,000, almost 115,000 people, few missing. If we had that kind of birth rate, but we don't, there's a 2.8% drop, almost 3%. The number of live births was 61,693. It's a decline compared to the last year of 1,800, I'm saying... (Dear D. Markovic: Zlatibore, because there is no wedding. Because there's no wedding, Palma says. ... Almost 3%. These are data that are so very worrying, but that, so as not to think, is not something that is specific here in Serbia. It is, unfortunately, when we talk about demographics and the consequences of the crown phenomenon that we are recording all over Europe. Someone's going to say, surely, seeing from that side that it's about the economy. No, on the contrary, we have good results, it should be different, but in demographics, the economy is not a crucial factor. If it were, then we'd have a rich country, take it up in northern Europe or Germany, have a fertility rate, birth rate, take 5% or something, and they have it almost as much as we do, maybe a little bit more. At this point, and this is the data, I apologize, from 2018, I don't have anyone for 2020 yet, but for 2019 I don't know, at this point I'm not talking about the EU, I'm talking about the countries of Europe, and in Albania alone we have a birth rate of 2.1%, and that's a simple reproduction. No one has, no one, no country in Europe has a demographic above free play. It's a big topic and a big job of the ministry that I'm headed for, and we're going to talk about it, of course, hopefully, and at these discussions, these kind of conversations. Now let me move on to this second question that is personalized, which is personal and concerns the man whom you mentioned, Marina, Djordja Joksimovic from Kragujevac, whose life and case was filmed. This film, in fact, produced all of what we have at this point, which I could call with a very prominent empathy and with a relationship that is understandable to this man and his suffering for children who were taken away from him five years ago, or parenting was taken away. But it's very important that we don't assess the case, not just this one, but any other based on what's called an art upgrade. In this case, I'm talking about a film that produced such reactions, especially on social networks, and then making an impression in public. Film is film, life is life. This man's case is the motivation of the people of the film industry to do the work they thought should be the way it is, but it's still an upgrade. It's art, it's something where it's allowed to skip the facts and interpret things the way an artist sees it, but in this case, a lot of emotions are produced that have no basis. What am I talking about, or what am I saying? What I'm saying is that no one in this society, especially this country, because social work centres represent the state, has and has no intention of playing with the feelings of the parent or this man or anyone else. A very important fact that many do not know – poverty cannot be a reason to take away a parent's right. So if it's just poverty, it can't be a cause. It's not in this case either. I can't go all the way and I can't and I can't be precise and I won't quote the parts of the findings, so to speak, and the documents of very professional people, the people who want to help, and they helped to help out what the situation was when the problem was detected, when the problem was discovered, both the state of health and the state of property and the state of children's education, the relationship between parents, the relationship between parents and children, and there had to be intervened. That's where it had to be intervened. Anyone would intervene. Believe me, each and every one of you, and those who resent it today, would surely ask that report to intervene, where we come to the question—and why would someone come out of pure peace and take away a parent's right? Just because the kids were threatened. Now in this situation we have one paradox that is the dominant suffering of this father, which no one touches and has the right to touch, it is the suffering of parents, but we have forgotten about the children in the whole story, or those who potentiate this issue by using it to collect unfortunately and political points, as the state kidnaps, and the regime kidnaps the parents of children, not saying why it would kidnap children. What I said first is very important because there's a problem with the way this whole thing worked out so that the money that's been given to foster families is given to that family. No, it couldn't have been solved that way because it wasn't that reason. Poverty wasn't a cause. Centres for social work if they find that poverty alone is the cause of the poor condition in which children are located, then it is resolved in a different way, then it is resolved by social law and not taken away from parental law. Parental law to Joksimović, I don't mention my mother for the reason that you saw, which in the media doesn't exist in this whole story, let's say when I started to tell, and it's also said in the media that the mother has problems and is in a certain institution, all of this with a desire and an idea to look at this problem extremely realistically and rationally, not to manipulate with pain, especially with parental pain, and especially not with the pain of children. Who took away the parental right of Joksimovic, i.e. Joksimovac, mentioned here? Court. The only one who can take away parental law is the court, based on expert reports. The Court of First Instance has made that decision, the appeal goes to the second-degree court, it is confirmed, the appeal goes, and the appeal confirms the same decision. The order is logical for those of us who are laymen as to the law. That decision to take parental law or colloquial children to return to this man can only be made by the one who made the original decision. So, the court is this address that all those who think things should go one way or the other. The only way a court can restore parental rights is to bring the children back to this man. I hope everything goes in that direction, and what's good, and what should be said, Joksimovic's children have increasingly frequent contacts and better contacts, they go to him, he goes to the foster family, there are no objections, there are no objections. Children are regularly in contact with both psychologists and people who can influence the improvement of their condition and replace that gap that occurred in the family in relation to parents and children. I believe, given that some assumptions are satisfied, it's seen you yourself in the media housing, George got a permanent job, and now don't ask me, because I don't know until the end what else is necessary to achieve in the opinion, I repeat professional people, who have only one goal to help these children.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2805	Mr. Minister, let me just ask you not to go into the details of this process because it's not a subject, nor do I think it's desirable.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2806	But it's part of the story.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2807	You must also take care of the rights of those people, if the proceedings are under way. That's why I'm asking you to finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2808	Here, I'm done.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2809	Thank you. Prime Minister Brnabic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2810	Thank you. Indeed, in situations like this, the government has to maintain its objectivity, this is not a topic for the government, it's not a topic for the chat, it's not a topic for the story. We need to protect the family and all the participants of this story. I'm going to beg you not to go any further at this point, because we can't influence this case in any way. We are here to support relevant state institutions.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2811	Thank you. Minister Daria Kisic Tepavcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2812	As the prime minister said, given the protection of data confidentiality, we do not need to talk, they are still part of court proceedings and different evaluations, but what we need to say loudly, that the social economic situation of parents, or more modest economic status, cannot, and is not the reason for the child to be placed in the foster family. We have a lot of parents who are unfortunately poor socioeconomic status, who are wonderful parents, who take care of their children, and unfortunately, parents who are extremely rich and situated, who neglect their children in different ways. First of all, we are interested in child rights, meeting the highest standards in raising and healthy child rearing, and undoubtedly the best place to grow and develop a child is his family. When appropriate situations occur where the court decides to place children in foster care, be convinced of the evaluation, the different instance, where interest and the right child were primarily taken into account. So, regardless of what is understandable, let us be aware that living circumstances are a different situation and that we are all in the best interests of our child’s right.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2813	Marina, do you want to have two more laps? No, I don't. ) Snezana Paunović.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2814	Thank you, Mr. President. Respected Prime Ministers, respected members of the government, the elemental disasters that hit some part of Serbia in early January, have also caused huge consequences for infrastructure facilities, but also for private property, housing and agricultural culture. I'm sorry the Minister of Agriculture came out, but I'm sure someone will be able to answer me. My first question for the energy minister, Mrs Zorana Mihajlovic, concerns above all the damages that occurred at the power plants in these municipalities and within which time limits could be restored under the circumstances, I think we also had a few questions this morning when asking parliamentary questions that concerned exactly that 1% of the village was without electricity and that people were very difficult to deal with. I think my colleague Diana mentioned this morning the situation in Priboj where 1300 consumers were out of power due to power problems at power lines in those places. What I'm also interested in is how we're going to do it, maybe I missed some of the measures, and if I am, I won't be a problem to say in public sorry, how we're going to compensate for the damage to the agricultural holdings in the municipalities in the south, which are long-term orchards of which these families live, absolutely destroyed due to the disasters that have hit them, and in order to resuscitate it must go on for many years, if I understand it well, although I'm not an expert in that area. It's about orchards that are a few decades old. So I think those people who are actually convicted of it and are mostly into fruit growing and living on it right now simply deserve our attention and how to help them. My third question is for Minister Comic. You have announced a law on gender equality, but you have said one sentence that is very important to me, which is that you have announced laws that will regulate a ban on prejudice-based behavior. I think it'd be nice if you took a look around. At the Women's Parliamentary Network conference, we heard a brilliant analysis of how much the pandemic affected above all and in this sense when we talk about equality, how much women were more active and how unfortunately men were in more numbers than women. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2815	Thank you. The word is held by Deputy Prime Minister and Minister Zorana Mihajlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2816	Yes, the situation is not easy for any single user who currently lacks electricity. On Serbia's territory, there are three and a half million electricity consumers. Currently, at this point, nine and a half thousand users do not have regular power supply. After the first accidents, it can be said that 80% is fixed. There have been additional accidents, but it's something that's in the current state. The teams are really in the field, but accidents aren't the only reason why it's happening to us. I will give only one piece of information, which is that in the territory of the Republic of Serbia there is, for example, nothing in any country around us, a million and 300 thousand wooden bandits. The vast majority of these wooden bandits are located precisely in those parts of Serbia that are currently at risk when we talk about power supply, about 400,000 of these bandits in Serbia. So, I'm talking about that much more as a government, we're going to control the EPS, now the ODS, and what's their first and only task is the constant maintenance of the distribution network. It wasn't in the best way possible. So, it happens, happens, accidents aren't some unknown thing, not here or anywhere in Europe and the world, but certainly the biggest problem is long-term lack of power. The villages and those places that have such a situation, therefore, parts of the New Pazar and Kursumlia and so on, the EPS, or ODS, has provided aggregates, all they can do, because now that you see what these power lines look like, it would be clear to you that it's absolutely impossible to fix for those few days or a week. We sincerely hope that there will be normalisation in power supply in the next five to six days if it remains as it is right now when we talk about the weather itself, and we will do everything in the next four or five years, so I'm saying the whole distribution system is invested at least 350m euros, only in the distribution system so that it doesn't come to this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2817	Thank you. Minister Comic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2818	Thank you. The proposal of the Law on Gender Equality is for the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights, Social Dialogue and the Government of the Republic of Serbia to be before you by deadline, by procedure with the widest possible involvement of all interested in society from profession and MPs in the ultimate line through public listening, through civil society to those who are academically involved in this topic. So it is up to us to prepare this proposal on the deadlines of the Law on the Plane System, and it will be up to you to decide whether you will be on the agenda of the Assembly session and how the debate will take place with which amendments. The essence of this new bill is precisely the provisions that the MP quoted, which is to prohibit behavior based on prejudice and that is a social, institutional, legislative fight against discrimination. No one can explain to you in themselves that you do not have the right to treat someone because of his or her personality in a special way, to hurt him, to belittle him, to do whatever you want to him just because he has that personal property. So part of the draft law on gender equality and in the debate and ex-ante analysis, as well as the future amendment and addition of the Law on Prohibition of Discrimination will also be the dialogue that should take place in this room on whether we are, and how much society that is prone to discrimination when it comes to various social groups, why it is happening to us and what provisions we need for the behaviour of such a species to be prohibited in society, because such behaviour makes us all unhappy and those who are victims of discrimination and those who discriminate. We wish that the Law on Gender Equality puts your will on the agenda and your will positively with the votes "for" adopted. When it enters the legal system of the Republic of Serbia, it contributes to greater quality both women and men. And just an illustration of why it's important? Because we have to watch how both women and men live and this virus that has violently caused us behavioral changes has clearly shown that it is neither born blind nor birth neutral. He's not born blind, because our men die more. On every 100 tragic deaths 70 of them are men, 30 of them are women. It is a science to give an answer, but what we see daily is that the pandemic has fallen on women, not only in Serbia, across the planet, that women in all sectors where the economy, care and I think that our common concern will be what for the future to come up with as government and assembly as institutions, as measures to help all the mental and physical efforts that Serbian women have made in the economy at least assess as visible, if we do not have any measures that we will specifically address like those that the Serbian Government has for both citizens and for the economy already in a few months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2819	Thank you. Minister Tonchev.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2820	Since my ministry is in charge of underdeveloped municipalities, and since whenever the events of the elementary disasters are the most affected by the very undeveloped municipalities, as our people would say – where it is thin I always do, I have visited a lot of these municipalities at the proposal of our Prime Minister. We have determined that the greatest damage to water supply, electricity supply, agriculture and infrastructure are. Since I know that Minister Zorana Mihajlovic has also visited a lot of municipalities, that the building minister has visited a lot of municipalities, and we, together with the Prime Minister, are also preparing all the damages, and how to eliminate all the basic disasters that have taken place in particular in the poor municipalities, given that he is not there, Minister of Agriculture, I can tell you that, at the recommendation of the Prime Minister, we are working to make up for how much we are able as the Serbian Government, to compensate for all the damages, not only to farmers, but to all the households that have suffered the damage. We also helped a lot with water supply, and Minister Mihajlovic also promised and said that as soon as possible, all households will receive electricity, and indeed in the coming period all these wooden bandits like Mihajlovićka said, and that with the help of this government as little as possible, we have undeveloped municipalities and as much help as possible in all and even in this elemental disaster. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2821	Thank you. Minister Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2822	Thank you, Chairman. Just a quick link, because there is currently a competition to report cities and municipalities for spending money from the local self-government budget fund and it is divided into four objectives. One of the objectives that cities and municipalities can apply to is to prevent the reduction of risks of climate change and natural and other disasters, all in order to protect the property interests of units of local self-government and citizens. There's not too much money, 41 million 400,000 dinars, but I have to tell you that 15 days of competition and will last until 4 February, no local self-government has reported so far. I'm actually appealing this way and I'm doing it every day, to have cities and municipalities sign up so we can really finance these projects. I suppose, in addition to all this that we've been talking about so far, it's very important that we clean up the riverbeds, and the different channels that are located through the settlements, I'm speaking a little slanging now, but it's important that units of local self-government apply with finished projects by February 4th so that we can really use the money that's in the budget for these needs. That's it.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2823	Thank you. MP Paunovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2824	Thank you. I thank the ministers for the answers I received. I also appeal, Minister Obradovic is right, but somehow it falls under our responsibility, which is that these people in local self-government are really being run, no, the motive has arrived from the Serbian government, they should be launched now and from the position of MPs each in their midst. I understand you very well, it is prevention and it is very important. Thank you for your answers, I will not use my right to ask the second round of questions, nor to give the final word, because I want to leave some time for the largest parliamentary party to finish this round within the deadline. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2825	Thank you. The word is made by Prime Minister Brnabic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2826	I will add only one thing that is extremely important and that the Ministry of Agriculture and the Government of the Republic of Serbia insists on. Since we have been trying all these years to introduce a system into our country, somewhere where life predictability and work in the Republic of Serbia could be increased, certainly because of climate change, there will be more and more accidents like this. That is why the Government of the Republic of Serbia, or the Ministry of Agriculture, has decided to subsidise insurance premiums. At this point, we subsidize as much as 70% of insurance when farmers apply for their crops, 70%. I appeal that all our landowners secure their crops, the government of the Republic of Serbia will help with 70% through the ministry, so it really won't be a big expense to them, but at that point we don't talk about whether the government or the municipality or who will compensate for the damage. If there's any damage these crops are secured, the insurance company will cover it. Then there's a system, no one has to chase anyone, no one has to beg, it's a system that works, and that's our goal. And I'm glad to say that more and more owners are providing their crops, especially that number is growing in fruits and vegetables, but certainly the appeal I think of all of us should be that people respect that system, and the government has set the budget to subsidize that even 70%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2827	Thank you. I thank Ambassador Paunovic. Now, here we come, what a paradoxical situation it is, that 10 minutes before this time of three hours, the largest parliamentary group is now in line according to these regulations and procedures. I am therefore and thanking the members of the government for respecting this to be shorter in their answers, that since there are nine parliamentary groups now ask MP Aleksandar Markovic. The word has been made by MP Alexander Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2828	It's one in a number of our Rules of Procedure anomalies, but my God. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs and distinguished members of the government, I have several parliamentary questions, but I don't know, since it's close to 19.00 hours, if we can get answers, but if we're effective, maybe we can do it. The first question, therefore, was addressed to Mr Stefanovic, which concerns investment in arms and equipment, modernising military technique, forging domestic production for these purposes. I would also like to take the opportunity to thank you for your recent exhaustive response to the announcement of the introduction of a mandatory military deadline. I think it's very important, because lately in the act of real hysteria in certain media, it's mostly those media under the control of Dragan Gilas, and there's been a strong negative campaign against regular military service and these ideas and announcements. However, they usually campaign against anything good for Serbia, against anything that is patriotic, against any move that protects Serbian national interests. They are ready to attack the best possible idea and the best possible move, only if it comes from Alexander Vukic, so it was a vaccine, it was an announced package to help the economy and the population, it was a monument to Stefan Nemanja, it was a golden gondola, anything, anything at all, they would attack it if it came from Alexander Vukic. And speaking of the announced aid package for the economy and the population, I would like to have him address us, if time allows us, and Mr. Mali's Finance Minister on this issue, because these media outlets, believe it or not, have managed to attack that topic, have managed to attack and announce a package of assistance to citizens, businesses and the population. They say 110 euros, so 30 plus 30 plus 50 euros is an insult to the citizens of Serbia, in fact, to the citizens of Serbia, that it is nothing, that this money means nothing, that it is actually the citizens of Serbia. Well, I apologize that we don't all have as much money as they do, that we're not as rich, so powerful and powerful as they are that 110 euros doesn't represent anything in life and that they consider it an insult. I apologize for this on behalf of all of us, on behalf of normal Serbia, on behalf of a healthy Serbia, and I really apologize to them on that behalf.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2829	Thank you. The word has the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister Stefanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2830	Dear People's MP Mr. Markovic, you have also had the opportunity to see today, you were present at an important meeting where the Serbian Army referred to the President and Chief Commander Alexander Vukic about the situation in the military, but also beyond that, about what is the situation in our dedicated industry, about what our intensities are for the purchase of equipment, weapons and techniques in the coming period. This is an important issue because, as you said, there are people who do not correspond to a strong army, there are people in this country, unfortunately, and there are people in this region, of course, in a broader sense, whose strong Serbian army means easier to achieve their goals. A strong army is equally strong Serbia and this is often a prerequisite for everything else, for everything else, in order to have investment and economics, in order to have the opportunity to deal with a strong village, you have to have stability and security, you have to have the confidence of investors that when they come into this country that they will be a safe, secure country which, as it does today, takes firm steps forward, has economic growth and, of course, can guarantee that they will continue in the future. Of course, we try to make investments primarily in domestic companies, for a number of reasons. First of all, because we do not want to depend too much on anyone outside, not from the east or from the west, we also want to develop the capacities of our domestic industry so that at any time it can have production that is dynamic, strong, fast, that it can produce for the needs of our military, police, for all our security services and everything that Serbia needs to be safe at all times and of course we want to conquer new technology that we can sell in some other markets. We have been in the process, you have had the opportunity to see, of course, other MPs, in the last few years, we have had the opportunity to see how much progress we have made in the conquest of armored vehicles, the construction of three significant components of the “four times four” point – “Milos”, the “eight times eight” point – “Lazar” and something that develops together the flag of TERVO and FAP, a new vehicle that, in fact, we have named it by the English name MRAP, which means a fact vehicle that will be resistant to mines and any other kind of such challenges and that will serve to transport our forces. So it's armor for our infantry. Until about ten years ago, we had this bad situation, especially in 2005, it was difficult, for the Military and Technical Institute. I say in 2005 because, in that year, a decimated composition, a huge number of engineers were fired, so almost double the number of engineers, even more than double, three-fold the number of engineers remained working, and they today, along with our dedicated industry, with Southport SDPR, are the most important point of military development. We today have over 30 new funds that are developing, we work with foreign partners, we work with our own forces. I want to thank these people for remaining patriotic reasons to work for their country. One researcher at the Military Technical Institute, an engineer, has an initial salary of about 68,000 dinars, and we expect these people to work on the most complex systems. This is in addition to President Vukic's efforts, which managed to help us pay you significantly and increase you and increase them by almost 9.6 this year by top officers to 17.8% for soldiers and other people, and we will also try to increase for these researchers. You can imagine what it looked like, what their perspective was ten years ago. So these people today have better conditions and we're going to make sure they have even more incomparably better, because we want to keep engineers developing our army in our system, we're not going to let them go anywhere else. When I say – let them go, we will not easily agree to leave for a better salary, I understand that need, because today we are developing funds like Nora, we expect the complete “Nora” division to be introduced into our weapons by the end of this year. In addition to ten "Milos" already armed by the 72nd Special Brigade, we expect up to 24 "Lazara". So, we expect one significant reinforcement in what is equipment for our own, to say mechanized battalions, and that is a fact-finding impact section, next to special units, a key impact section of our army. It is a modernization of the funds that are now being used in the military, such as digitalisation against aircraft systems, such as CUBs, and, of course, digitalized fire, a multiple rocket launcher, which has proved to be a very efficient and effective tool of our artillery. The modernisation of MIGs 29, along with those which the president managed to provide and, let me say, aside from the ones that we had at our place, and we're working on further modernization with engineers from Russia, and we want that total number of planes, so all 14 MiGs 29 are fully modernised and ready for all tasks. We're winning our own knowledge of a rocket that we didn't have before and which today, that these MIGs 29 can also be used as multi-purpose hunters, so that they can target targets on the ground, it wasn't possible before. Also, modernization of our Eagles, but you saw that during the previous period we had purchased helicopters and Er-bas Ha 145 and Mi 35 as an anti-arming heavy helicopter which indeed proved to be as remarkable as anywhere in the world, but, of course, transport helicopters that serve to decant and transport our troops. So we're working on equipping our soldiers. We want to finish getting new uniforms this year and the next. Wins, our "Jumko" wins and the production of ballistics, so aside from the uniform and protective plates for vests and helmets and other equipment and we will, indeed, that every soldier, not just special units, every soldier of the Serbian Army, will be equipped with both the best boots and the best protection, the best modular rifle, everything our army can afford, and what's in world standards. Respecting the time, of course, that the National Assembly has, and I could talk a lot more about this, but I want to say thank you to the Committee, which you are in charge of, because it provides support to the Serbian Army and the Ministry of Defence to realize those goals that President Vukic, who has put before us the Serbian Government, put in front of us, to have the best, most efficient, most powerful army in this part of the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-01-28-0.u2831	Thank you. Mr. Markovic, would you like to move on? No, good. I thank you for your insight because it is now 19.00 hours and, as foreseen by our Rules of Procedure, it is time for this part of the session on parliamentary matters. I want to thank all the members of the government, the Prime Minister, for their participation. I think this part of our Rules of Procedure and this part of our work is very important because very important questions and answers here can be heard and I thank you for your insight, because all the parliamentary groups have been able to ask parliamentary questions. In the end, I would just like to inform Minister Daria that, on 9 February, most likely, there will be a second session in an extraordinary session, dedicated to her proposal for a social card law, that the next session in February might then, about that, be speaking orientatively, which is Tuesday, if this one is 9, the next one would be after the meeting, which means 23, and that, practically, means that if we do Thursday 25th to see each other again in this same format on February 25th. Finally, I would like to congratulate once again only on yesterday's extraordinary event and the president of Serbia and the government of Serbia and the City of Belgrade for opening a magnificent monument to Stefan Nemanja, who, not only is the mention of the founder of our country, but also once again showed the splendor of Belgrade as our capital and that indeed, only those who possess a large dose of political abnormalities can criticise it or threaten to destroy it. Once again, I want to congratulate, this Belgrade is not only returning and rooting in its past, but also setting the groundwork for our future. I want to thank you. We're moving on. I'm setting a voting day in three minutes. [[After a break.]] Ladies and gentlemen, please join the vote. According to Article 87, as I said, I set 19 hours and 10 minutes as the Day of Vote on the agenda of the First Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 12th Assembly. Before we move to a decision on the agenda points, we need to determine the quorum. As you know, quorum exists in voting day if most of the total number of MPs are present at the session, so please insert your identification cards into the electronic voting system units. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that there are 196 MPs present in the hall at this time, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and therefore there are conditions for decision-making. We're moving on to a decision. As we move on to a decision on the proposals of the law on the approval of international contracts (points 1 to 6 of the agenda), I remind you that, on the basis of Article 105 paragraph 6 of the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, the National Assembly decides on the laws governing the conclusion and validation of international contracts by majority of the votes of all MPs. We're moving on to a decision. First item of the agenda. I am putting to the vote the draft law confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Grand Duchy of Luxembourg on the exchange and mutual protection of classified information, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: a total of 201 for -199 did not vote - two. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by a majority of the votes of all the MPs. Second item of the agenda. I am putting to the vote a bill confirming the Agreement on the transfer of responsibilities for the provision of air traffic services between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Montenegro, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. Stopping vote: 205, total – 205. I find that the bill was unanimously passed. Third item of the agenda. I put to the vote the draft law confirming the Amendment to the International Convention on the Harmonised System of Name and Code Marks of Goods, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. Stopping vote: 206 in total for – 206. I find that the National Assembly unanimously passed the bill. Fourth item of the agenda. I am putting to the vote a bill confirming the Second Additional Protocol of the World Postal Convention, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. Stopping vote: 206 in total for – 206. I find that the National Assembly unanimously passed the bill. The fifth item of the agenda. I am putting to the vote a bill confirming the Agreement on Co-operation between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Islamic Republic of Iran in the area of plant protection and plant quarantine, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. Stopping vote: 206 in total for – 206. I find that the National Assembly unanimously passed the bill. The sixth item of the agenda. I am putting to the vote a bill confirming the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Russian Federation on co-operation in the fight against terrorism, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. Stopping vote: 206 in total for – 206. I find that the National Assembly unanimously passed the bill. As we move on to a decision on the proposals for the choice of judges (points 7 and 8 of the agenda), I remind you that on the basis of Article 105 paragraph 2 paragraph 13), the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia elects judges by a majority of the votes of all MPs. Given that, we're moving on to a decision. The seventh item of the agenda. I am putting to the vote the motion for a decision on the election of judges who are first elected to office as judges, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: 206 in total for – 204, not voting – two. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by majority. The eighth point of the agenda. I am putting to the vote the motion for a decision on the election of judges who are first elected to office as judges, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. Stopping vote: 206 in total for – 206. I find that the National Assembly unanimously adopted the motion for a decision. The ninth item of the agenda. I am putting to the vote the proposal for a Decision on granting consent to the Commission's 2021 Commission's budget for securities, which was submitted by the Finance Committee, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. Stopping vote: 206 in total for – 206. I find that the National Assembly unanimously adopted the motion for a decision. The tenth item of the agenda. I put to the vote a proposal for a conclusion on the review of the report on the work of the Regulatory Agency for Electronic Communications and Postal Services for 2019, which was submitted by the Committee on Spatial Planning, Transport, Infrastructure and Telecommunications. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. Stopping vote: 206 in total for – 206. I find that the National Assembly unanimously adopted the proposal for a conclusion. Eleventh point of the agenda. Since the National Assembly has carried out a single search on the motion for a decision, and before moving to a decision, I remind you that, according to Article 105 paragraph 2 point 15, the Constitution of Serbia, the National Assembly of its electoral authority is doing most of the votes of all MPs. I put to the vote the motion for a decision on amendments to the Decision on the election of members and deputies of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which was submitted by the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key. I am stopping the vote: a total of 206, for – 203, did not vote – three. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by majority. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and their decision on them, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the session of the First Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly in the 12th Assembly. As I announced, the orientational next session in the emergency session should begin on February 09th. I thank you all.
