ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-10-0.u7509	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are continuing the session of the Fourth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 12th Assembly. Based on the official record of the presence of the MPs, I find that the session is attended by 85 MPs. In order to determine the number of MPs present in the hall, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 96 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that at least 84 MPs are present and that there are conditions for the work of the National Assembly. Whether one of the presidents, or authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups, wishes to request a notice or an explanation in accordance with Article 287. Rules of Procedure? The word has the People's MP Milija Miletic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-10-0.u7510	I thank Dr. Orlic. Fellow MPs, I will first, as a real Serbian host, congratulate today – Spasovdan, all citizens of Belgrade, on the glory of Spasovdan. I would also congratulate the glory of the monastery in Labukov, which is the Vanity of the Lord, our Elder, the monastery of Varna, to be healthy and living on this day and in the coming period and to serve happiness and health and mind all of us here in Serbia. That's the most important thing to me. One of the things I would say the same is that the appeal and invitation of all of us here in the Assembly and outside the Assembly is that our people are being vaccinated, that in my Srlig, where I live, more than 50% of the people are being vaccinated. It's a big deal, because it's the only way to deal with this pandemic. Apropo of all this I will now ask the parliamentary question of the Ministry of Health, the military ministry, and it is related to the Niš Military Hospital, since our President Aleksandar Vukic was back a month ago with our representatives of the Nishav district of Gajin Han, where he said he would announce that the Nis Military Hospital would begin to accept civilian patients from the territory of southeastern Serbia, from the territory of the Nishav district. To this day, it hasn't started yet. I ask the Chief or Head of the Military Hospital in Nis -- when will a contract be signed with the RFO to allow civilian persons to be treated at the Military Hospital because a large number of our citizens have great confidence in the military, in our soldiers, in our military doctors, and we have great confidence in our Serbian president who has also announced it? I would like it to be done as soon as possible for those of us living in the territory of Nisavsky County, in the territory of Southeastern Serbia to have the opportunity to treat ourselves at the Military Hospital, to be there with people who know their jobs, normally so applies to these other doctors at the Clinical Centre in Nis, the House of Health in Nis, the House of Health of Svrljig and all other health homes and in them we have trust, but it is also a need and it is a great need for the Military Hospital in Nis to begin with patients, i.e. to work with civilian patients. Otherwise, I can also say that the VMA in Belgrade, the VMC in Novi Sad, is already working with and working with civilian patients. It is a great need for those of us living in southeastern Serbia and my question is when will the contract be signed? When it starts that Nis Military Hospital is beginning to receive patients living in southeastern Serbia's territory. Another big thing is, as I said earlier, I would once again thank all the medics, doctors, nurses, medical staff, drivers in the House of Health and all those who work in health homes, at clinical centres to thank you for your respect, your will and your desire to help all our patients. Here we are, but surely, our country of Serbia comes to close to 50% of vaccinated patients, i.e. people vaccinated against Kovid, which is a good sign that we will have a chance to get out and start living normally, to start making a celebration, to make fun, to do everything our Orthodox people and the Serbian people here in Serbia want. Once again, I would also like to thank my friends from Prijepolje, people who are really good hosts, who have welcomed me back a few days, where as a guest and as a folk MP, I have visited my colleague Samir, where people have behaved domestically and once again thank all of us who respect us and I will once again invite all of my fellow citizens, all of Serbia's citizens to be vaccinated. I once again congratulate the glory of the city of Belgrade, Spasovdan, and I wish everyone health, happiness and success in life. Happy birthday.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-10-0.u7511	Thank you. The word is Mirsad Hodzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-10-0.u7512	Your Honor, today I would like to launch a very important topic, to convey the requests and fears of the citizens of the Shadow and Cave High. In fact, in June of this year, a military exercise was planned on the Cave. The team of citizens, as well as fellow citizens living in the Pesterska visorna area where the exercise is planned, were visited by military officers, the vice president of the Municipality of Sjenica and asked them explicitly and under threat to leave their households during the exercise. I would like to stress that it is the people who live exclusively from agriculture and who, even under the harsh conditions that rule at the Cave High, have not decided to leave their hearths, as if climate and poverty were not a difficult enough environment. The Cave is planned in the summer months to carry out military exercises at the same time as the most intense agricultural activity. There are hundreds of households in several large shadow villages around the area where military exercise is planned. It's impossible, ladies and gentlemen, to remove several thousand sheep from that space, as well as hundreds of cattle. A large number of hives have been placed in the same space. To make things worse among my fellow citizens who have come to me for help there are a lot of elderly people with multiple chronic diseases for whom this arrival of officers meant additional stress. In addition to these brave people struggling with poverty and harsh climate conditions that rule at the Shadow and Cave High, they now have to fight for their rights guaranteed by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, so that the family of Arif Brolic, Sucak Tahirovic and others are asked to leave their own estates of about 150 hectares to be used for the exercise. I'm curious - who are these people who have dared to break the Constitution of this country in such an effective way, and I'll remind you that Article 58. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia clearly defines the right to property. The families mentioned will be justice if the exercise does not have to be cancelled before the court and the protection of the international community. Such procedures send a very bad message to Bosniaks, that they are not sure that on their properties and that the Constitution can be violated when the Bosniaks are concerned. Why doesn't the state help these troubled people in a way that allows them basic conditions for life such as electricity and water? People have come to us with experience from previous military exercises where after the military retreats, chaos, destroyed nature and burned earth. After each exercise, they had to rebuild their belongings, repair the katuns, and level the earth. Unfortunate events are not the end, so more cattle died after the exercise, because they would swallow gels or some toxin on the pasture instead of grass. The most tragic events are the wounded of citizens, as well as cattle, gellers and other non-fired grenades, and such news has never reached the general public. Their products, milk and cheese that should be five times more expensive, because they come from a mountainous healthy environment, organic food. After these exercises, they lose drastically to quality and price, and in this way these people are directly economically damaged. From this point on, I ask Minister Stefanovic, Chief of General Staff Mojsilović and President of the Republic of Vukic to order, as soon as possible, the transfer of military exercise from the Cave and thus enable our fellow citizens to live and process their country in peace and rashathru, without fear that after holding military exercises on their property, only the weeds will be able to grow. There's one more thing I want to add. This place where military exercise is planned is a nature reserve, a cave field, a place where rare species of plants grow and endemic species of animals live, such as white-headed soups and others. Because of all of this, as well as the fears that the local population has been pulling since the early 1990s, knowing that those responsible for the crimes in the North, Kukurovici and Strpnci have not yet been prosecuted. I find the maintenance of the exercise absolutely inadmissible, and I demand her most urgent cancellation. You gave our forests to Ivanjica, coal mine Despotovac, Lake Nova Varosha, etc., and in return you send us planes, helicopters and tanks. Where there's equality. Are we second-class citizens? What kind of message are you sending us?
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-10-0.u7513	Thank you. The word is made by Vice-President of the Elvira Kovac National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-10-0.u7514	I thank the honourable Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament. The National Strategy for Gender Equality finds the target value for all women in the country to be covered by health and pension insurance. Of how important this is, he says, among other things, that for more than a year there were no 16.5% of women in the country, or that almost 2% of women were never even on medical examinations. The decision of the Constitutional Court of Justice since the end of last year, more precisely since 3 December 2020, which the Constitutional Court of Serbia found not to be in agreement with the Constitution of certain provisions of the Financial Support Act with children, which, on the one hand, excludes the right to pay or to earn their parents during their absence from work for special care, means the care of a sick child, in the event that an allowance for the assistance and care of another person has already been granted. Second question. The provisions declared by the Constitutional Court of Serbia are also anti-constitutional regarding the mothers of the insurance companies' farms. Since the entry into force of the Law on Financial Support for the Family with Children adopted here in July 2018, the Union of Duchy Hungarians has pointed to certain discriminatory provisions of this law, which, among other things, make up for women farmers on the basis of the birth and care of children and special care of children of accounting in a different way and on other terms, means from what is the case with other women. A difference has been made when determining persons entitled to compensation, so it is foreseen that the compensation can be made by a woman who, 18 months before the birth of a child, made incomes based on employment, self-employed activity, a contract of work or a contract of temporary and occasional jobs, while for women who are insurance companies as a condition for obtaining benefits, it is provided that they have been secured not 18 but 24 months before the birth of a child. That's why in early March of this year, here in this high house, I, on behalf of the SVM parliamentary group, asked the Ministry of Family Care and Demography, in preparation for a draft draft amending and supplementing the Law on Financial Support for the Family with Children. We are pleased that this proposal has passed the Government of the Republic of Serbia and that it is currently in the assembly procedure and that somewhere in the last week of this month we will discuss this proposal and that this will finally correct the injustice, meaning the difference that has been made between women farmers who receive children and those who are secured on some other basis. Anyway, it'll be 18 months. But independently of the birth and care of the child, women farmers work almost an hour more than men each day, with women showing that all statistics indicate that 60% of their time are engaged so-called. Unpaid jobs and an additional 17.8% of farm women don't have health insurance. Most often they are health insurance through their partners, husbands, and in a small number personally, as farmers of the insurance company, it is only every tenth or even less, about 9% of these women. Women are a minority among property employees, women account for 55% of the unemployed rural population and 74% of the unpaid supporting members of the agricultural land. The number of owners registered to women, according to the Agrarian Payments Authority, has already increased to 26%, has always been below 20%. The percentage of men who own agricultural land is twice the percentage of women, and even 88% of rural homes in rural areas belong to men, so they own men. We know that several measures have been introduced at the province level to correct this inequality. That is why our question, that is because this is a multi-sectoral issue from the Ministry of Agriculture, but also from the Minister without portfolios in charge of the village, as well as from the Ministry of Human and Minority Rights and Social Dialogue and Social Issues, which are the measures foreseen for women farmers to motivate and even these differences between women and men in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-10-0.u7515	Thank you. The word has a Deep King.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-10-0.u7516	I thank the chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I am asking a question that is of interest to at least 200,000 people who, according to official statistics, live in an out-of-wedth community. I refer it to the Ministry of Justice, and it refers to the possibility of amending the Law on Inheritance in the sense that there is also a harmonisation in that regulation with the Constitution that provides for equality between the marriage and the non-marriage community, where, of course, when I say the extramarital community, I mean a more permanent community of the lives of men and women between which there is no marital interference. As I said, the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia prescribes that the nonmarriage and marriage union are equal. This principle was developed in a series of regulations, starting with Family Law, through criminal procedural legislation, the Law on Liabilities, all the way to the Law on PIO. For example, according to the Family Law, the property acquired by the nonmarriage partners during the duration of that extramarital union is their shared assets and in the event of a possible divergence has the right to share that property, i.e. one partner has the right to search for a share in the property of another. However, in the event of his death according to a legal solution, he has no right to do so, for under the Law of Inheritance, an extramarital partner is not in the circle of legal heirs, or has no right to inherit. Ladies and gentlemen, whether we like it or not, whether it's good or not, the trend of living together without getting married is the reality that we have to respect by law on inheritance because there are a number of examples of couples who have lived together for years and have a woman in common, but for who knows what reason they haven't been married, which should not be an obstacle to the sharing of property destiny. I'm going to give one example that I recently heard, this is an example of a husband and wife who got married, had a child, lived a few years happily, had a fight, got divorced, then got back together, got two more kids, lived together for another decade, then an out-of-marriage husband passed away, and then his out-of-marriage wife had no right to inherit him, which we'll definitely agree that there was an absurde that Mr. Phil and I have been talking about for months. When we said that, many were surprised, because they don't even know that they do, and they don't even know that an out-of-marriage partner doesn't have the right to inherit, which we think we should admit. So this is surprising, especially when it is considered that compliance with the Constitution has been carried out by the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act, under which an extramarital partner has the right to inherit the pension of the deceased partner. I'm fully aware of the difficulty in proving, and I'm fully aware that abuses are possible, but I think a good normative solution to that difficulty can be overcome. Here's proof of the Retirement and Disabilities Insurance Act. I think the same principle should also be foreseen by the Legacy Act, because such a solution as it is now leads to unfair situations, so I set an example. This is the condition of the constitutional principle of the equality of the marriage and of the non-marriage community. Only when it is done would it be possible to consider the recognition of the inheritance rights of some other couples. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-10-0.u7517	Thank you. The word is Alexander Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-10-0.u7518	Thank you, Mr. Orlic. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, several days ago on the Instagram social network, terrible threats were sent to the murder of President of the State Alexander Vukic. It is a certain Ironovic Petar, otherwise a wanted person, the perpetrator of various crimes, who wrote - waiting for you a 9mm bullet, alluding to a caliber. Meanwhile, that man was arrested. I'd take the opportunity to congratulate the members of the D.O.P. on efficiency, as well as the D.A.'s Office of High-Technology Crime. But what's interesting is that, apart from a few media outlets and several SNS officials who turned their attention to these phenomena and urged the competent authorities to respond to these monstrous threats, almost no one else has found it appropriate to deal with this more seriously. I am now asking - is it possible that this is no longer news for individual media in Serbia? When did this stop being a topic? Is it possible that we're used to the threat of murder? Is it possible that it became normal in Serbia? Is it normal for a president of the state to almost be threatened with murder every day and no one ever gets upset about it again? It doesn't pass weeks without the threat of killing Alexander Vukic or members of his family. It is hardly possible for a day to pass without reading the various insults and attacks against Vukic on various obscenities of the portals. Read Gilasov, social networks, etc., both printed and electronic. That is exactly the answer to the question of who constantly generates this kind of hate atmosphere in Serbia, who promotes this narrative and who creates an atmosphere of violence, persecution and a link between all political insatiables. Just remember how many front pages of various Jilasov daily and Sunday papers, not to list them all, were dedicated to Alexander Vukic, of course, in a completely negative context, each day you have a front page. Here is today, the front page of a list that includes Aleksandar Vukic, and says - Another Vucic show for voters, given his speech at the Security Council session. For them, this is a show for voters. A man keeps his historical address, a man sends all the truth to their faces, which no one should have gone to sleep for years, and for them, this is another Vucic show for voters. Remember how many texts, articles, cartoons have been published so far in the most negative context in these same lists under the control of Dragan Gilas. Remember that NIN front page with the sniper set up so it's pointed directly at Alexander Vukic! Then they pulled that cover, because of the public pressure, of course, but there was never an apology. Not to mention those Jilasov television shows that usually seven days a week, 24 hours a day, lead exclusively, only a dirty campaign against Alexander Vukic. It's shows, debates, round tables, documentary films, etc. We haven't forgotten that shame movie on N1 TV in two parts, "The Ruler" is called, two extensions of an hour and a half. You remember that, it was a little more than a year ago, when there was a whole bunch of all kinds of autoskillers, so on. The second Serbians, the whole series of the greatest abominations was about Alexander Vukic, the most diverse accusations, the worst insults. I don't think it's possible to count all the insults that were used in that film against Alexander Vukic. If I remember correctly, 442 times Vučić is mentioned in a negative context in this film, with more than 40 different insults, direct, personal insults. The funniest thing is that, in Serbia, media darkness, as censorship, is a fearsome thing, etc. So anything that comes to mind, any possible, and even the most vulgar vomit, the most monstrous insults, they spill it all out in that movie, and on the other hand they're accusing of censorship and their head hair isn't missing. Now this same team, if you notice, the chairman, again active, gathered around that journalist in the attempt of Slavo Lekic, is what was the president of NUNS when Gilas gave them six million dinars, there is also some Jovana Polic, now they are active again and making some different films these days. They like it, they like to do it. Every week, a new film, new spit, new abominations, new thrills of hate. The day before yesterday was a film about Sinisha Malom, before that something about Ivica Dacic, we'll see who's next, but I have no doubt that everyone, but anyone who dares to publicly support or enforce Alexander Vukic's politics, will come in line. My question, chairman, is I referring to REM - will it respond to this N1 issue and to protect public interest and protect users of electronic media services, and in a manner appropriate to democratic society? For the very end, the last sentence, the chairman, I would like to take the opportunity to congratulate the citizens of Belgrade on Spasovdan and to invite citizens to respond, or join the lithium that is organized tonight, of course with respect for all epidemiological measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-10-0.u7519	Thank you, Mr. Markovic. Since none of the authorized representatives are answering for a word anymore, we'll continue our work. I would like to inform you that she has been prevented from attending the session of National MP Natasa Mihailović Vacic. We are moving on to a joint single search on the proposals for acts set out in points 5 to 8 of the agenda. In accordance with Article 90(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, 238. Item 3. Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that they are invited to attend: Vladimir Antonijevic, President of the Commission for State Aid Control, Sandra Damcevic, Director of the Public Procurement Office, Marko Jankovic, President of the Securities Commission, Ljiljana Blagojevic, Deputy President of the Commission for State Aid Control, Vesna Gojković Milin, Deputy President of the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures, Dusica Djordjevic, Dragan Djurdjevic and Marko Vidaković, members of the Council of the Commission for State Aid Control. A unanimous decision by the National Assembly to conduct a joint single search on the proposals for acts referred to in points 5 to 8 of the agenda, and before the opening of a joint single search, I remind you that it is according to Article 97. The Rules of Procedure have a total debate time for the parliamentary groups for five hours. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Articles 192 and 238, paragraphs 4 and 157 of Article 2. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I am opening a joint Single Search on: Report on the Commission's work on State Aid Control for 2020, which was submitted by the Commission for State Aid Control, with a proposal for the conclusion of the Finance Committee, the Republic Budget and the Control of Public Resources, the Report on the work of the Republic Commission for the Protection of Public Procurement in the period from 1 January 2020 to 31 December 2020, which was submitted by the Republic Commission for the Protection of Public Procurement in Public Procurement Procedures, the report on the monitoring carried out for 2020, which was submitted by the Office for Public Procurement, the Annual Report of the Committee on Papers of the Republic of Serbia for 2020, which was submitted by the Commission for Securities of Values. Do the proposing representatives want a word, the representatives of the institutions whose reports we are discussing? Yeah. ) Please insert the card and answer the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-10-0.u7520	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, I have the privilege to present to you the practical first report on the Commission's work on State Aid Control, given that we have been relatively nearly formed, that fundamental amendments to the law, in particular the new Law on State Aid Control, were adopted in late 2019 and that the members of the Council who were present here on my left were sworn in only 30 December 2019, which practically began the work. What we had challenges at the outset is definitely those relating to the creation of the legal subjectivity of the Commission itself. Since January, we have also had to resort to the formation, i.e. the writing of general acts of the Commission, where we have had great help from you, MPs, in terms of the Committees of the National Assembly themselves, who adopted the relevant acts and gave us further guidance on the financial report itself, then the instruments of systemisation, as well as the approval of additional staff engagement. Practically, after that we came to the establishment, we got the birth number from the Republic Statistics Act, and then we got the tax identification number. These are now circumstances which relate predominantly to the formation, as I said, of legal subjectivity, although it was a prerequisite practically for the European Commission later and, of course, for our associates and other international institutions, such as the World Bank and the IMF, to create the operational independence of a particular institution. What is very important is that although there was a Commission for State Aid Control before, there is absolutely no similarity to the previous body except the name itself. In fact, the previous body represented the occasional working body of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, where practically the members of the Commission were elected, or recommended by the main donors who should actually be controlled. This is something which, among other things, has been seen as a major performance by the European Commission from the position of further accession, i.e. the EU accession and approximation process, which has, of course, been amended, including other circumstances which are primarily related to the management of the procedure, but also removed coalitions that have been in place since 2009 in connection with the General Administrative Procedure Act as the main law which can be handled. What is further important is that we, as part of the current budget of the Republic of Serbia, had defined funds of around 96 million dinars, but what is unexpected at some point is that we were all surprised, and I believe you, were actually referring to the 15th of March 2020, or the outbreak of Covid 19 infectious disease, which practically made it impossible for us to use resources in full capacity, including additional employment and availability in the context of public procurement, and especially given the circumstances relating to restrictions, but also the recommendations of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which were in this respect, particularly on the rationalisation and spending of funds. What we have further approached is the practical finding of an adequate space where the commission will be located, because, as I said earlier, the previous commission did not have its own premises because it was practically the occasional working body of the government. In collaboration with the Bank, which is the founder of the Republic of Serbia, we have been given an adequate space that at that time corresponded to our institutional and human capacities. Here, just as we speak, a contract has been concluded with another institution which is also established by the Republic of Serbia, where we will sit in the next period and have a significant spatial capacity that will be able to meet our internal needs. Also, it is a very important point in all of this that our intention is to practically move forward in 2020 with the modernisation of state aid control rules, i.e. the coherence of state aid. Our goal was to bring harmonisation to European legal assets in this regard. However, as I pointed out earlier, I think that we all just got caught up in a certain situation that was turned into an emergency, and then later into an emergency situation, and then we had to focus our priorities on other priorities. In the period 2020 itself, we also adopted the Status and Rules of Procedure on the work of the Commission's Council and the Commission's Rules of Procedure, as I said, and the acts of systematicisation, financial plans and public procurement plans. What is most important is that this council held 43 sessions in this assembly, where 53 acts were adopted, which first determines the existence of state aid and subsequently assesses the consistency of such state aid. After all, what is also relevant is that we had about 15 notifications regarding the need to report state aid. To be clear, it is a practically identical act where we assess whether or not it is necessary to report to the Commission requires additional efforts, the human capacities of our professional and accompanying service. After that, we played a very interesting role in creating the entire economic space during Kovid, or the measures that were brought at the moment by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Since the very beginning, from the end of March, the European Commission has adopted a set of new rules relating to the temporary framework, which is actually about situations, to be honest with you, that it is about the relaxation of state aid rules, given the moment which is characterized by emergency circumstances such as SARS-KOV 2. In fact, these rules were overly applied to the conditions under which subsidies can be granted, the tax deferral, or the tax exemption, as well as the conditions under which they will be able to give subsidised interest rates and to what amount, whether the state will be able to guarantee loans and, ultimately, whether it will be able to cover fixed costs, participate in the recapitalisation of certain economic operators and, in the very end, whether and in what way it will be able to support certain medical cooperations which will aim to remove this epidemic. In this regard, we have reacted without delay and only about 15 to 20 days after the European Commission adopted its plan, i.e. the temporary framework, we have translated it into co-operation with the Ministry of Finance, which was a formal proposing and, of course, the Government has adopted regulations that relate primarily to the elimination of harmful consequences and the elimination of serious disturbances in the economy of the outbreak of infectious disease, and then a special regulation relating to the recapitalisation of market participants. In this sense, it is very important to point out only that these regulations were a fruit of harmonisation with European legal assets, not the fruit of the government's arbitraryness of the Republic of Serbia, although this has been pointed out several times in individual media. In view of this, it was absolutely not about the individual interests of the company or the specific sector, but about harmonisation, which we repeatedly pointed out on our website which, unfortunately, was not visited by relevant reporters. Also, what is important is that we have approached further modernisation and that we have produced a large number of drafts, regulations and instructions that are adopted at this time in 2021, but I am not going to spend your valuable time right now, it is confusing to listen to these circumstances, but what is definitely our goal for the future is to regulate specific areas related to regional state aid, energy and environmental protection, rehabilitation, restructuring of non-financial actors in difficulty, then, we have for medical equipment, we have horizontal assistance regulated, or its compliance with risk capital through basic businesses, small and medium-sized enterprises, broadband networks, etc. That's all we're practically going to have in the next period, and I hope already in 2021, since we're talking about the previous report, we're going to have adopted and we're going to be able to devote more time to that in some future report. What is definitely beneficial are the positive and affirmative assessments of the European Commission, which have been drawn up in the annual report on the progress of the Republic of Serbia, particularly in the area of eight concerning competition policy, with the emphasis that de jure and partial de facto operational independence of the Commission have been established and that certain postulates have been transferred, especially in the context of co-operation relating to harmonisation and general co-operation with the European Commission in individual cases. I wouldn't take any more of your time. We are at our disposal for all additional questions from my fellow members of the Council and myself. If you have any further questions, we are here to identify you closer, because I simply feel that it is not adequate at this time to explain them, especially if you have them in writing in front of you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-10-0.u7521	I thank the President of the Commission. We are continuing with the representatives of the promoter.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-10-0.u7522	Thank you. Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as always, I must first of all express my satisfaction with the opportunity to address you on the annual report on the work of the Securities Commission. As my esteemed colleague said in his discussion, the previous year was challenging for all regulators, and I would say especially for financial market regulators, since all events related to the global health crisis, i.e. pandemic, have caused virtually all countries to face the situation that they must face significant challenges, particularly in the area of preserving financial stability. What I would like to say is that all relevant institutions of the Republic of Serbia's system had a spot-on reaction last year. I am talking about all the institutions that make up the Financial Stability Committee of the Republic of Serbia, so I also think about the Ministry of Finance, the National Bank of Serbia, the Securities Commission, the Deposit Insurance Agency. I believe that the decisions made at the very beginning of the pandemic led to Serbia ending the previous year, I would say, indeed with impressive results, when the general indicators of the Serbian economy are at stake. What the pandemic has certainly brought is, let's say, a slight change in focus compared to what we had planned for the previous year, and these were, above all, some, I would say, innovative activities, i.e. further changes in domestic legislation, in order to bring domestic legislation closer to the European Union legislation. On the one hand, we had to move certain activities for this year, but therefore, I would say, we had a significant number of activities that led to the effects of the pandemic being tempered and that as such they did not affect, as I said, general economic indicators in the Republic of Serbia. I wouldn't bother you too much with your factography, you could see it in the report that was delivered to you. What I'm going to say is that the Commission has been able to adapt to all the challenges that the Crown has brought. So despite significant constraints in the context of the possibility of gathering and organising our sessions, we held 38 sessions of the Commission last year, let's say, in 2019 there were 35. What you can see is that it was an effect of the crisis is far less activity of companies in the capital market itself. Let's say we had 13 approved procedures for taking over stock companies, compared to 25, say, in 2019. However, some of the measures taken at the very beginning of the pandemic have led to some new activities. As you know, there has been an amendment to the first regulation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and then to the amendment and addition of the Capital Markets Act, which has significantly simplified the process of emissions of corporate bonds, namely all debt charters of value in the Republic of Serbia, of course, with respect to all the obligations that the Republic of Serbia has made in its accession process to the European Union. What I can say is that we've had extremely successful procedures for these corporate bonds. I will only mention a show that ended later in listing those bonds on the Belgrade Stock Exchange, we are talking about the Enegroproject holding. The total value of this emissions was about 3.3 billion dinars. What we also had as a fact of the previous year is that there is a continued trend in delinquency of certain public societies from the domestic capital market, which is a trend that we see practically in the last ten and over years. I think it's a relatively positive trend that leads to the fact that only those companies that actually use the opportunities of the capital market remain on the capital market. In the previous year, we had 51 delinition situations from the capital market. What is the actual situation on December 31st, we had 16 brokerage companies active in the Republic of Serbia, nine authorised banks, five investment fund management companies, which run 18 funds and six castod banks. This is a situation that shows that interest in participating in the domestic capital market remains strong. On the other hand, we have 74 audit houses, since the Commission and someone who performs control functions when it comes to the audit market. So we have a total of 74 audit houses licensed in the Republic of Serbia, of which 30 have the Commission's permission to record values for the revision of public society financial reports. These permits are divided by certain segments compared to the segment of the Belgrade Stock Exchange, so we have 11 audit houses that are audited by companies on the document, eight those on the open market and 11 on the MTP segment of the market. Another small quantitative illustration of what the Commission did last year. So we've been processing some 530 investment companies reports, some 6.994 investment fund management reports - investment funds and their depositaries. In total, the Commission brought in 38 sublegislative acts, brought in about 10 opinions and views, and representatives of the Commission participated in 22 working groups on making different legal solutions. What you already know is that one longer period of time is working on a strategy for the development of the capital market, i.e. a new capital market law. I sincerely hope that either at the end of this year or at the beginning of next year, we will have the opportunity to discuss these legal proposals. What I can further say, simply as one additional piece of information for you, is that it is also an intensive work of the new law on the takeover of stock companies. All of this will lead to, after the completion of this one cycle of changes to domestic regulation, being fully consistent with the European Union's latest assets, which will further enable market participants to effectively comply with their business with all those market participants in the European Union's capital market, therefore, the most developed market, when we talk about the European continent. What is certainly waiting for us in the next period is a whole series of challenges, let's say – additional incentives, participants in the capital market. We are also following the beginning of the application of the Digital Property Act. So, at the end of June, the law begins to apply. Honestly, I'd say, with impatience, all of us in charge of regulating that one brand-new ecosystem expect to see the first effects of that law. I hope that we may have the opportunity by the end of this year or at the beginning of next to discuss the results we have achieved in this segment again. As one, let's say, the first information for you is that the interest of those who plan to take advantage of the opportunities provided by the Digital Property Act is really great and we really expect to see significant shifts, first of all on the agenda of encouraging further innovation in this digital ecosystem. I think it will contribute fully to the further development of the domestic IT industry, but also to the creation of a chain of events, when the use of all those opportunities that the Serbian capital market provides to companies, which I hope will only contribute further to the growth of gross social product in the Republic of Serbia, i.e. further economic progress of the country. This is the essential and main objective of the existence of all regulatory institutions, and this is primarily the creation of new capital, so some new values, and then the suppression of all the adverse consequences, or those of adverse events that we can find on that market. I believe that we now finally have a set of tools that will significantly help us in this regard. For all further questions, I am at your disposal. So much for me for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-10-0.u7523	Thank you, Mr. Jankovic. The word is Mrs. Hukic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-10-0.u7524	I thank you, Your Honors Chairman. Dear People's MPs, the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures has submitted, in accordance with the provisions of the Public Procurement Act, a regular annual report on work for 2020 to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. For the first time, we submit the report in line with the provisions of the new Public Procurement Act, which began to apply on 1 July 2020, given that the provisions of the new law did not make any changes to the legal position and status of the Republic of Serbia as an independent and independent body of the Republic of Serbia providing the protection of rights in public procurement procedures and for its work corresponds to the National Assembly. The report contains all the elements prescribed by the Public Procurement Act itself, therefore, in a detailed manner all the information on all segments of the work of the Republic Commission during the reporting period has been provided. I would only say that in 2020, the Republic Commission worked, like everyone else, in specific conditions that have been caused by an epidemic, and in this sense we believe that we have managed to adapt adequately to the organisation of work in these specific conditions, so that full continuity and without exception, indicators in the report speak, including our deadlines for action. So all the data are detailed in the report. I'm going to put the most important ones in short lines. In 2020, the Republic Commission held a total of 307 sessions, at which 1147 decisions were made, 835 decisions were made on grounds of applications for the protection of rights, which is still the dominant competence of the Republic Commission, of 835 decisions, at rights requirements, in 50% of the claim for protection of rights were assessed, as established and public procurement procedures were partially or in general, in 37% of the cases of the claim for protection of rights were assessed, as unfounded and rejected, and in 13% of the cases were considered not to meet the procedural assumptions for measuring the requirements for the protection of rights and such claims were rejected. In 2020, the Republic Commission decided on public procurement procedures, the total estimated value of 105 billion 257 million 477 thousand 342 dinars, in that part we have an increase, compared to the previous year in 2019, when the estimated value was around 71 billion dinars, and in the name of the rights protection fees, in favour of the Republic of Serbia's budget, during 2020, a total of 133 million 335 000 520 dinars were paid, where we also have a rise, compared to the previous 2019. When it comes to operating deadlines, despite the conditions of an epidemic, the Republic Commission has succeeded, I say, to ensure continuity and efficiency, so that in about 90% of the cases it was decided within the legal deadline. Of course, most of the items we decided on under the provisions of the previously applicable Public Procurement Act, given that the new law began to apply only half a year, and the overall duration of the procedure, before the Republic Commission, counting from the day of the formation of the case, was shortened. So in 2020, it was 29.8 days, in 2019 it was 41 days, that period was even longer in the previous years, so we have a continuous improvement here, and the average time of decision, counting on the receipt of complete documentation, was 21.8 days. In 2020, the Republic Commission adopted seven solutions, which imposed fines, contracting authorities and responsible contracting entities, one public procurement contract was annulled, and with the new law of the biggest changes that occurred, with the new Public Procurement Act, in relation to the jurisdiction of the Republic Commission, were changes in relation to the jurisdiction of the Republic Commission, for the conduct of the infringement procedure, for infringements prescribed by the Public Procurement Act. Therefore, the Republic Commission is no longer the authority conducting the infringement procedure in the first degree, but has the possibility to apply for an infringement procedure in so far as it finds that there has been a violation of the law, which may result in a criminal liability. So, in this first period of application of the Law, so by the end of 2020, there were no specific activities in this sense, except that, in accordance with the legal obligation, we concluded with July 30, all cases relating to violations were handed over to the actual and local competent courts. So there were few cases under the new law in that period, but already in the first half of 2021 activities were undertaken in this sense. So this would be the most basic data, all other data are detailed in the very text of the report, including data relating to other activities of the Republic Commission, so co-operation with other institutions and strengthening the capacity of this body. All this information is contained in the text of the report, and, of course, in 2020, all these activities were adapted to the possibilities, in relation to the conditions that were present during the reporting period. I'd have that much, thank you for the invitation, and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-10-0.u7525	Thank you, President of the Republic Commission. The Finance Committee, on behalf of the Proposer's representative? Yes, President Aleksandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-10-0.u7526	The respected representatives of the institutions that you have today through the reports here to address your fellow Members, honourable fellow Members, we at the Committee on Finance on 24 May 2021, at the 30th session, have considered these four reports for 2020, and what was most interesting to us, is that the first report of the Commission on State Aid actually for the first time we have had the opportunity to hear about what was happening, and secondly, how to tell the Commission in the power of the work of the Assembly, because in 2009, they were more connected to the Ministry of Finance, and since we had entered into negotiations with the Government by 2019 and the elections were actually done with the help of the working body of the Government that formed several representatives of the Ministry, so that their work was more about the Ministry of Finance, and since we had entered into negotiations with the EU and this chapter 8 of competitiveness, and we see that this part of work and the most important clastarism of Serbia, which has been the most important in the country's of time in the past, and the country's history, has come to the need to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to pay for the state, and the state to pay for the state. In 2020, the formal start of this commission is, and that is what we can say is that the worst year in the world should begin a very important commission, but I think she has done well with her work, given that the Republic of Serbia has been able to manage well in the pandemic and that shows all the results of our country's work, but the Commission has established this institutional framework, of course with the help of both the MPs and the board of directors. What is important, and what the committees in charge adopted on time, as early as January, almost from the beginning of the year, all acts with the help they should be doing. With the help of the Rules and Rules of Procedure on Labour, which they defined and which are the powers of the Committee on Budgets and Finance, they were obliged to hand over the Systematization Act to the Board on Administrative Affairs, and this is of great importance because it defined 27 jobs, and essentially they could not be filled, because indeed their work was disabled and stopped as well as all the new institutions that worked on 15 March, but it should be said that 5 members of the council with the President, so they were doing the job, 6 people who were constantly employed, transferred from the Ministry of Finance, who have been doing this job for the past 10 years and 6 have been employed by temporary and occasional jobs, and the troubles that are with the very space for work, which is not only your problem, to say immediately. All institutions in the jurisdiction of the National Assembly have certain problems, some are successfully solving them, and some are still struggling, but how can I say, it's up to you to fight, and for a better environment in which you operate. It is important for us here, that you are, and that you are doing your job when it comes to harmonisation, Serbia's legislation with EU legislation, and that MPs know why it is of great importance, that part that concerns legislation, which agrees with the legislation on transport, especially air transport and, say, the part that concerns legislation from the energy field, I will say that we have always had in the evaluations of fiscal councils, great criticism, when it comes to giving certain funds and subsidies, when it comes to "Er Serbia", and we have essentially come to this point that we are simply doing this whole job with the consent of the EU. Therefore, today no one can say that we in certain ways support our public enterprises and businesses that have entered certain strategic partnerships and privatisation, in a way that is not in line with EU directives, and then legislation relating to the procedures themselves and the formation of sublegal acts in the field of energy that should be in agreement with the energy community. The path we are talking about is precisely with the help of this Commission on State aid, and that is of great importance to us, as the state relieves all the pressures it has previously had from the legislative authorities when it comes to the EU and the European Commission. So I think it's true for this year that this subject is not sufficiently recognized in public. This means that, in fact, the EU's harmonisation process is long and painful, but you are there, of course, to help and to work and to bring those acts, to agree on the rules and to inform in an extremely responsible manner the MPs here in the Serbian Parliament, which is of great importance to us that in direct contact with European parliamentarians we have a competent commission concerning accession and formation, stabilising relations with the EU, headed by Mr Orlic. We can give our results at any moment when it comes to this subject. For us, this is of great importance, although the European Commission's report speaks of last year that this topic may not be sufficiently present and recognised in public. It is of great importance to us that we have full information here as MPs. What we've noticed is that the project budget shows exactly that, that you weren't able to develop enough in the last year and work, given the justified circumstances of the Kovid-19 pandemic, like everyone else, and that's why the budget that's scheduled is practically half realised, but that doesn't mean that you can't go at full capacity this year. As for the Commission's State Aid Report, of course, we are always here to help, and if you think we have some issues that we can open up in the light of certain public hearings, to inform all MPs, we are always open to co-operation. As regards the Commission for the Protection of Vendors in Public Procurement Procedures, since it is the order of the Report, so I address, the Report that it has submitted, we have had the opportunity to listen to Mrs Fukic several times and, in the end, we have had the new law and the election of a new president and one member of the Commission, that job ended on December 23, 2020 and in this Report, practically and on the work of the Commission, and also on the report for the past year of the institution itself, we have had the opportunity to see that we are not only assessing this work, but we have had the opportunity to see that the European Commission has also sent its own Commission, which has been assessing this work and which shows that only this result of the reduction of the proceedings and decision-making with, say, for example, on days 29.8 or decision-making from 28.6 days to 21.3 days on average, shows progress in the work of this institution. We think that the biggest stumbling block is when, let's say, because you have three council members and nine members, we don't do that choice of members whose mandate has expired, and then that Council is somewhere stopped in this work, and that actually shows us that the joint job has to be effective and in line with the deadlines set through the law and that it's one incentive and our support for you to do this job as well. What we see from work is that there is this continuity in this work and in protecting the right, that apparently legal persons have a growing confidence, because the increase in the number of cases you handled in the last year, although you've done a lot in online format, shows, in fact, that legal persons somewhere really trust institutions and therefore file complaints. That value of 105 billion dinars and that increase compared to 71 billion dinars in the value of contracts that are in the area of your complaints, in fact, showing exactly that result. The revenues you listed are 50% higher, when it comes to taxes and that is also one of the parameters of support that you raise the scale when it comes to the quality of the Commission's work on the protection of bidders. So, you're an example of good practice and obviously the European Commission can present your work as one of the good examples to the countries in the region, and I think that when there is a time, you will obviously be able to present as that example of good practice to your colleagues in other countries in the neighbourhood. The Public Procurement Office is now the body that has actually been defined by the new Public Procurement Act and has started working in this format since 01 July 2020, according to a member of the new law 241 and for the first time now we have, in fact, the role of the office that completes the monitoring of the whole procurement process. So, the orderers are now representing this so-called public. The Institute, there's been a job done so far, but I think somewhere now under this law, it's more complete, in contact with those legal persons who are conducting the whole procedure. So from demands to prevention of the advisory work, to control itself and to professional assistance and to that part of the infringement proceedings actually shows that this new law has given you a lot to do and to complete when it comes to monitoring public procurement at all. The conclusions that have shown that 1,161 contracts worth more than eight billion dinars have actually been concluded in the public procurement process, and that the number of opinions in the second half of 2020 has dropped, which means that we are coming to the point that the public procurement companies themselves have been educated somewhere, which is of great importance, because they also see you somewhere, recognize the Public Procurement Office as an institution to which they should report before they start the whole process and before they even start doing one job that, of course, has their own procedure and that procedure should be respected. In 2020 1,289 positive opinions were issued by the Office and only 29 negative opinions. This shows, in fact, the results of the work and what is important, that there is to be training, but that trustees, or contracting authorities, need to know what criminal provisions are and precisely because they are always turned to respect procedures. The Securities Commission, we had opportunities several times last year and in this to meet, precisely because many of the new laws that were passed were practically given, such as the Revision Act last year, which came into force and the Open Investment Funds Act. We also have the Digital Property Act to come into force now on June 28th. What we have had a chance to see is to simplify the procedures in general when it comes to the application of this law and somewhere the Securities Commission is sure to have pressure now, because when you get new competencies, and you have the same number of personnel to do the job, and new topics are for them, as well as for the users of their services, then there is clearly always pressure on that institution. It is certain that the new portal that you are establishing will help you to do all this simply. What you have introduced, the practical part relating to IT communication, is of great importance and as you have led to the preparation of the new law, because I need somewhere to inform Members that, under this current law, the mandate as the Commission is at the end of this year and that there will obviously be certain proposals in amendments and additions to the law, i.e. in the new law, what the Commission will look like, given the new competences, to new circumstances. The Securities Commission is no longer the same as the Commission ten years ago. What we had a chance to see, is that you conspired with the money last year, precisely because you stopped the business activities, which were not practically interested in a certain kind of privatisation based on which you actually have a certain type of income, but also that in a very legal way you covered that loss from the defined reserves and that on that basis you did external supervision of public finances, that is, spending the budget of the Securities Commission, before you sent a report on the implementation of your budget practically and the plan for this year. So it's very important that the maximum negative impact that could have occurred in the past year is consistent with the new circumstances. When it comes to the Kovid pandemic – 19 and it is very important to say that the result in the work of all these institutions lies in the joint task with the Ministry of Finance and the National Bank of Serbia, we have this quarter, in fact, as a result of 2020, that 1.2% of GDP growth is, in general, economic activities and that the inflow of foreign direct investment is almost one billion euros, which is more than the total region of the Western Balkans, which is all of these countries and is more practical for 13.5% than last year in the same quarter. What is more important to say is that the stability of the exchange rate in the Republic of Serbia and the stability of inflation for us are very important to us, and we have raised this as a question on the Committee. So we asked whether these institutions are monitoring developments in the world capital market when it comes to inflation growth and interest rates growth, and whether certain reflections will occur on our economy, whether they are preparing for certain measures, how they are doing it, and what is of great importance to us as a fact that we have a picture in fact of how they are monitoring it, how they are monitoring state aid, how they are monitoring the Commission of value, in cooperation, of course, with the National Bank of Serbia, because in many Commissions and when they do these new laws, they cooperate, of course, with the Ministry of Finance. In fact, this shows access to the state, the responsibility of the state to the citizens. So we have to follow what's going on in the world just to be able to project our future and in an adequate way to react at given times. That's what we did during the pandemic. We first jumped out with the support of citizens at the time of the pandemic Kovid – 19 and practically state of emergency, when there was no flow of goods and services in that way as it was practically March 15, 2020, and this proved to be good. Many European countries have been late with this and have therefore waited for the end of the year with high economic downturn rates. We are the country that, with the lowest drop rate, practically ended that year and we have the best results in the EU and now we see, in fact, in this first quarter that we have the best results, which shows that we will go through the projected growth rate of 6%, where many have been skeptical and criticised that rate, first of all, the Fiscal Council, but not just them, but certain associations of businessmen and economists who simply have a critical attitude towards the state whenever it is necessary, because somewhere it has become very modern to criticise the state, and when you look at the results essentially, then you see that Serbia is really going a good path, and that's what we think citizens always recognize. On June 3rd, Serbia signed a new arrangement with the IMF, of course, it is an advisory character, as well as the one before it was, which shows, in fact, that Serbia is really going a good way when it comes to our public finances. This much for the introduction when it comes to the reports of these institutions, and I think that each of the representatives here can directly answer the questions of the MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-10-0.u7527	Thank you, committee presidents. We're moving on to authorised representatives of the parliamentary groups. In front of the MP group Justice and Reconciliation Party -- the United Peasant Party, Vice-President of the National Assembly Dr Momir Zukorlic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-10-0.u7528	Dear chairman, respected representatives of the report committees, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, respected citizens, we have four important reports dealing with three important areas, the area of state aid, the area of public procurement and the area of securities of value. Reports are, as can be seen from the reports themselves and from what we have heard from the rapporteurs, made up by the standards that are envisaged, and can be estimated as such to meet the formal conditions and that they are therefore of a quality. Also, according to the content, they are factographic, which is the most important for each report, as can be seen a certain shift in the development of institutions, i.e. commissions dealing with these fields, which is certainly necessary to note. However, what I find important is that the topics themselves are of paramount importance, and that those of us today deserve special attention and consideration from multiple aspects. The issue of state aid is a very important issue. The notion of aid itself indicates that the state is not only the cold mechanism that meets the procedures, laws and forms, but that it is a system that is aware that a successful state, in addition to fulfilling legal, formal and other procedural obligations, is viewed by its quality and its success in relation to what is its key target category, which is man, according to the degree of humanity towards its citizens, or residents, because the quality of each system, and that means the state as the most complex system, is looking at the sense of responsibility and support of those who are weakest. In addition to what is achieved through the state system in terms of rights and opportunities, unfortunately, even in developed countries, the category of assistance is something that cannot be eliminated, especially in the countries so-called. transitions, especially transitions that can't be completed, which takes so long that I don't know if it can be called transition anymore, but since certain transformation processes aren't finished, unfortunately, it's still a transition. So, in these and such circumstances, and especially when certain trials and hardships occur, such as the pandemic of Kovid, which affects all mankind, that means both our country and the citizens of this country, then the notion of help is particularly important. State aid, too, is even more important. So this is an opportunity to point out that the representatives of the state, the most responsible, at the highest levels, had feelings, and they were timely and effective in doing everything in their power to make the state available to their citizens, not only when it comes to those generally known things, first of all, activities and measures that have been taken to tackle the immediate danger of pandemic by human health and reduce to the lowest possible degree, but parallel to that and all those aid measures that have been taken towards citizens in order to address the economic and social consequences that this monster has caused for so long. It certainly is necessary to shed some air of elemental human light and testimony on these issues. Here, it will almost turn out to be a year when New Market and the wider Sanjay space were exposed to a kind of special coup. It was June and July last year, extremely high mortality. So, a blow that was above any average of any part of this country when, in some way, the local institutions of the state system, both the city administration and the Medical Centre itself experienced a kind of collapse and showed inability, and the inability to deal with this challenge, but we actually had a quick and very effective response from the state, both from the level of the government and then from the level of the Army of the Republic of Serbia, and I can say that, despite the kind of tragedy that happened in that area where people really died every day... So it was an atmosphere where someone you know dies every day. So that's something that was simply unimaginable and I think even the mortality average exceeded the Lombardia. So what is the positive side of such a tragic situation is that we have had the most effective reaction of the state system from all levels, and that we must not forget, because our spiritual values, shared and individual spiritual values teach us that one who is not grateful to humans is not even grateful to God. So it's a value that can't be forgotten and neglected, and gratitude is something that I have to express not only in words, but also in terms of the whole relationship of gratitude for what's been done. We then, therefore, had mentioned state levels that responded effectively. It's true, it can't be seen that way, black and white. This is a theme that certainly can't just skip, but it has to be seen in all the shades, positive and negative, that happened at the time. Of course, where people die this way, emotions are very pronounced and it is therefore very important to try to be objective. Sometimes it may be necessary to release a certain time distance in order to have access to an objective aspect, all objective aspects of these events. So, here I mean that you can't just go over it and say it -- it's over, it's over, who died, who survived, who helped us, who didn't help us. There's got to be a responsibility. We have to get to the point where we're going to question why two months, say, the New Market crisis headquarters didn't sit down, and so many people, say, died. Why were there so many infected in the city administration itself to the mayor himself, and that it was hiding, etc., and then only the behaviour of the Head of General Hospital in Novi Pazar, or the Medical Center, and what did we talk about earlier? It is certainly not a topic now, but individuals cannot be amnesty from responsibility, nor hide for what some other individuals, responsible for vertical states, have come to help. These are two sides that cannot be overshadowed by each other, such as the negative behaviour and irresponsibility of certain people at local level cannot be overshadowed in any way by the state and people at the state level, at the level of government and other instances that I have mentioned. Neither can those responsible hide behind the state aid that we received at that time. So these are the things that have to be separated, because they shouldn't actually burn raw into dry ones and we shouldn't put them in the same basket as the ones who are responsible and those who are guilty. So that's something that's going to have to be lit up in the next period. The sensitivity of the subject is that when you open such a question you risk going into some populism, so that simply with those emotions that are still somehow fresh with families themselves, but also with all of us in that space, you leave the impression that you have a goal of some day-political point. Of course, it's not for our cause and we insist very carefully on all this, but we will continue to insist. In addition to having received then very serious state aid and in the field of equipment of the hospital itself, through the necessary equipment that was needed at that time, which actually deserves to be pointed out, but also deserves to be examined why all these equipment was not activated for months, but was standing in the warehouse, and we had such an emergency situation that it needed. Why aren't some parts of that equipment ever installed? These are all the things that need to be lit up for the reason that... Allowing what is right and what is wrong, to be treated equally deserved and guilty, to lose the sense of merit, to lose the sense of self-help, to support itself, but to clearly draw a line between those who are responsible and those who are guilty. Of course, although it's not about state aid directly, but what I want to say right now is that, in parallel with the systemic reaction and the activity that occurred at that moment, followed by high responsibility and humanity from the positions of the responsible people in the state positions, we have also had individual reactions throughout Serbia, from Shumada, Vojvodina and other parts of Serbia, the reporting of doctors and other people, institutions, organisations that have decided to engage in this aid, and they deserve that we do not forget them and that we point out this moment. Someone will say it has nothing to do with state aid. It doesn't matter, but we're actually very concerned that it's important to point out every good deed, because pointing out the good work is a lesson to everyone else that we can be that way, that they can be in such situations and that human value, and that's what's very important that they always stand out. Fighting to earn for yourself and your family is not a high human value. It's more of a survival instinct. So that urge and that instinct have animals as well. So what someone knows about making millions is ability, but it's not some high quality, it's not something that's considered a high human quality, or value. However, to have the consciousness and strength that in a moment when they are not in danger to you, in a moment when your life and your health and your family, your property is not compromised, to have the capacity of humanity, to worry and to engage in the help of someone 100, 200, or 300 kilometers away. These are human values, which, unfortunately, are under various attacks and blows of this, say, materialistic cultures and biologicalized cultures that are now increasingly moving beyond and over our space that previously had much more of that spirit and much more of the particular ethics that the culture of life permeated. So, under such blows, such examples are also very important from the aspect of human gratitude, but also from the aspect of the lesson that needs to be pointed out all the time so that in fact we here in this space, regardless of our European and all other integrations, we this spirit of humanity, this spirit of benevolence here should be kept, grown, affirmed, revived where it is stuck. That's why I want to mention it, as well as all the help that came from the diaspora, which never forgets our space, as well as all the help that came from Bosnia and Herzegovina, so it's very important that we point out here. I also want to highlight the importance of the assistance made available to citizens when it comes to vaccines. I certainly don't mean citizens of this country, because it wasn't help, it was a government obligation. But what's fascinating, and what I might say more than once here, is what they've been responsible for in this country has allowed citizens of neighbouring countries to receive a vaccine in this country. Perhaps because I was involved in this process, given that I have a really large number of friends and acquaintances in the surrounding countries, especially BiH, Montenegro, Croatia, I was perhaps one of the most attacked addresses where my people came in -- can we come in to vaccinate? At the beginning of that procedure were little, until it was all played out, more complicated, so I simply had to turn to the President's office for help and we got very quickly, so I even joked, so I said – give me one quota for brotherhood and unity, to make it easier to explain what it means, then I explained – a large number of people from these countries come to me, let's do it a little bit, and certainly that really fascinatingly produced results. The truth is, lately, it's all been simplified, so we don't have some complicated procedures, but there are huge numbers, even in hundreds that have just come across me to the country to be vaccinated, and that's even a lot of people who have had some reservations about Serbia because of various judgments and prejudices over the past years and decades. So it's something that represents to me one of the most powerful means of politics and diplomacy, so much more powerful than tanks, planes, and I don't know waiting for other conventional levers of power, so that's something I really want to share with you here as well as with other citizens of Serbia. This is an indication that the state must not be just one cold mechanism, one machine as it is in principle, but that it can have a soul and, in fact, to the extent that we succeed in all the pores of this country to breathe more souls into this country, to this extent, this country will be better and be warmer and be more native and be both patriotic and fatherly. All of these are very important aspects, and they're all actually kind of in this incubator called the feeling of others, which is called the feeling of help. In that spirit, I actually want to welcome, support such activities, encourage the most responsible people at the head of the state anyway, and together with us here, who represent the microphone of citizens for all their giving and troubles, for all their positive and negative states. So this is actually an opportunity where I want to praise this activity through this report and continue to do so because it's easy to set fire to the already flammable atmosphere, but good and smart people, and that means good and smart statesmen, good and smart hosts, good and smart carriers, family hosts, family heads, they'll always let their minds go forward, not start, but turn off, open up new pages, open new paths, and the good work that comes from our side is actually what unlocks all those hearts. In this regard my support and congratulations and move on. It is the only way that we actually have this space in our country, but also in the region, regardless of what we now have a series of such countries, as you can see, not only because of the attitudes of some world powers and the international community, but because of the very fact that we are directed at each other, regardless of what happened, we must find a way of unity, and it can only be built on the values of good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-10-0.u7529	I would like to thank the Vice-President of the National Assembly, the authorised representative of the Parliamentary Group of the Justice and Reconciliation Party, the United Peasant Party. The president of the SDPS parliamentary group, MP Branimir Jovanovic, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-10-0.u7530	Thank you, Vice President. Dear representatives of the committees, colleagues and fellow MPs, first of all, I must commend the practice that we have put up in this session to regularly discuss the report of competent committees, independent regulatory bodies, and I am particularly glad that today the representatives of the committees who are just taking care of the regulation of the financial market at one time which is very challenging for all of us, especially for them in some unforeseen circumstances that we encountered a year ago and that we must walk in such a way that we all overcome together. It is good that, in this way, we as Parliament are also performing another part of the role that we have, in addition to the representative role, in addition to the legislative role of course, we are also achieving a control role in this way because we are in some way competent to exercise control over the work of these committees. Discussions are a good opportunity for each parliamentary group, i.e. its representatives, to express their views, to point out possibly some of the shortcomings that exist in the work of the committees based on their reports, but also to point to certain solutions to overcome problems together. Today we have a report on the work of the State Aid Control Commission and this control system was established under the State Aid Control Act in 2009. So, somewhere in 2010, if I'm not mistaken, the Commission started to work at the initial capacity and we can't say it's in the pendulum, but in any case, there's still room for its improvement, for modernization in its work. It has the same role on our market as the European Commission when we talk about the EU market. It is important that the Commission's work contributes firstly to increasing transparency, i.e. the public has an insight into how money from the budget is spent. In particular, in this case, the way money goes to the name of state aid is spent, and we in the SDPS always point out that it is important that every citizen knows the flow of money from the budget from the moment on which the tax charge or administrative aid is based or in any way the money enters the budget until the moment when it is paid to the end-user, in this particular case when we talk about state aid. In this way we remove any suspicion that there is some kind of abuse, that there may be any form of corruption. It is also necessary to work continuously, as I have already stated, and in previous years, to strengthen the mechanisms available to the State Aid Control Commission. Simply, Mr Antonijevic spoke about it earlier, we need to do harmonisation with the legal framework in force in the EU, but we as the Assembly must work on it and all other authorities in the country to strengthen the Commission's mechanisms so that it can do its job properly. It is necessary for the Commission to have its hands cleared in certain situations where we are talking about control, accountability, punishment, in situations where there is a failure to grant state aid, because, note, the Commission does not grant assistance, it does not have budgetary resources, the Commission does not do the selection, nor decides which market participant should receive State aid, and therefore it is important that it has adequate mechanisms, in order to be a successful market regulator. The improvement of State aid control that monitors the transparency of division makes it impossible to place certain economic operators in a privileged position. This is very important in order to preserve sound competition on the market we need to create equal operating conditions for all market participants and thus strengthen free competition and create a healthy business climate. Such conditions also encourage the arrival of new investors and encourage investment on the domestic market. I will remind you that of all the investments coming into the region, more than half of them end up in Serbia. This is the result of a good work in the previous period. In order to maintain this trend, of course, it is necessary to constantly question ourselves, to see what are the motives that in some ways stimulate investors to come to Serbia. Sometimes it's a good infrastructure that has to do with state aid again, sometimes it's a quality workforce, it can be an adequate, or a good legal framework that provides investors with security, but often it's incentives that the state gives to investors, and it's often recently also a defining factor to open a new factory in Serbia, especially when we talk about investment coming from abroad. There is an important role of the Commission for State aid control, as it should point to respect for the conditions for granting subsidies. There are clearly prescribed criteria on the basis of which the subsidy is granted. They've been established before, and they need to be followed. Any serious company that comes to the new market wants to operate in stable conditions and in foreseeable conditions. Those serious companies that want to work for a longer period of time tend to see to work in stable conditions, as I have already said, may have a lower profit at the beginning, but long-term work for a longer period of time and then earning time and increase. It is therefore important that we continue to build stable institutions, improve our laws, strengthen independent bodies. It is the only guarantee that economic contracts will be respected and that the principles of sound competition in the market conditions of the economy will be maintained, another objective of state aid is to encourage the economic development of undeveloped areas. The reality is that not all parts of Serbia are evenly developed, so it is necessary to reroute state aid, i.e. from the republican budget to those less developed regions. In particular, this refers to infrastructure. The intention should be in each part of Serbia gradually improving the population standard so that it is equal, so that there are no drastic differences, and when we talk about the south, west or the far north of the country. One kind of help I want to point out, which comes from the state, is so-called. horizontal assistance. It refers to a number of unknown users in advance. There is a minor risk of distorting competition here because it is not a sectoral aid. Positive effects are multiple and can also be directed at small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, to restructure, to restructure businesses that have become in trouble, to hire new people, to perfect existing personnel, can also be directed to the area of culture, which is very important. In his presentation, Mr. Antonijevic just pointed out the pandemic that was caused by the coronary virus a year ago and the new conditions in which we had to work. It's easy to criticize. And over the past year, many have criticised the government's moves. Now we can kind of make a cut, draw a line and see if the government's measures were right. I think the government's measures were excellent. I am glad that we have already approached EU recommendations, done a certain type of harmonisation, so nothing has been done ad hoc. The importance of state aid to the economy and the population was then welcome. Now it is clear that the package of measures applied during this time period was excellent and there are many facts that support this attitude. It seemed at the beginning of the crisis that the economy would collapse, not just with us, but everywhere in the world, it seemed that there would be layoffs of workers, but that didn't happen with us. We reacted on time. State aid was rerouted in the right way. If we look at and see that at the end of last year the unemployment rate was one-digit, that's enough evidence that the measures were timely and that they were directed in the right way so that the economy could work. It is very important for us from the Social Democratic Party of Serbia, and we pay special attention when we talk about the position of workers, their working conditions, and therefore we support one such approach. We helped businesses in this way not to get workers fired, to keep employees satisfied, to make employers happy because they received certain funds from the budget, remained competitive on the market and business activities were at the same level, for example, as before the crown broke out. State aid can sometimes distort competition on the market, but in this situation state aid has proved to have helped certain companies remain competitive and to avoid closing them during the crisis. Sometimes it's just enough to ask a question – what would have happened if such help hadn't come in time? I'm sure we'd go a few steps back. It would be a much harder way to get back to the original state, let alone further our business activities. The Commission's report was also the subject of funds directed from the Ministry of Trade, Tourism and Telecommunications, particularly regarding the part relating to tourism, these funds were justifiably targeted as the Commission has found. It's simply one of the sectors most affected at the world level during the pandemic of the coronary virus. I will only list some figures that were in Serbia at the end of 2019 before the pandemic itself, where we recorded 3,689.000 tourists in that year, which is one record number, that the increase of foreign tourists by 8% was recorded. It happened then that we had more foreign tourists and foreign inflows of 1,436,000,000 euros. It just showed that any state aid that is directed in the right way and the sector that is most affected is always welcome. I must stress that the EC report found that Serbia was moderately prepared in the field of competition policy and that recommendations were generally adopted by us. Can the Commission's work be improved? Of course he can. It is important that there are stable conditions, it is important that there is sound competition. It should always be kept in mind, as I said at the beginning and that it is always a thin line, it is a thin limit when state aid can endanger healthy competition, or when state aid leaves certain economic operators in life and leaves them competitive on the market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-10-0.u7531	Thank you. The word has the mandated representative of the JS parliamentary group, MP Mr Djordje Kosanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-10-0.u7532	Thank you. Dear Vice-Presidents of the Assembly, honourable representatives of independent committees, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have today been united to discuss four reports, and before I go on to talk about it, I would like to point out once again that this is about a report on the Commission's work on State Aid Control for 2020. On the other hand, the report on the work of the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures, the report on the monitoring conducted for 2020 and, of course, the annual report by the Commission on the values of the Republic of Serbia for 2020. I will say that in the day to vote, the JS parliamentary group will support these reports, but you will allow it before I start talking about the reports themselves, I must also say that Serbia is a country that has stability and security in every sense. Serbia is a country that takes big steps forward and when I say so, I will say only some parameters, that Serbia had the best result in economic growth. We have both fiscal and monetary stability, even over 60% of all investments that come to the Western Balkans are heading towards Serbia, it speaks of the confidence of investors in Serbia. Our health system in the fight against Kovid 19 has proved much more successful than many health systems that may have been much better evaluated before the pandemic than Serbia's health system. Also, our citizens had four vaccines to offer. On the other hand, we also helped countries in the environment as far as vaccines are concerned. It's just some parameters that talk about how far Serbia goes along with the big steps ahead. On the other hand, when we talk about that there is an opposition in Serbia, it would be understandable to me that the opposition to power is fighting with ideas, works, programs, to criticise on the other hand the wrong actions of the authorities, but I cannot understand that the right opposition is trying to undermine the reputation of Serbia's institutions and state as a whole by lying. They give themselves the right to be police, give themselves the right to be government, to be prosecutor, and give themselves the right to lie to be the only valid evidence. Apparently, some quasi politicians in Serbia do not realize that the people have long recognized their policy based on the thesis -- the worse Serbia is, the better it is for us. But, as I said, Serbia is taking big steps forward. Serbia has long rejected politics, politics now run in Serbia. A good example of this is that today in Jagodina, a powerful German company, Fisher, opens a factory for the production of parts and additional equipment for high-class cars. So 350 workers will be employed. When I say so, by opening another powerful German factory in Jagodina Dragan Markovic Palma, but first and foremost Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic, they show the way Serbia should go. Otherwise, this powerful company has its own factories and in the United States, has its own company in China, has its own company in the Czech Republic. On the other hand, to remind me once again that Dragan Markovic Palma in Paralya hosted a 600-member delegation, of which 500 doctors and medical workers from the 25 medical centres of general hospitals and health homes from Serbia. And these trips were organized in gratitude to all our doctors and medical workers who gave their maximum in the fight against Kovid - 19. Returning to reports from this united debate, it should be said that these reports represent the work of independent committees and are here representatives. All these commissions for their work correspond exclusively to the National Assembly. When we look at the reports of these committees, we can conclude that their business is based solely on compliance with the rules governing the EU. It should also be noted that the work of all these commissions, but not just the commission, was at all specific at this time of the pandemic Kovida - 19. First, when we talk about the Commission for State Aid Control, any country that wants to become part of a large family, which wants to become part of the EU, is obliged to meet the accession requirements. One of these demands is state aid control. Speaking of which, the state aid system was established in Serbia in 2010 by adopting the State Aid Control Act. The power to control state aid in the Republic of Serbia has a Commission for State Aid Control, today we have representatives here. Its jurisdiction is certainly until Serbia joins the EU. The Commission is an operational independent body with the same powers in the Republic of Serbia as the European Commission in relation to EU Member States. This commission played an important role during the Kovid pandemic - 19, because the state helped citizens, only one parameter, as individuals. We must not forget the private sector's assistance on many occasions. When we talk about the Securities Commission, it should be said that the Serbian paper market is traditionally underdeveloped and it is no secret. So that's something we should be dealing with in the next period. The reason for this lies primarily in tradition and probably in a mistrust that is dominant in Serbia. Serbian citizens traditionally invest primarily in real estate, banking savings, on the other hand, but also in their business. We certainly can't compare to developed stock exchanges in America and Asia, but we have to do everything to make Serbia's securities market grow daily. And that seems like a dominant task. Without monitoring world practice and liberalisation of regulations, it is difficult to expect more significant progress in this area. So, as I said, daily monitoring and work on this issue, above all because the primary paper market is shallow, and therefore, on the other hand, the secondary market does not have the possibility of more significant traffic as far as Serbia is concerned. These are objective conditions in which the securities market in Serbia is currently in place and in which the frameworks are moving. I am sure that in the coming time, the role of the Securities Commission is crucial to the development and regulation of the Serbian value market. When it comes to public procurement, by opening Chapter 5, it is the result of changes made in the area of public procurement in Serbia, but by defining that through public administration reform, the system of public procurement is in line with all that is in the EU. Public procurement contracts represent, when we talk about other countries, a large part of the gross domestic product of each country's public spending budget. The important thing to note today is that the portal has accelerated the process of public procurement and certainly the control of public procurement in the Republic of Serbia and the Public Procurement Office daily provides support to portal users through its call centre and all bidders. No longer, I say once again that the Single Serbia parliamentary group will support all reports of these independent committees in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-10-0.u7533	Thank you. The word has been authorised by a representative of the parliamentary group of the Alliance of Vojvodina Hungarians, MP Rosalia Ekres. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-10-0.u7534	Dear Vice-President Kovac, honourable colleagues and fellow MPs, respected representatives of the competent committees, as well as known from the opening presentation, was adopted at the end of 2019 by the Law on State Aid Control, which is in line with the recommendations of the European Commission. The Commission for State Aid Control has also been formed as an independent and independent public authority organisation, thus creating a basic assumption of improving control and facilitating transparency in the granting of state aid, as well as strengthening competition. The Commission's most important competences are to assess the existence and consistency of state aid with the rules on the granting of State aid, to adopt and disclose the annual report on the state aid granted and to keep the register of State aid granted. In 2020, the Commission set up its organisation and personnel training as a newly formed organisation with the aim of improving the work of professional services. Training has been organised to improve human resources, all in co-operation with the European Integration Ministry. Since it is a newly established, independent and independent organisation in the first year of work, a legal and institutional framework for the smooth functioning and work of the Commission has been established. It is understandable that due to the difficult working conditions and first because of the pandemic in 2020, the Commission could not work at full capacity and it was not possible to adequately fill personnel capacities. However, the Commission reacted in due time to the adoption of the relevant regulations and the creation of a legal framework for State aid measures and for the support of the pandemic economy. The SVM Group accepts the Commission's work report on State aid control for 2020, because we believe it is necessary to support the Commission's efforts and activities in achieving its competence and planned objectives. According to the report on the work of the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights for 2020, very complex and complex activities carried out by the Commission as an independent and independent body of the Republic of Serbia that provides for the protection of rights in public procurement procedures are seen, and in the context of its competence for public procurement procedures, which were initiated under the old law in accordance with the provisions of the law, and for the procedures which have been initiated under the new law of 1 July 2020 under the provisions of the new law. I think it is important to refer to the highlighted irregularities in public procurement procedures that have been frequented and which occur in continuity for a longer period of time, which the Republic Commission has noted and as such noted in its report in its submission in response to the submitted requests for the protection of the rights of tenderers in public procurement procedures. All mentioned irregularities relate to the production of competitive documentation with unclear content which does not allow tenderers to prepare acceptable offers and on the basis of which subjectivity in the handling of the contracting authority would be excluded when assessing the tenders. Irregularities also refer to technical specifications that are discriminatory. Of course, this affects a limited range of potential bidders and narrows down competition, which is a poor practice in implementing public procurement procedures and conflicts with the basic principles of ensuring competition and prohibiting discrimination in public procurement procedures. The finding of irregularities in the report submitted in its nature and importance requires the exchange of experiences and knowledge in this area with other state authorities to take steps to reduce the frequency of these irregularities, increase competitiveness and eliminate discrimination, in order to increase efficiency and efficiency, i.e. to improve the overall public procurement system. The report on the work of the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights for 2020 gives us our support. Monitoring of the implementation of the Public Procurement Act was introduced by the current Public Procurement Act, which has been implemented since 1 July 2020, although according to the previously applicable law, by performing its tasks of the Public Procurement Administration, i.e. now the Public Procurement Office has indirectly carried out the activities of the proper implementation of public procurement procedures. According to the report on the implementation of the Public Procurement Office for 2020, a wide range and complexity of issues in the area of monitoring activities and handling in public procurement processes is visible. It is of exceptional importance to coordinate and co-operate with institutions and bodies whose competences are directly linked to the implementation of the Public Procurement Act, as well as bodies and competent institutions in order to prevent irregularities in public procurement procedures, criminal actions and the fight against corruption. It is particularly important to step up this co-operation with a view to increasing efficiency and reducing the possibilities for illegal business in this area. I believe that, given the fact that the Office does not have the legal authority to exercise control of completed contracts after public procurement procedures, it would be very important to step up co-operation with the DRI which has an important role in carrying out a review of the regularity of public procurement, not only public procurement procedures, the selection of bidders and the conclusion of contracts, but also the realisation of completed contracts and the personnel potential of integrity, expertise and skills, so that, at the same time as carrying out the audit procedures of financial reports, it can achieve a comprehensive insight into the documentation of the procedures, as well as the realization of completed contracts and bring quality and reliable analyses, as well as proposals for measures to remove identified irregularities and improve business in relation to public procurement procedures. The role of the Office is important in relation to the Law on the Organisation and Jurisdiction of State Authorities in countering organised crime, terrorism and corruption on the basis of the requirements of senior public prosecutors and the authorities of the Ministry of Interior with regard to the provision of professional assistance and supervision of certain public procurement procedures, and it is certainly necessary to step up activities and return information regarding the requested supervision. This represents an important activity in the implementation of planned actions and procedures in the accession process of the Republic of Serbia to the European Union, in relation to Chapter 23 "Justice and Fundamental Rights", as well as in Chapter five "public procurement". It is not less important to strengthen the preventive activities of the Office during the duration of the procurement procedure itself, which is of exceptional benefit to the contracting authorities and tenderers in order to remove irregularities and legal conduct both in public procurement and in future procedures. Improving and intensifying the education of contracting authorities, especially potential bidders in all areas of public procurement, should be one of the priorities of the Office. Unsatisfactory applicants often file criminal charges after the end of the proceedings or even after the completed contracts have been completed, indicating discrimination, irregularities and abuses in the selection of bidders, which is certainly harder and longer. Given that the law is in line with EU procurement rules, it is important to co-operate with the Office, as well as exchange of views and use of good practices, i.e. to implement public procurement procedures for EU member states. And this third report on the implemented monitoring of the public procurement office for 2020 has our support. As the fourth report, even though it is less public and less known what it deals with and what its competences are, it is likely that due to the insufficient development of the capital market and the less intensity of the transactions being carried out, it is important to stress that when it comes to the Securities Commission, it is a highly important organisation that is responsible as an independent and independent organisation for ensuring the legality and functioning of the securities market of value, with the aim of protecting investors and ensuring fairness, efficiency and transparency of the securities market. The report below shows a very broad range of business activities and competences of the Commission for Papers from the values seen in the organisation, regulation, control and supervision of the capital market. I'd single out just a few. The Commission shall monitor, monitor and monitor the operations of investment firms, investment funds management companies and investment funds; regulate, monitor and monitor the application of the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorists; further, regulate, monitor and monitor trade in securities from value. In order to carry out those tasks effectively, the Securities Commission shall, inter alia, adopt a sublegal act for the implementation of the law, adopt opinions and statements, organise training and examinations to obtain and issue certificates and work permits and cooperate with competent national authorities, the National Bank, courts and prosecutors. The Commission, also in order to provide legal assistance and exchanges of information, is co-operating with international organisations and foreign regulatory bodies in this area, especially with the International Organisation of Securities Commissions of Values, whose member is regular. It plays a significant role in the accession process of the Republic of Serbia to the European Union, given the fact that the Charter Commission is included even in four negotiating chapters, these are Negotiating Chapter 4 – Capital Movement, 6 – Business Rights, 9 – Financial Services and 17 – Economic and Monetary Policy. In order to respond effectively to the challenges arising from complex business and tasks within its competence, the Charter Commission certainly needs resources, and especially personnel capacities with relevant skills and skills and continuous education. The Parliamentary Group of the Alliance of the Duchy Hungarians is of the opinion that it is necessary to support the Commission's efforts and activities of values in achieving its competence and planned objectives. For this reason, we support and accept the Commission's annual report on values for 2020. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-10-0.u7535	Thank you. The word has the mandated representative of the PUPS-3P parliamentary group, MP Hadzhi Milorad Stosic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-10-0.u7536	Thank you. The esteemed chairman, the distinguished representatives of the regulatory bodies, ladies and gentlemen the MPs, the respected citizens of Serbia, are today in the debate ahead of us with four reports submitted by independent regulatory bodies on their work in 2020. With this debate, the National Assembly performs its constitutionally designed control function, oversight of their work. I would immediately like to point out that it is good that in this meeting, the practice of discussing these reports on both committees and plenary sessions, and more importantly that we started to conduct these discussions, to say, with some real time delay, or to avoid earlier cases, to discuss these acts or not at all, or to talk about this delay for a year or two days, and even longer, which is why this institute of control has been quite devised in the past. In the first instance, the Commission’s State Aid Control Report, which had a lot of work last year, given the pandemic of the Kovidi, i.e. the need for the state to allocate significantly more State aid than was planned, and all of this had to be done in walking, as the pandemic came quite unexpected and could not properly predict its course and time of its duration. The Commission, therefore, stated that it has achieved its greatest success in preparing several regulations that the government adopted during the spring of last year at its sessions and based on which it created a legal basis for a valid and rapid response under emergency circumstances. These Regulations were also in line with the European Union's legal assets, and were highly evaluated by its authorities for their quality in implementation. At the same time, in the frameworks and tasks of its regular work, the Commission took care of data from 2019 and the State Aid Award Report found that the total funds and aid amounted to 110 billion 724 million dinars, of which 55.4% were given through various subsidies, 22% through tax incentives. If you look at the areas in which the funds are placed, 76.7 billion dinars are given for industry and services, 33.9 billion for agriculture and 25.2 billion for regional visions of assistance to municipalities and cities, where the need for such something was indicated. We can see that these are significant funds that show to the right extent how much the government has invested during last year in preserving full economic stability in the country, and thus on the standard of its citizens. The Commission's report on the protection of the rights in public procurement procedures stated that its work was difficult because of the adoption of the new Law on Public Procurement of 2019, which is why the job is in line with the need for a large number of earlier procedures for the protection of the right to end in the old procedure of 2015, and the dualism of applying legal norms in practice emerged. Also, the problem was that a number of previous members of the commission had expired, and new ones were chosen only in December because of the overall situation in the country. Despite these difficulties, however, the Commission stated that during 2020 it managed to increase its efficiency by solving several percentages of more cases than in 2019, with great sacrifice of employees in its services. It is noticeable, however, that from year to year these reports show that the largest number of complaints, both in numbers and in terms of the value of public procurement, comes to public procurement from several characteristic areas, such as health care, supplies of medicines and other medical means, purchases primarily of energy and other supplies for public enterprises, as well as for procurement from the domains of electricity. Since this seems to be already becoming a systemic feature, not to mention a mistake, in these procedures, I believe that this should be given more attention in every sense, i.e. that, first of all, the Commission, but also other state authorities, are trying to figure out why such a percentage of the dispute of public procurement is happening in these areas, so that it can somehow be resolved and reduced in the next period. It seems that the right way in this direction is the work of the Public Procurement Office, whose report is third on the agenda of today's session and which has been overseeing certain public procurement procedures, on its own initiative or at the request of other state authorities. It concluded that, in many cases, bidders do not use the procedural means available to them during the procedure itself, so that only when it is finished would they address the Commission for Public Procurement or file criminal charges to the prosecutions. In any case, this office should help strengthen its personnel infrastructure, so that it can monitor several public procurement procedures, at least the largest. Finally, the fourth report relates to the Commission's work on charters of values, which is one of the oldest of these bodies, since it was formed at the beginning of the 1990 transition processes. Her work is viewed primarily through the issue of permits for the work of various companies and keeping records of them. As far as business is concerned, in the markets, this commission presented the expected data, that it was significantly reduced by around 47% in 2020 compared to 2019, by around 47%, of previous values. He fell from 91 to 48 billion dinars of total annual turnover. When the number of entities participating in capital markets decreased by about 10%. And we still expect to be much better here when the current calendar year is over, so before the data shows that the decline occurred only after the pandemic broke out, the data showed a higher degree of trade in 2020 compared to the corresponding months in 2019. Dear People's MPs, the PUPS Group "Three P" will give its support in the day of voting for the adoption of these reports, believing that they paint the work of independent state institutions, which we give full support for their future work, with a desire to be more productive and quality. The PUPS parliamentary group "Tri P" will also support other proposals and legal solutions discussed at this session and vote in favour. Dear friends and respected citizens of Serbia thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-10-0.u7537	Thank you. The next MP is Ugljesa Markovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-10-0.u7538	I thank the chairman. Dear Commission representatives and the Public Procurement Office, respected colleagues and colleagues, distinguished citizens and citizens of the Republic of Serbia. As an authorised representative of the SPS at the beginning of my presentation, I would point out the significance of today's day for our people's history. Today, it ends in the full 22 years since the end of NATO's aggression on our country, which lasted 78 days, although then the statesmen of NATO's leading countries and NATO commanders have declared that they would bomb only military targets, the facts are very different. The data suggests that 38% of the bombed objects actually had a civilian purpose, that out of over 2,000 were killed, 462 soldiers and over 2,000 civilians. For the NATO Pact's spokesmans, Jamie Shay was just collateral victims. Ammunition used that had poor uranium in it, and whose consequences, unfortunately, only today come to the charge, the estimated material damage has never been correctly determined, but it ranges from 30 to 100 billion dollars. Also, after the signing of the Kumanovo Agreement, I would strongly remind that NATO's aggression was launched under the pretext of protecting Albanians in the KIM area, an epilogue is that more than 200,000 Serbs have left their centuries-old KIM hearths. This aggression represents a kind of precedent in international law because the bombing began without UN Security Council decisions as the highest, as the charter that is the highest and most significant legal act in international law. Unfortunately, all this is saying that we live in a world where aggressors and criminals are free to walk the streets without being accused and responsible for their actions and those heroes who have defended only their own country and their people are sentenced to decades or life sentences in prison and so much more is the importance of an apology that came from Czech President Milos Zeman, and it is a piece of hope that this world is starting to change after all. Now I'd go back to the agenda. Today, we have a report on work for 2020, three commissions and the Public Procurement Office. Public procurement represents a significant component in every modern state. In a well-designed public procurement system, free competition allows the State to obtain good services under the most favourable conditions and to economic operators under equal conditions to get an opportunity to operate with the State. The efficiency of public procurement has a direct or indirect impact on other public policies such as fiscal discipline, the modernisation of public administration, the promotion of small and medium-sized enterprises. EU negotiations in Chapter 5 relating to public procurement were opened in 2016, and so far our regulatory framework is largely in line with EU law. The main steps of action are to increase the efficiency and economy of the procurement process, strengthen competition in the market, reduce the risk of irregularity, as well as promote and promote the ecological social aspect in public procurement. What is also important is that it is about modernising public procurement procedures through the full application of electronic visions of communication, which further means improving their efficiency, transparency and reducing the risk of irregularity. Today we have a report on the implemented monitoring of the Public Procurement Office in 2020 and the report on the work of the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures for the previous year. The procurement office shall, in particular, carry out professional activities, in the field of public procurement and supervise the application of the rules and adopt sublegal acts, monitor and implement public procurement procedures. The new Public Procurement Act, which entered into force on 1 January 2020, began on 1 July of the same year, in accordance with it, continued its work as the Public Procurement Office. It also implements and monitors the application of public procurement rules in order to prevent, detect and eliminate which may arise in the application of this law, and during the implementation of monitoring, other than the Public Procurement Act, the Commission also applies a number of other legal and sublegal acts, such as the General Administrative Procedure Act, the Budgetary System Act and the Criminal Code. I would also point out the importance of the programme, the development of public procurement for the period from 2019 to 2023, as well as the national plan for 2021, for the implementation of the strategy and both of these documents, the government of the Republic of Serbia adopted. The activities of the Public Procurement Office, in 2020, consisted of the following activities, and the handling of the submitted requests by authorised entities, the taking over of prevention and control activities and the provision of other assistance to other institutions, in particular the authorities of the MUP, and the departments for the control of corruption of senior public prosecutors, the submission of requests for the initiation of infringements. In its work and in the exercise of supervision, data from the portal of public procurement developed for the purposes and application of the new Public Procurement Act, then data from the public procurement plan and reports from the contracting authorities were used, in particular taking into account the data the DRI and the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures. Also, I would take the opportunity to say a few sentences on the report on the work of the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights. In public procurement procedures for 2021, the commission was established in 2002, based on the applicable Public Procurement Act at the time. During her existence, she partially changed her work, her composition, and the way members were elected. She corresponds to the National Assembly for her work. Legal matter relating to the procurement procedure is extremely complex and the essence of the implementation of procedures and legal protection in these procedures is seen in the rational use of public funds. Public procurement is a topic often discussed and speculated, associated with respect for the principles of competition, the market and corruption. It is also very important that we continue to consider in this home the report on the work of all the institutions, agencies and regulatory bodies controlled by the National Assembly. I will also refer to the Commission's report on values for 2020. The Securities Commission was established in 1990 and the Constitution of the same year, the market economy is being introduced and market capital institutions are returning. The Commission's basic task is the legal, fair and transparent functioning of the capital market and the protection of investors. In addition to its regulatory function, it also plays a supervisory role, when it comes to capital market entities, which are primarily investment company stock exchanges, depositaries and open investment fund management companies, as well as funds themselves. The Commission’s competences are laid down by the Capital Market Act of 2020. The Commission has great responsibility in the area of regulation of the capital market - providing for the protection of investors in the paper market against value, prevention of monopoly position and possible action. It is a very important and educational role of the Commission, which issues licences for the acquisition of the knowledge of portfolio managers, investment advisers and brokers. The Commission shall respond to the National Assembly for its work, and hence this annual plan, i.e. the report, before us. The Republic of Serbia as a free, independent and sovereign state, which has its basic objectives and priorities, which have been declared by a series of legal acts, as well as the exposure of the Prime Minister, the development and modernisation of Serbia are our path and our direction, and Serbia's main foreign policy goal is EU membership. Accordingly, Chapter 8, relating to competition policy, often stands out as one of the most complex in the negotiation process itself. Competition protection policies are often identified by anti-monopol legislation. Since the ancient period and the Middle Ages, there have been different legal forms of prevention, i.e. to maintain and preserve competition, i.e. preventing monopolies and later I would point out, too, that the first anti-monopol law was just Sherman's law, which was aimed at preventing monopoly and preventing cartels. When we talk about competition policy, harmonising our legislation with EU law, which brings us numerous advantages for entrepreneurs and consumers, promotes efficiency, improves the quality of products and services and consumers have a greater choice. On a competitive market prices are decreasing, more people are able to get products and services that have a higher quality. In addition to focusing on competition policy, fighting monopolies is an increasingly important policy of state aid control, which today is one of our topics. State aid policy is unique in the EU as a guarantee of holding a fair match in the common market of Member States, whose control ensures that intervention by national governments does not disrupt relations on the market itself. In principle, any state aid is prohibited, but its control ensures that the intervention of national governments does not disrupt competition on the market. In certain situations of intervention, the Government is required for the sake of good functioning and sustainability of the economy. I think the best example is exactly the situation that we are in today, which is caused by just the pandemic of the coronary virus and which has somewhat shown that certain postulates, which comes from socialism, are particularly effective in situations like this one today where we are. The commitment of the Republic of Serbia in the area of state aid was defined by the Stabilisation Association Agreement, which our country concluded in 2008. The State Aid Control System in the Republic of Serbia was established in 2010, by the adoption of the 2009 State Aid Act, as well as by sublaws. The new State Aid Control Act was adopted in 2019 and entered into force on 1 January 2020. The main reason for the adoption of this law is to comply with EU law and is a significant step towards improvement in the negotiations, especially when we talk about Chapter 8. This law introduces a list of State aid instruments from which we can extract subsidies, fiscal reliefs, state guarantees, debt write-offs, etc. The law provides for a new way of establishing the Commission's work to control state aid, as well as an independent independent organisation that exercises public authority and has legal personality status. The Commission's limits are selected by the National Assembly, to which it is responsible for its work and to which it submits its annual work report. What is also important to note is that the Commission does not grant state aid, does not have the budgetary means for the purpose specified, does not make the selection, i.e. it does not decide which of the market participants will receive aid, the selection of the authority of the State aid provider, and the donor may be the competent authority of the Republic of Serbia, the Autonomous province or local unit of self-government, as well as other persons in accordance with the law itself. We see from the 2020 report that the funds for the Commission's work are secured from the Republic budget, and that the Commission's Council adopted a draft financial plan for 2020. During the previous pandemic year, the Commission used the support of two EU funding projects. The objectives of these projects are to assist the Commission in meeting the obligations of the Republic of Serbia, which stem from the SAA. When I paid a little more attention to the work of the Commission, including reporting to the media in order to create a picture of the Commission itself, I came to the conclusion that there is absolutely no sufficient awareness in the public of your jurisdiction, which you yourself confirmed at the very end of this report. I must admit that I was surprised even by your statement on the website, that you are not giving help, not determining the amount, that you are not choosing the projects and the companies that are being financed, but that in some way you are setting up a legal and economic framework in which they can move. I also have one short question at the very end – is the state aid not notified to the Commission by automation and banned, or not harmonised? The Socialist Party Group of Serbia will support all the points of the agenda ahead of us in the voting day and what I want at the very end of today's exhibition to take advantage of the opportunity and to point out and say as a member of the Socialist Party of Serbia and as a representative of the Socialist Youth of Serbia, it is to congratulate our basketball player Nikola Jokic for becoming the best player in the world and, as of now, in addition to having number 1 in the tennis world, we also have number 1 in the basketball world. I think that's exactly the way we have an obligation to point out here as good examples, especially for the new generations that are coming and that these examples should show that effort and work are always at the end and paying off. Also, we have an obligation to always mention such examples in the National Assembly and also to commend our young scientists, physicists, chemists, informers, who come from the most important international competitions here to set an example for all those who are just coming and who may someday be engaged and have the role that we have today – what are real and proper values. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-10-0.u7539	Thank you. There's a gentleman from the ministry. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-10-0.u7540	Absolutely a question in place. What we have done in harmonising with European law, in particular with Regulation 1589/2015, the European Commission's procedural regulation, there are two differences in the regulation itself. Something refers to unlawful and allegal AIDS, and when harmonising, you have the same language interpretation, whether something is harmonised or not. In fact, unlawful means undeclared, and allegal is inconsistencies. Absolutely, if something is unreported does not mean by automation that it is not harmonised and only the European Commission at that time has the possibility of a preliminary assessment, something that we are doing in so-called the so-called European Commission. Previously on AMC's The Walking Dead... Post-control and that's a fact. We have such issues, and we often get, in fact, initiatives from certain market participants that something that has not been reported to the Commission by automation can be considered to be out of line, but definitely not. It's an important difference and it's obviously a kind of confusion, but it's just a moment of transition that I still find appropriate to pass on. Simply, when you take the termological reason unlawful and allegal, the literal translation of this is a defacto of some kind of discrepancy, but if we look at the point of view of the ZOUP, our General Administrative Procedure Act, and if the proceedings themselves are initiated by the party's own request in the process, you have to have some kind of application. If she hasn't been reported, that doesn't mean she's not in sync. Now, that's the moment of eventual oversight, etc. I hope I've made it clear to you about any dilemma? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-10-0.u7541	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Ugleisha.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-10-0.u7542	It's not even a replica, just to thank you for the answer, and that's exactly why I asked the question, because I'm also asked to ask by some of the subjects, so I see that it creates certain misunderstandings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-10-0.u7543	Thank you. Basically, always a replica, even though you only made a brief comment. Now we move on to the order of the MPs according to the application for the word. The first on the list is Mr. Samir Tandir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-10-0.u7544	The Honored Chairman, colleagues and fellow MPs, respected representatives of the committee, as regards reports on the agenda today and on which we are discussing them, are of a technical nature. They were done correctly. It contains everything a quality report should contain. The Party of Justice and Reconciliation Parliament Club and the United Peasants' Party will vote in voting day. The Justice and Reconciliation Party, as the strongest Bosniak party, is pleased and certainly supports the work of these commissions. We believe that they are necessary and that they help us function more functionally in our system. As for the Commission's Securities Report, a very important institution, namely that we do not have turbulence on this capital market, is proof that we are doing well, that we are very much in this market and that there is plenty of room for progress and I hope that in some years to come we will discuss your report more. As for the State Aid Control Report, over the past year, all mankind, and therefore our country, have faced the greatest challenge, and that is the pandemic of the virus. It's the biggest challenge since World War II. I think that all citizens and citizens in our country can be proud of how the greatest state summit and all the institutions in our country have responded to this challenge. I want to point out that we were really champions when it came to the help we gave to our citizens. I especially want to highlight the financial assistance that has been given to pensioners, but also to all citizens, and that all attempts to banalise it and make fun of it in some way are really scary, because I know a lot of citizens who really meant it a lot, but the citizens had freedom of choice and anyone who thought he didn't need it didn't have to apply. After fighting for health, for the lives of all citizens and citizens, certainly the most important fight we fought is to save our economy. And the aid that we have voted here several times and which was explained by the finance minister and which we have passed on to economic operators is fundamentally important, that we can now talk about our economic growth, we can say that the projections were less than real, that the real situation is much better, that we have economic growth and that our economy has survived. We see that much more developed countries are much harder to recover both European Union and other Western countries. This is evidence of responsible policy, the right policy led by both the president of the state and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. As far as medical assistance is concerned, I would like to point out that I am coming from the Sandzak area, and our party's leader, Academyman Muamer Zukorlic, spoke in detail about the challenges we have faced, as well as all citizens and citizens. I would like to point out the responsible behaviour and gratitude to the President of the State, Alexander Vukic, Prime Minister, who visited Novi Pazar during the pandemic and delivered the necessary medical assistance. Of course, when it comes to responsibility, we need to fully explain it, see what is the local level of institutions and local self-government and health center, primarily in Novi Pazar and the House of Health in Tutin, in Sjenica and other cities and what is the responsibility of the state. What I see, and I want to be completely realistic, and through the reports and through everything that we could follow, is that the biggest state authorities really gave their maximum, but obviously that didn't work at the bar, and that's why we had a really difficult situation. In the next period, we expect to determine the full responsibility for the crisis we had in the area of the Sanjay municipalities, when it comes to health care, and primarily responsibility at the local level and why local headquarters absolutely, especially in Novi Pazar, did not function. Even the pandemics haven't been dating for two months. As for the Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures, I would like to point out that this is a very important institution and, for example, that. We have the Municipality of Sjenica, which owes almost 50% of its budget. This is proof that public procurement, and DRI has established a series of irregularities, or have not been implemented, that a system of free contracts has been implemented, or that they have been implemented where they should not be implemented. I want to highlight the example of a kindergarten in Sjenica, where local self-government has engaged a private kindergarten, although not all the facilities are filled in in the state kindergarten. Now the new leadership in local self-government has a problem with how to serve it all, because simply, public procurement either did not take place or was misused. What I want to point out when it comes to the New Market Construction Directorate, especially when we have something that is a fixed system of work, especially in the election year, that works happen and that public procurement procedures are carried out retroactively. I have a particular complaint here. I don't know if anyone filed an application, because there are institutions to follow, we're not agents, we're not any Elliot Ness to follow everything, when it comes to one of the city's plateaus being renovated, that he's being done, and that after retroactively conducted public procurement proceedings. In voting day, we'll support the reports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-10-0.u7545	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Vladan Glisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-10-0.u7546	The report on the monitoring of public procurement for 2020, which the Public Procurement Office has submitted and which I will talk about here, shows in a good way through several examples the modus operand of this government and, above all, the SNS. On page 203 of that report, you have that the Municipality of Luciani has agreed to purchase construction material of 42,619,716 dinars, and the whole process ended with a promise of 5,909,473 dinars. On page 196, the municipality of Dimitrovgrad increased the main contract by annexing with a group of contractors to 1.555.050 dinars. On the side of the 200th municipality of Ivanjica, it increased all purchases from 23.946 dinars following the completion of the job, of course, the basic contract annexes, by 3,518,947 dinars. There are examples like this yet, but here you can see how budget funds are available to our citizens, how privileged companies that are in some contact or are obliged to return that money tomorrow and help the SNS campaign meet, and then through the annexes, they increase the possibility of having money. Of course, as soon as this is noted in the report, it means that there are some individuals who, of course, are all municipalities where the SNS government is, legal entities are punished with fines of 200 million to 500 thousand dinars. Those fines are also coming out of the budget. So when we look at what Serbia looks like, we can't help but notice that it's a big construction site, that there's a traffic station, and that's something that everyone in this country's normal will welcome. But what we have now seen as an example, it is applied as a modus operandi on all these, most likely on all these sites, because this is how money is drawn, so that SNS can meet all its needs. Now, if I were a classic demagogue, as we've all been in the last 30 years when we were opposition, I'd say that SNS is the most corrupt party in our history, that it's guilty of everything and that here, in fact, the money was drawn to make its members rich in an unauthorized and illegal way. It's not like that. In fact, the truth is somewhere in between. The truth is, in the last 30 years, we almost have no one on the political scene who wasn't both the government and the opposition. If we remember how we acted when we were opposition, and then those who were in power were the greatest thieves, they were the biggest thieves, we'd never do that when we came to power and those stories we talked about, and then when it came to power from once it was seen that it wasn't exactly like that, yes and in yours, that is. There are people in our ranks who steal, who end up in prisons. You have nine years of power, you have by vertical power almost in all municipalities and cities and of course now that the judicial authorities are doing their job, they have to arrest your officials and that's what's happening right now. And not only that, it happens that various SNS factions accuse each other of these abuses. That's when you have a party of 750,000 members somewhere and normal. You know how, so many people, so there's both great people and lots of bad people. So, I'm not going in that direction to accuse you of being anything special to corruption in relation to other political parties and other political organisations, but I want to say that there is one systemic corruption in SNS that has nothing to do with what kind of water people are, because whatever the people are leading in the end, this systemic corruption will eat both society and that party, and that system corruption is that it's one abnormal mass party, a party that has brought all the other political parties to a minor disappearance in Serbia, a party that is slowly eating and vacuuming its coalition partners. We come to a situation where you can't win in such a manner that you work, you can't create, you can't win, you can't free up space for some opposition that can stand up to you and control you in this process. When we look at your election results that are over 50% at the bar, I call it drug abuse over 50% of the results, you can't do that if all of this money, that's over the gray streams, you don't transfer it to financing all of your micro-stations, capillaries and all of that, and that's actually that corruption. It's not your officials, and there's that, all this money was drawn to make them richer, but to use it in the election campaign, so no one else can appear on the political scene, where using the media, mass campaign, you're putting pressure on voters to see that no one else can exist on this political scene. It's not a good way to go, and these are the models you're funding this project, this project is just as bad for you and for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-10-0.u7547	Thank you. The word is from a colleague, Aleksandra Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-10-0.u7548	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So, if you'd like to be malignancies, and you are understated in your presentation, you've used the report on the monitoring of the Public Procurement Office to talk about how there's systemic corruption by the SNS. He is not a SNS contractor, and he is not a public procurement contractor, but institutions and legal entities from a public or private sector. Therefore, do not replace the issues and try to try your political failures in the political campaign, which you cannot explain to the citizens at all that Bosko Obradovic was at one point for Gilas, so that it was no longer for Gilas, so that he took 5,000 euros from the church, so that he did not take 5,000 euros, so that Gilas took 619 million from Serbian citizens from the budget, to move on to systemic corruption of the SNS. There are institutions here, there are laws, there are internal affairs authorities that monitor the work of all those who do not comply with the law and for that certain actors respond and whether they are members of the SNS or of any other party, it will simply show that they always respond that they are all equal before the law. Therefore, do not replace the thesis and try to win voters in the daily struggle for your votes. Simply, you have to define yourself or you will go out with a specific program, but don't lie here to deceive Serbian citizens by attacking SNS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-10-0.u7549	Thank you, colleague Tomic. The word has Vladan Glisic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-10-0.u7550	I see I've woken you up a little, and that's good, so this parliament doesn't lead to a serious debate. What's my problem with you? I have no big problem, except that when you complete your political mission in Serbia there will be no other party but yours. You may be the best in the world, but I don't know if you think that's normal. Take, for starters, only if this is not normal, and then pay attention to why this is happening, then you will see that my comments were not malignancy, but were warning, because all that means returning Serbia after 30 years of multipartisanism to the one-party system, which we are skating, is something that will not be good for you or for us. I can only imagine what some new advances will look like when they change you, how they'll talk about corruption in your ranks. As I am not now among you who spit, to say so vividly, harshly criticized the gentlemen of the former parties of the regime, so I will not then be among those who will criticise you. I have a problem with you getting into one wrong ride and every station is wrong in terms of the defence of institutions, strengthening institutions and giving the chance for parliamentaryism and democracy to be a meeting between people who are different, and they don't have to conflict, to insult themselves. You obviously think politics is run differently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-10-0.u7551	The word is Mrs. Aleksandra Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-10-0.u7552	Dear fellow Glisic, we are not deciding who will be sitting here in parliament, but the citizens of Serbia. They recognize who they should be supporting to run this country's policies. Therefore, if you have plans, programmes, go ahead to the citizens of Serbia, so when you get a number of votes, you also have a number of MPs. Obviously, the problem is that there is no programme, which is not a plan that you see that Serbia should go in the next five, ten, 15 and 20 years, and that is a big problem for you. Do not use your problems within opposition parliamentary groups and parties to transfer to us and do not use the institutions for the sake of saying that there is no rule of law in Serbia, there is no parliamentaryism. These institutions work much, much better than they did in 2012, and not only do we say so, but they also say the assessments of all international institutions, not only financial and not only European, but also those located in the East and the West. That's what hurts you, that you can't find a foothold anywhere where you criticize the practical conduct of this state policy. That is why it is very important to recognize the need for you to go to talk to citizens, not to criticise without reason what the institutions of the state are doing. You can't hit their independence. You can't do it without reason, without any adequate facts to talk about it because you're replacing the thesis that the SNS is guilty of something that doesn't stand. What are the facts is that Gilas today is one of the richest people in Serbia, that all those around him are like the quasi-position that he wants, not only legally, in terms of the choice to come and sit in these benches, but also so-called. the non-political path they announced on their social networks. If it takes violence, but only to move to these benches, to fight a certain political struggle. So I think it's a good idea for everyone to go out with political programmes, to tell the citizens what it is and how you see you going forward, to say what's wrong if certain institutions work and what better way to function, rather than to replace the thesis and to lead Serbian citizens into great error. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-10-0.u7553	Thank you. The word has Vladan Glisic, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-10-0.u7554	The efficiency of institutions in totalitarian single-party systems is best, then everything works properly. The party president says it should be done, and then, according to all the verticals and horizontals of the one-party state, it works. So the only problem is that in the end, when the bill for that rule comes out, we see how effective it was and how good it was. I hope, when the bill for your rule is laid out, there will be something of which you boast, so that it weighs a little bit in the direction that you've done something right, and there will be a lot of things that are wrong.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-10-0.u7555	Thank you. The word is Mrs. Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-10-0.u7556	The institutions will do as they have done so far, and they have set themselves very high goals as to how they will progress on that path, and you will have to find obviously another political party to get on the list to get a mandate, and then set out their views and be a single MP here as an opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-10-0.u7557	Thank you, Mrs. Tomic. Let's move on. Next on Samira Ćosovic's list.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-10-0.u7558	Dear representatives of independent and independent republican authorities, distinguished colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, we are ahead of us with reports of independent and independent bodies and organisations of the Republic of Serbia who are legally required to report to the National Assembly on their work. Among them is the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures, whose report for 2020 we are considering today. This republican body is very important because it participates in public procurement procedures and protects the interests and rights of the bidders. Otherwise, the area of public procurement is one dynamic area that we have arranged and it is far more orderly than any previous period, but it must continue in that direction and remove any shortage in a timely manner. The report before us states that the Republic Commission has taken all necessary measures in the course of 2020 to ensure the smooth performance of all operations under the law of the designated competence of this authority, including the duration of the emergency. In this way, the Republic Commission has managed to ensure continuity and efficiency in its actions. Chairman, if you'd be so kind as to allow me to speak. Thank you. The competencies of the Republic Commission are laid down in Article 187. Public procurement laws. Amendments and additions to the law give good results and the area of public procurement becomes more orderly, there are fewer and fewer irregularities. This is very important because it reduces the possibility of privileged bidders and reduces the possibility of corruption. What I would single out from the practice that we have in the law enforcement process concerns deadlines. In fact, deadlines in the Republic Commission's conduct know in practice very often to be extended, so they last from three to six months. This creates the inability to end the procurement process, and thus also to realise significant investments that are important for the development of certain local self-government. I don't get into the cause of delays, but it would be good to carry out an individual and detailed analysis of the reasons for extended deadlines. I believe that this would improve the public procurement process. I also came from the observations that I came to in preparation for this topic and information, which I received from certain local self-government, and I came to the realization that very rarely a possible action is applied in the process, which is an oral debate in front of the Commission itself. My opinion is that, through an oral debate before the Commission, in which both bidders and public procurement providers would be equally involved, all issues related to the implementation of public procurement would be discussed, which, I believe, would help greatly to ensure that resolution deadlines in this process are respected or at least their extension would be reduced. My next observation concerns the handling of administrative courts in handling suitors. The practice has shown that these types of administrative disputes are resolved slowly before the Administrative Court, and there are examples that such proceedings last three to four years, which devises this type of legal protection. From the report on the work of the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures for 2020, I would also single out a part relating to the most frequently observed irregularities in public procurement procedures, such as non-compliance with the provisions of the laws and sublaws when making the competition documentation, and then a vague and inaccurate content of competition documents which does not allow tenderers to prepare an acceptable offer, i.e. it does not allow subjectivity and arbitraryness to be excluded in the conduct of the contracting authority when carrying out the expert assessment of tenders. Finally, the definition of technical specifications in public procurement procedures in such a way that the discriminatory character or unfairly reduces competition to a limited range of potential bidders, or thus the technical specification is defined not sufficiently clearly and precisely in a way that prevents potential bidders from making appropriate offers, narrowing competition among bidders, setting criteria for the award of contracts and methodologies for their application contrary to the provisions of the Public Procurement Act and incorrectly implemented and uneducated expert assessment of bids. All these irregularities, i.e. I consider the report of the Republic Commission concerning the most frequently observed irregularities particularly important for the service of public procurement of units of local self-government because it enables them to consider the shortcomings in public procurement procedures in order not to commit their own or repeat another mistake. In the voting day, the SDPS Parliamentary Group will support all reports that are ahead of us today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-10-0.u7559	I thank my colleague Ćosovic. Let's move on. Next on the list is Zagorka Alexic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-10-0.u7560	I thank the chairman. Dear representatives of the committee, we have today a set of very important reports. For the adoption of the commission's report, as well as for the report on the monitoring of the Public Procurement Office, the JS Parliamentary Group will vote on the day scheduled for the vote. We can conclude from the attached that commissions have achieved efficiency and very high transparency in their functioning. These independent bodies also influence the creation of stability and favourable conditions for foreign investors. I would also refer to today opening a factory in Jagodina for manufacturing parts and equipment for cars. The investor is the German company Fisher. 350 new jobs are being opened, and a complete effort is the merit and initiative of JS President Dragan Markovic, who has been working for years, bringing investors from Europe and the world who are building factories in two industrial zones, as many as the city of Jagodina has today. The owner of Fisher himself, Mr. Professor Klaus Fisher, said he found no quality conditions for investment and work as well as in Serbia, and thinks primarily of economic stability. All the reports in question are related to the conduct under extremely specific conditions caused by the pandemic of Kovid 19. According to the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures over a period covered by the report, 3% of more cases have been resolved compared to the number of received. The State Aid Control Commission has prepared three important regulations concerning State aid control in order to make it easier to overcome the Kovid crisis. As far as this relatively young person is concerned, the newly established Commission is important to point out because of citizens and because of the nature of the cases the Commission faces to point out that the Commission is not granting state aid, but is in charge of its control and is concerned about the conditions, criteria and enforcement of the rules for granting assistance to end-users. In addition to implementing regulations and work in accordance with the law, priority in the functioning of this Commission for the Protection of Markets and Protection of Competition. The establishment of a strong and stable state aid control system is one of the essential requirements for EU accession. The implementation of European rules and standards in the work of this Commission has been done in an express time and full harmonisation with European regulations is planned by the end of the year. The creation of this Commission, in addition to the requirements and obligations of the SSP Confirmation Act. What we think of as equally important is that this Commission, apart from transparency in work, is also making intensive communication with state aid providers. I will shortly return to the Commission's Report on the Protection of Public Procurement Procedures. That's what my colleague Ćosovic was talking about. In particular, recommendations for future action are set out to remove irregularities in processes, and are primarily related to public procurement providers. This Commission shall conduct a thorough monitoring of a large number of procedures in which these specific irregularities are repeated. All commissions in their reports highlight the continued exchange of experiences with relevant institutions and what is their common objective in the functioning is to certainly establish legal certainty and uniform stability. Permanent upgrade and strengthening of independent bodies should be seen as a permanent process in the state of Serbia. We believe that strengthening independent institutions and bodies and their capacities is not only important because of European integration, but also because of the postulates that a democratic society must seek. It is also important that we do not forget the very important role of the National Assembly in all of this, because the independent control bodies for their work correspond to us as representatives of the citizens. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-10-0.u7561	Thank you, colleague. Next on Nina Pavicevic's list.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-10-0.u7562	I thank the chairman. Dear guests, respected fellow MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, since my colleague Ugljesa Markovic spoke about all reports, I will look a little more closely at the public procurement report. In December 2016, negotiating Serbia's accession to the European Union opened negotiating chapter five - public procurement. By opening this chapter, the result of the changes that have been made, as well as the strategic definition, that through the reform of public administration, the public procurement system is fully harmonised with the legal assets of the European Union, as well as made more transparent and efficient. Accordingly, the first step on the road was to pass exactly this new law on public procurement. The new law also included the introduction into the work of a new public procurement portal, which began in July 2020. The portal provides much more transparency and enables more efficient public procurement procedures and for the first time e-procurements have been established in the RS. Each citizen can be very simple and free to register on the portal, to mark the public procurement he is interested in, and to his e-mail address he will receive notifications of all the activities undertaken on this public procurement, from the very launch of the procedure to the conclusion of the Public Procurement Treaty. The public procurement portal automatically implements the opening process of offers, then automatically create a record of the opening of offers that is automatically sent by the portal itself to all public procurement participants. Contractors shall make their plans, public calls, competition documents and all public procurement ads, and tenderers shall submit their offers in procedures via this portal. They may require clarification of the competition documentation or request that they be made aware of the documentation carried out in the procedure. As communication between contracting authorities and bidders takes place by electronic means through this new public procurement portal, this certainly affects the greater transparency of the process, and thus also the greater economic and efficiency of the procurement process. What is significant for economic operators is that they submit exclusively an electronic offer through this portal and that makes it easier for them to submit offers and shorten their time, as well as costs. The Chamber of Commerce co-operated with the Office for Public Procurement with the support of the European Union project, "The project for the further development of the public procurement system in the Republic of Serbia", organised in various cities in Serbia the workshops for the application of the portal, so that suppliers and bidders had the opportunity to get acquainted with the basic functionality of the portal. The public procurement office daily supported the users of the portal through its coll-center and participants in the procurement process showed great interest and willingness to carry out the procedures, to participate, exclusively with the use of electronic means. So far, a large number of users have been registered on the portal, a large number of new procedures have been launched, public debates and a large majority of these procedures have been successfully and completed. The 4th two-day forum on public procurement took place in May this year. Ten months of application of the new Public Procurement Act and the new public procurement portal organised by the Public Procurement Office. Representatives of the Office have produced so far results in law enforcement and use of the portal, and representatives of the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures and the Serbian Chamber of Commerce have given their assessment of the current application of the law, as well as the use of the portal. The public procurement process in Serbia is fully in line with European practice. We believe that this will affect greater competition with us and that this simplified process of participation in public procurement procedures will affect both small and medium-sized enterprises, simply more participation, which will also affect greater competition and increase the number of offers in public procurement procedures. The SPS parliamentary group will therefore support all points of the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-10-0.u7563	I thank my colleague Pavicevic. Next on the list is Milica Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-10-0.u7564	Dear President, honourable fellow MPs, distinguished guests, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I will talk about the agenda item concerning the submission of a report on the work of the Commission for State Aid Control, which was established by the State Aid Control Act. The objective of State aid control is in fact to prevent certain economic operators from being placed in a privileged position, i.e. to allow the level playing field for market participants. This further means strengthening free competition, i.e. creating healthier operating conditions for all market participants, of which consumers, i.e. citizens of the Republic of Serbia, benefit from. This report also discusses the work of the Commission during an epidemic caused by the Covid 19 virus and what our economy faced in the previous year and in this year it was really difficult. As a direct consequence, there has been a reduction in demand for goods and services, as well as a reduction in investment. However, the greatest risk existed for small, micro and medium-sized enterprises, as well as entrepreneurs. However, our country acted on time and was truly responsible. She has done well with support measures for both citizens and businesses and has preserved the economy of economic operators, which is, most importantly, preserved by employees in our country. Serbia has done better than most countries in Europe, and I think it is very important that I mention all these measures that our country has taken in the previous year for citizens and economy. In 2020, two packages of support, citizens and businesses related to the payment of minimum earnings to employees, as well as the delay in paying taxes and contributions to earnings, but what I found most important to our citizens was the payment of 100 euros to all full-time citizens. In 2021, a third package of support related to three times 50% minimum earnings was followed in April, May and June. Then, in April, 350 euros per bed and 150 euros per room for city hotels, as well as 600 euros for bus carriers in April, May, June, July, August and September. 20/3 MJ/IĆ In May, the first 30 euros for all adult citizens, as well as 200 euros for unemployed citizens living in KIM territory, as well as 100 euros for all citizens living in KIM territory, including children. In June, 60 euros will be followed by all unemployed, as well as what is very important to mention, 3,000 dinars for all vaccinated citizens. In July and August, it is planned to pay full minimum earnings for free artists, but also to pay full minimum earnings for employees in tourism and catering. Pensioners expect 50 euros in September, and in November all of the full-time citizens of another 30 euros. That our country acted responsibly by bringing all these measures into line with the fact that the public debt rate remained below 60% of GDP in 2021. It is very important to note that in 2014 when we had a broken economy after the former regime, the public debt rate was 79%, and today in 2021, although faced with the pandemic, the public debt rate was held below 60% and it is 58% today. In addition to all this, Serbia has the largest capital investments, invests in road and railway infrastructure, in health infrastructure, and must recognise more than ever its investments in ecology. Serbia will continue to grow fastest, Serbia will continue to deliver large and serious results both in the economy and in health care, but also in all fields. Today, the paradigm of the political system in Serbia is the result. It is not understood by those whose sole goal is to win the election, but without citizens' votes. This is not understood by those whose sole goal is to manage RTS, it is not understood by those whose only goal is to get a national frequency for the media of Dragan Gilas, it is not understood by those whose sole goal is that the name Aleksandar Vukic does not appear anywhere, that the name Aleksandar Vukic does not appear on the lists. The name Aleksandar Vucic will appear wherever the citizens want it whenever the citizens want it, because Alexander Vukic just pulled Serbia out of a dark tunnel in which you gathered around Gilas, Tadic, Jeremic by 2012. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-10-0.u7565	Thank you, colleague Nikolic. One brief piece of information for all colleagues to plan further commitments. There's a vote planned around 5:30. Next on the list, distinguished colleague Snezana Paunovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-10-0.u7566	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Commission representatives and regulatory bodies, today, as colleagues have said, we are talking about the reports of several independent and independent state organisations for 2020, which has become a regular practice in this assembly of parliament. It is a great contribution to transparency, first of all, the work of all your organizations. At the same time, this practice speaks of strengthening the supervisory role of the National Assembly and the visibility of these parliamentary activities. This time we discuss the Commission's State Aid Control Reports, the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures, as well as the report on the implementation of the 2020 monitoring. Over the work of this Commission carried out by the Public Procurement Office. We also have before us a report from the Commission on values for 2020. For the first time, the reports that we are considering are related to the work of the State Aid Control Commission, as an independent organisation established by the State Aid Control Act. This law lays down the powers of the commission, among which I consider the most important role, namely control of the dedicated use of aid granted by the state and lower levels of government. When we passed this Law on State Aid Control, we had in mind the need to provide state aid that has a social character, especially to provide assistance for the resolution of the consequences of natural disasters and natural disasters. We had situations during the decades of experience that state aids were not spent on purpose, and the resolutions of the consequences of which the state's aid had been granted were rarely left behind. That was often said in parliament. It is therefore extremely important that there is an authority that controls the dedicated spending of state aid. This is essentially the control of the spending of people's money, because it is the funds allocated from the state budget and other levels of government. This report was widely discussed by an authorised representative of the parliamentary group and my young colleague, Uglješa Markovic, but I would like to pay attention to the report of the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights and Public Procurement Procedures and the Monitoring Report on the work of this Commission, which is being conducted by the Public Procurement Office. I would remind here that by amending the Law on Public Procurement that we brought in 2019, the earlier Public Procurement Administration, which had jurisdiction over law enforcement, replaced the Public Procurement Office as a supervisory authority. What should contribute to strengthening the supervisory function of public procurement procedures is, above all, ensuring loyal competition and transparency of public calls, which is largely ensured through the public procurement portal established by the last amendments to the law, which started with work, if I am not mistaken, in July 2020. The public procurement portal is a product of digitisation in this area, and significant effects of the same are expected from the application of electronic communications in this important and sensitive area of business. The use of the portal reduces the possibility of privileged participation in public procurement, is provided by law guaranteed transparency and efficiency, non-discrimination, equal treatment and free competition. Access to the portal is given to every citizen, entrepreneur and legal person who is interested in participating in certain public procurements. I am sure that the portal will also contribute to reducing corruption, because we know that the issue of public procurement has always been sensitive and because of this open possibility of corruption, nepotism and some other non-market forms of behaviour which, in many cases, have placed many suppliers of goods or services in an unequal position and have prevented them from offering their products in regular market procedures. I have to point out somewhere that all of what the legislation is and we intend to bring is a step more in that direction that would really have to ensure transparency and show in part what the government's solution is, and that's the fight against corruption and crime in any way, or in the literal sense of that word, and any area we talk about. As Serbia has indeed defined itself as Eurointegration and thus also for the adoption of all these international standards in the public procurement sector, it is to a large extent that the harmonisation of our legal framework is due to the requirements put before us above all by the EU. Public procurement is otherwise covered by negotiating Chapter 5, and we have changed the Law on Public Procurement in 2019, in fact, by amending the law, we have brought our legislation almost 100% in line with EU law. I would draw attention to the fact that the serious control of public procurement procedures and the application of relevant rules, above all, of the Public Procurement Act, is now made possible by strengthening the staff capacities of the office working in the monitoring group, and thus by the appropriate legal powers of the Public Procurement Office. A serious approach to this task can also be seen from the 2020 Monitoring Report, which has also been delivered to us. As in every part of the public sector, it is important to have the expertise, commitment and honour of doing every state job, and in the public procurement sector this is particularly important and very important and precisely because of the fact that public procurement, which is the ratio of supply and demand, can occur in various illegal and socially undesirable phenomena that can compromise procedures and participants in these procedures, it is particularly important that the rule of law must exist in this area. When it comes to the Commission's report on securities of value, I would only mention that 30 years of experience in the existence of the Commission in the securities market speaks of the tradition of this market, and of its changes, in the periods behind us and in this period, the Commission is seriously committed as a regulator to the transparent and legal business of the securities market. It is good that we are also considering this Commission report for 2020. It must indeed be said that all reports that have arrived before parliament are detailed, systematic and with elements above all prescribed by law, and I am sure that this way of considering them greatly contributes to strengthening the legal mechanisms on which these independent state organisations and regulators rest. In that sense, both in the personal name and in the name of the parliamentary group to which I belong, all congratulations to you who have produced and filed a report and for what you have done and full support for all that you will do in the time ahead. I will use my call to remind you of today, June 10th, the day the Security Council adopted Resolution 1244 and the time the bombing of Yugoslavia officially stopped. Although the last bomb fell on June 10, 1999, unfortunately, because of the public of Serbia, and in the spirit of all that is behind us and all that is ahead of us, that during the bombing, the SRJ carried out 2,300 air strikes on 995 objects across the country, and 1,150 fighter planes launched nearly 420 thousand missiles of a total of 22,000 tonnes. These aren't the numbers we're proud of, these are the figures we can't forget. We must not forget all the victims, as 462 soldiers and over 2,000 civilians died during the bombing, including children and sick and old people, and they were brutally named at one point by NATO spokesman Mr. Shay's "collateral damage". It wasn't collateral damage, it was life extinguished. The bombing of the SRJ, I still feel like a crime. I'm consciously saying "I," and I think most of you feel the same way. I don't want to open this story for nothing but a reminder that we can't forget, but we're ready to talk and cooperate despite everything, fully confident that all future talks will lead us to peace and that Serbia has a clear commitment in this sense. We don't ever want anyone to go after our children under any excuse again as ruthlessly as it happened in 1999. Then they poisoned our rivers, our mountains, but above all they permanently disrupted the demographic image of Serbia. And we will long remember what happened and long live exactly what happened as a result of NATO bombing. In the hope that it will never happen again, all the victims are drinking on today. Let the only things that we do today be signed resolutions for a better life for all the children who are born and who will be born in perspective in Serbia and that they never have to defend again as much as we are today defending Resolution 1244 which, after not so many years, everyone would forget and put under the rug, even though it is in effect. I apologize for leaving the topic, but I don't think it was important to emphasize today's date. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-10-0.u7567	Thank you. Next on the list is Rajka Matovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-10-0.u7568	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear guests, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, we have reports from committees under the authority of the work of this high house. Among other things, there is the Commission's report on the control of the assistance of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. We are aware of how difficult it was in 2020, and the world has hit one of the greatest crises known as the pandemic of the Coronal Virus. Our economy has been locked down for 45 days. The world stopped for a moment. State aid during 2020 was of paramount importance. Our country acted responsibly during the end of the pandemic, protecting, above all, the health of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. We haven't had sad scenes that we've seen all over Europe of mass layoffs, or that people are waiting in miles to get medical attention. On the contrary, none of our citizens have been deprived of adequate medical assistance. Among the first ones, we also got medical supplies, we had enough respirators, tests, we opened up a temporary hospital cove. We have shown responsible crisis management, where it is possible that during the pandemic we will build two new coves of the hospital in Batajnica and Kruševec, and the third is currently under construction in Novi Sad. The greatest burden of this crisis has just been taken over by the state. We did not wave with billions we did not have and promised, but rather, the Government of the Republic of Serbia and President of the Republic of Serbia Aleksandar Vukic chose very soberly and securely the best package of measures to help the economy and society for which we had opportunities. During 2020, the aid to the economy was extremely important. We had payments in terms of three minimum salaries to businesses, large, small, medium and micro-enterprises, strategically assisted branches that were just the most affected by the pandemic of the coronary virus, tourism and hospitality. We had help from both hotel and bus carriers, and the aid to citizens was 100 euros in dinar equivalent for all full-time citizens who wanted to accept that assistance. With this money helicopter, we stimulated the economy in 2020. We remember that the opposition with a mockery has just attacked this 100-euro support to citizens, but we also remember that almost everyone has applied neatly for this state aid. The aid of the state to overcome the crisis due to the pandemic of the coronary virus was continued during 2021 and we had the opportunity to hear here during the adoption of the budget, but also during the adoption of the first budget rebalancing to hear how much assistance there is and how much aid to the economy, but also to the citizens. Almost every month during 2021, we have some kind of help for businesses or citizens. All citizens who wish to do so during 2021 will be paid twice 30 euros each. The first aid has already been paid, while the second aid is waiting for us. The unemployed will be paid another 60 euros on June 14th and pensioners an additional 50 euros. We must not forget the state's assistance to the health sector during the pandemic of the coronary virus, that health workers had significant pay increases, that they had one-time assistance, that many hospitals, homes of health were equipped and renovated right during the crisis. We couldn't do all this if our finances weren't consolidated and not stable. In 2014, the then prime minister, and today the President of the Republic, Aleksandar Vukic, took a number of unpopular measures to consolidate our finances that were not consolidated at that time. During the previous period, a significant number of factories and plants have been opened throughout Serbia, strategically invested in agriculture and large capital projects, and as a result of all this, we have a responsibility to face the crisis today. In 2020, we ended up with the smallest drop in GDP in Europe. Among the first, we provided vaccines, and a sufficient number of vaccines for all of our citizens of four different manufacturers. During that time, the opposition only sits very comfortable in its chairs and criticises every advance of our country. Every help, every new open factory, every new job, every new meter of the new road, came across their conviction. We remember that Dragan Gilas criticised the vaccines, that he suspected their regularity, and the first came into line to vaccinate. It is not permanent for Gilasu, Marinika, Bosca Obradovic, or for the progress of Serbia, or for new jobs, new hospitals, but for their own personal interest and wealth. We've seen how much capital their boss has. If he's the richest representative of the former regime, we can't say for sure, there are many of them, but that he's the most grampable we can certainly confirm with certainty. It was not enough that he increased his capital by 619m euros while he was in power, but is now looking for national frequencies for his private televisions to further increase his capital. But I don't want you, my dear colleagues, or your distinguished guests to bother me with them, because they are the best ones to be told exactly the results and the will of the citizens. For them today, the three percent census, as we can see, is very high on the scale. What we have had the opportunity to hear in the opening statements and most importantly, is that all these aids that the state has given are in line with both the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and the laws, but also with European regulations. Once again, I would appeal to all citizens to be vaccinated because they have that possibility. Mass immunization is the only way out of this crisis. As we can see, Belgrade is now at 50% of the people vaccinated and Belgrade is slowly opening today. On this occasion, I would also like to congratulate Belgrade's glory, Spasovdan. In the voting day, together with my colleagues from the Legislative Group Aleksandar Vukic – For our children, I will support a set of proposed measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-10-0.u7569	Thank you. Next on the list is Mr. Zoran Bojanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-10-0.u7570	Thank you. The esteemed chairman, colleagues and colleagues, is precisely the topic in today's debate that Serbia is on the right track and that Serbia has a goal. When I say this, I think that this very regulatory bodies and these commissions and the reports they gave above all to the Finance Committee, the Republic budget and the control of the spending of public funds say that we are pursuing what someone once wrote down, but this could not have been done until the moment the government in our country took over the Serbian Progressive Party and Alexander Vukic. Slowly, but in large steps, we are moving towards a set goal, towards economic and financial stability, towards the goal of maximum employment and towards the goal of keeping our children in our country and working for the benefit and interest of this country. To do a good mention and to repeat a little of what Mrs. Aleksandra Tomic, chairman of the Committee on Finance and the Republic budget, said. We're doing good, we're working with these regulatory bodies. Thirty-three sessions have this committee in this session alone. What's he saying? It says that this Assembly and the Ministry of Finance, as one of the leading in the segment in which we work as a Committee, is working to recover the economy, to recover finance, to meet the objectives set and to bring the European Union closer. In what? In those important things, to improve the quality of life and the financial consolidation of our economy. Here's an example today, a new factory in Jagodina opened today, and all those on-call Twitter opposition who are trying to dissipate everything this country is doing, and I'm going to repeat again, headed by Alexander Vukic. Why am I repeating this? Usually I don't do it again, I say it once, because all the smart people know who's standing outside and behind everything that's been done for this country. I'm talking about not having, not knowing, not having new ideas, what is this part of the opposition led by Dragan Gilas? It writes some call columns, like some out there Draža, who is trying to dissuade, to mock everything that Alexander Vukic and the Serbian Progressive Party are doing and all of us who mention him. I will mention it once again – Aleksandar Vukic is responsible for everything that the Republic of Serbia has at this time. God, we will be in power for a long time, not because we are eager for power and we want power, but because this congregational majority, which this government, this president, has a goal. They have a goal -- a better Serbia, a stronger Serbia, Serbia that no one can influence, Serbia that decides about itself, Serbia that is for peace, which is for, I will repeat what our neighbours say, co-existence. Yeah, there's room for all of us, and we all need to live well and not remember. So we're just going to mention today as something from history and celebrate all those people who have given their lives and everything so that we can talk here today and talk about the future, never go back to some war topic again. We've been very brave for decades, for centuries, it's always been that heart and there was something about us, humanity and heroism. Yes, we should be wise. And I think we've been safe for the last nine years, since 2012, very wise, and going where we should and strive, that once upon a time Serbia was still under Germany. Yeah, that's true. Look at the roads that were built. I used to think as a young man about a Adriatic magistrate, then it was some Adriatic highway, or Adriatic future corridor, that's exactly this part of the highway "Milosa the Great". I've had it. I'm going to experience that even through my King in a year or two he'll pass a highway, which nobody even thought about 30 years ago, 40. For us, that Ibar highway was something maximum. We now have highways better than half of Europe and we all participate, including these commissions, because they control what is done. Now, that's the most important thing. There was no control in that previous regime. Now everything's transparent, everything's visible, and you know who's responsible for what and who's supposed to do what. They repeat what I thought, and the other day in one of their presentations I said – I am glad that local self-government can last half of the year, as my local self-government will do in a few days, doing budget rebalancing, but not rebalancing the budget of its local parliaments at lower rather than higher. Why? So because Alexander Vucic has brought to every city at least one factory, and because they are now receiving salaries, profits are received, and based on these earnings, some incomes are collected, taxes and contributions are collected, urban budgets and cities are increased, municipalities can plan, can increase and work in the interests of their fellow citizens, to pave the way for bridge building, to open new kindergartens, to renovate schools. I mentioned school. Yes, in the city of King, from which I also came, 60 years ago a school now called “Holy Sava, ” was then“29. November," which was temporary. It was temporary for 60 years, until the moment until the Serbian Progressive Party came to power and I will be proud and happy in a month when some new students arrive at that school in a super modern facility. So I don't owe it, because now I'm going to have a break, and my colleagues behind me are going to have to speak, in the voting day, perfectly normal, I'm going to vote for this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-10-0.u7571	Thank you. Honorable Members of Parliament, in accordance with Article 87. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I now set a break of one hour. We continue work at 15.00 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-10-0.u7572	I'd like to inform you, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, that we'll be working after 18 hours today. Now there is a word, a folk letter, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-10-0.u7573	I thank the Vice-President of the Assembly, respected members of institutions, respected fellow MPs, respected citizens of Serbia. Today, among other things, the report by the Republic Commission on public procurement for 2020 is on the agenda. First of all, I would like to remind the citizens of Serbia of 2019, when we were working on amending and supplementing the Law on Public Procurement and which is why it was done and how much it really looks like there was a big improvement. We did it, primarily to prevent corrupt actions, then to reduce administrative procedures, to protect small and medium-sized enterprises and besides, and the negative consequences of centralisation of public procurement, and to simplify the procedure itself. The Commission's report aims, in fact, to prevent corrupt behaviour, better competitiveness and fully open advertising in the public procurement process. I can tell you that's what we've done in a lot of ways. There were a lot of gaps in the way public procurement was made, in the earlier period, such as the technical specification being adapted to a particular bidder, or the additional conditions that only he could meet are prescribed. One way was, for example, the mechanism of statements, that mechanism was such that they proved under material and criminal responsibility, but that I was the bidder, in fact, had no obligation to verify it. This was especially done by those who participated in public procurement, for the second and third or more times. This practice has contributed primarily to the discrimination of operators on the market, and what we are most saying is, in fact, discrimination has been against small and medium-sized enterprises. Then, at that time, before we passed that law in 2019, and the members of this commission know, is that the price was primarily crucial, i.e. A low price, but later on for the valuation of offers, however, has often proved to be the cheapest offer, ultimately to be significantly more expensive, due to inadequate material or services. Before the adoption of the amendments and additions to the Public Procurement Act, in 2019 there was also a frequent occurrence of fictitious offers. These fictitious offers, in fact, created a false picture of the competition, so that two or more bidders came forward, and for that one they get, these others get a certain fee for giving up. Also, there was a market split. Part of the market in a part where they stay out of each other's zones. I'm sure a lot of you have met with this, too, that first you have to ask around whose area it is, and then you have to hire someone to do the job. The key to success is only in control and in criminal terms, because our man is thinking about how to find a hole in the law, and he thinks it's intelligence and persuasion, not a real name. Which is why I'm telling you all of this, I'm telling you how complex the changes and the additions of the Public Procurement Act were and that, by all these points, we've contributed greatly to this so that it doesn't come to any more. In addition to the improvements brought by these electronic tenders, it is necessary to comply with the Regulation of the declaration of the product with the Public Procurement Act. For example, the declaration must know the exact names of the product, not the names of the product. The other thing is grammar. Product grammage, if it is common for a product to be produced in 100 grams or 150 grams, is placed on a grammage of 127 grams, which has only one manufacturer. I'm telling you all this for the future and for what it's worth paying attention to and getting rid of it so it won't happen again. Then, the unification of all items before separation, here I primarily think of kindergartens in the sense that they acquire a large diapazone wide diapazone, starting with toys over chemical, for hygiene, and getting food. Then in that case only merchants can compete, but not manufacturers, because manufacturers can't have that whole diapazon service covered, nor can they join together to that extent. The law on public procurement, and the law that regulates the employment of disabled people, is another item that needs attention, which is that they are very suitable for manipulation, because the company if there are over 50% of the disabled, which can mean that, in fact, if there are two of them employed three, it's just over 50%. And I'm saying this because it's not just about the percentage, it's about the number of employees in that disabled company, because in that case they have the possibility of reserved purchases, which means they can be chosen, although 30% are more expensive than other suppliers. Control, which is the number of disabled persons, at the firm not only in percentages, in this case, is lagging behind. Far from being able to help disabled people and disabled persons and we want to encourage their employment, however, it is very easy for corruption and I ask for that in the next period to pay attention. The new public procurement portal provides electronic public procurement, a major step in reducing barriers and access to public procurement, as well as a tool to reduce bureaucracy and corruption. This is how much more transparency is achieved, as the problem has become such that it threatens the system of public finances. We want to put our public finances on sound ground and not run away to deal with everything and anyone who threatens Serbia's progress. I expect that this growing transparency and potential for insight into the whole procurement process will restore confidence in public procurement procedures and allow for greater competition. One of the evidence is right here, which is what we're discussing in parliament about this report that you gave. Transparency causes security, safety causes greater investment, higher investment causes better employment, better employment means higher consumption, and higher consumption means better living standards. See, how much does all this have to do with anything? We move one step at a time towards a clearly defined goal and a clearly paved path that has been paved by the Serbian Progressive Party and its President Aleksandar Vucic, whose name has become a synonym for success, restoration and prosperity. At the end of this presentation that you consider to be a well-intentioned and precisely that in the coming period there is even stronger control and the very criminal provisions, I want to congratulate the Belgraders today' glory of Spadadan and I want to say something about what maybe some of them are not familiar with. In 1403, the despot Stefan Lazarevic declared Belgrade a Serbian throne, and a religious holiday of the Lordship for City Glory. It was saved as the glory of Belgrade was restored in 1993, when lithium began again after 46 years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-10-0.u7574	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-10-0.u7575	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here we are now discussing a part of the report of various state authorities when it comes to the spending of public funds or state aid control directed towards the economy. First of all, the first thing I have to point out is what kind of problems the Serbian Progressive Party faced when we came to power in 2012, according to the law discussed by counterpart Jovanovic, which was in force before 2012. The Commission was quite independent, quite independent. Their reports were not discussed, and we did not take part in any of their choices, the Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures. Also, the State Aid Control Commission did not exist. Some illusion was the Securities Commission of value. That's how it worked until 2012. The first serious step towards regulating our public finances is the Law on Public Procurement, which was adopted in November 2012. I can also boast or praise the National Assembly that this, as far as I know, is the only Law on Public Procurement that is a Law of Parliament. The MPs created the Working Group, the MPs organised public debates, the MPs wrote the bill, and the MPs passed the law. It is true that in 2019 he was changed or replaced, because he fulfilled the purpose of his existence and that the area of public procurement is something that is alive and that needs to be reformed and improved as we progress as a society. Not to talk about those other parts, such as compliance with EU directives, because they are also participants in public procurement procedures conducted by the Republic of Serbia. What were the papers under that Public Procurement Act? The first was the Portal of Public Procurement under the law, which entered into force on 1 April 2013. Secondly, a register of public procurement providers means that only someone qualified and eligible can participate in the procurement process. The third newspaper was a citizen public procurement supervisor who was of high value. The fourth news was that the Committee responsible for financial affairs had called, conducted a competition and proposed to the National Assembly members of the Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures. These are newspapers that the Serbian Progressive Party MP group – Aleksandar Vucic proposed to the National Assembly in 2012 and which today in that smaller or larger volume, the civil supervisor did not, but everything else today operates in the public procurement system of the Republic of Serbia, which means that those strategic changes in the law were good and that they achieved their goal. Today we live in a time that is burdened with the virus of the crown and pandemic, and however you open a portal, you see a statement from certain NGOs. The first thing to be mentioned is that Serbia and under what conditions it has obtained respirators, as well as under what conditions the Republic of Serbia has obtained other medical equipment and under what conditions the Republic of Serbia has obtained vaccines in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. I'd like to go back to a while ago, when the 2012 law went into effect. For the same amount of medical and equipment in 2013 the Republic of Serbia paid about 400m euros less. At the time, I did not hear a single on-call questionnaire say that 400m euros were spent each year during the former regime's government, or, to translate into gross income, 1.5% of all that was produced in Serbia through only one body, the former regime took from Serbian citizens. I wish that when we discuss some of your next reports to see how much it is, will it mention the Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures or perhaps the Office for Public Procurement, how much was the negotiation and emergency procedure under the laws that were in force in 2012 in percentages? How much is it today? I'm saying that today there's a lot less than the pandemic of the coronary virus. How long was the procedure under the old law? It's been six months. It was known by the members of the Commission who were appointed in 2013 what kind of work they had and how much time they had to spend to solve cases that were a few years old and started under the old law that had passed the former regime. Now, counterpart Hana Hukic, president of the Commission, said that the deadline when the subject is formed is below 30 days. The general deadline is 30 under the Law on Administrative Procedure and by the Public Procurement Act, and this is something that we have to give recognition to the Commission, because those who have never participated in this supervision of what the work of the Commission looks like, do not know what they're talking about, and most often have no idea how serious it is to solve one and the most innocent subject and how much it takes to consult other state authorities because of various opinions and interpretations in order for the Commission to even get a real picture of how to decide on a subject. I would like the Commission for the Protection of Rights to draw up the statistical data on the same legal matter as the Commission that worked until 2012 made different decisions and how many bidders were there for public works, and how many are there today? Now, that's what I'd like to ask the questions of those who are constantly suspicious of the current regime that abuses the resources available to citizens. Just to remind you once again, 400m euros is the former regime annually, so every year, 12 years have been in power, only over one state body has been hijacked by citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Now Vuk Jeremic, Marinika Tepic, Dragan Djilas will ask me how much did these respirators cost, what did the vaccine cost? That really doesn't make sense. Everyone else may have the right to ask, but those who did and who were silent then did not work, but they kept silent, watched, because they applied for various projects with the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and their projects were approved to remain silent about real abuses, so let them also cover their ears. That's the civil sector, because this isn't about political matters. Just remember how they got vaccines against, I think, swine flu, so everyone who participated later answered the law. I guess it's their auto-projection that if something is being obtained for the citizens of Serbia, we'll be half-citizens, half to ourselves, or we'll discuss whether the National Assembly discussed your reports during the former regime. I don't remember. I remember a funny report by the DRI, where Minister Zarko Obradovic was then, and the DRI found him not to write, described how he spent money on books. Here, that's what they did. They weren't even independent, they knew who they were, they were just courts. Now you can imagine that then the Public Procurement Administration is being appointed by the Government, to which it should give its consent and give its opinions, to approve the procurement procedure, so we had some appeal committee, which, by the very essence of the law, was stronger than the Administration, but it was the Board that controlled the commission. A complete lack of legal system and supervision of the spending of public funds. What else was done under the 2012 law, and it wasn't anymore, and it was in the previous law? They were annex contracts. By the law passed by the former regime, it could have been annexed up to 25%, but you know how they interpreted it? On the basic contract, 25%, so when they close the contract annex, then 25% more on the annex and contract, so three times, four times. Well, it didn't matter whether it was the highest quality offer, or whether it was the cheapest, it was gonna be the most ballast. We're talking about a public procurement system. The public procurement system goes through, roughly, about seven billion euros, through local self-government, through funds, through public works, etc. Maybe a few billion more than it was during the former regime. But what did they do with those five billion euros? Do you remember any hospitals, did they? Did they build a school? Did they make a road, except for that bridge on Ada, which cost like half the highways in Serbia? They're nothing. Well, what good did the citizens have to do with it? Nothing. And those who were in power back then, great. State aid control, so here, when a revision of our Development Fund was made, 140 billion dinars were not charged to the Development Fund, unsecured, 140 billion dinars, over a billion euros were given to the Farms and similar ones, and they shared money. Now that we have a fully regulated system, where there are bodies that participate in the process of controlling the spending of public funds, which exercise control, legal fulfillment, which submits a report to the National Assembly on their work and I don't like to use the word transparently, is not Serbian, I will say we are publicly discussing the spending of our public funds, not transparent, but public, that the citizens of Serbia through this discussion see if we spent them in accordance with the law, how effective the state apparatus is and what the results of the use of these funds are, and I couldn't do it all during the former regime. That's the difference between us and them. No problem asking how much we paid the vaccines, we'll answer, just some answers how they made 600, 700m euros, like Dragan Gilas, nothing more. Here, we'll get straight ahead of him and answer him, but let him explain it to us. I'd love to, because you know what, he's certainly not the smartest guy in Serbia. If he obtained this in a legitimate way, I guess there are thousands more in Serbia, so they would legally earn 600, 700, 800m euros, so it would be a fortune for Serbia, but it was not in a legal way. He acted like a common thief and made us all crazy, played the system. And we passed laws so they wouldn't criminally answer, their MPs voted the laws so that they wouldn't be held accountable for their thieving. As we can see from this discussion, and the new Public Procurement Act, where there is now another body that participates and I hope that it does not deal with so many seminars as the Public Procurement Administration has previously done, gives some results. And, of course, all those results need to be welcomed. Can we be satisfied with them? Relatively, because there is much left to do in the sense that our laws are even more effective, even more applicable. But we can't do it overnight, because we need experience. It is absolutely certain that we will have some changes and additions at some point, not because the current provisions are bad, but because through law enforcement we can see and see how the laws adopted by the National Assembly are even more effective. So now we have the right Securities Commission, not to deal with official travels, as it was before and which will only deal with ownership transformations, so when the President of the Commission does not sign that "Knjiz Milos" should be sold, they pack it in prison. Is that what happened? The stimulant was then president of the Commission, jailed. We have the right Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures which no longer decides for years on a case, so whoever filed the complaint finely says – or you'll never get a job, but you'll have to honor me a little bit to withdraw the appeal. They're handling it now within 30 days. We no longer have the Public Procurement Administration, but the Office that does not organise more seminars in Serbia to have extra income, but it is all aimed at making our system of public procurement, state aid, securities of value efficient, rational, that exclusively works for the benefit of citizens and the state, not Dragan Gilas and the society around it, because it seems to me that the only reason for his politics is that Serbia is now much richer again than at a time when he lost power, so again part of the cake that belongs to Serbian citizens only because we are far richer as a state than in 2012. I'm sure there wouldn't be 600 or 700m euros, there might be about a few billion, but he can only dream it, because first he has to win the election.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-10-0.u7576	Thank you. The word has Adam Shukalo.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-10-0.u7577	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, respected members of supervisory, regulatory and independent bodies, to say that it is extremely important that we today discuss these reports, not only on the Committee on Securities of Values, but primarily these three commissions that are permanent bodies, independent and not ad hoc bodies. Serbia has indeed in these past, as counterpart Arsic painted and normatively listed earlier, so that we do not repeat ourselves, has come to a position that can certainly highlight that one value and say that it has done much more than many countries in the region. Some of them haven't even started. I happen to know how this public procurement story is going in the region, and indeed Serbia has strayed in every sense of the word, and it is extremely important that we are now in a completely different environment. Namely, when I talk about what's important to point out in all this kind of story? I'm listening to my esteemed colleagues and colleagues today, and it seems to me that we're talking about the status that's been built, and here we've said since 2012, and here we're talking about something that's already completely normal. Of course it is normal, but on the other hand we have to remember and how it has been over the past period of time to realize that for one, however, a rather short period of time, we have come to this stage where Serbia can go through different, I say, tools and arguments, not only in the region, but also in the broader plan. I will argument my discussion with several indicators that are extremely important, but to say one personal finding which, in my opinion, is clear to every citizen of the Republic of Serbia today, and precisely because we are these areas, which you represent through these reports or I am the Committee of Finance through these conclusions, which gives you support in your work, as the parliament of the Republic of Serbia and the MPs, if you will, and the SNS, let us say, precisely because we have settled all this, give the possibility that without any pressure or influence anyone is working in independent institutions... I would like any of you to report and say if he has had any pressure from any officials in the institutions of the Republic of Serbia, and in terms of any procedure, so that we can resolve that kind of story immediately. That's why Serbia today in 2021 is completely different in this area compared to Serbia by 2012, and everyone knows it. It is because we have arranged this area for Serbia to first adopt plans, and then to realize these plans to build highways, to build hospitals, to build schools, to increase pensions, salaries, the standard of living citizens. This was not possible in the mathematics conducted by the former regime in which, through the public procurement and state aid system, they did so, this surplus disappeared in their pockets, and did not end with citizens of the Republic of Serbia, in pensioners, in social cases, in businessmen who are extremely important that this process of developing state infrastructure behind which the state of Serbia can also move our economy. There are no more of these public procurements of a transgender-frang in which, with some combination in a bar or breakfast, you will arrange a combination, and then on some commission, through some that functioned as previously, arrange a good story, and then your accounts to increase, increase, and not answer for it. That's no longer a question, nor does anyone ask that question that anyone can kick or encourage to do such a thing. Of course, we bring it down to a lower level, to a local level, and it is the SNS that has given legitimacy for such an arrangement, but it has also shown by its political will that it is ready to deal with those who, at a lower level, in their own ranks, try through any public authority, or any public procurement, some building or legalisation or anything else, to abuse citizens' trust and is willing to sanction and party, and on the other hand, in terms of political will through the MUP, and tomorrow through independent judicial institutions, prosecutors and courts, and the same process. This is the big difference, which, in terms of legal certainty and everything else, remains public money for managing public resources, building public works, building public infrastructure works, and seeing this material shift that you can visually feel, see and understand what your colleague Bojanić was saying earlier, when he was driving for the King, or when he plans to take the highway tomorrow to drive. What makes that possible? Because this surplus will no longer go as an extra profit from certain private companies that you create by various fictitious contracts abroad, and where you hide and wrap it up, like in the coast, over a dozen related legal entities so you don't recognize yourself. It is not, Dragan Gilasu, that no idiot in Serbia understands what you have done and that Serbia will never look like that front of you again, how you have treated her, and you have acted like your own front, that you can change her and do whatever you want, so that you can change that line from an account to an account and you're taking that money from the citizens of the Republic of Serbia to foreign accounts, here to drive us crazy with stories that you're innocent, you're not guilty, or you're victims. Your role as the victim you're only playing in this political discourse has also failed, and no one trusts you anymore that you were any kind of political victim. You are not victims, you are pests, someone who is not in the period of Serbian rule did nothing good for Serbia. You did good for your bills, you did good for yourself. I can't believe you did the right thing for your families, for your children. I would never wish anyone his child would be ashamed of him for what he did during his public duties. That seal you're wearing is harder than anything else. That is why these people sitting here, sitting in the government of the Republic of Serbia, will not allow such things to be done. You have our support, but that support is assumed, in the sense that the work that you are doing in accordance with the law continues to be done in such a way, and everything that is negative here, Parliament, as in the commission, which this Parliament has chosen, present everything that is anomalies in this society and advance as much as possible. The public procurement portal, the Office for IT Administration of the Republic of Serbia, has done phenomenal things, not only in this area, and it is no longer a story of a combination in terms of it -- goes and will now be announced in which newspapers will publish it. The story is completely open, clear to everyone, the possibilities for any manipulation and to say, the allocation of certain public procurements, tenders and everything else, which you can far more professionally represent in terms than we as the MPs here, is extremely important that the safety of all those involved in such procedures know that at any moment they can get the answer that is extremely important for their business, and in terms of their legal and any other security, give them the opportunity to develop their business planically. What is also very important to me is the assistance that the Republic of Serbia has provided in this era of pandemics and businesses and citizens, and for me personally, given that I came from Republika Srpska, and supported in terms of state aid from the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Serbia and the Federation of BiH and the common institutions of BiH or now, to take the final example, the support of four municipalities that have indeed been killed in every sense by words that are determined by the negligence of public finances, and also because of other circumstances, geostrategic positions in the municipality of Dubica, Kostanica, Petrovac in the Federation and Nevesinje in Republika Srpska or to be more precise, to be geographically oriented, in Herzegovina, where my friend Ugljesa Mrdić is. Therefore, Serbia has the room to help its brothers and its countrymen because it has stepped on its feet, because it does not allow its public budget, the public alarm clock, if you will, to kidnap each and every one of them in the way it has been done so far. There's a line in Serbia, it's known there's another time. This second time may also be today on the Spasovdan, which is the Day of the City of Belgrade, but the Day of Banja Luka, that is, the glory of Belgrade and the glory of the city of Banja Luka, is an indicator of one time in the future which will mean that we will consider these reports in the most favourable environment, and that in the public finances and in the next period of time and everything else, there will be order, work, discipline and that the citizens of the Republic of Serbia will be able to expect both better and more effectively, to say, a power that will contribute in each segment of the word. In that name lived Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-10-0.u7578	Thank you. The word is Viktor Jevtovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-10-0.u7579	Thank you. The Honored Chairman, Dr Vladimir Orlic, honored guests, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, for the purpose of achieving one of the basic long-standing goals ahead of the legislation of the Republic of Serbia, is harmonising legislation in the area of public procurement, not only with positive EU legislation, but also with the basic legal assets of the EU. The general tendency is to simplify the procurement process, thus reducing administrative burden both on the contracting party and on the bidder's side, and to reduce costs in public procurement procedures, as well as to provide greater participation. Interinstitutional co-operation has received its full scope in the field of data collection necessary to analyse the reported and identified irregularities. The following data are contained in the annual plan: review of monitoring entities, the time period of monitoring, data on control resources and public procurement, which will be defined for the implementation of monitoring and other relevant data for implementation. By acting and working to achieve the same, which is to combat irregularity in the field of public procurement, a high level of co-operation has been achieved with certain state authorities and institutions, above all, with the prosecution, the Ministry and the Anti-Corruption Agency, all in the principle of combating organised crime, terrorism and corruption, or the processing of perpetrators of criminal acts that are taxfully listed in the context of the detection and prosecution of perpetrators of criminal acts against official duties, the receiving and giving of bribes, as well as groups of criminal acts against business and all that are linked to the abuse of public procurement. The share of negative opinions since 2013 of 36% was reduced to 2% in 2020. This is how Aleksandar Vucic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia approach the elimination of corruption and crime, unlike the DOS regime, which is manipulative, not taking into account the needs of citizens, but only your own personal interest, and all inconsistencies of political appetites on the back of the suffering people violated all norms and standards in performing state and political functions. By doing so, I think primarily of Dragan Gilas who has devastationed the budget of the city of Belgrade through self-relamation of 68 million, through public procurement from software that has never worked, robbery on trolleybuses, kindergartens, underground containers, bridge on Ada, which is also the most expensive bridge ever, the Luke Belgrade affair, as well as the tragic reconstruction of Požeška on Čukarica, on which I live and have seen it all, and today to improve control in the public procurement system, which also brings us strategically closer to segments of the EU and European society, is going to apply a new portal of public procurement and the dominant fact that the number of negative opinions decreases from year to year while positive opinions dominate with low participation of the negotiating procedures in total value. It's all part of Alexander Vukic's and SNS' policy, aimed at preventing public procurement malfeasance. We do not stop there and move on in the fight against all kinds of crime, corruption, malfeasance, all in order to improve the standard and security of Serbian citizens. Today we look at the state through results, not more through the delusions that the old DOS only lied and dreamed of with a fog of promises, and filled its overseas accounts and did everything for its own personal interest, but everything, and nothing for the people of Serbia who cried out for justice and a better life, and experienced the former regime leading them to the edge of bankruptcy and misery. Gilasov, Šolakov, Jeremic's system of national money in the tax haven watered expensive whiskeys, tompuss, expensive hotel rooms under the pretext that it was for the sake of the people's well-being. That's not our policy. This is not the policy of Alexander Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia, but of new investments, factories, hospitals, roads, increased wages and pensions always, and even at the time of the pandemic, as well as the uncompromising struggle with those who threw the country into the sun, the fight against swamps and those who in their impotence today are moaning on social networks so as not to go back to the mud in which they threw it at Serbia, but it will not go with them. The country led by Aleksandar Vukic is now completely different from the poor and humiliated by tycoons and thieves. He'll never do it again. The people tell them: your threats with bullets have not stopped Wolf, nor Serbia, nor will they. What's hard is what we're going to do now, what they're saying is impossible for it to take a little time, but it's going to be that too. You've seen it before. You know that's right. Thank you. Lived and lived Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-10-0.u7580	Thank you. There's a Wolf Mircetic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-10-0.u7581	Thank you. Dear President-in-Office, Mr Orlic, respected representatives of institutions, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I reported to discuss a report on the Commission's work on state aid control for 2020. Just before the start of the presentation for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, I will return only briefly to the 2009 period to compare the Commission since 2009 and the Commission that is operating today. I would like to remind you that the state aid control system in the Republic of Serbia was set up just in 2009 by the adoption of the State Aid Control Act, and it was prescribed that the state aid control is being carried out by the Commission, which is being educated by the government as a working body. During that period, this Commission did not possess either legal subjectivity, or the PIB, or the room in which it functioned and during the application of the legislation at that time, it was found that there are many things that need to be changed in terms of state aid control, but also in the way of organising the Commission's functioning. It was necessary to pass a new law governing both the situation and the selection of bodies, but also the working legal status of staff in the Commission. The current State Aid Control Act was adopted in 2019, it began to apply on 1 January 2020. Therefore, the Commission for State aid control within the meaning of this law only works for about a year and a half. The Commission reports on its work to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the work submitted to the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia a report on the work, which you did on 9 March of this year and because of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, it is important to note once again that the Commission does not decide on who will receive the assistance, does not grant assistance as well as the amount allocated to any participants, no project etc. The competent donors within the meaning of this law are the competent authority of the Republic of Serbia, the Autonomous Province, the unit of local self-government, and the jurisdiction is, or I will not talk about everything, but about some of the powers of the Commission, according to Article 10. The State aid control law covers, I will read that I would not be wrong: assessing the existence and compliance of state aid with the rules on granting them, adopting a sublegal act to implement the law as well as solutions and conclusions in the control process, taking action to develop awareness of the importance of State aid control and what is important, the Commission also has a control function for the purpose of using state aid. When we talk about state aid, it is generally important to note that in 2019 the most prominent instrument of granting state aid was subsidies of 55.4%, followed by tax incentives of 22.2%. The total aid granted in 2019 amounted to 939.6m euros. It is very important to mention, as someone who was in the previous period and served as President of the Council for the Employment of a City Municipality in Belgrade, I know how important a good relationship with the economy is and how important it is to inform businesses about the opportunities they have. I would particularly highlight the importance of certain activities aimed at promoting state aid, because as many people as possible, as many citizens of the Republic of Serbia know on which state aids they have first, it will take part and thus allow them to make further progress. I would especially like to commend the work of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce Sector in organising such activities, and I consider this an example of good practice. The director of Branislav Simanic's entrepreneurship sector organizes a day-to-year open-door with entrepreneurs on which all representatives of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises have opportunities to inform themselves of the opportunities and state aid they can compete with. These state aids, more specifically financial assistance, are being declared by the Republic of Serbia, and are being implemented as we all know through the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia, the Development Agency, as well as the National Employment Service. But what is very important are presentations of these programmes organised by municipalities throughout Serbia. In this way a larger number, an even greater number of interested people can get all the necessary information concerning certain possibilities for subsidies, and I think it is very important because we have to enable the citizens of the Republic of Serbia to do two things. The first thing is that they have the opportunity to rely on their own country and to know which subsidies and which state aid they are entitled to, and then to be informed that they can compete and how they can compete to achieve it. Before the start of this session, I spoke with counterpart Ana Pesic from the town of Cicevic, and this is a good example of good practice, as in the co-operation of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce and the regional Chamber of Commerce in Cicevic, a tent for entrepreneurs is open and now all citizens who have their own business or citizens who want to start their new job at any time can get any information. What's important and what's interesting is that in the entire Rasin County, such tents have not existed before, and now, this is already the third counter opened in the Rasink County, there are, of course, Bruce, Trstenik and now Cicevic. These are just the right examples of how President Alexander Vukic's policies are being followed. So, on the one hand, we need to enable an attractive business environment, and on the other hand, citizens of the Republic of Serbia should be informed, so that they have ways that they can take advantage of everything that the state has to offer them. If we look at the Commission's report, we have to bear in mind that, as previous speakers talked about in 2020, it was a very specific year because of the Coronus virus, and I believe that even if it was a difficult year and a specific year, you were generally quite well managed by the Commission. This year also established the legal and institutional frameworks necessary for the Commission's work. Any necessary acts relating to the internal organisation have also been adopted. Now I would return briefly to the beginning of my speech when I spoke about the Commission in 2009. There is a clear difference here between the Commission which was in 2009 and the Commission which is now functioning this year. What I personally liked in this report, in general in your work, is the investment, the improvement of staff and the fact that both the officials and the employees and the function of the Commission held 43 sessions where 53 acts were adopted, assessing the coherence of state aid. At the very end, if you would allow me, I would give one suggestion relating to the degree of knowledge of state aid regulations, and I personally think, and you have stated at the end of the report, that there is no sufficient degree of knowledge of the rules in this area, and I believe that in the next period, there should be a little more work to improve and raise awareness on this subject, because if the awareness of all relevant factors is at a satisfactory level and, of course, further contributes, as I have mentioned several times, to creating an attractive business environment, more transparent business, but also to create new jobs. We live in Serbia today, which is for the pride of all of us, but that doesn't mean we shouldn't keep trying and work harder and harder. In voting day, I will support the proposed report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-10-0.u7582	Thank you. The word is Milos Bandur. He's not in the O.R. The word is Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-10-0.u7583	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, public procurement, the Public Procurement Office, we're mostly talking about public procurement today. In this country, during the government of the former regime, on these public procurements, one big fog fell so that public procurement was actually a secret. Gilas is the best example of how public functions are subordinated to private businesses. He put together public office and private businesses. This resulted in him making huge profits in his private companies and making a huge minus in the public sector. Mr. Mirkovic will know best. So that's about 1.2 billion euros left a debt in Belgrade while he ruled and was mayor. His companies have advanced and made extreme profits so that it's clear to everyone, probably the Anti-Corruption Agency, which is closely linked to this, it was probably clear to them that it was a public-private spillover, but my God, no one reacted, because they were carefully elected by prosecutors, judges, anti-corruption agency workers during their government. Today, this Anti-Corruption Agency, it is now called, is a popular target as MPs. Therefore, those who are not even in a position to participate in public procurement, to be members of the tender commission, etc., are the favorite target of the Anti-Corruption Agency that should have sanctioned and prevented public procurement. I must admit that they are doing it far more effectively now than they are in the period until 2013. Let me remind you, that the Anti-Corruption Agency arrested the director, because that was what it was called, because the director himself at the Anti-Corruption Agency during the former regime was deep in corruption, as some of our younger people would say, deep in honey and sugar. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, if I tell you only that during the government of the former regime, the Anti-Corruption Agency, which is still operating today, is now called the Anti-Corruption Agency, bought without public procurement, directly with the owner of the company, or with the company whose owner was the person of the White Book, the famous White Book, on the basis of which Sabela's action was carried out, etc. If we say they bought it with a direct contract, with the support of the Government of Mirko Cvetkovic, the Government of Iliada, at the time it was more miserable than the Government. If they bought it with a direct contract, where they gave five times more money for one building than that interesting entrepreneur gave for the entire firm that has five such facilities in Belgrade. As they accidentally walked through Belgrade, something didn't suit them, the Green Wreath didn't match the building of Belgrade or Beobank, that I wasn't wrong of the soul, and then on the way back they saw that very building, that very person, and they decided to buy it. What you could do at that time, during the government of the yellow regime, the former regime, so what you could expect in public procurement, what you could expect about preventing the entry into the midst of their officials, if it's the Agency itself, which they chose in a way that the illegal and illegal bought buildings in which they operate today. There's yellow frames there. We remember the lady who was in the party never enough, that her mother was actively working on cases of MPs who were glued to a pillar of shame in the media because of some little thing. In doing so, Radulovic, thanks to the daughter of a member of the Agency being on his list, Radulovic went unpunished even though as a bankruptcy manager, and later as a minister, deep down, he plunged his fingers into Serbian budgets, Gods and American ones, but I don't care that much about Americans. So much for the one that's probably coming back after the election to the antivaxer ideas. Ladies and gentlemen, about state aid. State aid and subsidies in agriculture and industry. What I would like to see from this data is that in 2019, support is 2.4 times higher in the subsidy industry than in agriculture. EU practice is reversed. The subsidies in agriculture are 45% of the European budget, allocated to 10.4 million hectares. If we take this as a unit of measures to make it the area of agricultural land at 10.4m hectares of farmland, they amount to 54 billion euros, which is translated about 500 euros per hectare somewhere. At this point, this amount paid in 2019 is not even final, because the remaining debts that will be paid now that, with the support of the President of the Republic, we have managed to get additional funds to pay off those tails and debts and to fully pay off everything owed in 2019 and 2020. So this number for 2019 won't be final, but when you divide it by three and a half million hectares of processed surfaces, you get about 100 euros. It used to be about 30, 40 euros. This is great progress and I, as president of the People's Peasants' Party, am grateful to the government and, of course, to the bearer of the electoral list that the two peasant parties have put on the list and that they always have an understanding of agriculture in order to equate the country's industrial power with as much money as possible for agriculture and thus to subsidise and reward farmers, i.e. to stimulate them for as much production as possible. I must say that this state aid was not only for the benefit of farmers, that it was also for the benefit of consumers, and in particular it was useful for processors, it was for the benefit of a country that, God forbid, because of any new military and economic pressures it was certain that it had food security. So, apart from the fact that the state is safe, except that it has some kind of political power in the region that supplies food, because we are surrounded by countries of the former Yugoslavia that have not enough food, but these incentives have come to the benefit of consumers because they have a well-provided market and cheaper food, and for the benefit of the processors it was a little higher because they could make, thanks to the raw materials they get cheaper for state aid, they could make a good food product and be competitive on our market and the surrounding ones, above all, according to European producers that I said they have several times more incentive if we take a unit of measures for data. Ladies and gentlemen, we have turned a little bit of subsidies in favour of cattlemen, fruit farmers, because we believe that more intensive agricultural production is of greater benefit to the state. A little bit of plant production has been saved by that subsidy per hectare because it is not quite appropriate to make exclusively vegetable production, subsidize and then export millions of tonnes of corn, hundreds of thousands of tonnes of soybeans, cattle flour, etc., and to import meat often of quality that is below the quality of the domestic meat industry, the quality of meat produced by domestic cattlemen. That's why we've introduced incentives -- every cow, say, 25 thousand dinars, every purchase of a breeding throat, the heifer is up to 125 thousand dinars, vomiting is between 50 and 65% in livestock farming, they've been introduced for young special privileges, etc. So we turned subsidies in favor of, as far as we could, in favour of more intensive agricultural production which per hectare gives far more. It gave some certain results, and you remember those who were in the older councils that we had here a rebellion ala Canak, Radulović, Pajtic who protested on behalf of the warlords that agrarian politics would not turn in favour of more intensive production, so they called my smallness and called it so little – come out a little bit to kill you, because, behold, my God, we've switched from warfare to livestock. I need to explain to you that every cattleman is a former warlord. So, we didn't take anything too much from warfare, but we focused them on replacing incomes from cattle farming, and livestock is a little more intense agricultural branch where you have to work every day, where you can't buy a John Dir and process a thousand acres, etc., but you have to be there every day on your farm. The privatisation or "grabisation" that these yellow unfortunates, who rightly aren't here, I think, and that they were in the elections to say "good-bye Charlie," so probably that the American twisted version would have failed in the election, so they didn't even go to the polls to think that someone, well, regrets them, like, well, they boycotted the elections and they didn't boycott them, they probably wouldn't have been here, despite having downloaded the census 3%, because they totally deserved citizens' mistrust. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, so I don't owe too much to tell you all to be careful. In this country, the yellow regime has also taught citizens, for God's sakes, and taught its members, if they still exist, they have learned their sympathisers and members that faith is separate from the state and their embezzlement is not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-10-0.u7584	I thank Mr. Risticevic. The next is National MP Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-10-0.u7585	Thank you, dear Vice President of the National Assembly. Dear guests, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, reviewing the Commission's State Aid Report and, of course, other institutions whose representatives are here today and concerning the control of the procurement process, which is very important for our overall political, economic and social progress, says that the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Republic of Serbia are very serious about the control of these processes, which are key for money, budget money, money from citizens of the Republic of Serbia, to go to the right places and to the right projects. What is still very important and is introduced during the government of President Alexander Vukic, it is to monitor the purpose of everything that the state institutions and all those who are budgetary users who are obliged to implement and implement the public procurement process, to adhere to it and to all that they spend their money on, to have added value and, of course, to make sure that the money is spent. Given that new investments are very difficult to come to today, it is very difficult to reach every job, it is very difficult to participate in this international competition at the time of the Fourth Industrial Revolution, but despite the heavy competition, in addition to the difficult geopolitical and global influences and ambience, we today have a very important statement by the owner of a company that President Vukic went to open in Jagodina today, in which he will be employed around 400 people, it is about the company Fischer, whose owner today was with the president and who said clearly and sent a message to our public here in Serbia, the public in the region, but also throughout Europe, that this company has sought the opportunity and the best and most suitable conditions for investment, and that he could not find any better conditions than he found in Serbia. It speaks enough of Serbia as it is today, as we have done over the past few years, thanks to the vision, statehood and leadership of President Alexander Vukic, that we can participate in this race, which is dictated by the Fourth Industrial Revolution, so that we can participate in the race that is important because the world's largest companies, the largest European companies, want to invest their capital in the Republic of Serbia. This shows an example of more than 150 factories that President Aleksandar Vukic himself opened over the past three years, which employ a large number of people. Why does this have to do with the current geopolitical moment and the great challenges facing Serbia, which are ahead of our government, which is in front of our people and citizens, and the fact that it is currently in the Republic of Serbia, precisely because of these investments, precisely because of the great relations that President Vukic made with Chancellor Angela Merkel, creating a very serious trust, creating from Serbia a reliable partner of the EU's most key states, and we must say it openly that it is Germany. Although we disagree on certain issues, I also have to state the fact that German companies in Serbia are currently hiring 70,000 people. Although we don't agree with Americans at all, their companies employ 25,000 people. It is something that represents a kind of dam and protection of the Republic of Serbia in the challenges of continuing dialogue between Belgrade and Pristina, but, of course, our continued commitment to the fight to preserve the territorial integrity, sovereignty and the protection of our country's national interests. So, Vucic's doctrine is that by empowering the economy, attracting foreign direct investment, creating strategic partnerships with countries with which we haven't had almost any diplomatic relations for decades, there is also a great France, as one of the first three most developed countries in Europe, Germany, Italy and all our other European partners, made of this type of co-operation a whole new situation for the Republic of Serbia, which today represents one of the kind of economic and economic hab of this region and a country in which all companies, from all countries of Europe and the whole world, want to invest their capital. I want to and must mention, because this is a high home that serves to have one political debate and that we are primarily sending political messages, that President Vukic is expecting a very difficult meeting in Brussels next week, that people who will be on the other side are already declaring their victory and are speaking in advance that they already have ready solutions that Serbia just needs to accept. Serbia responds in this way that today we are opening a factory where 400 people will be employed, which will continue for the next days and months attract investment, which will allow our citizens to have salaries, which will allow our older citizens the opportunity to increase their pensions. We will influence, therefore, on the daily level on the quality of life of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, on their well-being, and in a political sense what my message is today and my colleagues here, of course, previous SNS speakers have spoken very highly of all these topics today, but I would like to mention that it is very important that we now give decisive and decisive support to President Vukic when it comes to dialogue and when it comes to the continuation of his struggle for Serbia, the continuation of his struggle for Serbian interests, as it is not today, as well as the previous few years, many in the region, many in Europe, many in the world, are not glad that Serbia has such a quantum leap of economy and economic growth, because it is the best in vaccination, because it is the best in attracting foreign direct investment, and all would love that Serbia has not raised its head in this way it has done in the past few years. Do you think a country will think about it and think about the pressure on Serbia if there are companies that employ five, ten, 15, 20,000 people in Serbia or, like Germany, who employs 70,000 people, where you have the most innovative companies that work here and who have come here not to give as during the previous regime, the yellow regime that ruled until 2012, which attracted speculant capital and who only turned and brought that money out of the country and today we come to the fact that instead of opening their municipal committees, they have strengthened their parties and party pluralism in the Republic of Serbia, they have done so and established their committees and bank accounts around the world, as Dragan Gilas has shown by opening more than 50 accounts in 17 countries, in tax and exotic paradises around the world. Today, the best companies are coming to Serbia, today the best players are coming to Serbia, and among other things thanks to the state aid. Among other things, thanks to state aid because there was no state aid, if there were no clearly defined State aid strategy, there would be no "Er Serbia" in 2019, it would not be completed by passing more than five million people through the airport "Nikola Tesla", and in 2013 it was about 2.5 million, there would be no many companies, it would not be Serbia today, it would be a transport, business, industrial breadth of this region, and I am free to say Southeast Europe, that Vucic in the right way did not preserve key and strategic companies, such as JAT, such as "Gelezara" in Smederevo, such as the "Radarsko-Topionic Basen" in Boro. Many have spoken of it – this Wolf does not know what he is doing, so it is impossible, so Bor cannot be restored, he cannot do it again. The Americans left "Jues Style", i.e. "Gelezar", then sold it to the government of the Republic of Serbia, the incompetent government of the Republic of Serbia, Mirko Cvetkovic, for one dollar. What's done? Thanks to one dedicated work, thanks to one political and, I feel free to say, to the diplomatic activation and offensive of President Vukic who has managed to find partners in some other countries, who have managed to find partners who are today the largest exporters in the Republic of Serbia, who are today responsible for Serbia's growth of more than 6% of GDP this year. To better understand all that we are talking about today, this co-operation with these commissions, institutions and better control results in more companies, that this state aid is directed in the best possible way, that we control public procurement, that we support this institution so that no single dinar of held money will stand out in, God forbid, an illegal or unsupervised way. As those who try to do so pass, who think both parliament and government and the MUP will not do their job and will grumble at such things, we can see that, and that kind of determination that this fight against corruption and organised crime, which is when you take money from the budget one of the worst kinds of organised crime and corruption, shows that Aleksandar Vukic is also ready to deal with people from his ranks, but also anyone who threatens stability, who threatens the economy, who threatens the financing of the Republic of Serbia. It's politics and it's leadership and it's Alexander Vucic, and it's the SNS that's got the trust, the huge trust of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia to lead this country in this way, to lead this country in the process of further modernization, prosperity, gaining new jobs and what's very, very important to us, it's strengthening our country's demographic characteristics, the rest of the young people here in Serbia. We offer them better education, better jobs. We have raised the IT industry so much that in just three years we have a jump from 400 million to 1.2 billion euros just from these services. Today we have a situation where the greatest players in the world come into our country. We raised tourism, we raised information technologies, the industrial revolution in Serbia flows in the best way possible. This is where the plants open up, the production opens up, the factories open up. Our economy is no longer based on services. It invests, of course, in a farm that is, of course, our factory is open and represents our natural resource. Of course, what is very important, we try to use our natural resources like ore, such as energy in the best possible way. Those who wave green or such or such flags and who say nothing is wrong, we need nothing, we don't need investments, we don't need mining, everything is predicated to failure. This country has shown that the best factories come here so we will bring the best partners working in the mining sector, working in the energy sector, because we have shown that we have a citizen here, that the people of the Republic of Serbia are the most important and that we have shown that we can treat him in the most responsible way. So we showed that for nine years we have insisted, we have a improvement, we have good results in defending our national interests and our sovereignty. Finally, this country is respected, finally this country is seen by everyone in the world as one of the most serious and reliable partners and finally, as Vukic has shown, at the session of the SB of the UN, can tell those who are the most powerful in the world, those before whom perhaps, some who are stronger than us, tremble and will not object and say what our red lines are and say that we respect international law and that it says that we are right and that we will say that we will continue to fight, fight for our country, for our Serbia, for our citizens, and that is SNS policy, that is Alexander Vukic's policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-10-0.u7586	I thank Mr. Marinkovic. The next MP who has the word is Serbia's Filipovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-10-0.u7587	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, Serbia is a country that we all cannot, but we must be proud, as every nation is proud of its country, its achievements, its people and its results. But we have to be even more proud than we are, not just because we live in it, but because this country has achieved what many have seemed impossible in 2012. In 2012, we found the country in the claws of the mafia, crime, tycoon, a country that is economically and economically completely ruined, devastated in every sense. In 2012, we found a country from which young people could hardly wait to leave. In southern Serbia, it was said -- the southerner, the sadder, the north lean, the east empty villages, the empty cities, the western Serbia disaster, and then the complete turnaround. With SNS and Aleksandra Vukic coming to power, Serbia is finally moving ahead with big steps. The changes begin from the bottom to the top of the government in every sense, and new people and responsible people come to power, people who have an idea and have a vision led by President Vukic, who know and know how to change Serbia and have managed to change Serbia over the past 9 years, to make Serbia a completely different country today than it was in 2012. In Serbia today, we are no longer talking about whether growth will be 1%, 2%, whether we are going to catch up with Albania, BiH, Montenegro, we have reached everything in the region and now Serbia is stepping forward and catching up with Europe's most developed countries, and we are now competing with the best. We are no longer in the Zone League, we are now in the first league in Europe, and now we are competing with the best and most developed countries, and some of them, in this difficult year, which is behind us, when Kovid 19 has left a terrible impact on the economy and economy around the world, Serbia has shown that it has made one not solid, but an excellent foundation for the future, by fixing its finances, by setting up economy, economy and by helping this same economy, not to fall but to continue to grow and grow in the period ahead of us. This means new factories, new jobs, that means new roads, new life in Serbia. This is what the citizens of Serbia expected and also from President Vucic, from the SNS and from this Government of the Republic of Serbia - to pour new life into Serbia, to raise Serbia from their knees, to stop Serbia from being a doormat across Europe and the world, as anyone wants to wipe out legs and dump it, to go on, to give us orders, to tell us how to edit our economy, to tell us who can invest in Serbia, who can't, to tell us whether a Chinese investor, from Russia, can tell us where to buy vaccines. No one can order Serbia anymore. Serbia wants investments and investors from both the west and the east, both from the south and the north. We look forward to every new job. We look forward to every factory that comes to Serbia, because it means a new life for every place and region in which it is opened in Serbia. Every German factory, no matter what differences we have in politics, means a lot to us. It means a lot to every family, to every new child born here, because it has a certain future to stay in its own country, to build it and to create it, and not to make our brains go to other countries, and to make these other countries richer through their minds, through innovation, through effort, through learning, but to make that potential that we have as a people come true here and that our country is happier thanks to God's gift when we were born here as Serbs. Our mind to create in Serbia, our mind to stay here, to build a wall, to create its future in its own country, not to seek happiness somewhere across the border. Nowhere can be better and better for us than here if we make our country the way it should be - no corruption, no crime, with honest and honest people in power, with those who know they're fighting every bastard wherever she is, and that power must have the courage to do it. To have such power, you must also have a brave man in power. Serbia didn't have that before 2012. I often talk about the question of whether in the past 100 years we had such a man headed by Serbia who had such a vision of the modern state and the future of Serbia as Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic has. It's not some vision like some imagination, it's something we see. We see it every day. Even today, we see a new factory with over 400 new jobs. We're seeing new science and technology parks. We see everything Serbia hasn't had in decades behind us. We also see that Torlak is alive, producing vaccines against Kovid-19. These are huge successes. Sometimes it seems to me that as a people, we may not even know how far we have succeeded in the past nine years, from 2012 to today, how many huge steps we have taken and how far Serbia will actually move forward in the future, and today it has good foundations. She didn't have it in 2012. We only had potential. We had a desire, I say, first of all, as SNS and as people, as its members to change Serbia for the better, and today we have serious opportunities for that. Today we have a stable economy, economy, finance. We have something to help the economy out of. We have something to help both our citizens and our pensioners and those who are out of work. We have something to help our people who live in Serbia and out of Serbia. Today, this is a serious country. Today, this is serious company. Today this is no longer a society that sits at home and mourns itself only because it doesn't know what will happen in a month or two, whether in a month or two it will have a future, whether it will have a pension, a salary, whether it will be able to have a baby for lunch tomorrow when it leaves for school in the morning or if it will have to skip one meal. Today in Serbia, children have a secure persceptive, have a stable and certain future, to school in it, to be able to work with their diploma, to get their business started, to work in a private company, to contribute to the growth and development of their country, to leave a mark and a seal in it, just as famous ancestors, who used to live here, left it as they built modern Serbia. We want to celebrate some new Teslas, some new Pupins, and not talk anymore – living in America, living in Germany, living in England, but staying here and creating here what only our greats could have created when they left Serbia. We want the greats in Serbia and we want to keep the children here. The only way we can settle this is the next policy of Serbian President Alexander Vukic and all that is part of that policy and part of that political vision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-10-0.u7588	I thank Mr Filipovic. Next is the National MP of Ugljesa Mrdić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-10-0.u7589	Thank you, Chairman. Dear guests today, representatives of very important state institutions, distinguished fellow Members of the People, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, our country today confirms how strong and stable we as states and as MPs make sure that all institutions in the state of Serbia are strong and stable. As for the institutions you represent today, institutions should be independent, as they are. That, unfortunately, was not the case in Serbia until 2012, during the former regime. The former regime led by Dragan Djilas, Boris Tadic, Vuk Jeremic, Marinik Tepic, Dragan Šolak and all their comrades has done, Maltene, everything to bring down all institutions in the state of Serbia. They were destroying the army, destroying energy, economics, and there were no independent institutions. Today, the situation in Serbia is very different. You here who represent these institutions and as regards the Securities Commission, which is doing great work, unlike any earlier period, when the representatives of the former regime were at the head of the institution, and you here who are engaged and in state aid control and as regards public procurement, which my colleagues have spoken far more and better today, that I do not now, but what I want to particularly point out, is that you pay great attention when it comes to the distribution of money from state aid and public procurement. The latest actions by the Ministry of the Interior, on the orders of the Prosecutor's Office, and what we could conclude also on the basis of all statements made by the President of the Republic of Aleksandr Vukic, Serbia is a country of law and order and in Serbia who has sinned against the law there is no protection. So whoever thinks he's doing something through criminal and corrupt activities, he's going to be arrested and processed and that's what you need to know here today when it comes to controlling public procurement. On public procurement, and you know it better than I do, you know the damage done to the Republic of Serbia by 2012. If they had remained in power, I mean the former regime, the Gilas regime, today we could not discuss any state aid, and today we are talking about state aid, because someone in Serbia, the government of Serbia, the independent institutions, the state of Serbia, led by President Alexander Vukic, takes care of every dinar, makes sure that all those who steal and kidnap are processed and I hope that they will continue this energetic, courageous, effective and Ministry of the Interior and the D.A. to do their job and that these investigations will all be continued. Why? Mostly because of the interest of Serbian citizens, because if we have strong institutions in Serbia, if we take care of the budget, if public procurement is controlled, if it is not stolen on state aid, if it is not stolen from the state, then we have a stronger state, and when we are a strong state, as we are today, with a tendency of even greater reinforcement, then we can talk about both regional and foreign policy. I would like to look back at this opportunity in a few sentences of what we talked about yesterday and what is spoken about in the region all these days – how embarrassing it is to say in public these days in the region that we are Serbs who love Serbia, who love Republika Srpska. And why is it so hard to say today – I am a proud Serb? What has Serbia done wrong these years? What is the fault of the Serbian people? Why? Is it the Serbian people's fault that in his history he has always defended himself, defended his people, defended all the peoples who live in our territory? Whatever our country's name is now or earlier and whatever territory it covers, whatever part of the Balkans, we Serbs have always defended Serbs and defended Bosniaks and Hungarians and Albanians and Bulgarians and all those living in Serbia's territory. Whether it was formerly Yugoslavia, SCG or now Serbia, we have always defended our neighbours. I also have to say a few words about terrorism. If anyone has shown themselves in the fight against terrorism in the past decades, and I can say for the full century, it is Serbia and the Serbian people. If terrorist activities were directed against some state and some nation on the Balkan territory, it is against Serbia and against the Serb people. My dear colleagues from Kosovo and Metohija can say a lot about terrorist activities against Serbs and the non-Albanian population in Kosovo and Metohija, who opposed terrorists. My colleagues originating in BiH and Croatia can certainly talk a lot about Ustasha terrorism and other terrorism over the Serb people. Not thousands died of this terrorism, but tens and hundreds of thousands of Serbian citizens in the past 100 years of the Serbian people and all those other nations who have always opposed us both to the Nazis and fascists who, through terrorist methods, tried to conquer us, our country to destroy us. So today we have two kinds of blows to Serbia. One is the blow from the inside, it's this tycoon-crime economic blow that's trying Dragan Gilas, tycoons and his compatriots. Fortunately, the state has institutions, and the people know that they recognize who's quality and who's unquality and who's on the inside working against Serbia and President Vukic and all of us, the people are responding to the elections, and the institutions are processing them and I hope that all of them will be processed in accordance with the law. Another type of blow to Serbia and the Serb people is the one that comes from outside. Whenever Serbia strengthens a little, always someone in the region and someone among the world's forces is trying to apply some methods along with these mentioned internal co-workers, to bring Serbia down and to do something against Serbia. Now, both these inside and these outside, honor, of course, except for all of our friendly world powers that help us even now when it comes to fighting the crown of the virus, but also those inside and those from the outside co-ordinate together, because they want to bring down both Serbia and President Vukic and the state institutions, and your institutions, you who represent these institutions today, including the Serbian Assembly, because they are not fit by strong Serbia, modern, which is a country of order and law. And, what do we want, I'm free to say as SNS MP from the list of Alexander Vukić – For our children, what do we want? We want strong Serbia, peace and stability in the region, to strengthen our Serbia, to help our neighbours, to help BiH, to help Croatia, Northern Macedonia, Montenegro, to have excellent relations with both Washington and Moscow and Beijing and Brussels and Berlin, and to make Serbia not only the economic leader of Southeast Europe, but also, not only the leader of the fight against the crown of the virus, but that our Serbia, led by Alexander Vukic, is an example of a country, small in the world frameworks, and large in our heart and our frameworks, an example of a country that holds to peace and stability in the region. So, what's done is done. Every crime Serbia has condemned. But please don't, please don't, please, that when it comes to crime against the Serb population, it is forgotten and put under the rug. It has been done on several occasions over the past 100 years, not numerous crimes, but genocide over the Serb people. We spoke publicly about this in both international institutions and in Serbia. Some, fortunately, the world's forces recognized it both west and east. And I hope that the world will finally create this climate so that it no longer judges Serbs who are Serbs, but one who committed a crime against any nation to answer, one who is a terrorist, and terrorism, as well as the mafia, is not asking about religion, nor about the nation, nor about race. Every criminal, every terrorist should be convicted. But let's not collectively accuse the Serbian people. Let's not collectively accuse Serbia and not with false evidence that we are accusing Serbs who are guilty just because they have defended their people. Again, on the other hand, anyone who has been given concrete evidence that he has stolen in Serbia, is responsible for crime and corruption, which has committed crimes on the territory of the former Yugoslavia and anywhere in the world, any nation, against any other nation that has committed a crime, must also be held accountable and convicted. So Serbia stands for not double arches, but Serbia advocates respect for both international law and law and respect for its own constitution, but Serbia is very much in favour of strengthening it. We don't give up on Serbia! We don't touch others, we don't even touch ourselves. We want strong and stable Serbia. We want to send a policy of peace and stability every day, because we want with our dear neighbours in the Balkans for the next few decades, but for centuries to live in peace and stability and the only other to help and to strengthen our countries together. Therefore, in the voting day, of course I will support these reports and all that we discussed yesterday and today, because I, as well as my fellow Members of Parliament from the parliamentary group led by Dr Aleksandar Martinovic, are in favour of strong, modern and democratic Serbia, led by our President Aleksandr Vukic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-10-0.u7590	Thank you. The word has been made by MP Milimir Vujadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-10-0.u7591	Thank you. Dear fellow Members of the Commission, of my fellow Serbian citizens, at first you, Vice President, and our colleagues, to congratulate the merger with the SNS parliamentary group, I have not had that opportunity before, I will take this opportunity to begin my address. Otherwise, the discussions of this kind have not been very common in this respected home in the past, or at least they have not been more frequent from the point of view of some time distance of the report's date and debate in this Parliament. Thank God, we're seeing that now, changing and this is talking about, first of all, responsibility. It speaks of your responsibility as a representative of independent and independent bodies, by asking you not to experience your independence and independence in some way, as was the case in the past with some other independent bodies, and what Serbia felt in its skin. Namely, you know what it was like with the independent Citizens' Protector, the famous Sasha Jankovic. You know what it was like when it came to the independent judge Majic, who became everything but an independent judge and independent of both the people and the judiciary and anything and became afraid and trembling for all those citizens he tried and who did not politicalally mean as Judge Majic. This, first of all, I am speaking as a warning to you representatives of these bodies. Please don't let you enter such an area at any time in your work. On the other hand, this debate today also discusses the responsibility of this parliament, the MPs, the ruling majority, above all, because there is no representative of the opposition in parliament. The important thing is to see Serbian citizens. The director's here. Maybe it's a good idea to show it. It speaks of responsibility to the work we do, to the responsibility of the citizens, to the responsibility of the law and to the Constitution of this country. But it's not weird. In particular, SNS MPs, and the ruling majority, assume this principle of responsibility in the work from the first man of this country, that is, the first person of SNS, because this principle has been set as the basis for implementing policies in Serbia, responsibility, responsibilities towards the people and Serbia, above all. Now, the first man in this country, the president, is sticking to that principle today. He adheres to the responsibility towards Serbia and the Serbian people in these days, but also to those who live with the Serbs and the Serbian people in the Balkans and in the days of these great trials, which include Serbia and our people. He also adheres to the temptations that we have entered, above all, because of giving up some of the other principles of international law and justice and arbitrary interpretation of that right and because of the transition to principle, it could be said that the forces or the use of the great political power with which today are definitely the largest countries in the world. Believe me, it's not easy, it's not easy, it's not easy, it's not easy, it's not easy, it's not easy, it's not easy, it's not easy, but under these circumstances, and under these conditions, the president of the state adheres to the principle of responsibility. Regardless of the frequent provocations and some pressures that come from the outside, he is responsible for sending messages of peace, building factories, creating new jobs and reconciliation. The president of this country is also responsible when he responds to often offensive statements and comments made in front of the ears of the whole world, which comes from the region. He is also responsible for those who call our people, who live in Bosnia and Herzegovina, not Serbs, but Bosnian Serbs, Croatian Serbs who live in Croatia today, Albanian Serbs living in Albania. No matter how offensive he is, he is responsible and does not respond in the same way. Of course, it shows the principle of respect for those who live around us. They say Serbs for one who can sense future events are either transparent or you to understand the universal name - psychic. I will not say that I am transparent or psychic, but I will remind you of what I said in yesterday's debate, you, my distinguished colleagues, Serbia and the whole world. I said that in addition to the pressures Serbia faces these days, both the president and those who come outside, internal pressures will come from within. I said that Marinika Tepic and Dragan Djilas, through their own, who are not part of this parliament in this assembly, through their political representatives, the citizens' associations, will restore their proposal and their demand for this parliament to adopt a resolution on the declaration of Serbia genocide and the declaration of the Serb people genocide. No, of course, Milimir is not transparent, nor are the psychic and transparent MPs of the SNS, but we are taught by the past and the political experience we have with these people could assume one such phenomenon, one such proposal. My voice has not yet been silent in this room, yet ink on the paper of these girls, which record every word we've spoken, has not dried up, and here's a motion for a resolution in the Assembly, here's a motion for a resolution on genocide in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, taken up in an office number 011-10, which entered this respectable home yesterday at the end of the day. The applicants are formally representatives, political representatives of the Albanian community's work and political representatives of the Bosniak community's work. If I were irresponsible and incorrect, I would say that the applicants are Serbian Bosniaks or Serbian Muslims, I would say that the applicants are Serbian Albanians Shaip Kamberi, Serbian Albanian Nadia Beqiri, Serbian Albanian Argjend Bajrami, but my responsibility and correctness in the policy I follow today does not allow me to express myself so. The submissions are political representatives of the work of the Albanian and Bosniak communities, our colleagues, MPs from minority parties, Bosniak and Albanian demonstrations, six MPs. They, formally speaking, are applicants. But it's pretty clear what I said yesterday. They're just a megaphone and an instrument in the hands of those whose political partners have been for years. They are an instrument in the hands of those who are not present in this assembly of parliament. They are the instrument and megaphone of Marinika Tepic, Dragan Dilas, Vuk Jeremic, Bosko Obradovica, who delivered one such request and proposal to the National Assembly a few years ago. This is nothing new. It's just their signature on Marinika's and Gilas' proposal today. Technically someone had to endure, lawmakers from the Bosniak and Albanian communities were used. They didn't get away with it then, and believe me, they won't now. We will not allow such a thing and such a self-indulgence of Serbia. Now, Serbia, here, and you compare, compare today with Vukic at the Fisher factory in Jagodina. A principled attitude towards regional relations, responsibility in work on the one hand, and here has been your resolution, Serbia, on the other hand, proposed by Marinika Tepic and Dragan Djilas for years. Serbia, define itself, it's simple. As far as our commitment is concerned, the honourable representatives of the committees, while you too follow the principle of responsibility, which is seen through the reports, you will have the support of Parliament and of our MPs, above all, from the SNS which is growing every day, because it is a monitoring of a common policy even years ago. In the end, when it was hard for Serbs to sing great His famous lyrics before, Negos says: “The sky is closed to me, I do not receive any wages or prayers. My world has turned to hell, and all men into spirits of hell." It is not above Serbia that it is shut down, nor are men of hell, nor are there spirits. Serbia is on one side, and the spirits of the past on the other side, we will not let them go. Long live Mother Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-10-0.u7592	I thank Mr. Vujadinovic. Next on the list is Mr. Alexander Mirkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-10-0.u7593	Dear President, honourable representatives of institutions, respected fellow Members of the People's Parliament and fellow MPs, at the very beginning of my presentation I would like to love my fellow citizens, and to all those who are in the heart of Belgrade to congratulate the glory of Spasovdan and hope that we will all together our Belgrade, as well as our Serbia, will love and work for them more and more day-to-day. Dear representatives of the institutions, at the very beginning, I want to thank you for being at the beginning of today, that was five, six hours ago, thoroughly, detailed these reports, which is as plastic as possible and as easily as possible to explain everything that is in them. I think the discussion that the MPs were having today was broad. You have to understand that we are citizens here and what we are saying today is what the citizens are most interested in and what they most want us to discuss today. Today is a big holiday, Spasovdan, I especially stress because of the glory of the city of Belgrade, but you know, in some previous period, even this holiday, even the Spasovdan, is abused and exploited by people who celebrated that day at the mayor or city official's place. I know it's going to sound amazing to you, but public procurement was abused even then. To conduct a cocktail, serving, lunch or dinner that was countless in 2012 or 2013, some public procurement was needed. However, they have also seen the opportunity to earn, that, in a folks' way, I am again quoting the terms of the citizens who have told us about this, the implants, and even today. Unfortunately, if you consider that example, you can see that there was no situation, event, or any possibility where money was concerned that they did not take advantage of it. It's amazing that on today I'm talking about it and I can see that you're all shocked a little bit, but yes, they took percentages even when they were getting Slavic cakes, cereals, service or taking percentages and money for which restaurants they later organized the celebration. I know you're shocked, as are the citizens of Serbia, but it's good to talk about it today so that things like this will never happen again in the future, so that people who did this would no longer be able to lead the local community but to be at the head of the home council anywhere in Serbia. When I say this, I can't help but enter some emotion, because I belong to those generations whose parents were left without a job and on the street in catastrophic privatisations, where in brother-burazer and partner relations, as citizens say, were assigned to a factory or a company for one euro, and people who participated today represent themselves as an alternative and a better future, not only for Belgrade, but also for Serbia. It is unfortunate that most of them did not respond to the law for a simple reason, and that was the case with fellow MPs before me, because the judges, prosecutors and all those who were able to decide on their fate were elected at party meetings, party congresses, so you had the situation that in addition to the decision of the municipality who would be the judge, who would be the prosecutor, next to the seal of that city or that municipality on the right, on the left hand side stood the seal of the DS municipal board, so it was determined whether the judge would be by that - is that he was in JUL, he liked to steal, but his wife was in DS, so we can keep him under control. Again in that second place, the judge was elected only because he's a member of the DS, a little likes to drink, but it can be solved. These were reasons for you from municipal committees across Serbia and how the judges and prosecutors were elected. That is your answer, respected citizens, why people who have damaged the budget and Belgrade and Serbia have so far not suffered any consequences or consequences. I am convinced that the laws passed today by the Assembly, in particular the Law on the Origin of Assets, will define these things, and finally the people who came naked and barefoot in torn jeans, and today they have millions of euros in accounts around the world will have to explain how they came into such wealth. For example, how has the worst mayor in the history of 74,000 euros of the wife's house and used car "Sab" come into wealth only in real estates of over 20m euros, and will be exposed several months ago, we get that data, that in more than 53 accounts across 17 countries from Mauritius, Hong Kong, Switzerland has as much as 68m euros? These are the questions to which our citizens and the answers that our citizens require. That this is all so that I don't speak in vain and as far as your reports can tell is that our country is going in a good direction and we can agree on that, any aspect to observe. If my colleague Milimir hadn't mentioned it earlier, we spent the whole day in a discussion, and I don't think anyone mentioned that another factory was open today. It's become so normal that we don't even look back today. Perhaps he is just a colleague Marinkovic, I think, but all day long, six hours of discussion, almost seven hours now, only three MPs have looked back on such a very important thing. This shows you that today in Serbia it has become normal to open factories and new jobs, which is an exceptional pride for us as representatives of SNS, because when we follow the responsible policy of President Aleksandr Vukic we know that we are doing the right thing for every man in our country, wherever he lives. However, what has become a rule as some kind of mantra – whatever happens well in our country must be employed by Dragan Gilasa's company to use it to somehow cast a shadow on the event. There's gotta be some kind of fake affair, trying to make up something to get rid of it somehow, and toss it in the shadows that today Serbia's got another factory. Germany's Fisher factory deals with the production of parts, additional equipment for high-class cars. It's not news from Gilas' media, in media that are directly controlled by Dragan Gilas. The news is that the person who, I no longer know what term to use, describing all the lies she presents from day to day, and it is, of course, you all know, about Marinika Tepic, today's opening of the factory in Jagodina used to clear both President Aleksandr Vukic and that factory. They were disturbed by the fact that Aleksandar Vucic went to Jagodin and with the president of Jagodina opened the factory and put the whole factory in a situation that did not matter, but it is important that Marinika Tepic, in her performance, says that the appearance, beware now, imagine this sentence, President Aleksandra Vukic, is pressuring the prosecution in the case against Dragan Markovic Palma. So, the person who's been caught a dozen times in what lies is making a new lie and accusing the president of the state of opening a German factory. My people, is there any end to this madness? If all that wasn't accidentally speaking, then the scenario that followed at the conference where again, media journalist Dragan Gilas asked Alexander Vukic if he was pressuring? Dear citizens of Serbia, I'm saying this to know what it is and how sick the hatred of all people who represent one part of the opposition today and want to return to power. No pressure, no extra tension or anything else, as you could hear, but you won't take it, President Aleksandar Vukic said – if Markovic had something to say. Why didn't you put it in your media? Why didn't you pass on that sentence? And that sentence is so Markovic himself said in this tide on many occasions, but why are you trying to clear a very important thing like opening a new factory? I have to agree with my colleague, Nevena Djuric, who made an extraordinary announcement today. My colleague Đurić, I agree with you. In addition, it bothers them that every new factory, every new investment, each new km clearly shows how much the SNS and the Serbian government is headed by Serbian President Alexander Vukic is more capable, more valuable, fairer than they are and how much you can do only for your country if you are truly fighting for the better tomorrow of all citizens. They're distracted by them and new factories, so they're trying to put everything in the shadows with this kind of lie. How can anyone trust a woman who has done her lies and international damage, tarnishing our reputation in front of the Russian Federation, so because of some of her mounted recordings, she had to react even to the Russian Foreign Ministry and deny what she was saying? How can you trust the person who has some kind of drug plantation from Morovic's chicken farm, so when it's being denied, you get none – excuse me? After all, how can you trust a person who has little power, political points ready to sign in this House a declaration that genocide has been committed in Srebrenica? Such people today, respected citizens of Serbia, want at all costs without the support of citizens to come to power, but I am convinced that as many times as ever, the best answer to all of them will be a choice because the citizens here will define whether we will continue to go in this direction a better and even better place for the lives of Serbian citizens, or we will return to the dreary and failed time by 2012. But not all respected representatives of the institutions only on this subject in public procurement have said a lot here, but I just want to point out to you some things about how they took place in the previous period and how it was strictly violated by regulations and laws, as one of the most insolent ways the function was misused. I don't want to talk about the many affairs that exist here right now. I'll only stick to two. All known streets of King Alexander's Boulevard for the reconstruction of that boulevard are bound by numerous affairs still taking place in a judicial process, but what is very important here will emphasize to you everything will be clear. During this public procurement, you know how it works, numerous offers have arrived, and Switelski and Pol have offered 1.1 billion dinars. Then they were told it was the best offer and that they would get the job. However, as Professor Atlagic would say, miraculously, the job receives a "Balkan Construction" whose offer amounted to 1.7 billion dinars. It was not clear to anyone how this procedure happened, what happened, how it happened, but it was not clear to anyone. How many failures were there here? Your first parameter is that DRI concluded to you that there have been numerous abuses and errors during this public procurement, from 2011. What particularly casts doubt is the fact that other companies involved in this procurement were notified on 31 December 2009 of who received this public procurement and that the contract with this "Balkan Construction" was recorded 10 days earlier. So it's not enough that the paradox is to send them a notice on December 31st. You know it's the last day of the year some companies don't work, there's a holiday mood and they sent it to them late December 31st, just before the end of business hours. It's also that the whole story was closed that they had 10 days to work. Let's not talk about the construction log and the inspection book being run properly. Neither side was confirmed by the seal. All of these are not the types of materials that have arrived, but it is not even a problem, there is no name of the company that delivered or made this material. If this isn't an exact violation of public procurement, but the law, I don't know what it is. Another example, mentioned here by Mr. Risticevic, and the rest of my colleagues, concerns the Ada Bridge. I don't want to talk about him anymore, I think everyone knows what this is all about, but I'm just gonna set two examples. The Adi Bridge, you've heard how many times it's been overpaid, how much it's costing people, somehow because of the great affair, some more important information passes through their legs, and that's the fact, be careful now, for the consulting services of the company "Si komschls" paid eight million euros. Now you're saying, well then maybe they've had some great benefits, but the city of Belgrade may have helped with some of their consulting services, maybe somehow contributed. No, they didn't even know why? Because this company is registered for the sale of ships and spare parts for ships, so what have they helped us, the city of Belgrade, have we bought some kind of ship? Did we do anything else? Eightm euros cost the citizens of Belgrade and Serbian citizens this. You know, it's clear to all of you that it was just a mask to pump eight million euros that were later divided into one another. If this isn't enough, for the very end of this affair, I'm going to shock you with information, to force you to open a bridge on Ada, you remember all of that, in New Year's Eve, it's been paid additionally beyond any tendering and public procurement, forced to close the works, just to pass traffic, another nine million euros. Unfortunately, no one answered for this. That's what hurts the citizens of Belgrade and Serbia. I've only given you three exact examples where you could see how and how the law was broken. For the end, but not least. Speaking of DRI, when we talk about public procurement fraud, people living in Belgrade, and I believe those who don't live, know about the Old Town municipality. It's the center of town, the place where we're part of the town today. At the head of the municipality was Marko Bastac, a friend of his own, best man, I pick up, I don't know what else, Dragan Gilas. And it's no problem that for the citizens of Old Town he didn't do anything, so he says. No problem, he couldn't. He could because he had funds, but he used those funds, be careful now, that every fifth dinar of the citizens of the Old Town municipality pumps and pumps into the accounts of a company called "Respect Legal", which deals with marketing services. Now that I'm telling you this, you may not know it somewhere, but for the sake of the Serbian citizens, I want to explain it to you. You have a witness from a man who received alarm status who clearly says his company "Respect Legal" signed a contract with the municipality of Stari Grad in the amount of 86 million dinars. The period is 2018 and 2019. He was obliged to hire 60 people they gave him. So, this firm hires 60 people, he's got a list. Of those 60 people, 23 of that list were councilmen and various officials of the Old Town municipality. These remains were people who were fighting traffic signs in the Republic Square, who were tearing down that fence, who were attacking workers who were working on that arrangement of the square, and they were people who directly paid for it, so that they would be hooligans, tear down their city. If this isn't enough, in 2020, while everyone was fighting the crown, every municipality had a round of centres, every dinar was separated for disinfectants, every municipality was looking to help its citizens as much as possible, in the Old Town municipality, imagine now, 18 million dinars were spent on the purchase of computers and additional equipment. In the middle of the crown crisis. While people spent their last dinar to help their fellow citizens, they spent 18 million on computers and additional equipment. Why? Because it was the easiest place to pump money. And that's what they did. As arrogant as they were in all this, I'll just point out that the Old Town municipality has 75 employees in its administration. For their needs, office materials have spent seven million dinars. Seven million dinars for 75 employees, for office supplies. Each and every one of you knows what the supply of office materials is, so you tell me what the purchase is and what you had to get for that kind of money. I also see that in all these things you will find it hard to believe and agree with you, but respected representatives of these institutions, this is all I tell you, as my colleague told you, in order to know in which way everything that was done under this town was popularly said, all for personal interest, for personal purposes and for it to become as rich as possible. I am convinced that in the coming period these reports will be primarily in the interests of the citizens of Serbia, as they have so far been and that we will all continue to work together, because again at the very end, we here represent the citizens who voted for us and who have shown us trust, and we as responsible people who follow and follow the policies of President Alexander Vukic will always fight for the better tomorrow all of our children and generations to come. Thank you and live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-10-0.u7594	Thank you. The word has been given by the People's MP of Life, Starcevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-10-0.u7595	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, honourable fellow MP Aleksandar Mirkovic asked how to call Marinika Tepic. I'd like to help him because I've had a chance here to give him a different definition of this socially deviating phenomenon, so we said it's the most paid worker in the company of Dragan Gilas, we can call it that, we can call it Gilas Pinocchio, we can call it the village pajdar who only knows that he spreads lies by juicers and various other names. I wouldn't go any further on those names. What you're right about is that today in Jagodina a beautiful thing happened and that in Jagodina we could hear a few good news, which is that except for the opening of the Fisher factory with 400 employees. Professor Klaus Fisher, the owner of Fisher's company, gave other good news today, which is that he will soon start building other factories of the company too in Jagodina. Not only did the news cheer President Aleksandar Vukic, not only Dragan Markovic Palm, but it cheered all Serbian citizens. Of course, she did not delight the lady with the lie, of course she did not enjoy the click around Dragan Gilas because they do not respond to stable and strong Serbia. They are only suited to Serbia on their knees because in a stable and strong Serbia they have nothing to look for, because they have no programme, because they have no ideas despite having an engineering brain, but unusable. We will, of course, continue to work for the benefit of Serbian citizens, we will continue to open factories, we will continue to strengthen, strengthen both the economy and the international position of Serbia and preserve Serbia's political stability, because strong Serbia is for the benefit of Serbia's citizens, and unfortunately, Dragan Dilas, Marinika Tepic, Vuk Jeremic, Sanda Raskovic Ivić and other Pharisees of the Serbian political scene. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-10-0.u7596	According to the list of registered professors, Dr Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-10-0.u7597	Dear Vice President of the National Assembly, Doctor Orlic, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, after we bring this to an end, and colleagues and colleagues have mostly said everything about these reports. Let me just end by saying that in time, all the activities on the Commission's work have been undertaken to coordinate with the EU's legal assets, and the Commission has very good results which can serve our neighbours for example. Dear ladies and gentlemen, these days, we are in an uncivilized way muddled by Dragan Gilas, Vuk Jeremic and his associates. Among them, wonders also appeared Zdravko Ponos, former Chief of Staff of the Serbian Army. Dear citizens, let me give you the basic characteristics of this man, so you can see who is mudning Alexander Vukic and SNS, as well as the citizens of Serbia and the state of Serbia. As Chief of Staff, he was executed for the Army of Serbia, gave him up, believed or not, Boris Tadic, and now he was won by Vuk Jeremic and came as vice president of his party. Every member of Serbia's army, ladies and gentlemen, red from shame when Serbia's military grade gives Zdravko Ponos. As a general, he stood calm in front of NATO lieutenants while he and Tadic and Vuk Jeremic and Djilas were handing the Serbian army over to The Hague tribunal and Serbian generals. Zdravko Ponos promised the US senator and made it known that Serbia's military would reduce from 62,000 to 27,000. Anyone who thought as a patriot in the Serbian Army was expelled from Serbia's Army during the time of Chief of Staff Zdravko Ponos. Zdravko Ponos is the best in Serbia's armies, retired among them and 27 generals. He destroyed Serbia's Army's weapons and reduced Serbia's army to hunting society. During him, our people with KIM were expelled. I ask him a question about Zdravko Ponos and Vuk Jeremic – why does Zdravko Ponos visit Western embassies in Belgrade very often? May Zdravko Ponos, Vuk Jeremic or answer yourself, you respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia. As for Vuk Jeremic, a member of the international gang of thieves and frauds. I spoke to him yesterday and asked him three questions, and today I ask him one question. Is it true that Wolfe Jeremic, that you intervened in meeting Emilio Lozoja, a Mexican energy tycoon, otherwise a close associate and friend of Jeremic, with former Hong Kong police minister, a world-run criminal? It's only a few sentences. Emilio Lozoja, close friend of Vuk Jeremic and, behold, he's called a brother from Harvard, that's a special story, accused in a three-and-a-half million-dollar corruption affair. Lozoja, we have a number of business connections, from the time Lozoja was headed by the state oil company Pemeks, and, behold, Vuk Jeremic, with four companies associated with the Pemex, received $180,000 for allegedly consulting jobs. Vuk Jeremic intervened in meeting Lozoa, a miracle, with another world-level criminal, former Hong Kong Police Minister Patrick Hoom, who was convicted in the United States of what you know of him as a result of millions of machinations and money laundering. Patrick Ho has repeatedly stayed here in Belgrade as a special guest for Vuk Jeremic. Patrik Ho was one of the chief financiers of Vuk Jeremic in the past and today, and Jeremic's Centre for International Policy and Sustainable Development. In Jeremic's account there were four and a half million dollars from phantom energy companies operating in Shanghai and Hong Kong. Vuk Jeremic openly supported Aljbin Kurti, or Ilija Kurtovic, so Kurti was named earlier after being a Serb, who in anti-Serbian attitudes and as a proponent of Albania's great. We were informed of this by a Belgrade newspaper on January 11th, 2021. Look at the wonders again, Vuk Jeremic opened a hotel in Belgrade to co-owner these days. What was he doing here? Bahati Vuk spends on cigarettes believe it or not 18,000 euros, only on cigarettes. Let's move on. As for Dragan Gilas and these days, who spits all the time at us, a few sentences. He wrote to Dragan Gilas Donald Tusk, the president of the European People's Party, and resented him for congratulating Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic on everything he did during his term and wishing him victory in the July 2020 parliamentary elections. Not only that, Gilas had previously written to Sam Fabrizio, the head of the EU delegation in Serbia, and complained about the regime that allegedly harassed citizens and destroyed Serbia. Believe it or not, but it's true. In November 2020, he urged the European Union to implement the vaccination process in Serbia with vaccines to be used in the EU, and you saw what was used in both the EU and Serbia. Dear ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the position of all political parties in our country, including these Gilas, behold, miracles, names - freedom and justice, neither freedom nor justice, that Serbia manages itself and takes care of the state of Serbia. In the end, from day to day, a new name for Alexander Wolfich. My shortness has only been recorded in the last two months of 67, and I'm going to say in one minute only 17 insults from two university professors who have been said to be a peck, that an idiot, a picusti, a loser, a fuck-up, a mule, a jibber, to make the citizens understand, a receiver, a dystler - ignorant, an x, a complex fool, a total idiot, a moron, a jerk, a shithead, a villain, a fascist. For tonight, it's just the 17th. Dear ladies and gentlemen, Gilas's rule, the Democratic Party's power, has accused us, the ruling party and citizens of Serbia, of being the cause of the war in the 1990s. Dear Vice President, if you'll excuse me, I'll take two more minutes. I quote what they told us today, neither Croats nor Americans nor Germans say: "The government in Serbia today is headed by the heritage of war, basically anti-Serbian Milosevic and Seseljevic policies". Dear citizens of Serbia, it was not our president who advocated the bombing of Serbia but the president of the Democratic Party at the most difficult moment for our country. And to quote US Secretary of State during the war, James Becker, I quote, pay attention to respected citizens: "Slovenia and Croatia are the cause of civil war in the former Yugoslavia. Their violent secession was contrary to the laws of the Helsinki Agreement, Yugoslavia was directly pushed into the account by military means. The unilateral declaration of independence, against our warnings, used force, which caused civil war." Here we are, respected citizens, and I answer to the Democratic Party. In the end, another quote. Josip Bjeljkovac, former Croatian Interior Minister from 90th I quote, "Tudjman wanted a war at all costs. The war wasn't necessary, it was intention. According to this concept, Serbs should have disappeared from Croatia." And you see what "the strayer's" Democratic Party is doing. While our President Aleksandar Vukic daily returns the international reputation of the Republic of Serbia, conducting a policy of peace, security policy, solidarity policy, health policy of all our citizens not in Serbia but in the region, and a policy of accelerated economic stabilisation, so far Dragan Gilas with his electric rabbit, Marinik Tepic and Vuk Jeremic are filling their giro-accounts across world destinations. I'm sure justice will catch up with them. Long live Serbia!
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-10-0.u7598	Thank you, Professor Atlagic. Since the lists of parliamentary groups are no longer registered for the word, before the conclusion of a joint and unified search, I ask if any of the representatives would like the word? (Yes) The word has a proposing representative, Aleksandra Tomic, for four minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-10-0.u7599	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Chairman, respected representatives of independent institutions whose reports today we have had the opportunity to consider, as you can see, the topics and areas you are dealing with are opening many issues here in Serbia's economy, but are also opening the past issue. It is precisely because of the past that Chapter 5 was opened on 13 December 2016, Chapter 5, which refers to public procurement, and before that, a year before that was opened the first chapter in Serbia's negotiations with the EU, Chapter 32, relating to financial control and supervision. Why am I saying this? From 2016 to today, it has been five years and, as you can see, for five years, the area of public procurement, when we talk about them, has received a really high degree of respect for the standards that are in line with the EU. When we talk about it, clearly Serbia has come an evolutionary path in this area and reached those high standards, and when it comes to transparency, and when it comes to saving, but also the process of digitisation. Obviously, this digitisation process has helped in all of this so that public procurement can be subject to control by all competent institutions, the DRI, and all citizens of Serbia, because in a public way they can actually see how money is spent by citizens of Serbia, in which way and by what principle, it means, which is the procedure that is respected. All that means is that it's not respected, and it's against the law, it's actually an alarm for some other authorities that need to deal with those competent institutions, representatives that didn't work under the law. Therefore, this topic will never be a taboo issue for us again, but only one subject that needs to reach more and more standards and that we simply experience this moment when Chapter 5, which concerns public procurement, will be closed by the EU, which means that we have reached those standards, i.e. legislation that is similar to EU legislation. When we talk about the capital market, we have seen that this topic is also very interesting and it is actually giving results related to both the inflow of foreign direct investment and an economic environment in which investors are interested in investing in Serbia, and this is an indication that in the first quarter of this year we have an inflow of foreign direct investment, which is an indication that Serbia has this inflow of foreign direct investors greater than all countries combined in the region involving the Western Balkans. The availability and attractiveness of domestic securities is, in fact, the result of responsible policy by Alexander Vukic and SNS not only since 2016, but also the period until 2016, when we implemented economic reforms and fiscal consolidation. That road was not easy, it was thorny and it involved many difficult steps we took just when it came to the field of state subsidies, i.e. State aid. Why am I saying this? Because we remember all of us and Jelizara Smederevo and Bora and other restructuring firms that are actually part of the privatisation of Serbia, i.e. companies and companies that involved the privatisation process, which we have completed, of course, successfully, with the help of the EU. It is only important in the end to say that by 2012, or 2013 when research was done, four to six times the investment, i.e. State aid, was ineffective by those who ruled until 2012 rather than today. This means that the EU recognises all these economic results in this area as well. For us, it represents through the opening of factories the result, through the opening of new jobs, through better budget financing. And what we had a chance to see today, today, the new opening of the German factory at 8,000 square squares in Jagodina is actually one of the results of the full good conduct of this policy, when it comes to these three areas that we had a chance to talk about today. But also today's recognition of Alexander Vukic and the SNS, after all, and Serbia's whole gift is also a representative of Fischer, and these are the vouchers relating to the financing of children's education and youth received by Mr. Vukic, then the mayor of Jagodina, which refers to investing in kindergartens and schools, as well as the financing of the fire department in that local self-government. So this is actually an indication that today we have 70,000 employees of Serbian citizens in German companies, where only 17,000 worked yesterday. This is an indicator of the EU's trust in Serbia, according to the economy, towards the path that your institutions are simply working in co-operation with EU legislation. For now, we thank you for this result, but that doesn't mean that in the future we simply won't criticise certain segments if there's any reason. That is why, as representative of the SNS, on behalf of the parliamentary group "Alexandar Vukic – For Our Children", I will support the conclusion that the report on the work of your institutions for 2020 is accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-06-10-0.u7600	I thank the Finance Committee and everyone who took part in the debate. Since no one is answering for a word anymore, pursuant to Article 98(4). Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude a joint single search on the proposals for acts referred to in points 5 to 8 of the agenda. Thank our guests, too. According to Article 87(5), I hereby appoint the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on Thursday, June 10th, 2021, starting at 17am and 40 minutes as the day for voting on the agenda of the Fourth Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in the 12th Assembly. Dear ladies and gentlemen, before we move on to a decision on the agenda points, we need to determine the quorum. According to Article 88(5), The Rules of Procedure of the Quorum for the work of the National Assembly in the voting day exist if a majority of the total number of MPs are present at the session. I ask the Members of Parliament to insert the cards into the MPs' units. I find that, by applying the electronic voting system, 170 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that most of the total number of MPs are present and therefore there are conditions to decide. We're moving on to a decision. First, the proposal for a national database law on prevention and combating terrorism. I put to the vote a bill on a national database to prevent and combat terrorism, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I'm closing the vote. I declare: for - 183, he did not vote - one of 184 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on a national database to prevent and combat terrorism. Secondly, I am putting the bill to the vote by giving the guarantee of the Republic of Serbia in favour of the OTP Bank of Serbia a.d. New Sad for the reconciliation of the liabilities of the Public Enterprise "Srbiagas" Novi Sad under the long-term loan agreement for the gasification of the Borsko and Zaječar County and the construction of the Paracin divorce pipeline – Boljevac – Rgotina – Negotin – Prahovo, in principle. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote: for – 184 of the 184 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill in principle. I am voting on the proposal to establish the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to come into force earlier than the eighth day of publication. I conclude the vote and declare: for -184 of the 184 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. I am putting the bill to the vote by giving the guarantee of the Republic of Serbia in favour of the OTP Bank of Serbia a.d. New Sad for the reconciliation of the commitments of the Public Enterprise "Srbigas" Novi Sad under the long-term loan agreement for the gasification of the Borsko and Zaječar County and the construction of the Paracin divorce pipeline – Boljevac – Rgotina – Negotin – Prahovo, in general, I am asking the MPs to press the corresponding key on the parliamentary unit. I conclude the vote: for – 184 of the 184 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed the bill in general. Third, I am putting the bill to the vote by giving the guarantee of the Republic of Serbia in favour of OTP Banka Serbia a.d. Novi Sad to meet the commitments of the Public Enterprise "Srbiagas" Novi Sad on the basis of a long-term loan contract for the construction of the Leskovac-Vranje divorce pipeline, in principle. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote: for – 183, he did not vote – one of 184 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill in principle. I am voting on the proposal to establish the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to come into force earlier than the eighth day of publication. I conclude the vote and declare: for -184 of the 184 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. I am putting the bill to the vote by giving the guarantee of the Republic of Serbia in favour of the OTP Bank of Serbia a.d. Novi Sad to meet the commitments of the Public Enterprise "Srbiagas" Novi Sad under the long-term loan agreement for the construction of the Leskovac-Vranje divorce pipeline, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote: for – 183, he did not vote – one of 184 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has passed the bill in general. Fourthly, I would like to put the proposal for a law on the granting of a guarantee from the Republic of Serbia in favour of Bank Intesa, a.d. Belgrade, for the reconciliation of the commitments of JP "Srbigas" Novi Sad, based on the loan agreement for the gasification of the Kolubar County and the construction of the Belgrade divorce pipeline – Valjevo – Loznica, in principle. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote: for – 184 of the 184 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill in principle. I am voting on the proposal to establish the existence of particularly justified reasons for the law to come into force earlier than the eighth day of publication. I conclude the vote and declare: for -184 of the 184 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has specifically decided that there are particularly reasonable reasons for the law to enter into force within eight days of its publication. I am voting on the proposal for a law on the granting of a guarantee from the Republic of Serbia in favour of Bank Intesa. Belgrade to meet the commitments of JP "Srbigas" Novi Sad under the loan agreement to gasify the Kolubar County and build the divorce pipeline Belgrade – Valjevo – Loznica, in general. I ask the MPs to press the appropriate key on the MP's unit. I conclude the vote: for – 182, it did not vote – two, out of 184 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the bill by majority. The fifth item of the agenda. I put to the vote the proposal for a conclusion on the review of the Commission's work on State aid control for 2020, which was submitted by the Committee on Finance, the Republic budget and the control of public spending. I conclude the vote: for – 184, out of 184 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a proposal for a conclusion. I put to the vote the proposal for a conclusion on the review of the report on the work of the Republic Commission for the Protection of Rights in Public Procurement Procedures from 1 January 2020 to 31 December 2020. I conclude and declare: for – 183 abstention – one, out of 184 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a proposal for a conclusion. I put to the vote a proposal for a conclusion on the review of the 2020 Monitoring Report. I conclude the vote: for – 183 abstention – one of 184 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a proposal for a conclusion. I am putting to the vote the proposal for a conclusion on the review of the annual report by the Commission on the values of the Republic of Serbia for 2020. I conclude the vote: for – 183, not one of the 184 MPs voted. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a proposal for a conclusion. Ladies and gentlemen, before the session is concluded, I would like to remind you that the session of the Fifth Extraordinary Session is scheduled for Wednesday, 16 June 2021, starting at 10.00 hours. You've got the agenda. Since the National Assembly has conducted an examination of all points of the agenda of this session and decision on them, pursuant to Article 102. Rules of Procedure, I hereby conclude the session of the Fourth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly in the 12th Assembly. Thank you, everyone.
