ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-12-0.u6417	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the 11th session of the First Regular Session. Based on official records of the presence of the MPs, I find that 124 MPs attend the session. Based on the official record of the presence, 86 MPs are present. In order to determine the exact number of MPs present in the O.R., I ask the MPs to insert the cards. Thank you. I find that the application of the electronic voting system has established that 131 MPs are present in the hall, i.e. that at least 84 MPs are present and there are working conditions. I would like to inform you that it was prevented the session from being attended by Parliament MP Jelisaveta Veljkovic. We continue to work and move on to a joint single search on the draft laws referred to in paragraphs 6 to 10 of the agenda. According to Article 90(1), Rules of Procedure, I would like to inform you that they are invited to attend: Branislav Nedimović, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, Maja Popović, Minister of Justice, Prof. Dr. Daria Kisić Tepavcevic, Minister of Labour, Employment, Combat and Social Affairs, Nikola Naumovski, Deputy Minister of Justice, Vedran Ilic, Deputy Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, Milanka Davidović, Head of the Department of Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management and Vladimir Vinš, Senior Advisor at the Ministry of Justice. I ask the parliamentary groups, if they have not already done so, to report immediately for a word with the order of MPs. In accordance with Article 170(1) and with Article 157(2), paragraph 2. Rules of Procedure, I open a joint single search on: Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Commonwealth of Dominica on Co-operation in the field of agriculture, Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Argentina on Extrajudicial Assistance in Criminal Matters, Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Belarus and the Extradition and Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Argentina on Transfer of Convicted Persons and Co-operation in the Implementation of Criminal Sanctions. Before we move on to MPs, do the proposing representatives want a word? Yeah. ) The word is made by Minister Daria Kisic Tepavcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-12-0.u6418	Dear President-in-Office, honourable MPs, you have before you the Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Commonwealth of Dominica on Co-operation in the field of agriculture. In order to establish bilateral co-operation in the area of agriculture, Belgrade, on 4 February 2019, a memorandum was signed between the government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Commonwealth of Dominika on co-operation in the area of agriculture. The memorandum was signed by Ivica Dacic, the then foreign minister of the Republic of Serbia and Roosevelt Skerit, Prime Minister of Commonwealth Dominica. The above memorandum defined the improvement of co-operation in the following areas: exchange of scientific and technical information and achievements in scientific research in agriculture, the development and introduction of modern technologies in agriculture, the application of post-sanitary technologies, the processing and placement of agricultural products, the promotion of co-operation between businesses in agriculture and related sectors, the improvement of cooperation in veterinary and phytosanitary areas related to health, well-being and animal farming, as well as plant health and plant protection, including seed and other fruit materials, the improvement of co-operation in the field of biotechnology, organic agriculture, aquaculture and the development of quality policy in agriculture. Given the capacity of the agricultural and food sector of the Republic of Serbia, on the one hand, and the need to apply science, technology, innovation, as well as the imports of agricultural and food products into the market of the Commonwealth of Dominica, on the other hand, through the implementation of that Memorandum, or through the establishment of co-operation in those areas, the agricultural and food sectors of the Republic of Serbia would achieve significant benefits both through trade, i.e. exports of products, and through the transfer of knowledge and technology, which would certainly contribute to the presence of spring companies in the region of Central America. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-12-0.u6419	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Maja Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-12-0.u6420	President-in-Office of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, today on the agenda of the National Assembly, the proposal for a law to confirm the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Belarus on extradition, the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Argentina on Extradition, the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Argentina on Mutual Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters and the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Argentina on Transfer of Convicted Persons and Co-operation in the Implementation of Criminal Sanctions, and as a representative of the Proposers, I will introduce you to the content of these Treaties. The agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Belarus on extradition was signed in Belgrade on 3 December 2019. In July 2020, we were informed that the Republic of Belarus had completed the internal procedures necessary for the entry into force of that Treaty. In accordance with Article 25, the contract shall enter into force on the date of receipt of the last note which the parties shall mutually inform each other of the completion of the certification procedure in accordance with their legislation. Confirmation of the contract will create conditions for firmer and more mandatory co-operation between the two countries in the matter of the extradition of accused and convicted persons as a specific form of international legal aid in criminal matters and those prosecuted in one State or convicted of a criminal offence, in order not to avoid criminal prosecution or the maintenance of a prison sentence imposed in another country. The conclusion of this contract is particularly important because there is no legal basis for the extradition of accused or convicted persons with Belarus, so that currently this type of legal assistance takes place on the basis of reciprocity. In fact, the Republic of Belarus is the only European country that has not joined the 1957 European Convention on Extradition for sanctions imposed by the Council of Europe. The entry into force of this Treaty and its application will allow for more effective co-operation between the two countries in that area. The application of the contract will allow for bringing the perpetrators of criminal acts to justice in respect of all forms of crime, particularly organised crime, terrorism and corruption, which are a special threat to modern society due to the growing movement of the population from one country to another, as well as to modern technologies. The Republic of Serbia with the Republic of Belarus has already concluded a bilateral agreement on legal aid in civil and criminal matters signed on 12 March 2013 and entered into force on 19 December 2013, on the basis of which legal co-operation is being successfully conducted between the two states. The contract provides that the parties will submit to the application any other person on their territory for prosecution or for the execution of the judgment. The extradition for criminal prosecution shall be carried out for acts which, under the right of both parties to the contract, are subject to the penalty of imprisonment of at least one year or more severe punishment, while the extradition for the execution of the sentence shall be carried out for acts which are criminally punishable under the law of both parties to the contract, although that sentence shall be imposed on the dispensation of liberty of at least six months or more severe punishment, or if the rest of the unsustained part of the sentence is at least six months. The Treaty also provides for reasons for refusing extradition, including the nationality of persons whose extradition is sought and recognised asylum status. A solution to such a situation has been foreseen. If the requested party refuses to hand over the person because he is her citizen, a foreign prayer may give way to the prosecution of that person. In that case, the requesting party will provide the requested party with appropriate documentation and evidence, and the requested party is obliged to notify the party of the request for a final decision in that procedure. The contract regulates the manner of communication between the parties, the documentation to be attached with the extradition application, the receipt of requests for extradition, the identification and detention of the person, the detention before receipt of the extradition application, the decision on the extradition application, the transfer of the person to be extradited, as well as the application of specific institutes for extradition. The contract also provides for the transit of persons to be pronounced by a third country through the territory of the other party. The adoption of this Treaty will improve the legal co-operation of the two countries and make it more effective, which will affect further the development of effective international legal assistance, as well as the overall development of relations between countries, with mutual respect and mutual understanding. When it comes to contracts concluded with the Republic of Argentina, it is necessary to point out that there are no bilateral agreements between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Argentina that regulate the issue of legal co-operation between the two countries in criminal matters. To date, this co-operation has been achieved on the basis of provisions of certain UN conventions which have been joined by both States, which contain provisions on legal co-operation between the States of the signatories of the Convention, as well as on the basis of reciprocity, as referred to in Article 8. Law on international legal aid in criminal matters of the Republic of Serbia. Following the successful negotiations held in Buenos Aires in August 2018, a treaty was signed in Belgrade on 14 October 2019 between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Argentina on extradition, the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Argentina on mutual legal assistance in criminal matters and the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Argentina on transfer of convicted persons and co-operation in the execution of criminal sanctions. By signing those contracts, Serbia has taken a very important step towards establishing a legal framework and mechanisms to counter the most difficult forms of transnational crime that appear in modern society. This is particularly true of the severe forms of organised crime and the crimes from the area of drug trafficking, which is transported from Latin American countries to Europe. The Republic of Serbia is the first country to conclude bilateral agreements on international legal aid in this region, and the Republic of Argentina is the first state of South America with which the Republic of Serbia has started negotiations on the conclusion of bilateral contracts. Negotiations on the conclusion of bilateral agreements were also held with Brazil, and draft agreements with Mexico and Peru were exchanged. The conclusion of these contracts will allow legal traffic between the two countries, legal certainty of natural and legal persons on the territory of other countries, protection of human rights and freedoms of extradited persons and facilitate the implementation of the resociation of convicted persons who will be allowed to be sentenced to prison in a country whose nationals are nationals. The regulation of legal co-operation in criminal matters will strengthen bilateral agreements between states and allow relations between the two countries to develop and expand successfully, including international legal assistance in the criminal justice area as a significant form of co-operation between the countries. Confirmation of the treaty will contribute to the overall development of relations between the two countries and to greater protection of certain human rights and freedoms, as co-operation in this area is conditioned by respecting or guaranteeing certain human rights and freedoms. The extradition agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Argentina provides for the extradition of parties to the application to submit to each other persons wanted for criminal prosecution or execution in the State of prayer in respect of the part subject to extradition. Confirmation of that contract will create conditions for firmer, more mandatory and more effective co-operation between the two countries in this area, so that persons prosecuted in one country or convicted of a criminal offence in another country would not avoid prosecution or detention of a sentence imposed in prison. A work for which extradition is permitted, a criminal offence by the laws of both sides, which is punishable by taking away freedom for more than one year or more severe punishment. The extradition of persons sentenced by a court of a state of prayer to a sentence consisting of the confiscation of freedom will be allowed for a criminal offence subject to extradition if the duration of the sentence or the rest to be carried out is at least one year. The contract contains provisions which provide for reasons for refusing extradition. The contract provides for the obligation to apply for the extradition, manner and language of communication, as well as the necessary documentation to be attached with the application. A simplified extradition has been foreseen. The contract regulates temporary detentions of the person, obtaining requests for extradition, decision by application, temporary surrender, delayed surrender, principle of speciality, transit of persons to be extradited by a third country to one of the Contracting Parties through the territory of the other Party, etc. It also provides for the confiscation and handover of things to beg the property of documents and evidence relating to the criminal part in respect of which extradition is granted. Such things should be handed over, even if the extradition granted cannot be carried out because of the death, disappearance or escape of the wanted person. The requested party may set a condition for such surrender by giving satisfactory guarantees by praying that things will return to the requested party as soon as possible. The final provisions shall confirm the entry into force, modification and termination of the contract. Confirming the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Argentina on mutual legal assistance in criminal matters will improve the effectiveness of the two countries in the investigation, criminal prosecution and prevention of crime through co-operation and mutual legal assistance in criminal matters and thus contribute to an effective fight against all types of crime and allow for more effective processing of perpetrators. Under that Treaty, the parties will provide each other with the widest possible legal assistance in criminal matters in accordance with the provisions of the Treaty. The scope of the legal assistance provided for in the contract covers the submission of documents, the finding, identification of persons and objects, the acquisition of information, documents and evidence, the provision of cases, the search and confiscation, the execution of evidence and the acquisition of statements, the video-conferencing hearing, the finding, the confiscation and confiscation of income from crime and any other form of aid which is not contrary to the law of the country of prayer. The contract also contains provisions governing the way in which applications, forms and contents are carried out, restrictions on the provision of legal assistance, the finding, identification of persons and objects, the handing over of court letters and documents, the acquisition of information, documents and objects, confiscation of cases, the transfer of statements from the requested party, the surrender of detained persons to testify to foreign prayers, the hearing through video-conference, the finding of property arising from the criminal act, the manner and language of communication, the cost of providing legal assistance and others. The Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Argentina on the transfer of convicted persons and co-operation in the execution of criminal sanctions allows persons who are nationals of one Contracting State and, in another country, the parties are legally convicted because of the offence committed, the sanctions imposed in the country whose nationals are, therefore, in the middle of which they originate, contributing to their rehabilitation and rehabilitation, which is the main purpose of the punishment. Also, all other aspects of their treatment will be made easier, as convicted persons will be placed at the maintenance of the sentence in their home country and will be able to communicate without language barriers and will be closer to the family. The contract provides for conditions for the transfer of convicted persons despite the nationality of a convicted person, conditions for transfer are mutual punishment, that the convicted have served a minimum period of imprisonment or other criminal sanctions consisting of a solution to freedom under the rules of the State in which they are sentenced. The implementation of these contracts will improve the legal co-operation of the two countries and will be more effective, which will affect the development of effective international assistance and I believe in the overall development of relations between countries, with mutual respect and mutual understanding. Finally, I want to thank you for your attention and express my hope that the National Assembly will adopt these agreements in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-12-0.u6421	Thank you. The word is made by Jelena Zaric Kovacevic in front of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-12-0.u6422	Thank you, dear President of the National Assembly. Dear Ministers with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, on the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Legislatives, we discussed the proposals that were put before the MPs today. I would only mention the proposals that came from the Serbian Government, the Resistant Ministry of Justice. Of course, we have assessed that all proposals are in line with the Constitution and the legal system of the Republic of Serbia. I would like to say that these proposals relate, above all, to the confirmation of the extradition treaty, mutual legal assistance and transfer of convicted persons and co-operation in the area of enforcement of criminal sanctions. The adoption of these proposals will, of course, contribute, above all, to better co-operation between our countries and those countries, i.e. the countries listed in the proposals, but also to the more effective conduct of our bodies in accordance with the laws applicable in international law. I also want to say that Serbia has already made serious moves in the area of criminal law and these contracts will only contribute to further strengthening the legal framework. I often mention the fundamental and thorough changes that we have made, but also that we want to continue in this manner, so that citizens, their right to justice, but also their security, can move the boundaries in which our legislation moves. The emphasis is certainly on judicial reform with a view to establishing greater efficiency that will improve the work of judicial authorities and create a higher level of trust for citizens in the judiciary. For these reasons, I call on my colleagues and colleagues to support these proposals in the voting day. Finally, I want to say one more thing, because I have heard in the media incorrect information and various spinnings concerning the constitutional change procedure, and let it serve to honor those who invent and place lies that are not invited or will not be invited to public hearings about constitutional changes. I also call on media representatives to inform themselves from the National Assembly site, because there you will all be able to find decisions made by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, which relate to the second public hearing scheduled for 19 May at 12 pm in the Small Hall of the National Assembly and the third public hearing scheduled for 24 May at 12:00 pm in the Small Hall, where representatives will be invited, both professional and professional, representatives of the Law School, judges of the Judicial Academy and representatives of the civil sector. Therefore, the fact that someone wants to perform an independent or independent function within the justice system, while being a politician at the same time, does not give him any right to criticise the procedure for amending the Constitution, and I, as chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Law, will, believe me, at any time defend the integrity of the members and deputies of that committee who are truly tirelessly working on this and the integrity of the National Assembly that I belong to. For our children and our coalitions, we have come to the National Assembly to work and do our best to make it good for the citizens of Serbia and this procedure for the change of the Constitution that we are conducting will only have benefits for the citizens of Serbia. We are not the ones who will go to the National Assembly with stone or rod. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-12-0.u6423	Thank you. Marijan Risticevic, Committee on Agriculture, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-12-0.u6424	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Water Management, I believe the most important committee in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has backed a bill confirming the Memorandum between the Republic of Serbia and Dominica Commonwealth. I hope now, if Gilas heard that this country exists, he won't open an account. So we supported the agreement and the Committee members also expressed gratitude because the island state withdrew the recognition of Kosovo, a false state that Albanians declared in February 2008, just after Tadic's election, which was a condition for the DS to do so. Just after the elections, Albanians declared independence, and thanks to the DS, they asked US Embassy representatives to postpone, only to delay, Kosovo's declaration of independence, and not to disturb Tadic from winning, unfortunately for our sake, the second time the right to be president of the Republic of Serbia. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we can do much to help this small island country, especially in the area of agriculture, because we have enough experience and knowledge, we have enough experts, we have universities, institutes, fruit growing, livestock, vegetables, etc. We can learn a lot from the island state’s representatives, but they may also be able to teach us something, that is, to develop cooperation from the area of agriculture, and there is likely to be cooperation in the field of tourism. When Gilas hears this, I believe he will run there and there will be financial reasons why the two countries should cooperate. Ladies and gentlemen, agriculture is our chance and my party, which is not so big, by the number of members, advocates due to a common European agricultural policy to join the EU to achieve incentives in agriculture of a billion euros and more at an annual level and to try to establish sustainable agriculture in our territory, i.e. to help small farmers above all, which is the EU's intensity and their common agricultural policies lately, to help millions rather than millions of people, I hope that Gilas has not heard me, since he is also engaged in agriculture, to assist small farmers and landowners, to specialize in his production for the purpose of maintaining land, preventing erosion, maintaining the environment, because of game, because of hunting, because of rural or rural tourism, as someone calls it. Therefore, for these reasons, small agricultural holdings should be helped, each of them to take a chance and pay in a certain way because they live and work in the country, because it is not just agriculture, but a matter of the country's security and sovereignty, that is, not of empty territory. At the time I worked at IMT, in the tractor factory, Belgrade had a million inhabitants in the 1980s, and Serbia had over 10 million inhabitants. At this point, despite not being particularly large in Belgrade, there are two million people living in Belgrade, and in Serbia seven million, which means that over 25% of the population lives in Belgrade, with only 10% living in Belgrade compared to the 1980s. This resulted in the emptying of the village. The old age in the village is 61,62 years average, and it will be difficult to maintain agricultural production unless we at least retain the existing population in the village, i.e. that part of the population from the city is returned, and the incentive for the profitability of agricultural production and sustainable agriculture can be a chance for a part of the population from the city to return to abandoned villages and in such a way to be satisfied with both son and father, i.e. that the father is engaged in agricultural production, and the son to find a chance to process as close as possible to the place of production and day as possible to satisfy both the urban and rural population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-12-0.u6425	Thank you. The word is Dejan Kesar, the Justice Committee, the state administration and local self-government.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-12-0.u6426	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliaments, the esteemed minister with an associate, respected citizens of Serbia, the Committee on Justice, State and Local Self-Government discussed at its session the draft laws on the validation of three contracts between the Republic of Serbia and Argentina, as well as the bill on the approval of the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the state of Belarus and proposed to the National Assembly that the same drafts of the law be accepted as a whole. At the beginning of our presentation, as rapporteur of the Justice Committee, I would like to say that today in the House of National Assembly we will discuss laws that fall within the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Justice and concerning the establishment of international legal assistance, as well as the transfer, extradition of convicted persons. In any case, these acts give a clear message that anyone who has committed a criminal offence is obliged to answer to the competent authorities. I will try to be as concise as possible in my presentation today, because it is four very important contracts. When we talk about the proposal for a law on the extradition of convicted persons, the same clearly defined way and conditions for the extradition of persons against whom criminal proceedings have been conducted before the competent Serbian courts and courts of Argentina, as well as those brought to prison by the competent court. It is very important that all basic human rights and rights of convicts be fully respected during the extradition process, and all in accordance with the law. The bill creates conditions for citizens of the Republic of Serbia and Argentina to be handed over to other foreign parties on the basis of the application, if they are given a prison sentence for more than a year. When we talk about the Law on International Legal Assistance, this bill, first of all, establishes better and more effective co-operation between the two Contracting States regarding the investigation of criminal prosecution and the detection of all forms of crime, both national and transnational. The subject of international legal aid is directed at the detection and identification of persons, objects and evidence, as well as the confiscation of property arising from criminal offences. International legal aid today is extremely important because we are facing new forms of crime and I hope this assistance will help bring these new forms of crime down to the lowest possible level. The proposal for a Law on Transfer of Convicted Persons also clearly defined ways and conditions for transfer of persons who have been convicted in another country by law because of the execution of criminal acts. But also this bill allows citizens of the Republic of Serbia who are rightly convicted of committing a crime in Argentina to be delivered to Serbia and to maintain this prison sentence here, so that they can use their language, to be in contact with their families, which makes a significant contribution to the rehabilitation process, i.e. to the rehabilitation of the same persons. Also, the subject of this law are criminal acts that are punishable under the law of both states and the essential condition is that convicted persons have endured a minimum portion of the sentence in the host state. Certainly these bill proposals are aimed at preventing any form of crime and as I have said that have a national and transnational character. But Serbia must not and cannot be a country where individuals will commit crimes and hope to avoid any form of responsibility. We are witnessing today the uncompromising fight against organised crime and corruption at the head of both the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Interior and we can see these results daily in the media. But I also believe that the pillar of this fight against organised crime is made up of courts and makes the judiciary and I hope, Minister, that we will never again allow judicial reform from 2010 which has turned us back many years. We must never again allow courts to be singled out political wings of political parties such as in 2010 and the judgments to be made on behalf of the Democratic Party or their satellites, rather than on behalf of the people, which is in accordance with the law. The courts must be places where there is no compromise, regardless of who the indictment is brought against and whether the accused is a member of any political party. And for all of this, I call on all my colleagues to support the draft law on the confirmation of the contract in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-12-0.u6427	Since there are no more reporters, we are going to the presidents, or representatives of the parliamentary groups. The word is Muamer Zukorlic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-12-0.u6428	Dear Presidents and Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly, the honourable representatives of the Government, the Ministers of Co-operation, ladies and gentlemen of People's MPs, distinguished citizens, three contracts with Argentina, a memorandum with Dominicans and one agreement with Belarus from a co-operation package in the field of justice and security, as well as in other fields with Dominic, are another step in this country's self-confirmation and normal functioning and carrying out its obligations to citizens, but also in the field and pathway of further improvement of relations with a number of countries around the world. Since the procedural laws that are confirmed by us are common activity and something that has already been checked and well-confirmed practice, we do not have much space to talk specifically about the agreements themselves, except to express the willingness to support them. But given the broad theme, this is an opportunity to talk a little bit more about our country's international policy. In general, our country's international policy has been good in recent years. Policy "II" is generally the best policy in building relations with numerous, diverse and often very heterogeneous international factors and countries. True, it is not difficult to take such a course and say – we will be in good relations both with the east and with the west and with the north and with the south, with neighbors and with those who are far away or far from us. What sometimes or occasionally becomes a problem, in this course of building international relations, is that sometimes these factors in the "II" package are mutually opposed, that is, their interests are often found on opposite sides, and then especially when it comes to greater world or regional forces, they feel the need from some earlier habits and practices to ask us to stop one "I" and be just one "I" or just to be on their side. It is one of the challenges that it is not rare to find on that path, on the way to building international relations, but also another major challenge that may be affecting the essence and not only from the occasional package, is the question of the course itself between interest and principles. Of course, this challenge is not only about building and improving and maintaining international relations, it is equally conflicting and specific and not so simple and in building daily relationships between us and individuals. It is logical that our international policy should first and foremost take into account the interests of its own country, i.e. the interests of the citizens of this country. However, if interests are always the only and key measure, the question arises – what about principles? What about ethical principles? What about justice and injustice? What about the question of various events in our rope or wider environment or around the world when certain things happen, where countries, including our country, are expected to have a certain right attitude? True, it is easier and easier to keep in mind only your own interest, as it is in our daily individual life, it is easier to keep in mind only their own interests. However, this raises the fundamental question of elemental humanity and the question of humanity as important as it is in individual relationships, it is also important in collective relations and relations. As important as it is that we do not lose our souls in our individual, everyday relationships, just as important that we do not lose our soul or that we do not stain it with our international relations and relationships. This is certainly not easy at all because in some longer-term and confirmed practice of international relations full of freedom, full independence and full sovereignty are mostly reserved for those of the greatest or the greatest. For us, however, small countries are often left with crumbs in freedom, sovereignty and independence, making decisions and building international relations. That's why those countries and those countries that are not so large in numbers, in military, economic and other aspects of power, will be condemned and have to walk along some edge or minority with a thin rope with a full concentration of maintaining their own verticality and their own balance. So, just so with this walk, only the abilities and quality to go through that sharp edge she has a chance to maintain her own self-esteem, but also not to give up her own values and her own priorities and qualities. On the list of our international priorities, but the list is quite wide because we have been defined for the policy "and and", but also at the top of the list according to my conviction, there is absolutely a need to maintain the relationship of neighbourly relations, i.e. building good relations with neighbours. It is mostly and proclaimed by our principled policies. To a significant extent, it is carried out with certain exceptions to occasional oscillations or maybe delays, but I want to underline that regardless of all other international quality factors, stability, the future of this country is first based on good relations with our neighbours, or neighbours. At the moment we manage to build these relationships and raise them to the highest level of quality, believe me, half our problems, half our threats, half the dangers or more for this country will be removed because security based on good relations with neighbouring countries actually makes a sort of protective belt around this country where any enemy who wants to do anything about destabilising this country or endangering its security, its interests, will be very difficult for him in such an ambience and such consolidation of relations, and most often disabled. So, in addition to those general principles about building relations with neighbors, I want to reiterate the importance of saying little things, small things with extremely high effects and consequences. Here is the case of humanity shown by this country in terms of full support with vaccines, neighbors, and in concrete numbers of vaccines delivered, but also in the openness of this country to people from the neighborhood who come here to immunize. I am one of the witnesses, since I have broad and personal relations with many citizens both in Montenegro and in BiH and in Croatia, and I am every day in a position to report to me asking for help to come here and receive a vaccine, I am a witness to the very good effects and very positive consequences of these people and not only individually on them, but every one of them who does not mean that they had a clear or positive attitude towards this country before, but since they have come in an opportunity to do them one such service and to confirm humanity through such a good deed, so I am a witness that these people become one new light, one new ray of light to neighbouring countries regarding their future testimony about this country. So this example has proved to be extremely good where, of course, it all costs and all of it has its own blackmail, but the price is very low in terms of the effects that are being achieved here and I want to encourage the very top of the state and all the competent authorities of the institution to actually continue with such examples and with such activities both in diplomacy and in all other aspects of building international relations, as well as elemental human relations. Good work, good work is the strongest weapon, believe me, good work and charity is stronger than any rocket, than any other weapon, any other lever of instruments of power, instruments of conventional power. So, of course, it's no new discovery, it's written in sacred books as God's word -- it turns the good into evil, and the open enemy will become your friend. So it's such a powerful and magnificent axiom that even on these examples it shows itself. There we should invest more energy and use all the people who have these connections, who have relations, good relations, personal, collective with the environment, in BiH, Montenegro, Croatia, Macedonia, Albania and all other countries, to use our individuals to actually build these relationships and, of course, with the good works that I am talking about, it will certainly have extremely good results. Certainly, our course of integration is unquestioned, or the path to the EU, but what I want to point out is no good. They never live on extremes, nor do they live on the truth, nor do they live on the quality. However not a good extreme that is still represented by some political entities here in our country, who are actually calling for the abandonment of Eurointegration and the path towards Serbia's EU integration, however not good, but also extreme, the other extreme acceptance of everything that comes to us from Western Europe is also wrong. We don't need to fall into that trap that every attitude, every memo, every piece of paper that comes to us that he's axioma and valuable and legal and political and that it's all unconditionally to be accepted. We should actually go back and keep what they are the foundations of the EU's formation. These foundations, these principles that were then declared in many ways have nothing to do with certain details of the ethical-cultural nature that are being served here today and that we should simply accept without any verification. So, yes, the EU, but unconditionally nothing. One who agrees with everything unconditionally has annulled himself, there is no international relationship to be built unconditionally. Any international relation including the Eurointegration processes should be built on agreed principles, and therefore, among other things, this technical procedure in which we are now in relation to opening and closing negotiating chapters is actually called negotiating chapters. So we're having negotiations. Negotiations mean alignment of will. They have certain requirements, we have certain attitudes, and then through these talks, we come to agreement, or solutions that are mutually acceptable. However, if we or they or together accept that negotiations on the Eurointegration processes and Serbia's entry into the EU are actually just applications of the conditions that we need to meet, I do not understand that it is good. I disagree with that, especially when it comes to the aspect of the requirement that comes to us from the West, which deeply affects our ethical and spiritual values. Ethical and spiritual values are not being negotiated. So that's something that should be an axioma that everyone should have in mind that's actually having these talks and these negotiations. Economic issues, administrative issues, judicial issues, okay, these are some things that are formally procedural, which are relative, where those who have more experience as organised societies admit that they have gone further, that there is much to learn from them. But those two have nothing to do with each other. Asking us to change ethically and culturally, to use the Eurointegration path and our desire and our intention to be part of the EU in a way that makes it impossible for us to change the ideological, ethical, cultural patterns and principles. The European Union is a Union, meaning community, union of different, different communities. It's okay they have certain ethical and cultural patterns, but we have ours based on our religious, ethical, traditional, other values, and I'm telling all the MPs not to fall into that trap where someone is training us and that only those naively under-trained and directed agree to it. Well, that's right, they're asking us to. No problem, first of all, let us discuss the foundations of these requirements, the foundations of the EU, the basic principles and principles on which it was created. So, a community where different, different by faith, different by culture, different by language, and find common denominators through conversations, agreements and negotiations. So this is what we should keep in mind and not fall into extremes, nor the extremes of fanaticism, nor the extremes of Euroantagonism. That path, the way of the middle, measured, moderate, with arguments, is of course the best. In the same context and relations with the United States and Russia and China and with the Muslim world is a paved list for a small country and it is not easy for a small country, especially when it is located in this hall of Europe, at the crossroads of Europe, the gates of Europe, where for thousands of years almost all migration and other movements occur across this space, it is not easy to play a game without having a full balance, but it is not impossible. If the focus is on quality and essential quality, on consistency of essential and methodical quality, believe that we can achieve this quality, especially if all the internal resources and these Assemblys and Governments and the entire leprosy of this political, ethnic, cultural diversity in this country are actually going to turn into strength, turn into energy, the chances of success, and they are uniquely very serious. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-12-0.u6429	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Djordje Kosanic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-12-0.u6430	Thank you. President-in-Office of the Parliament of Dacic, respected Minister Popovic with a co-worker from the ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, has been given a joint debate on several draft laws. I will note the proposal for a bill confirming the Memorandum between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Commonwealth of Dominica in co-operation in the area of agriculture, then three draft laws, three agreements between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Argentina on co-operation in the area of international legal co-operation between the two countries and a bill on the confirmation of a contract between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Belarus on extradition. Of course, the JS parliamentary group in the voting day will support all draft laws from this united debate, because I must say every agreement, a memorandum, or on the other hand a contract signed by the Republic of Serbia with a country opens the door to Serbia's co-operation with the country and in other areas of interest for the Republic of Serbia. At the very beginning, before we talk about the very proposals for legislation from this united debate, I want to say, and we have been witnessing lately that the opposition struggle for naked power has hit the bottom in Serbia. I can understand when I say that the opposition for power is struggling with works, ideas, programmes, after all, and if the government is not doing something good, it is struggling to criticise but those bad deeds, but the minister really cannot understand that the opposition is fighting when he is trying to undermine the reputation of the institutions of the Republic of Serbia by lying, and on the other hand the reputation of the entire Republic of Serbia. When I say so, I think that the political group gathered or better said by an interested organization gathered around Dragan Gilas at the expense of Dragan Markovic Palma has brought forth a number of the most brutal lies, the unearthed, which no ordinary man can imagine, let alone pronounce. On the other hand, they give themselves the right when they tell their lies that both the police and the court and the prosecution and their lies are the only valid evidence for them. When they make those lies, it's a verdict for them, no one has the right to defend, no right to honor, no right to the truth. Minister, I'm really wondering how long as we as a society will be willing to tolerate that someone for the cheapest political points is such a lie without having any responsibility. Dragan Markovic Palma has filed criminal charges against all persons who have made these mistakes. We know that truth and justice is on our side, but on the other hand, the Minister we fully believe in the institutions of the state and I must say that we hope that at the most recent time all those who have made such lies will answer in accordance with the law. Returning to the topics from this united debate, first when it comes to confirming the memorandum between the government of the Republic of Serbia and the government of the Commonwealth of Dominica on co-operation in the area of agriculture, this contract was signed in 2019 in Belgrade. It covers a degree of co-operation between the two countries in the area of agriculture, but I must say that bilateral co-operation between the two countries is on the rise and there is a mutual desire that in many other areas Serbia and this country have good co-operation. Also, what is very important to us, for Serbia, we are committed to activities within regional organisations. When I say this, this country is a full member of an organization called the Caribbean Community, very important to us and what is ultimately important, when I talk about this country, that it has withdrawn the recognition of our southern province of Kosovo and Metohija as an independent state. When it comes to three contracts in the area of international legal co-operation between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Argentina, they are important because crime as a social phenomenon knows no borders. This is about contracts for the transfer of convicted persons and co-operation on the execution of criminal sanctions, mutual legal assistance in criminal matters, as well as extradition. Of course, these contracts will have great importance in the fight against organised crime and will affect their perpetrators. Serbia is the first country in the region to sign such a contract with Argentina and what is very important, these contracts should be an incentive to make contracts with this country important to Serbia in other areas. Certainly full thanks to Argentina for its firm and principled position on territorial integrity and sovereignty of the Republic of Serbia. At the very end, when it comes to confirming the agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Belarus on extradition, it was signed as part of an official visit by President Lukashenko to Serbia, so in Belgrade in 2019. It was signed to strengthen further co-operation in the area of legal aid in criminal matters and regulate co-operation with regard to the extradition of accused and convicted persons. So the two countries commit to handing each other over all persons on their territory for prosecution and execution. Bilateral co-operation between Serbia and Belarus is at the highest level and is based on traditional friendship, cultural, historical, linguistic and religious closeness between the two nations. There is a 51 bilateral agreement between Serbia and Belarus so far, of course, there is the possibility of co-operation in other areas, but here I will mention only some of the agreements that are very important to Serbia – the Free Trade Agreement and the Defence Co-operation Agreement. At the very end, no longer, let me say that the Single Serbia parliamentary group will support all the draft laws in this united debate in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-12-0.u6431	The word has a folk emissary, Jasmine Karanac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-12-0.u6432	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister Popovic, co-workers and fellow MPs, we are here today discussing several agreements that are important for our country when it comes to interstate co-operation in the area of countering and combating organised crime, but these agreements also confirm good bilateral relations between the Republic of Serbia and Argentina, between the Republic of Serbia and Belarus, between the Republic of Serbia and the Commonwealth of Dominicans, but also confirm the future of these relations. We have three agreements on the agenda with Argentina, with regard to the extradition of accused and convicted persons, then legal co-operation, i.e. legal assistance between the two countries on criminal offences and the transfer of convicted persons and co-operation in the execution of criminal sanctions. The agreement with the Republic of Belarus on extradition is also on the agenda. The importance of these contracts is that they create conditions for stronger and more effective co-operation in the fight against all types of crime and allow for more effective processing of perpetrators. When we talk about organized crime, it should be borne in mind that it goes far into the past and exists in almost all countries. Organized crime does not show a tendency to decrease, but rather spreads with the emergence of new modern achievements and technologies and forms of crime taking on new forms and characteristics. Organized crime and terrorism have become a major threat to national, regional and international security. By definition, organised crime is a specific form of contemporary aspects of professional crime, which differs in many ways from the classical form of crime, both national and international proportions. There are many forms of organised crime: money laundering, illegal drug trafficking, corruption, bribery, various types of fraud, computer crime, illegal arms trafficking, terrorist activities, human trafficking, human organs, theft of art and cultural goods, cyber crime, and not to list any further. The main motive of criminal groups that adapt to all situations is money and they make billions. The coronary crisis has just shown how quickly criminal structures are able to adapt to every emerging situation. According to Europol's European Police Agency, everything necessary in the fight against the pandemic has been falsified since the start of the pandemic: cove of tests, vaccines, medical masks, vaccination certificates, corona passports. Officials of the European Union have also pointed to another danger, which is that criminal groups are infiltrated into companies that are financially weakened due to a difficult economic situation. Because of the incarceration and restriction of movement, criminal activity during the pandemic has been transferred to the digital world. This is another challenge in the fight against such a type of crime, because digital tools are needed to open them, i.e. to detect them, and these keys are not easy to come by and therefore professional international co-operation is necessary. European Union Home Affairs Commissioner Ilva Johanson recently described organised crime groups in Brussels: “They are powerful, they respect no bounds, they resort more and more to violence, torture and murder in order to reach their primary goal, of course, guess, money. ” Organized crime knows neither the state borders, nor the continents, and in that sense no continents, nor the world's countries are spared. For certain parts of the world, individual specificities are linked, and in that sense crime is no exception. For example, South African countries, South American countries, especially Colombia, represent a worldwide model of organization in the operation of the drug mafia. The terrorism and trafficking of white slaves is characteristic of the countries of the Middle and the Far East. The countries of the European continent are struggling with various types of mob organisations aimed at drug trafficking and human beings, as well as various forms of crime, abuse of privatisation, state and social capital. Even the most stable systems, the most stable countries in Western Europe have not resisted the destructive aspects of corruption affairs, human trafficking, narcotics, weapons. Not even the Balkans have been excluded from organised crime, so neither Serbia, unfortunately. And these days, the actual struggle of the state with the notorious clan used by the most brutal methods, the inconceivable civilized man. The state of Serbia has seriously and resolutely tackled this criminal octopus, putting behind bars the most corporal criminals and brutal executioners, investigating their tentacles further and revealing supporters. The fight against organised crime requires the application of specific mechanisms to prevent, detect and combat them, also requires a strategy for the fight. Our country, apart from national legislation in the fight against organised crime, implements and implements international contracts relevant to this area. A key international agreement to fight organised crime is the United Nations Convention on Transnational Organized Crime, with additional protocols. The aim, i.e. the purpose of this Convention, is to improve cooperation more effectively on preventing and combating organised crime. Then there is the Council of Europe Convention on High-Technology Crime, the European Convention on Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters, the European Convention on Anti-Terrorism, the Council of Europe Convention on the fight against trafficking in human beings, etc. There is no successful fight against organised crime without co-operation and exchange of information between countries, and therefore the importance of these agreements that we are discussing today is greater. Following the organisation of criminal groups and the development of methods of their operation, both methods and methods of combating organised crime must be perfected. There is no successful fight and no crime without co-operation. In addition to the police, the minister, you will agree, a key segment in the fight against organised crime is certainly judicial co-operation. Effective international co-operation and mutual legal assistance between countries are a prerequisite for the rapid and successful completion of proceedings in complex criminal cases, especially in the modern organisation of criminal groups that are trying to exploit the differences of the legal systems of different countries. Criminal groups also use lack of co-ordination between states, but also the fact that there is no co-operation between some countries in this area. That's why countries have to cooperate. In order for co-operation between countries to take place, it must rely on regulations. Here we come to a key fact why these international agreements that we are discussing today are so important – precisely because criminal groups could not exploit the lack of co-operation and exchange of information among countries to achieve their own dirty goals. In particular, there is no bilateral agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Argentina that regulates the issue of legal co-operation with regard to the extradition of accused and accused persons, nor does there exist a contract that would regulate the issue of legal co-operation in criminal offences, nor does there exist a contract on the transfer of convicted persons, as a specific form of international criminal-law aid. Also, legal co-operation between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Belarus has not been regulated when it comes to the extradition of accused and convicted persons. Confirmation of these agreements, which are on the agenda today, will create legal conditions for stronger and more effective co-operation between state authorities, and all in order for persons prosecuted or convicted in one country to avoid legal sanctions, i.e. the conduct of criminal proceedings or the maintenance of penalties. These agreements will also contribute to greater protection of certain human rights and freedoms when it comes to the extradition of accused or convicted persons between the two countries. The Social Democratic Party of Serbia, which I belong to in the voting day, will support these proposed agreements. Also, we will support the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Komolvelt Dominika in the field of agriculture, because Dominica is a friendly country and we believe that the exchange of experiences between the two countries in the area of agriculture, so that our experts, scientists can contribute to this area of a friendly country. So in the voting day, as I said, we will support this agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-12-0.u6433	Thank you very much. MP Alexander Mirkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-12-0.u6434	The Honorable Chairman, a respected minister with an associate, respected fellow Members of the People's Parliament and fellow MPs. I think it is too high to point out that we as the SNS parliamentary group Aleksandar Vukic – for our children, will support all these proposals and, of course, we will vote in favour of all these laws that are in front of us today. I think that much more than that means to citizens the fact that in this way we show how responsible our government is and how responsible we approach every situation and every problem and how much we think about every segment of our citizens' lives. I am also sorry that the proposals for these laws, as well as these agreements and this close co-operation between Serbia, Argentina, Belarus and the Commonwealth of Dominica, on the other hand, are still the subject of the ridicule of the people who have ruined our country. Unfortunately, and what's on the agenda today and what we're discussing, for the representatives of the former regime, is the accompanying paper that is enough to make fun of and where they essentially see no benefit and benefit for our country. It's amazing when you hear it from the people who ran our country. So for them, during the period since they were in power immeasurably or not seriously enough that countries co-operate in the extradition of perpetrators of criminal acts. It's just amazing that people who ran the country have that attitude today. I can understand that some countries, less or more, are dear to them and I can understand that they have the right to a personal position when it comes to this kind of serious matter, when it is necessary for criminals or perpetrators of various crimes to be extradited to one or another country, I really cannot help but feel that at least it is irresponsible to do so. I think that says a lot in favour of how they saw our country in the period until 2013 or 2014, and how today the Government is following responsible policies of President Aleksandr Vukic on every citizen of our country and on every segment of life in our country. As far as the agreements themselves are concerned, I will agree with previous speakers, especially Mr Zukorlic, who pointed out that these agreements only show how open our country is to co-operation with all countries strong and how successful we are on this plan. Really, I think these agreements just show that, too. The difference between today's notion of foreign policy that we have in the past with today's day shows a clear fact that it does not matter the size of a country with which I sign some agreement or how many inhabitants they have, but it is important that Serbia in each of these countries wants to find a partner for the general interest and the general good of citizens both ours and other countries. Although Commonwealth Dominica is a small country in the Caribbean Sea, many people have not heard of it. She courageously stepped forward and in 2018 withdrew the recognition of so-called the countries of Kosovo. Only this fact shows enough how much our diplomacy has then shown strength and interest that one of the biggest and most burning issues in our country is being resolved fundamentally, studioically and there is no country that Serbia will not talk to to correct the injustice, and it is called recognition so-called. the countries of Kosovo. I see that this country is, as it is today, the subject of the ridicule of some irresponsible people who do not understand or realize that by mocking themselves, or demeaning themselves and who they mock, but rather the opposite. They speak best of themselves and best paint their haughtiness and arrogance. So for the representatives of the regime, the former DS regime now gathered around Dragan Gilas, these are some irrelevant countries. Just so citizens know the area we're talking about today is co-operation in the area of agriculture. And yes, maybe we can help them more than they can help us at this point, but you never know when their support will be needed. Of course, their country was at first as much as most countries in that part of the world, growing bananas, but, you know, we can learn something from their example. When we saw that they didn't make as much money as they did, because of the impact of time and weather, their government quickly made a decision, so they turned to other products, to produce other exotic fruits. From this example, you can see how the country that takes care of itself and its population quickly observes and makes decisions, which are for the benefit of the citizens, and unfortunately, that they have been led by some examples, from the past of that country, Dragan Djilas, Boris Tadic and Vuk Jeremic, have been able to understand that when they were already dragging into our country, through their actions and actions, they had to change something else. If nothing else, they realized they were incompetent, so they also had to resign, but unfortunately they didn't. And of course, that we will support this agreement, and of course we are proud of every international agreement that our country has signed, because it is a feature of both our strength and our will and our ability to develop in every way and in every sense. As for the agreements that, Madam Minister, are directly related to your sector and regarding the agreement with Belarus and Argentina, none of the colleagues here mentioned one devastating fact, which is that since 1928, we have signed the first bilateral agreement with Argentina. And by 1987, these agreements had dropped and there were various agreements and laws on some kind of co-operation. It was working to bring the two countries of Yugoslavia and Argentina closer together, but it is an interesting fact that from 1987 to 2014, no single agreement was signed. No single agreement has been signed with the country with which we have had so many close relations throughout history. This shows how irresponsible the people who led our country were. So, about the historical significance of this country, about the impact in that part of the world, and in general in the world, I think it's too much to talk about. But it's amazing again, and I'm going to go back to that part of the beginning, so couldn't someone have started a kind of agreement from 2000 to 2014, even if they were interested in it? We all know Latin America is the headquarters and center, the source of the drug trade in the world. Is it possible that those of us who are in this part of Europe, geographically, is such a position, a hub and where there are constant conflicts over the drug market, not only in Serbia, but in BiH, northern Macedonia, Albania, is it possible that no one has thought to ask for some kind of co-operation? This again shows how important it was to them, only to deal with their own personal interests and the interests of their party parliamentarians. I don't know why people in our country didn't deal with it, people who ran the country. How do you not find it strange that whenever a large international drug confiscation occurs on ships or when these ships land in Spain, you always have in those teams from Latin America people from this area, and the question arises whether it was not in anyone's interest to have our country deal with it or if they still had a bit of a shortcut to work? Whatever the answer to that question is, it's certainly not good, because the money from all of it, and that drug itself, it's been spilling over to our country. There was something left here, something ended up in the countries of Western Europe. This Agreement and everything we're discussing today just shows how ready our country is to proceed with the charge against a dangerous opponent like organized crime. A respected minister, a few months ago, and even before the new year, we talked here about jeopardizing the security of President Alexander Vukic and his family, and you remember we were talking about a lot of the subject wanting to make fun of, to mock her, to revitalize her. You've had a lot of shows dedicated to it, and they found it funny that Chaba Der and Hungary admitted that from two organizations, they had offered to kill President Alexander Vukic, so that a few months ago when this most dangerous clan was broken, after the Zemun Clan, the Belivuk clan would have come to the knowledge that there was also a sniper rifle. She was trained to shoot, that there were various polygons, so we came to the point that everything we talked about months ago now still has a real basis. No one apologized to the citizens or told them, so yes, we were wrong. No, but with the campaign to present it as some kind of cheerleading event continues today. From this place and wherever we have the opportunity, we will always remind, above all, the competent institutions of how much security the citizens are in the first place and that this is the priority of all state institutions, security and the health of citizens. That's why it's amazing to me that today when we discuss these extradition agreements between Argentina and Serbia and Serbia and Belarus, and it's seen as some kind of polygon for not knowing what petty politics is. Argentina has also shown its readiness to co-operate with our country in the post-2014 period. To remind the citizens of Serbia and all of us here, in 2015 they voted against the entry of so-called Kosovo i.e. against Kosovo's admission to UNESCO. I don't know how the right of representatives of a part of the opposition led by Dragan Gilas to make jokes at their expense, both then and today, because it only shows their irresponsibility and inconclusiveness. Yesterday we talked about a subject that is very sensitive to all of us, and it concerns Jasenovac and genocide that was carried out in that camp and over the Serb population. I am sorry that Dragan Djilas is today trying to get all of us who supported the decision to change their name in the city of Belgrade, to get the name of Blago Jovovic. For him, we're all represented as some kind of lunatics and monsters. For those who do not know, and I think there are such in this hall and in our country, Blagoje Jovović, in 1957 right in Argentina in the suburbs of Buenos Aires, shot Anta Pavelic who, by that time in 1957, lived safely and peacefully in Buenos Ires and Argentina, in the same Antu Pavelic who wanted Serbs to disappear. You see, and what I'm talking about today just shows you how much for cheap political points or patting on the shoulders of people who don't want our country well above all, Dragan Gilas is willing to go low. I am proud to have had the opportunity to support that decision as chairman of a parliamentary group in the City Assembly and to vote in favour of that decision with my colleagues. Also, today as a national MP, I must admit that I am very proud that Serbia is no longer ashamed of its victims today, which is only after the arrival of the Serbian Progressive Party and, at the initiative of President Aleksandar Vukic, things are called the right name. I'm proud that we can look everyone in the eye today, but also talk about what our people have been going through for generations and decades. When I say generations back, everyone in this room has someone who's been through some kind of struggle or kind of death. Dear Minister, in order to leave time to myself for the end of this session alone, I have asked you from this place several times about the threats they receive, not only the high-ranking officials of the Serbian Progressive Party, if that is what it can be called, but also the MPs or ordinary activists who have been attacked at the stands in sharing propaganda material. I agree with you that sometimes the necessary application is for the competent institutions to respond, but I'll just remind you that a few years ago at the protest organised by Dragan Gilas on the terraces were presented hangings, so wooden gallows, with all the noose that was ready for one of us, probably. Then we warned that they had neither finished nor stopped with their rhetoric. I'm telling you all of this for the simple reason that last night, in a show on RTS that was more than in a quiet tone, where arguments were exchanged, arguments faced, vice president of the assembly, Mr. Vladimir Orlic's presidency, only because of the strength of the arguments that came from yesterday was the subject of the lynch, and so in the course of the show, he got a message clearly threatening -- "You are among the biggest dogs of this life. Horse one. You don't know if there's a lustration that you'll be hanged, receiver! “ This is a rhetoric of people who want to return to power today and this is a rhetoric and way of addressing anyone who supports the politics of the Serbian Progressive Party, but above all, President Aleksandr Vukic. So now it's enough to go on the show to represent the results program, or you're up for one idea to get a direct threat and tell you that you're going to be hanged. Dear Minister, I am convinced that the competent institutions will be able to preserve the security of all Serbian citizens, regardless of whether they support this or that political option, however they plead, but what they present to the citizens from one part of the opposition today and what they promote as their only idea is certainly worrying. I know that the despair of Dragan Gilas has reached its peak and that it is very difficult for him to justify where he gets 68m euros in 17 different countries in 53 accounts, but such threats will neither scare anyone, nor stop us from talking about what he did while he was in power, as well as the results achieved today by our Government and this Assembly, but above all, what results we achieve next policy by Alexander Vukic. I wish you more successful laws like this, and all with the interest of making our country an even better place to live, for generations to come. Thank you and live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-12-0.u6435	Thank you. The word is made by Minister Maja Popovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-12-0.u6436	Thank you. I would just like to make a statement about these allegations, threats sent to the MP. They're filled absolutely according to these allegations you've read, a crime, a threat to security. I'm sure the D.A. will prosecute this case and file an appropriate indictment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-12-0.u6437	Thank you. The People's Messenger, George Milicevic, has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-12-0.u6438	Thank you, Mr. Zukorlic. Your Honors Minister, the Honorable Representative of the Ministry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr Mirkovic, forgive me for speaking after you, but for justifiable reasons. I respect the Rules of Procedure, but for justifiable reasons, I hope you understand, I haven't been able to speak in time. I know that you are the representative of the largest parliamentary group and that you should speak last accordingly. I hope you accept and understand the apology. Mr. Mirkovic in his final part, in fact in the conclusion he said something with which I actually want to begin my presentation today. So today we're talking about five agreements. Each agreement is of great importance to Serbia. I will talk later about why I express such a finding, but since you, Madam Minister, are present here today, Mr Mirkovic spoke briefly about the threats made to Mr Orlic and we, of course, are every threat not only to Mr Orlic, but to any MP, to anyone who does his job in a responsible, serious and dedicated manner we strongly condemn and only ask one thing – to be able to do their job and nothing more, and citizens in the elections assess who and how they do their job. Yesterday, counterpart Snezana Paunovic asked a question and mentioned it in the context of me. So, we're not looking for a reaction from the competent authorities or the competent institutions, because we're not afraid, because we didn't even fear these people on October 5th 2000, so we're not afraid of them today, but we've appealed, first of all, not because of me, to say, right now, because of the colleagues who showed up before me. You know, if there's a angry group here who's ready to rock and call them ugly names just because they've been chosen by the will of the citizens and doing their job, I'm sorry, it's unacceptable. It is inadmissible and it is unimaginable in Serbia. I don't care who was in the front row or who came by my car to deal with me physically. He's absolutely not interested in me. You know, life taught me I don't have fear in my life. Fear is a natural phenomenon, but life has taught me that I have no fear, because if I had it, I certainly wouldn't continue to do this job long ago, but I'm afraid for my colleagues. Please protect them. I ask that the competent authorities and the competent institutions, and this is not the first time, this is who knows what night that I listen to ugly expressions sent to my colleagues just because they sit in this parliament and do their job and do it responsibly and have no working time, but come here at 10:00 in the morning and come out when we're done with this job and it's all in the best interests of Serbia's citizens. I personally don't care about that angry group that came to show and demonstrate some kind of force and to deal physically with me, trying to get in the way of the car. I'm interested in those behind it. I'm interested in those political grotesques. With these political nuggets, I'd like to take care of myself, of course, not physically, not because I'm in no condition to be physically accounted for today, but because I have far more arguments to deal with them in a different way. We wait for them and there will be opportunities. Not only will there be choices, but there will be opportunities. Certainly, and that they tried to intimidate us, to make it impossible for us to simply stop talking about a policy that is right, which is justified, about a policy that brings results, which is rightly recognised and visible by the citizens of Serbia, regardless of which political parties we all advocated to realize these six declared objectives and principles based on which the Government of the Republic of Serbia was formed and established. We're all here to help realize these goals and principles. They won't scare us, because if they had scared us and scared me, I wouldn't be here today. Today I am here, and I am just going to speak not only in the Assembly, and let them know, I am free to walk in Belgrade, I am free to walk in every city in Serbia. I don't need security, I don't need anyone. What they have to say, let them approach, I'm here, but I'd like those political gromats that sent them to come and say, if they can come and say what they have, not to deal with politics like this. This matrix of family reference, ugly expressions, so through social networks, etc., etc., we have long warned, this matrix began a part of the opposition and this matrix continues today. Madam Minister, neither is it politics, nor is it the essence of the existence of politics. I'm sorry, it's violent and violent behavior, and in this Serbia, it can't and cannot become a norm of social behavior in Serbia, and we must all fight together as ministers and as MPs and representatives of citizens, because Serbia doesn't deserve it. Serbian citizens do not deserve such a picture and such shame, and these leaders and leaders may only choose to go to the next elections, so let them measure their strength and see how much they really are worth, and in recent days we have seen, are ready to threaten MPs, are ready to make threats to ministers, they are ready to give threats to journalists, to put pressure on them, and they are pushing for modern democracy, they are pushing for freedom of the media. So is that the freedom of the media? Is this modern democracy, by threatening someone with criminal charges because they asked you a question at a press conference, by saying that you're going to run over someone's car, as far as I know? Well, wait, let's ask a simple question -- and how would they behave, that will, of course, never happen, is a plus-squamperture of Serbia's political scene, but how would they behave to have some part of the responsibility in Serbia, to have the least part of the responsibility in Serbia? Well, how would you behave? Well, there wouldn't be this data that my colleague Sandra Christmas has been very precise for days, that would be ten times that. No more, that time has passed. Political fog and political marketing are over. Here today only the results are being valued, and we are here to work responsibly, seriously and committedly for the sake of these results and to help realize these results, no matter what political parties they come from, because here we are talking about a sincere belief in the goals that we all want to achieve together. Like I said, we're talking about a few agreements today. Apparently, if someone looked at a layman like that, they'd be commenting -- well, well, there are some agreements there. No, every agreement is important, every agreement is co-operation, every agreement is strengthening bilateral relations. Serbia needs co-operation with every country, no matter how small or large, no matter how large the country has its inhabitants, but Serbia must build bridges and strengthen bilateral relations with each country. Let's say, just by strengthening and building these bridges, here, I'm going to make one comparison in 2008, the Kosovo and Metohija issue, the US-2020 attitude and the talks between the president of Serbia in Washington about the Kosovo and Metohija issue. Do you know what that looked like? The moment Kosovo and Metohija's unilateral independence was declared, no one asked us anything. More than 110 states then accepted Kosovo and Metohija's unilaterally declared independence, as well. If you came to the United States to discuss the Kosovo and Metohija issue, you could discuss technical issues at the Stafer level. We come by 2020, when the president of the state talks with the President of the United States, now former but then President of the United States, not on technical issues, but on essential issues concerning Kosovo and Metohija and national and state interests, and says very clearly - point 10 is left aside. This tells you about strengthening Serbia's international reputation and international image. Had it not been for diplomatic activity then, Serbian President and Foreign Minister Ivica Dacic, Serbia would not have strengthened international reputation and international image. Just thanks to this international reputation and international image, we have come to the possibility that the Kosovo and Metohija issue should be restored to the agenda, that it is finally understood that the issue of Kosovo and Metohija has not been resolved and that there is no compromise and solution without Serbia. It is therefore important to strengthen relations with all states. I've only done one depression and one comparison. On the other hand, we face the greatest health challenge. I hope and trust the crisis staff, and I believe in the profession, that the end is slowly in sight. We all believe that. We believe that an even greater number of citizens will be vaccinated because there is one truly responsible and serious relationship between both the president and the government and the entire health profession. But this period of the herd has shown one very important thing. When it's hardest, you can count on two things, I've talked about it many times before, the first thing is your own resources and your own sources, and the other thing is just relations with traditionally friendly states. We need as many traditionally friendly states as possible. Today, in mid-October, we are building a vaccine factory with our friends from the United Arab Emirates, from China. The daily dose will be 2 million and these vaccines will not be used only in Serbia, but will be exported to other countries in the region. When we talk about the region, I'm sorry that the region and the countries in the region, I'm very sorry, they didn't understand the right way to treat each other, and the way we should talk in the region, not to speak badly about each other, but to speak with one voice, as the president said in front of the EU, in front of Brussels, in front of the world forces, and not just to co-operate now in the Kovida period. The president has united the region, sent tens of thousands of vaccines. It's not about vaccines and donations, it's about trust. I hope that they will finally realize that it is not the point that we speak badly of each other, but that we are working together, that we are talking and that we are performing together on important strategic things, which are, above all, in the interests of our citizens. It is true that we have the largest trade exchange with the EU, but allow me, so 70%, 80% of trade exchanges are in the region. Maneuver yourself, people, more barriers, taxis, get out of the ramps, get out of the ban, open the borders, allow the citizens to flow freely, allow free flow of people, capital, goods and services. Let the citizens live normally. Political issues will be resolved in a different way. We couldn't make a political deal that long, so let's make that economic normalisation, the citizens will live better. Think of the citizens. Act the way Serbia behaves today in the region, and Serbia is today a symbol of new values in the region. Serbia wants peace, stability, prosperity, and if there are open issues, so it solves open issues through dialogue, not through unilateral moves and unilateral acts. As far as the agreement is concerned, these agreements, therefore, are a significant part of international co-operation, as I said, which is constantly expanding, a confirmation of active foreign policy, which has been being conducted over the past few years. What I want to point out is that in the last few years, the National Assembly has ratified dozens of agreements on bilateral co-operation with a large number of countries, including our traditional friends, such as Russia, such as China, France, but there are co-operation agreements with countries that are our new friends with which we have strengthened co-operation in previous years. I cannot without thanking today all countries of the world who have not recognised the self-proclaimed state of Kosovo or have withdrawn their recognition. Such friendships for us have a special importance and we are infinitely grateful to all those countries that have remained on the defender of international law that defends the sovereignty of every internationally recognised UN member state, which is certainly the case for Serbia. A large number of bilateral agreements and co-operation agreements mean that Serbia has strengthened its international position, as I have already said. Our fight to preserve territorial integrity and sovereignty has been recognised by a large number of UN members. That's why, with great respect and respect, I'm talking about all these countries of the world, whether they're small, like I said, or less famous or big. The diplomatic activities of Serbia's leadership, which have strengthened Serbia's international position, could certainly be spoken more by the president of the National Assembly, who served as foreign minister. The result of the diplomatic work, together with the president of the Republic, as I said, is 18 recognitions, 18 states have recognised and withdrawn recognition of Kosovo and Metohija's unilaterally declared independence. Among these friendly states are the Republic of Argentina, the Republic of Belarus, the Commonwealth Dominica, with which we signed co-operation agreements that the National Assembly should ratify after this debate. As for the first agreement with Argentina, I would like to remind myself of the history of diplomatic relations. It was established more than 90 years ago, more specifically since 1928 and are traditionally friendly. There is agreement, similar views on important international issues. With this in mind, Argentina respects our country's territorial integrity and sovereignty and has not recognised Kosovo and Metohija's unilaterally declared independence. She has always stood by Serbia in difficult times. It fully respects Resolution 1244 and will not change its position on non-recognition of Kosovo's unilaterally declared independence. The special link between our two people is also the fact that a few years ago, it seems to me, Serbia's market in Buenos Aires is open. Two years ago, Foreign Minister Ivica Dacic, today, at the UN conference "South-South", held in Buenos Aires, pointed out that in the world of growing interdependence and complexity, common challenges also require common solutions. Respect for international institutions, international rights, as well as key principles aimed at co-operation and the best response to global challenges, and the Republic of Serbia will continue to strongly advocate strengthening multilateralism, the UN system, international solidarity, with respect for the sovereign equality of all Member States. Long-term friendship and, above all, mutual understanding are a good and solid basis for increased political dialogue, strengthened economic co-operation. We're similar to temperament, character. Serbia and Argentina have so far concluded and confirmed agreements in different areas – trade, economic co-operation, scientific, technological co-operation, veterinary, on visa waiver for holders of diplomatic and official passports. The agreement with the Republic of Argentina on the transfer of convicted persons and co-operation on the execution of criminal sanctions, then, the mutual legal assistance agreement in criminal matters, as well as the extradition contract, the continuation of these fruitful co-operations and friendly relations The signed contracts will create conditions for as firm as possible, more mandatory, more effective co-operation on crime, we are fully convinced, and allow more effective processing of perpetrators of criminal offences. Organized crime, which is a global problem, requires co-operation and response not only on national but also on regional and certainly on the international agenda, which is what we are doing today by discussing such bilateral agreements. As Serbia is committed to the rule of law and the fight against organised crime, organised crime and corruption will, of course, become increasingly difficult, because there is one synergy of practicality here and, I would say, normative action through talks and confirmation of such bilateral agreements. The signing of the contract is the first step in further strengthening and expanding the two countries' co-operation in the area of justice. Otherwise, Serbia is the first country in the region with which Argentina has signed contracts in the area of justice. We will certainly support this agreement in the voting day. When it comes to the agreement with Belarus, I would refer to the Treaty with the Republic of Belarus on extradition, more specifically, to the importance of diplomatic relations and bilateral co-operation with Belarus, with which Serbia established diplomatic relations in 1994. Our two countries are close to culturally, in language, religious, traditional sense. There is an honest friendship between Serbia and Belarus. Belarus is a great friend of Serbia and therefore we are grateful, and this gratitude and respect for the Serbian people will remain forever because Belarus wanted, wanted and dared to show support when it was at its most difficult times. I know I'm out of time. I won't be too long. Madam Minister, of course we'll support all the agreements, I didn't have enough time to talk about each of them individually. Excuse me, Mr. Zukorlic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-12-0.u6439	Thank you, fellow Milicevic. Since we no longer have registered representatives or authorised representatives of parliamentary groups, we are moving on to the list of registered speakers. The first on the list is MP Samir Tandir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-12-0.u6440	The Honorable Chairman of the Academy of Zukorlic, colleagues and fellow MPs, the honourable representative of the Justice Ministry, today's agreements with the Government of the Commonwealth of Dominica, Argentina's three agreements and Belarus's technical nature and our MP club and we as the strongest Bosniak party, the Justice and Reconciliation Party, will support them in the voting day. These agreements are evidence of the international reputation and respect our country has on the international stage, because you cannot sign an agreement with yourself. It's simply not enough that you just have a desire to cooperate with someone, but others must have a desire to cooperate with you and respect you on the international stage. Last week we signed and I think just seven days ago we discussed, and then we voted on agreements with the U.S. government and the Russian Federation, today we have these five other agreements, and that's proof of a good dynamic, but primarily evidence of international respect. The international policy led by the government's president is something that certainly has the support of both our parliamentary groups and our party and our international policy is essential for internal stability, and is primarily important for the economic development of our country, which is what most interests all citizens and citizens. Our party's leader, academician Muamer Zukorlic, stressed the importance of regional policy in his address today. As the Baltic countries rely on each other and first have that co-operation between them, as well as the Scandinavian countries, as well as the Benelux countries work closely together, so I think we, the Balkan countries, the ex-way countries of Southeast Europe and the southwestern Balkans should primarily have this close co-operation. And that initiative of that so-called. Mini Shengena is something that was initiated by the president of our country and that we, as the Justice and Reconciliation Party, support. We think it's an initiative that we can all benefit from. The countries of the region are very important for our economy, because almost all countries in the region our country has surpluses. As far as the European Union is concerned, it is our most important foreign policy priority and these are the fundamental democratic values that we seek, because we want to implement them essentially and because they are part of our being, not because it is a domestic task that some bureaucrats in Brussels set up for us. As far as the United States, the Russian Federation and China are concerned, they are the most important players in the world and should certainly continue to maintain good relations with them. What I especially want to point out is good co-operation with the Muslim world. The Republic of Turkey has opened over 500 companies in the Republic of Serbia and that is something that should certainly be welcomed. Of course, we expect some of these companies to open their facilities in Sanjay municipalities in the coming period. The United Arab Emirates, the good co-operation that our country's president has with the ruling family of Muhammad ben Zajida el Nahjana, with the Kingdom of Bahrain, we establish good co-operation, all this is a chance for both our dedicated industry and our construction operation, but I especially want to point out, for food producers. Serbia and our companies are major producers of halal products, these are traditional halal markets and when it comes to finished meals and when it comes to the conditory industry, but also when it comes to the water and juice industry, these are certainly the resources that countries in the Middle and Far East need. What I want to take advantage of is the presence of Justice Ministry representatives and I urge them to take care of the percentage representation of minority communities in these judicial institutions and units in the Republic of Serbia. So, a third of citizens and citizens in the Republic of Serbia are representatives of minority communities, I want us to work together partnerly on it. I want to point out an example of a misdemeanor court, for example in Prepolje, which works well, I want to point out, but that out of eight employees is only one Bosniak, and 50% are Bosniaks. It's something that, I mean, and an inherited problem, but it's something we have to work on partnerly. We certainly support something, which you would say, expertise in front of politics, but, of course, I cannot agree that no one from my people has expertise. So there are, and then we have to partner up and work to motivate people to come in and report to the competitions, and choose the best in the competitions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-12-0.u6441	Thank you, Comrade Tandir. National MP Daniela Veljovic has a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-12-0.u6442	Thank you. Fellow Members and fellow MPs, organised crime poses a significant threat to the economic and social agenda in developed countries, but also to developing countries. The Republic of Serbia is on the list of countries that have joined a serious fight against organised crime. In an effort to counter crime as successful as possible, the need for the state to respond to both actions and beyond the state borders is growing. As far as the Republic of Serbia is prepared to seriously approach the fight against organised crime, it also shows the signing of such contracts. The role of the agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Argentina, as well as the Republic of Serbia and Belarus on the extradition and provision of international legal assistance, is to improve their co-operation to prevent organised crime from spreading. There has been no agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Argentina, as well as the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Belarus so far that legal co-operation on the extradition of accused persons and the provision of mutual legal assistance would be regulated. Under the current Criminal Code of the Republic of Serbia, there is no penalty without guilt and no one can be punished for an act which, before it was done by law, was not defined as a criminal offence. The protection of human and other fundamental social values is the basis and limit for the determination of criminal offences, the regulation of criminal sanctions and their application. For the purpose of these contracts, the work for which extradition is permitted is what constitutes a criminal offence under the laws of both parties. Extradition shall be refused in cases of political crimes or where a request for extradition has been filed for the purpose of prosecution or punishment of a person for racial, religious, nationality, sexual orientation, political conviction, for a criminal offence which is solely against military law, as well as where there are legitimate reasons that the requested person may be exposed to torture, cruel and inhumane punishment. I remind you that the Republic of Serbia is a signator of the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. Under the Convention, torture is prohibited and everyone has the right to a fair trial and the right to an effective legal remedy before national authorities. Many criminal groups are seeking to build their criminal operations beyond the state borders, as they believe that the chances of being discovered are less. In the main case, there are persons who are trying to cover up their financial incomes acquired through criminal activity. Economic, financial crime, corruption increasingly has a trans-national character and therefore a criminal investigation requires investigative authorities to collect evidence beyond the borders of a particular state. Most of the areas of criminal activity are interlinked, and the perpetrators of these crimes are flexible enough and change their activities according to the given opportunities and risks. It is therefore very important that the efforts made to combat organised crime are also flexible. Mutual legal assistance is a formal way of seeking and providing assistance in the collection of evidence found in one country, which is necessary for the conduct of criminal investigations or criminal proceedings in another country. It's actually a network of co-operation, establishing mutual contacts. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia in Article 16(2) clearly states that the general rules of international law and approved international agreements constitute an integral part of the legal order of the Republic of Serbia. The opinion that prevails in the EU is that such agreements form the basis for coordination, not the basis for laying down rules in the area of legal assistance. All memorandums of co-operation should respect the frameworks of national legislation. According to the SOCT report on the risk assessment of serious and organised crime, the biggest threat to citizens of Europe is activities in human trafficking, migrants, drug trafficking and online fraud. According to the EU body's report, it is essential that the assessment of threats live in practice. As far as the Republic of Serbia is concerned, key progress in the opening of Chapter 24 is seen in a strong fight against organised crime and corruption, as well as in effective police and prosecution co-operation. The Social Democratic Party of Serbia provides full support to all state authorities in the fight against organised crime and the mafia. The state must show that it is stronger than any criminal group and thus send a clear message that no one will be paid for the way of organisation and action that carries the immeasurable damage to the stability and future of a country and the development of an entire society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-12-0.u6443	Thank you, colleague Veljović. The People's MP Slavenko Unkovic has the words. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-12-0.u6444	Dear President-in-Office, honourable MPs, I would first and foremost like to send full support to President JS, Mr Dragan Markovic Palma, in an effort to expose and expose all the lies and all the false accusations that Marinika Tepic and her team have made in public for the past month. I demand the police and the district attorney to inform the public, which is a legal possibility and obligation, when the general public is interested in whether or not any procedural actions have been taken over in connection with the lies and, if so, whether or not any person has been processed. How long has Mr. Markovic not had the status of the suspect, and he is not and will not have it, which had to be said so far, then the answer to the question is whether the person who brought the charges and the lies has been processed and if not, why not? By the absence of a reaction and any epilogue, the spoken word that goes beyond the definition of freedom of speech leads to legal anarchy, which is both a prerequisite and a legal and a moral lynch, which I think happens here. As far as the agenda points are concerned, the memorandum between the government of the Republic of Serbia and the government of Commonwealth Dominic was signed two years ago on the basis of mutual respect and mutual benefit. In 2018, the Commonwealth Dominican government suspended its position on Kosovo's recognition and supported Belgrade and Pristina's dialogue, with the EU's intervention and, of course, Serbia appreciates that stance. We want to develop economic co-operation with all countries, the Caribbean State Association, as well as the Caribbean Communities. The goal, of course, is to expand economic, scientific, technical co-operation, in the area of agriculture and tourism and Serbia can certainly be a good and reliable partner. All these laws confirming the treaty between our country and the Government of the Republic of Argentina, when it comes to providing legal assistance in criminal acts, the extradition of defendants and convicted persons, are in the interest of our country. We are the first country from our region to have this agreement with Argentina. There has been no bilateral agreement between our countries so far that would regulate these legal issues over all types of crime, especially trans-national organised crime. Now conditions are being created for stronger and more effective co-operation and greater protection of certain human rights. Mutual legal assistance is a formal way of seeking and providing assistance in the collection of evidence found in one country, and is needed to assist in the conduct of criminal proceedings in another country. Serbia and Argentina are two friendly countries with 85-year-old diplomatic relations and we have similar views on the international legal order. Argentina has not recognised the fake state of "Kosovo" and the attitude will not change and we aim to deepen co-operation at all levels with such countries. Unlike the North American diaspora that's known a lot about immigration in Argentina, we've never had reliable data. According to some surveys, about 30,000 people of Serbian and Montenegrin origin live in the territory of the Republic of Argentina from the former Yugoslavia and every type of contract and agreement of economic co-operation between our countries will also mean for these peoples. Argentina is currently going through a difficult political and economic period, especially in terms of the pandemic. Some media have announced that Argentina has bankrupted for the third time in this century, and a really difficult situation has led them to a level that has about 40% of the population below the poverty line. The agreement between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Belarus on extradition is a continuation of strong co-operation in the area of legal assistance. The goal is to regulate procedures for the extradition of accused and convicted persons as effectively as possible. Our countries have no open political issues and economic co-operation is the priority of our relations. Belarus does not recognise Kosovo's independence, and we highly appreciate it. Belarus values Serbia for leading an independent, independent policy in the region. Serbia aims to improve our level of political and economic co-operation and extend it and further increase our trade exchange. The largest increase in trade between goods is possible in the exchange of agricultural products, especially if meat and meat processing status is regulated during exports to Belarus. The trade is now at about $500 million. Twenty Serbian companies are successfully operating in Belarus, and the BK group is leader among them. Although Serbia and Belarus have a free trade regime, the agreement with the Euro-Asian Economic Union, made up of Russia, Belarus, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan and Armenia, is very important for Serbia. This means our presence on the market of about 180 million inhabitants. The agreement envisions a high degree of liberalisation of mutual trade and will allow customs duties not to be charged to nearly 99% of products. The deal was signed a year and a half ago. Ratification by all signatories has been completed this year and an important agreement for our country is expected to begin soon. Today's all agreements are in the interest of our country and our country, so the JS parliamentary group will support these all-mentioned proposals in the voting day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-12-0.u6445	Thank you, colleague Unkovic. The word has a folk MP, Diana Radovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-12-0.u6446	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, colleagues and fellow MPs, today we have agendas concerning co-operation agreements with several states. I think that these points are extremely important, because above all, every cooperation agreement we ratify here shows that this is an example of the good, positive and affirmative activities of all the bodies of the institutions in our country, with the desire to improve co-operation with all the other countries in the most diverse areas. I will talk today about the first agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Commonwealth of Dominica in the area of agriculture. At the very beginning, I would remind that bilateral relations between the Republic of Serbia and the Commonwealth of Dominika were established in 2010, to be characterised by the positive dynamics of political dialogue, and that there are mutual interests in improving co-operation from various areas. What I would particularly point out and what is particularly important to our country is that this state of Commonwealth Dominica was one of the 18 states that withdrew the recognition of the self-proclaimed state of Kosovo when the current president of the National Assembly was in place as foreign minister. This country is also a full member of international and regional organisations, such as the Caribbean Communities or the Caribbean Association, which leaves us with room to improve further development and co-operation and with other members of these international organisations. We and Commonwealth Dominic have signed agreements in the area of trade, higher education, scientific research, as well as tourism. In particular, this Agreement on the field of agriculture is important to us. It was signed in Belgrade for five years in 2019 and will be updated automatically every five years. The agreement, among other things, concerns the development and improvement of modern technologies in agriculture, the promotion of joint programmes in trade, co-operation in biotechnology, but organic agriculture, which is an extremely significant segment of agricultural production. Then, cooperation in the veterinary field, but also in the phytosanitary area. As it states in this Agreement, both parties have committed themselves to establishing better relations and better co-operation between agricultural holdings between the two countries, both between enterprises and all other organisations engaged in agricultural activity and agricultural activity. As we all know, agriculture is in some way a traditional activity, it's an act as old as human society. It has come from a tendency to meet the basic human needs, needs for food and self-preservation, but we are all witnessing that for the past few years, even a decade modern technology is extremely important for both the agricultural aspect and agricultural activity. There are also more modern solutions to today's farmers' problems. We in agriculture today have different types of innovations, different types of innovative solutions, such as using drones with drones, then digital platforms, general use of smart technologies, then modern meteorological cells, but also different sensors that help farmers to produce as much as possible and in some way improve their agricultural production. Thus, what we need both our country and what we are seeking is to modernise our agriculture, produce competitive products that will be extremely wanted in the world, but also in all possible markets. So digitising and introducing technologies is no longer a matter of choice. She is our necessity and our need. We should strive to do so, and as research shows, 30 to 40% of domestic farmers rely on some kind of digital technology. It is a fact that encourages, but we must make sure that these farmers are mostly large agricultural producers or agricultural producers that are, for example, in a category of medium-sized agricultural producers. They know and use these technologies to get bigger yields. They make more economic use of available natural resources and potentials, then create competitive products, but also contribute to minimise the risk of climate change. What is lacking in the introduction of modern technologies is exactly what bothers us most, and these are small agricultural producers who because of the large amount of money they need to introduce their innovative solutions to agricultural land is a large amount of money, large investments and they thus cannot introduce all these technologies and digital platforms that are currently current. Also, professional training is extremely important when it comes to our agricultural producers so that they can use all these technologies and use them, and small producers that produce land-based land-based properties also have a problem with being able to deal seriously with agricultural production. What I consider to be one of the ways that we can improve and allow small holdings to be available and new and modern technologies, as well as their professional application and their professional use are precisely the affirmation of agricultural cooperatives by bringing our small agricultural producers together and thus pooling their possessions and succeeding in bringing together technologies and digital platforms into their agricultural holdings. Cooperatives can also be future operators of the development of agricultural production in rural areas, especially in devasted areas such as areas with difficulties in the work of agricultural production. In this way, through the association of agricultural producers, their joint functioning on the cooperative market would contribute to the accumulation of property, better and more accessible use of information technologies, resulting in better use of agricultural resources and potentials in our country, but we would create competitive products that would be highly sought and represented in the most demanding markets in both Western Europe and the world. In this sense, the production of agricultural products and food is our great potential, is our development opportunity. We should continue to insist on supporting this very part of our production, and that is why our country needs a farmer who uses modern technologies and modern technologies, whether it is informational or some others that have in mind that modern machinery is a tool that significantly increases both efficiency and productivity of agricultural production. Finally, I think that our farmers would respond to the challenges of modern society, to the demands of consumers living in today's times to make production at the end of them and pay off, we need to encourage our farmers to invest more in technology by subsidising them and encouraging them to use all the benefits of modern society. The perspective of our agriculture is therefore not only focused on meeting the needs of our domestic demand, but also on exports and export orientation. First of all, I mean exporting finished products that are the future, that is, products of a higher and higher degree of processing. Therefore, it is extremely important that this cooperation that we establish is not only with the state with which we sign the agreement today, but also with all those countries that are extremely important for the placement and placement of our agricultural products, as well as all other products of the food industry that we export. This way agriculture will just become our development priority and our development opportunity. The SPS parliamentary group will, of course, support this agreement as well as the agreements with Argentina and Belarus, which my colleague Dubravka King will talk about more and more, and I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-12-0.u6447	Thank you, colleague Radovic. National MP Rajka Matovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-12-0.u6448	I thank the chairman. Dear Minister with an associate, respected fellow Members and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, we are ahead of us with agreements on co-operation between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Argentina and the Republic of Belarus, as regards the extradition of the person. The extradition for the execution of a sentence shall be carried out for acts which are criminally punishable under the right of both parties to the Contracting Party and if that sentence has been imposed on the Republic of Belarus for a period of at least six months or more severe punishment, or if the rest of the unsustainable sentence has been imposed for a period of at least six months with the Republic of Belarus, and with the Republic of Argentina for an act for which extradition is permitted is the one which constitutes a criminal offence by the laws of both parties, which is punishable by the confiscation of freedom for a period of more than one year or more. Both agreements were signed in 2019 and are closer to determining bilateral relations with the two countries. The regulation of this matter will strengthen legal co-operation and make it more effective, which will also contribute to the development of relations with these two countries. The contracts contain provisions governing and refusing extradition, where they are obliged to find discretionary grounds for refusal. We also have before us the thesis for the Law on Confirmation of the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Argentina on mutual legal assistance in criminal matters. Confirmation of that contract will improve the effectiveness of the two countries in the investigation, criminal prosecution and prevention of crime through co-operation and mutual law through criminal matters and thus contribute to a more effective fight against all types of crime and allow for more effective processing of perpetrators. The thesis for the Law confirming the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Argentina on the transfer of convicted persons and on co-operation on the execution of criminal sanctions, the adjustment of this type of co-operation between the two countries by a bilateral agreement will allow persons who are nationals of one foreign Contracting Party, in another country, the parties to the criminal offence being convicted, the sanctions imposed in a state whose nationals are. So, from the environment they come from, which will contribute to their rehabilitation and rehabilitation, which is also the main purpose of punishment. Also, all other aspects of their treatment will be facilitated, as convicted persons will be located in their home country and will be able to communicate in their native language, too, will be closer to their family. The signing of that contract has taken a very important step towards establishing a legal framework and a mechanism to counter the most difficult forms of transnational crime that appear in modern society. This is particularly true of the severe forms of organised crime and the crimes from the area of drug trafficking, which is transferred from the Latin American country to Europe. By signing these contracts and adopting them is of paramount importance, to improve bilateral relations with these two countries, and especially to regulate relations with the state of Argentina. These agreements show our country's readiness to prevent organised crime both internationally and within the state itself, but also to see us as a serious partner in the prevention of organised crime. The President of the Republic of Serbia, Aleksandar Vucic, has made one of the priorities clear to them in the formation of the government, which is the fight against organised crime, and we are witnessing that one of the most notorious clans in Serbia has been arrested in the territory of our country, which is the Veljak Belivuka clan. As the president himself has said, and this clan has been imported and their work is coordinated beyond the borders of our country. This is exactly the kind of agreement we're preventing from creating some new Belivoc. Serbia's reputation in the world has changed significantly today, we are a serious partner and for the prevention of organised crime, but also a stable state for investment. Today Serbia is among the first countries in the process of immunisation, which is one of the world's burning problems. Our country headed by President Alexander Vukic has friends in both the east and the west, but we also represent the headquarters in the region. I would only remind you that during the previous year we had more direct foreign investment than all states combined in the environment. We with the states are building relationships that are important to our country. We're not looking for suitable states that represent tax havens to put millions like Dragan Gilas there. That same Dragan Gilas wrote letters saying we wouldn't have a vaccine. Today, he argues that the electoral conditions in Serbia are not democratic, as his private television has no national frequency. I guess with his machine brain, he calculated that his profits would grow much more if his private television had a national frequency, so today the main issue of changing electoral conditions in Serbia is to get a national frequency for his private television, and I guess it only works to increase his capital in Mauritius, Hong Kong and Switzerland. The people see everything and know everything and know clearly that they recognize who really works in the interests of the people, and who works in the interest of their personal wealth, so today the censorship of 3% is also high on the scale as well as on the thought directory for Dragan Gilas and for him alike. I would once again urge all citizens of the Republic of Serbia to respond to immunisation because mass immunisation is the only way out of this difficult crisis that we are currently in. I will support our children's set of proposed laws in the voting day, together with my colleagues from the Electoral Group Aleksandar Vukic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-12-0.u6449	Thank you. Now the Parliament of the Deep King. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-12-0.u6450	Thank you. Dear Vice-President of the Assembly, Ms Popovic, Minister of Justice with an associate, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have been witnesses of globalisation for years and it is always an ongoing topic and a completely undeniable fact and here's the maltene the whole world's work is a single market. We heard colleague Dijana Radovic talking about an agreement with Dominic in the area of agriculture. So neither the distance, nor the diversity of continents are no longer an obstacle to trade, but unfortunately, at that global level, agricultural products are not only traded and are not traded solely with legal goods. The ambitions of criminal groups, especially those dealing with drug trafficking, exceed the territory of one state and practice, have shown that most of the crimes that enter the field of organised crime have an international element. That is why the agreements that we are discussing today on the adoption of a law on their confirmation are important, we are in fact confirming the necessity of co-operation in the field of fight against crime. We give this cooperation support and legal basis. As colleagues who spoke earlier said, three agreements in the field of international legal aid for Argentina and one agreement in the same area, therefore, on extradition with Belarus are on the agenda. It's about agreements that end with extremely friendly countries. For example, in Argentina, the president of the Ivica Dacic National Assembly has been resident even three times, and he was given the status of guest of honor Buenos Aires, and in 2010, as police minister, concluded the Memorandum of Co-operation between the Serbian and Argentine police in the fight against organised crime and the prevention of drug trafficking. Even then, he pointed out the vision that the Republic of Serbia was a regional leader in the fight against crime and lately somehow seemed to realize the vision. That is why the SPS is supporting the ongoing fight against criminal clans and I will not hesitate to point it out, because our party is rooting for the rule of law and a secure Republic of Serbia. However, to return to the agreements in question, but I do not want to owe it to concrete solutions and concrete mechanisms that are being established, the Minister is very nice in her opening presentation, but it is important that these mechanisms and provisions of these agreements be known to those of whom we expect to apply them. I mean, above all, prosecutors, judges, officials of the Ministry of Justice who, in the area of international legal aid, have a significant role to play, as well as representatives of the Ministry of Justice. I am pleased that a number of trainings are being organised in the area of demand and providing international legal assistance, which is part of different projects that are designed to facilitate the application of these agreements and in the extreme line, that all agreements, as well as international legal aid conventions, are published on the Ministry of Justice site and in this way are really easily accessible to those who will be used and it is important that this list is kept up to date and it is important that a concrete mechanism of co-operation with each country be easily applied, because we cannot allow members of criminal organisations to carry out their criminal activities in such a complicated and synchronised manner, and that on the other hand there remains the same, and even stronger co-operation of countries in the fight against crime. The least we can do is take down bureaucratic barriers in the area by agreements. I also want to point out that these agreements are important because we protect not only Serbia and not only the country with which we conclude, but the whole of Europe. In fact, you mentioned that certain types of narcotics are mainly from Latin American countries, and it is important that Serbia, through co-operation with these countries, be an obstacle to their imports into Serbia, and thus to European soil, because Serbia is part of Europe and should play a significant role in fighting crime, and at the very least we must not allow us to be part of the channel that narcotics are being sent to Europe. When it comes to the first agreement with Argentina, on mutual legal assistance in criminal matters, it is important to provide evidence assistance to the Argentine authorities. So it's important to help us collect evidence, to exchange information, to provide cases, to confiscate income from crime and to all other forms of assistance in the investigation and prosecution. For example, it is a very real situation that some witness who is important for the process being conducted in Serbia is currently located in Argentina and therefore it is a very useful mechanism that we can ask the Argentine authorities to find him, to listen to him there, without having to bring him to Serbia and thus make his testimony part of the case file before the authorities leading the procedure in Serbia, and this will indeed make it very much easier to conduct the proceedings, as well as to punish the perpetrators of the crimes. Indeed, the fact is that in organized crime cases, evidence is often distributed worldwide, and therefore it is important to have operational cooperation and exchange of information. As regards the second agreement, i.e. the Agreement with Argentina on Extradition, and the same applies to the Agreement with Belarus on the matter, I will point out that it is very important that these agreements are not derogated, but the provision of our Law on International Legal Assistance has been confirmed, not to be extradited by local citizens. Indeed, we must enable our citizens to be tried in our country as one serious and sovereign state. Also, what these agreements bring is that no person who violates the legal order of the Republic of Serbia in Argentina and Belarus will have a place to hide from criminal responsibility, as Serbia will not be a haven for criminals coming from those countries. Another important thing I want to point out is that the contribution of these agreements is to strengthen the guarantees of the rights and freedoms of the extradited persons. Namely, the principle of refusal of extradition is confirmed. political culprits, asylum users, as well as persons exposed in case of extradition to practices contrary to international law and the like, and that is really important, and this is the contribution of these agreements. When it comes to the third agreement with Argentina on the transfer of convicted persons, the fact is that our citizens who deal with criminal activities abroad are very bad representatives of our country and that they do harm our international reputation, but we still have to allow them to serve their sentence in their country, near their family, and in the extreme line and in the society of people with whom they speak the same language and have the right to humane relations with them, to the possibility of reintegration in society, and to a second chance. The proof that the Republic of Serbia, according to convicted persons, has exactly such a relationship is the Law on the provisional register of full-time citizens who are being paid money for the relief of the pandemic of the coronary virus that we recently adopted here in the Assembly, which is scheduled to pay an amount of 30 euros per person and person in the institutions for the execution of criminal sanctions. It shows the size of our country. I hope that those convicted persons too will recognize and will respond to such a gesture with sincere repentance and acceptance of the obligation to respect the law, and I will always point to the obligation of human treatment towards them. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will conclude by pointing out that in the previous years, thanks to Foreign Minister Ivica Dacic, now President of the National Assembly, as well as of course President of the Republic of Serbia, we have defended the territorial integrity and integrity of our country. But thanks to diplomacy and generally good relations with the minority of all countries in the world, we are in a position to co-operate in both justice and organised crime. The evidence is these agreements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-12-0.u6451	Thank you, colleague king. Before we go any further, I'm going to ask for a little depression. Many people know that today is the last day of Ramadan fasting for Muslims. I want to share my impressions with you, because it's the first time I've spent the whole of Ramadan here in the National Assembly working with you. I would like to thank all the MPs, as well as members of the National Assembly for the full respect you have shown us during the month of Ramadan, respecting all the specialities. It was really impressive, and it made it very easy for us to take the Ramadan post out by the end of the month and make it personal to me, and I share it with you here, extremely beautiful these days. Tomorrow is the first day of Ramadan Bayram. I want to take this opportunity, given that tomorrow we will not be here with you in the National Assembly, to congratulate from the heart all the Muslims in Serbia by performing Ramadan Bayram – Bajram Mubarek Olsun, with the desire to conduct it in health, happiness, satisfaction, family ambience and mood, and to prove the quality of their Ramadan fasting to other people. Thank you. Now the word has a folk letter from Anna Beloica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-12-0.u6452	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, honourable representatives of the government, respected citizens of Serbia, today we are talking about a Memorandum between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Commonwealth of Dominika in the area of agriculture. If we start with Serbia as a country traditionally mainly engaged in agricultural production, every new step, a new agreement, a new memorandum in this area for the Republic of Serbia is crucial. The share of agriculture in the total gross domestic product in the Republic of Serbia is at an extremely high level. It's moving about 10%, which is two to three times higher than Central and Eastern European countries. I can freely say that this is one of the main reasons why the Republic of Serbia had the slightest decline in gross domestic product throughout Europe during the Coronal Virus pandemic. This memorandum provides for the promotion of co-operation when we talk about the scientific, technical and economic field, of course, with the care of friendly relations between the two friendly countries, the two sides of the signatories. This joint co-operation is realised primarily through joint implementation of seminars, training, conferences, through joint implementation of projects, through visits by both representatives of the processing industry and, of course, representatives of agricultural production. From our point of view, from the point of view of the Republic of Serbia, which has strong potential in the area of agriculture, has a very large role and importance primarily because it encourages agricultural production in our country. How much agricultural production for the Republic of Serbia and in general how much stability in this field is significant we could best see during the pandemic of the coronary virus. You've had a situation that Europe's most developed countries, the most developed countries in the world, have faced shortages of basic life supplies. People were panickingly buying certain products, making supplies, and thus making it impossible for others who did not do so to come to these same foods. I will remind all esteemed colleagues, remind all citizens of the Republic of Serbia that this was not the case in our country. Thanks to good crisis management, we have managed to become one of the most successful countries and when we talk about economic progress, economic growth, but of course when we talk about the vaccination process. Speaking of the vaccination process, I cannot take the opportunity to appeal to all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, to appeal to young people to be vaccinated, to meet their civic, moral obligations, and thus enable us to return to normal life flows as soon as possible and to devote ourselves to all those projects that we have defined with the "Serbia 2025" programme and that we have promised our citizens in the previous elections. But back to the agenda, on the subject of agriculture. So, with the initiative of the President of the Republic, the government of the Republic of Serbia certainly recognized the role and importance of agriculture in our country. For this reason, significant appropriations from the budget are allocated to subsidies in this area. The budget's rebalance has been defined, therefore, by a new budget rebalance, that as many as 42 billion dinars are leaving for subsidies in this area. In addition to those traditional subsidies granted to agricultural producers for years, in 2017 we introduced subsidies for young farmers, and thus we want to encourage young people not to go after bread, not to leave our country, but to base their own businesses on their family homesteads and their families. However, in order to invest in agricultural production, it is certainly necessary to invest in infrastructure and, of course, to ensure this uniform rural and uniform regional development which the SNS is certainly in favour of. I will remind all citizens that at this moment we are building four new highways and are expected to start building four more new ones by the end of 2021, so we will be the only country in the whole of Europe that is building as many as eight highways at the same time. In addition to investment in road infrastructure, of course, we have recognized the importance and the railways, so that significant resources are also allocated to railway infrastructure. At this moment, we are building a fast track from Belgrade to Novi Sad, as well as from Belgrade to Nis. In this way we want to connect the entire territory of our country, but not only within our borders, but also with the whole region. But we were also criticised for that, because, at the good old tried-out recipe, it was from those who didn't build a single meter of highways, those who were in debt at the maximum interest rates so that our citizens, just before the elections, looked wonders, would raise salaries and pensions to pick up a cheap political point. The same ones who only take care of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia until they are brought to power, and then continue to take care of themselves, their property and their pockets. They're telling us today about some day later, the day after Alexander Vukic's government, when they're fantasizing about possessing a full state register, the same state register filled by that same Alexander Vukic, who they're so insinuately fighting against, that they'll be back on the line and filling their own pockets with national cash registers. But they forgot one very important thing, respected citizens and citizens of the Republic of Serbia, which is that the people in this country went through Golgota throughout their history, that we had been through violence and wars and bombs and misery and sanctions and poverty and lack of wealth and that the people had many empty promises. That we've had enough of those ossion politicians who only care about how they're gonna fill their pockets and their millions to crucify all over the world. They forgot, these same ones, that today in the Republic of Serbia, citizens are determining whom they will dedicate their future to and who will take care of it, and that, believe me, is definitely not the ones who have been destroying their lives for years. On one occasion, Alexander the Great, a famous military leader, said that nothing is impossible for one who has the will to try. We had her. We had the will to leave to our children, for generations to come, something to remember us by, and it doesn't matter how many years we're going to be in power, but what it's going to be behind us, what it's going to be written down in the pages of new history. That's why we fight from day to day, try and work to leave our children with future generations the better, brighter and more modern future, just as they deserve. Long live Serbia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-12-0.u6453	I thank the People's Parliament, Ani Beloica. The word is by the MP of the people, Prof. Dr. Dragoljub Ackovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-12-0.u6454	I hope I hear from you now. Dear Madam Chairman, Madam Minister of Associates, I am pleased that we are discussing, yesterday and today, laws and agreements, which Serbia has a great need for. We discussed it yesterday, I'll stick to it, because these other laws and agreements were spoken by experts better than me, but I'm an expert in one area, unfortunately, very difficult. Hard, mentioned by Mrs. Smile Tishma yesterday, to talk about it and to talk about it. What happened to Serbs, Jews and Roma at the time of NDH? Why do I say that? Because time, the history of Jews and Roma can be shared before Auschwitz and after Auschwitz, and the history of Roma, Serbs and Jews in the Balkans, that is, in the former Yugoslavia, before Jasenovac and after Jasenovac. Imagine, when one nation is taken away from 60,000 souls over three or four years, how long the Jasenovo Strataj lasted, then you can see why I'm saying this. The genocide museums exist everywhere in the world, including us, and therefore this law is very important and should be accepted and the museum brought here to Belgrade, because as far as I know, and I know well, its headquarters used to be in Belgrade, so it was then transferred from someone's whim to Kragujevac. That should be done as soon as possible, because it's very important that a reminder of what's happened, illustrates, sees what Mrs. Tishma said, talks about. Forgetting it is the most dangerous thing that can happen to one nation, and to me, honourable MPs often happen to go to a memorial and hear that Serbs, Jews, Croats, English, Americans and others were killed. We're not the other ones. We are the people our president remembers when he was in Gradina and he mentioned the film "Dar from Jasenovac", and he particularly apostrophe for our Roma people. So this punishment by forgetting must be overcome through the creation of institutions, such as genocide museums and others. What do you do to get the genocide museum closer? In my opinion, we should digitize this huge material and forward it to several websites or one site, so that those younger ones who really don't know anything about Jasenovac, and what we're guilty of, we're older, we find out something. There's a lot to be done in a few other areas, and I think one is very important. It must be thought of a street or square that would be called "the square of the Jasenovic victims", or the streets of the Jasenovic victims in this city, if it does not exist, and I apologize to it if it exists, although I do not think it exists. We need to talk to good experts, that literature is multiplying on this subject and talking and that what is again, and I will quote Mrs Smilju Tishma, mentioned, and also some fellow MPs, that when tourists come to Belgrade, there is also a tour to Jasenovac and back. Let it be seen, because as someone said, when you go to Krakow, these people who work there in the tourist business take you to Auschwitz Birken. We have to learn from them. That's why I think the law we talked about yesterday and that we're going to vote on today, the Museum's Founding Act, although it's not the museum law, was founded in 1992, but on its change in location, we're useful and we're going to vote on it. One more thing to say is that yesterday's resolution, the Genocide Resolution, has to be accelerated and adopted here in some way, and that's what the survivor suggested. I believe that the day of the genocide victims' museum should be April 22nd, the day the Jasen's campers broke through and tried to make a breakthrough, and when 1,086 of some hundreds survived. I bow to their haystacks. Thank you for your attention. Long live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-12-0.u6455	I thank Professor Dragoljub Ackovic. The word has a folk MP, Milica Obradovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-12-0.u6456	Thank you. Dear citizens of the Republic of Serbia, in my presentation today, I will put an accent on the proposal for a bill to confirm the memorandum between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of Commonwealth Dominica on co-operation in the area of agriculture. At the very beginning, it would point out that Commonwealth Dominica is one of the 18 countries that withdrew the so-called recognition three years ago. the countries of Kosovo. In addition to this Agreement in the field of agriculture, which today is on the agenda and agreements in the field of tourism, in the area of higher education and scientific research, our state appreciated that courage and the move with Commonwealth Dominic in 2019. These agreements are only an indication that our country is now returning to the level of a serious diplomacy that implies that when foreign policy relations are at stake, there are no more or less important countries. Today, we strive to achieve good external and political and economic co-operation with all countries of the world. The agreements signed by our country in the area of agriculture on the one hand will contribute to the expansion of co-operation between agricultural producers, the exchange of experiences, the contribution and introduction of some new technologies in land processing, but on the other hand, what is most significant, will contribute to the increased exports of our agricultural products further to the world. After more than 30 years, we have again succeeded with our agricultural products to enter the world's most demanding markets. There are certainly the high-paying ones, such as the United Arab Emirates, such as Bahrain, but also the countries further east, such as India and China. For the past two years, Serbian agriculture has had an incredible growth in exports and ended in 2020 with 4.2 billion export revenues. The share in that export certainly also has a drive to collect and place honey. Our honey that opened last year in the municipality of Racha. Even 90% of the honey collected in this plant goes on to export abroad, but what is most important for our beekeepers is that after putting into operation this plant, the cost of acacia's honey has jumped by 50% and the ransom price of forest honey for incredible 200%. Indeed, this drive is a good example of the practice that other agricultural producers should see, therefore, to join together and thus improve their position on the market. As important as agriculture is for our country, the share of agriculture in total GDP has been recognised by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and President Aleksandar Vukic, and therefore we are investing in the area of agriculture today more than a decade ago. The government of the Republic of Serbia budgets to grant young farmers as many as 42 billion dinars. I will remind the citizens that a new public invitation for the award of grants was also issued on 5 May for all fruit farmers, vegetables, planters and vineyarders. The same call will also be made in the coming period for cattle farmers, then for warlords, which will cover all production branches. What's important is to point out that this public call provides money for advances, 50% are grants, 40% is credit support, 10% of the farmer himself needs to be provided. As with previous competitions and this young farmers will have the advantage of mainly those coming from eastern and southern Serbia, as two areas that are least developed in our country. The goal is to encourage such a policy to keep young people in our country, to start their business in their places and to raise their families in their hearths. Certainly, all these incentives would not have been possible if Serbia today had no stable financial potential built by the arrival of President Aleksandr Vukic to power. On the other hand, in order for agriculture to develop, we must also invest in infrastructure. I, as someone who comes from a rural environment, can testify to how much my fellow citizens mean building a new road, how much it means to them to set up atari roads, but also to make it easier to connect with big cities, what it means to them to build a new highway. The only good and developed road infrastructure in our entire country's territory is that we can attract foreign investors and we can talk about even regional development. It is the policy advocated by the Serbian Progressive Party, which is being advocated by President Aleksandar Vukic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. So, a policy of equal regional development, the policy of remaining young people in Serbia, the remnant of young people in the country, the policy of good external relations with all countries in the world and the general policy of progress in all areas. It is these agreements that are on the agenda today that represent this policy of security, the policy of progress, and that is why in the day of the vote, together with my parliamentary group, Alexander Vukic – I will support all these bill proposals for our children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-12-0.u6457	I thank the People's MP, Milica Obradovic. The People's Messenger Ivan Ribaq has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-12-0.u6458	Thank you, Chairman. I would first like to congratulate Minister Aleksandra Vulin on the extraordinary results he has achieved in the short time of his management of the MUP. His arrival at the head of the ministry has caused some things that have obviously been out of control in the last few months in terms of certain links and the co-operation of individual members of the Ministry with the country's most radical murderers and regions. Finally, the interior ministry is doing its job to protect the constitutional order and security of citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Yesterday, on the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs, we were able to hear a very comprehensive report showing a percentage declination in all the forms of crime, which I am very pleased as a citizen of this country. However, no one should have the illusion that crime in Serbia will be eradicated, because yet the largest and most developed countries in the world have failed to do so. What should be the goal of all the civil servants in this country, because in the end, all of us, wherever we are on the hierarchical social scale, only state officials who work for our people, should never again allow certain small criminals to become serious mobsters, villains and murderers, and we are all aware that they cannot become without the help of individuals, so to say, waste, from the state apparatus, some who are given trust, are given the privilege of working for and in the interest of their people, but who, after a certain period of time, are being raped and tried, to figuratively express themselves, bite the hand of the one who feeds them and fall into their minds, such as creating new centres of power that would govern the lives of our citizens, such as the idea of listening to the president of the Republic or making new political parties, etc. However, I hope that this is on the way and that the Ministry of the Interior has turned a new leaf on which only three words - law, state and people, and that we should all work in their interest. The fight against organised crime has been one of the ideas of leadership in presenting our pre-election programme since 2012 and it is the backbone of our government and one of the reasons why Serbian citizens give us confidence in the increasingly larger and bigger elections. The draft law confirming the Treaty between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Argentina on extradition, which has been submitted by the Serbian Government, which we are discussing today, is the continuation of international co-operation in that area, and it is particularly important because it is known that the largest amount of intoxic cocaine comes from Latin American countries, as well as that criminals from Serbia and the region there create their business contacts, participate in the transport of drugs or hide from the letters of the laws of other countries, as did Ustasha criminal Ante Pavelic, when Blagoje Jovovic in Lomas de Paloma, not far from Buenos Aires, found, wounded, and tried to appease the souls of all hundreds of Serbs who were innocently killed. Our country has shown zero tolerance to the drug mafia over the past years. However, some opposition leaders respect proven imaginary affairs, such as the Jovanica case, by accusing father, brother, brother and finally, of being involved in this crime without even a single evidence of defamation, knowing that such a lie is sufficient for them to bring some unrest to the people and to present it as a particular political programme, because none of them have, and knowing that they will be punished in court proceedings, as Mr. Alexic was punished. However, this punishment is so symbolic for him and his mecenaries and the cartridges that fund it, they can daily give dozens of these penalties to pay and be just a drop in the sea for them. However, he has achieved his goal with this. He was in the media for a few months, making brutal lies and trying to discredit the vast efforts and commitment of this government in the fight against the drug mafia. While we, as a government and as a state, are fighting the mafia, all forms of the mafia, including the drug mafia, sign agreements like what we're discussing today, some others in a region that can call themselves states, drug trafficking represents a serious branch of the economy. It is precisely you who are most called upon to rule of law, to legality, to swear honor, and to attack the Republic of Serbia from every weapon, such as the so-called Republic of Kosovo. That so-called. The republic, which has turned into a black hole in Europe, in which drug crime is the most profitable job. And while Serbia is in various international reports at the very top as regards progress in the area of economic development, as regards the creation of favourable conditions for attracting foreign investment and among the first by number of vaccines and in general in the fight against the crown, so-called. Kosovo, according to a report by the global initiative against international organised crime, is at the very top when it comes to the production and transport of marijuana and heroin. Instead of the announced genocide charges against the Republic of Serbia and seeking war damage to the Republic of Serbia, the new government of Albin Kurti would be better off providing a maximum limit to Albania and thereby preventing almost unlimited flow of goods from Elbasan through Kukesh, Prizren, Urosevic or Peća from continuing to Western Europe. Here I would give one suggestion to the European Parliament to form a working group that would investigate such tendencies that directly endanger the lives of EU citizens, especially now that the government in Pristina has taken over the Self-determination, a party that has among high-ranking members of their families involved in drug scandals, such as relatives of former Kurti's minister, named Djelj Svečljev, who is currently employed no less than in an inspectorate in Pristina and who was responsible for such actions before the law. Imagine that some Serbian national MPs in their own home own a laboratory for the production of synthetic drugs, such as this, I quote Kosovo media, the Nazlja Balja case, which was a parliamentary candidate on the list of Self-determination. A long time ago, respected citizens became clear that some jokingly jump to create addiction everywhere, except for Kosovo, where it creates independence, stopped being funny and began to represent a harsh reality before some of the world's centres of power are ready to close their eyes in order to achieve some of their geopolitical interests. Respected citizens, continuing dialogue between Belgrade and Pristina, due to be held in June, negotiators enter with different mortgages. Serbia comes in with a mortgage that a country that respects its international agreements, a country that is politically stable in economic terms, which successfully fights regional criminal gangs like Veljko Belivuk, such as the coffee clan and Serbia that is fundamentally committed to peace, development and prosperity and assistance to all those who ask for it. Ah, so-called. The republic of Kosovo enters these negotiations with the mortgage that a country that does not adhere to its international obligations, international agreements, that the country where the authorities and drug crime are spread is obvious and that in the previous period can only be praised by attacks on Serbian animals, attacks on their monuments of culture and everyday threats of violence. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-12-0.u6459	Thank you. Honorable Members of the People, pursuant to Article 27 and Articles 87, 2 and 3. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would like to inform you that today the National Assembly will work, if necessary, after 1800 hours, because of the need for the National Assembly to bring in acts from the agenda of this session as soon as possible. Now the word has a folk letter, Vesna Knezevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-12-0.u6460	Thank you. I would like to express my great pleasure today to discuss the proposal for a bill on the confirmation of the Memorandum between our Government and the Government of the Commonwealth of Dominica on cooperation in the area of agriculture. There are more reasons for this, and it is essential that there is a small country away from our Serbia, but a country and a people who appreciate and respect the independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity of other countries. Commonwealth Dominica is one of the Caribbean countries that has withdrawn recognition of Kosovo's unilaterally declared independence. Thanks for that. Thank them for respecting Serbia's territorial integrity and thus the principles of international law, unlike other individual countries. As Prime Minister Dominica said during his visit to Serbia, not only is the decision firm and unchangeable, but they also have a principled stance and will work to ensure that the entire Caribbean world understands the injustice that is imposed on Serbia and on us Serbs. Serbia is defined as developing political dialogue and economic co-operation with Commonwealth Dominic and other countries of the Caribbean Association, as well as the Caribbean communities. With this friendly country, conditions have been created to improve bilateral co-operation in various areas, especially in the area of agriculture and education. The memorandum between the government of the Republic of Serbia and the government of the Commonwealth of Dominica on co-operation in the area of agriculture was signed on 4 February 2019. Taking into account the capacity of the agricultural and food sector of the Republic of Serbia on the one hand and the need to apply science, technology, innovation, as well as imports of agricultural and food products into the Dominica market on the other hand, the realisation of the said Memorandum, that is, by establishing co-operation in those areas, the agricultural and food sectors of the Republic of Serbia would achieve significant benefits both on the basis of trade, i.e. exports of products, and through the transfer of knowledge and technology, which would certainly contribute to the presence of Serbian companies, our companies in the Central America region. Of course, the president of Serbia and our government will continue to work on the exchange of scientific and technical information and achievements in scientific research in the area of agriculture, to help Dominica develop and introduce modern technologies in the area of agriculture, as well as in the processing and placement of agricultural products. Cooperation will also be improved in the fields of biotechnology, organic agriculture, aquaculture and development of quality policy in agriculture, as well as in the veterinary and phytosanitary areas relating to animal health, welfare and breeding, as well as plant health and plant protection, including seed and other fruit material. With great pleasure in the voting day, I will support the law on confirming the Memorandum between our government and the Government of Commonwealth Dominica on co-operation in the field of the event, as well as all laws that are on the agenda today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-12-0.u6461	I thank the People's Messenger Vesni Knezevic. The word has the People's MP, Ugljesa Mrdić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-12-0.u6462	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly, Mrs. Kovac, the Honorable Minister, Mrs. Popovic, and his associate, Mr. Vinsa, respected fellow Members of the People's Parliament, citizens of Serbia, are before us today very important laws concerning and co-operation in various areas with friendly states. It is clear that both Argentina and Belarus and the Commonwealth of Dominicans were friendly countries, not only because they did not recognise KIM, such as Argentina and Belarus, but we also had a situation that a few years ago Commonwealth Dominica withdrew the unilateral recognition of KIM, so a unilateral recognition of the non-existent state and thus provided another hand of friendship to our country, the Republic of Serbia. These agreements are very important and those concerning agriculture. On this occasion, I would especially like to highlight the agreements we have with the state of Argentina, which concern extradition and mutual legal assistance, as well as the demand for information on convicted persons and co-operation in the execution of criminal sanctions, as well as the law concerning co-operation and extradition with our friendly state of Belarus. All these agreements allow us, like Serbia, to fight the mafia and to fight organised crime and corruption. I would just like to remind you of yesterday's event, the meeting of the Committee on Defence and Home Affairs, where we had the opportunity to hear and see the report on the work of the MUP in the previous period. We've had an excellent statement by the Minister of Police, Alexander Vulin. The minister has also shared with us one information that is not encouraging and only confirms how important support of all countries in the fight against the mafia is to us in the fight against the mafia in the world. It's a case of a certain Nikola Vusovic, named Johnny, from Vrakar, who was arrested in the Dominican Republic. As a state of Serbia, we received information about his arrest, we received information about his location. Then we got information that he was no longer in custody, but that he was in some migrant camp, but that he was under surveillance, so then we got the information, so all the time I'm quoting Minister Vulin and what he said yesterday, that he was no longer in that camp, but that he was under surveillance, and then we got official information that he wasn't even under control, but he's out there somewhere, and then he lost track of him, and then he was found again and then they didn't have any information about the arrest of Nikola Vusovic, called Johnny, from Vračar, who is one of the important parliamentarians, if I may say so, the criminal clan of Veli Belivuk. So, we have a situation that one state has let go of its own free or for some reason or under the command of another country, and we all know who controls and who has influence on the Dominican Republic, lets a criminal loose, lets one we suspect for a serious murder on the loose, and we wage a war on the mob. The state of Serbia and the Ministry of Justice, which you are doing successfully, both the MUP and the BIA and the prosecution have done their job perfectly. It's nothing like us, but in this fight against the mafia, we must have the support of other states. We can't do this alone. Serbia can't do it alone. Serbian security services cannot enter the state of the Dominican Republic, take Johnny Vusovic and hand him over to Serbia. So there must be some co-operation there, as we had in 2014 when drug dealer Darko Saric was extradited to Serbia in excellent co-operation and the Ministry of Justice and BIA and other world services. So that's what we have to pay attention to and we have to send a picture to the world. Don't let criminals and murderers go free. Don't distract the public, but that's what happened. It can, on the one hand, encourage all those fugitives in the world, because... Look, Vela Belivuk and most of his associates have been arrested, but his bosses have not been processed. Not to mention that Radoje Zvicer is in Montenegro, it seems to me that we are not saying that many associates, perpetrators of Zvicera and Velje Belivuk, who knows where they are all around the region and the world. So, we have a situation that serious killers are at large, and we as a state of Serbia have declared a fierce war on the mafia and we already see the first results. From yesterday's presentation, Minister Vulin made it clear that both Prosecutor Nenadic and his associates and BIA and the heads of the MUP, i.e. The police showed one extraordinary courage and responsibility in the fight against the mob. It was not easy to organise at the same time at 30 locations the arrest of dozens of members of Velya Belivuk's clan. Fortunately, they're under arrest. Also, two police officers were arrested who searched the Velia Belivuk clan facilities and who failed to search properly, and after another search, the police found that these two officers had hidden the hidden weapons that were in one room by going through some closets and stuff and telling their police chiefs - there's nothing here. Fortunately, police sent their people back and found a hidden weapon, which served to prepare new monster assassinations in Serbia. So I share all this with you for one reason only that the citizens of Serbia see how difficult it is for our leaders in both security structures and the Ministry of Justice and the judiciary to fight the mafia. We still need some people from the police, and I believe we've had the chance to hear yesterday's report on the work of internal police control... They still have their own people in the police force. I believe in the MUP and it will be investigated to the end. There's a mob still out there in state structures. He's got his own people in foreign services. He's got his own people in those destinations where they're hiding, as is the case with the Dominican Republic. So the state of Serbia is not easy in this fight against the mafia and that is why citizens need to know all this information, but they also need to know how important these laws are and we will not have a problem now if someone is arrested in Argentina, Belarus, there will be no problem in other countries either. I hope it won't be a problem. So, he's free of arrest abroad if he doesn't answer to the authorities of justice, that criminal, that mobster, that killer, that drug dealer, the one who sells drugs to Serbian children. They all have to be processed. On the other hand, on this occasion, I want to give full support, and I hope that the BIA and the police and the prosecution will continue to be this brave, energetic in action, that there will still be quick reactions in the fight against the mafia, because fighting the mafia is now one of the most important struggles in our country. Fighting the Mafia is also a struggle for the budget. The fight against the mafia is that we have more money in the budget so we can get more vaccines, build more hospitals, roads, invest in education, health care in all of the most important sectors in our country. So, in the fight against the mafia, we must all be unique, not that we have the case that people like Dragan Djilas, Mladjan Djordjevic, are in every way criticising this fight against the mafia, in every way possible criticising and attacking our ministers and threatening them, both Djilas and Marinika Tepic and all of their comrades. They also threaten the president, threaten the Serbian government, and threaten MPs. Why are they threatening? Because they got in the way of the mafia, both the organized crime mobs and the economic crime, because those who took hundreds of millions of euros through business crime, such as Dragan Gilas, etc., and put hundreds of millions of euros in their pockets, and they should respond, and they should if they run from law enforcement and are arrested somewhere in the world to be extradited, because Serbia is a country of justice. What I'd like to say in the end is, let me look back on something we discussed yesterday, and I just have to comment on it, and that's about the founding of the Museum of Victims of Genocide. My colleague Milenko Jovanovic spoke excellently about the subject yesterday, talking about the sufferings of our people in Bihac. In Bihaq, where he once lived, and if I'm wrong, my colleague will correct me in 1941 over 10,000 Serbs. There's a 911 today. The same situation is in Livn and Sarajevo and Mostar, and throughout BiH, not to mention Croatia. We have not a few times, but 10 to 20 times fewer Serbian people than it was before, not to say that we, and I was born in 1978, mostly genocide and crimes against Serbs heard from our grandmothers because we didn't have a museum, because we didn't learn enough in books. We haven't studied enough for reasons, because if there was enough to learn about it, it would probably affect if Yugoslavia fell apart earlier. A weak Serbia and the weak position of the Serb people were appropriate to someone, and so much is not said about genocide against the Serb people to survive the state. Maltene has no family in the Serb people whose ancestors did not suffer from the Ustasha knife or their compatriots among fascists and Nazis. There is no minority, family that criminals in the Ustasha ranks, German ranks and other their co-workers in the Balkans have committed no crime against a Serb family. That is why it is important for this Museum of Victims of genocide that our children know what happened, not to hate, but not to forget, and simply as Serbia, to send a message of peace. A genocide over the Serb people has happened, it must not be forgotten. We must remember all of our victims for our future, but also as the state to advocate peace policy, and we stand for peace and stability policy. This is the policy of peace and stability best in Europe led by our President Aleksandar Vukic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-12-0.u6463	The word has a folk letter from Ljiljana Malusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-12-0.u6464	Thank you, Chairman. Madam Minister with an associate, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People's Republic of Serbia, today we have five agreements on the agenda, three with the Republic of Argentina, one with the Government of the Commonwealth of Dominika, one with the Republic of Belarus. Before I go to the agreements, to the signing, to the foreign policy, I really need to look back on yesterday's show. Namely, the show "Requestor" on national TV RTS 1 where he hosted Mrs Olivera Jovicevic, where the election process dialogue was conducted, where our representative, Mr Vladimir Orlic, a representative of the SNS, while Dr. science of the youngest and student generation, while the vice-president of the National Assembly, experienced something that is inappropriate, something that is morbid, which is a threat to death. Gentlemen, this is a death threat. The other day, our colleague, Mr. Milicevic, the head of the SPS parliamentary group, was stoned. Every day we go out, and there's a group that doesn't like Mr. Vukic and we from SNS are "honored" with such ugly expressions, that I've never heard anything so morbid in my life. The most flagrant violates our female dignity, our right to normality. So, from, from, in turn. What our prime minister was saying, and then fighting in parliament, was beaten up by our former president, Mrs. Maya, and us? So I've never heard such ugly expressions in my life. Let's just remember the death threats to our president, the sniper in the chest, heart-confirmation in the brain, hanging for our president? Why? Because he's the best? Why? Because he made miles of highways, raised the standard for a better life for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, harassing his children, a small militia that was then not the full-time, most labouriest, most disgusting expressions, harassing his parents, harassing ourselves, shooting at the hands of Mr. Speaker of the parliamentary group, Mr. Martinovic. So we're experiencing salva insults, physical, psychological harassment, journalists injured. I don't know what else to do when I come out and wait? Is someone gonna take me down with a rock? Mr. Marijan Rističević, they came across him, they tore him up, his ear was ripped off. You're a disgrace. I'm asking the state authorities to respond. I'm asking the police to respond. They can be on alert, who knows what can happen to us, just because we say something the opposition doesn't like, and we've reduced the censorship from five to three percent. Please, their election process is when we should have come to power either five percent. We're down to three percent. We give them everything they want. Guys, leave us alone, leave our children alone. This is a political arena. We can tell each other anything we want. Television too, but don't threaten us with death. Which of our men ever threatened you with death from the opposition? There are institutions for those who threaten to die, called psychiatry, to go there, to be treated, and those who have aggression within themselves, to engage in sports, to stay away from us more. This is inappropriate. As far as these agreements are concerned, the Republic of Serbia is an independent, free, sovereign country. Our political option or political goal is the EU, but the neutrality is military and thanks to the government of the Republic of Serbia and of course to the current president, then prime minister, indeed the Republic of Serbia has done a miracle of signing the agreement, as far as these foreign policies are concerned. We make friends, not enemies. We have a relationship, we have extraordinary relations with the NKK, we also have Russia, we also have Brazil, we also have India, we also have with Israel, we have great relations with Germany, Italy, much better relations with France and with all other countries in the world. As far as these agreements are concerned, this one with Argentina, we've had diplomatic relations since 1926, and then they were restored in 1946 and since then we have really had one development road, we have only a improvement, with us, which someone said, maybe just a physically distant country, with a beautiful country with which we have a lot of agreements. We have agreements as far as Argentina is concerned, these are primarily the Agreement on Culture, Education, Veterans, Economic Exchanges. So it's just a improvement. On the first agreement, as regards the Commonwealth Dominica bill, it should be pointed out that this Caribbean beautiful country which so-called. An independent Kosovo, a non-existent country, has not recognised it, nor will it ever be recognised. Once and for all -- Kosovo and Metohija is an autonomous province located in the south of our beautiful country, as it is in the north to Vojvodina. Of 195 countries, someone says 194, 193 are in the UN, they have the right to vote, the two are observers. Now, here's the polemic. I'll say what I think. So it's the Holy Chair and Palestine. So 92 countries have admitted so-called. An independent Kosovo, out of 110, today 18 countries have withdrawn recognition so-called An independent Kosovo, meaning the non-existent country, that is, Kosovo and Metohija, our cradles and civilizations of our work, where there are the greatest and most beautiful monasteries, where there is a Pećka Patriarchy and I pray to all people who once did something to address the great forces, I mean America, to withdraw recognition because there is no such thing. All people in the Republic of Serbia have the same rights. Somebody don't say otherwise, 'cause we're gonna talk here in Parliament and see what's wrong with that. What is still to be said and pointed out is that of these 18 countries, above all Ghana, Lesota, Guinea-Bissau, Commonwealth Dominica, Grenada, Solomon Islands, Suriname, Burundi, and others have withdrawn recognition, five countries are in the so-called The fluid state, which means they once confessed, but they'll never vote again, or vote for so-called. Independent Kosovo. I have to say this, I was born in this country and I know how I grew up and how my country was made up, from central Serbia and two autonomous provinces, and I'm going to say that as long as I live. It's my country and I will defend my country. As far as these agreements are concerned, the Republic of Serbia, thanks to the good foreign policy and information that are extremely important, when you have information you have everything, is precisely thanks to the good relations you received vaccines when no one, from the People's Republic of China, from the Russian Federation, the United States and other vaccines, so at this point we have four types of vaccines. Serbia is ahead in vaccination as far as this part of the world is concerned, I mean the Balkans and this region. And not just that. Of the four types of vaccines, more than three million people have been vaccinated in Serbia today, almost two million people have received the revaccination, which is remarkable and I pray this way for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia who have not vaccinated, to do so, because they will avoid what can happen to them, and that is death, God forbid. What else to say about the agreements – that they are very important and here, perhaps something about this agreement on agriculture. It is very important to have with such a far away country, and as my colleague said, none is far from your friend, and this is Commonwealth Dominica, a relationship of trust, here is now a co-operation agreement, because we can exchange, both scientists and scientific and technological achievements, we can publish publications, exchange, and God and export. Of course, in the voting day, I will support these agreements, as I always do, and once again, I ask all citizens of the Republic of Serbia to be vaccinated for the safety of those who are not. Thank you and pleasantly.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-12-0.u6465	I thank the MP Ljiljana Malusic. The word has a folk MP, Serbia's Filipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-12-0.u6466	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Madam Minister with fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Serbia is a territorially small country, is that it has a small number of inhabitants, is that we are far weaker than the great forces of both the West and the East, but we are one righteous, one brave, one good people. The people who have given this world many great scientists, many great people, many great athletes, many great writers, writers and thus deserve to be heard and respected by our word around the world. We were not so fortunate to have Serbia so valued a country and so accepted in, I would say, not just a decade but two or three decades ago. Often, some have tried to deal with Serbia in different ways, to tear it apart, to treat it like a piece of cloth, a leg mat, but in 2014, by arriving as SNS Prime Minister Alexander Vukic, things change significantly in Serbia. Serbia is becoming a very different country. It is becoming significantly different because, since 2014, Serbian citizens can walk proudly in their streets, be able to lift their heads, be proud with their passport to cross the border, be proud of any performance as Serbs, say proudly where they come from and can be proud of their history, and not just history, it is part of our glorious past, but also of what the state of Serbia is doing today. One of the main objectives of SNS and the government then led by Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic, then prime minister, was a strong deal with corruption and crime. That's where we hit extremely hard, especially the tycoons in Serbia. Remember the period of DS authorities led by Djilas, Tadic and others, when the country was run by tycoons and mafias, when everything was decided not by Germany, but by Miskovic in the cabinet, when Serbia's future was decided between members of criminal clans and among murderers, drug dealers, and not by Germany and the Assembly, when laws were passed in such a way, not because MPs debated and discussed them, because it was only a farce, but the laws and MPs had to vote for something without the right to say their views and what they thought about everything. Serbia today is not a country, and the Serbian Parliament, is not the one who turned out to adopt something. In the Serbian Parliament today, there is a serious debate on all laws, serious about all agreements, serious about Serbia's plans for the future. We can also differ in something, why not, it is good and healthy for democracy in Serbia that some of us have some issues and different opinions, but today, I would say, and a healthy situation in parliament in Serbia, is significantly different than it was in the previous 10 or 20 years, when you had only conflicts, pointless bickering, attempts at entering parliament, burning this building, etc., etc. That time remains behind us, and the time ahead of Serbia is the time we have defined, which is the plan for Serbia's future "Serbia 2025", where we expect a significant number of new jobs, factories. Here, we heard, we're the only country in Europe where eight highways are built at the same time. The number of kilometers we built in the previous period is bigger than during Broz, we built more factories during that time. In Serbia today, the standard is record high compared to, I would say, over the past 50 years, we have not stood better. The Serbian army today is incomparably stronger. Police are far better equipped and that was all the prerequisite for us to be able to engage, led by Serbian President Aleksandar Vukic and his vision of Serbia's future, in a strong fight against crime and the fight against corruption. And as a result of that are arrests and tycoon, it is the arrest of this last clan, this scum, led by the murderer Veliko Belivuk and the others, but there is no end. It is necessary that those who are trying to bring change carriers to Serbia, reformers, and above all I think of President Alexander Vukic, that those who threaten the President of the Republic, which do daily what they do through different tabloids, which through different portals, which through different ordered texts, which through Twitter, Facebook and so on, is also necessary to sanction those persons to show that we are fully a stable state, a legal state in which you cannot point death threats to the President of the Republic and that you say that it is just written on Twitter, it is not valid. Imagine that during the period of power of the DS one of us said that some official of the then government should end in one way or another. They would literally hang us on the terraces for that. We have changed the way political communication is one of the main changes in politics today in Serbia, because Serbia's president is not talking about them, he is not talking about the past. Whenever they ask him about them, we know what they were doing, but we want to talk about roads, we want to talk about tunnels, bridges, factories, about the average salary of 2025 being 900 euros or 1,000 euros. That's what we want to talk about, which is our plan for Serbia's future. We don't have a plan for yesterday, a plan for tomorrow, a plan for today, the day after tomorrow, we have a plan for the future of this country, and we are implementing the plan led by the president of Serbia, Alexander Vukic, not taking into account the threats, the talk, the lie. Every day when I wake up, I just get up and wait for a new lie to arrive and an affair they invented in their tycoon cuisines. What about which one of us they're going to come up with, what they're going to put in a photoshop, what message they're going to give someone, what message of hate, how they're going to say again that highways are nonsense, that it's dizziness, that we don't need the subway at all, but they've all lied to us for 50 years, and they're going to talk about having a subway. Now we'll have it, it's starting this year in Belgrade. Belgrade deserves to have a subway and more bridges, and there are even more decorated facades, and there are even more jobs. It deserves all of Serbia. This is SNS and President Alexander Vukic's plan, safe, secure, stable, modern Serbia, which is developing and looking into the future, which does not look back on the past, the one who sees how many new roads we need, the one who watches how to keep people living in the country today, where the average is over 60 years old, as we heard today, to bring back young people, to motivate them with programs, ideas, projects, to return there, to develop their families and the countryside, because the village is also a chance for the development of this country. This policy of the future is a certainty for Serbia, a certainty for all of our citizens, and the politics of hate and politics of those who only work all day long, is to devise affairs, to threaten, to beat up God and some of our colleagues. Last year, a colleague of ours from Zemun was waiting outside the building, so they broke his head with a stick. Our colleague Rajko Matovic was waiting in Surcin, so she was stoned and watered. Not to talk about threats to each of us that come across social networks. You know who was responsible for all this? Nobody. And I ask you, more like a rhetorical question – why? Is that our head or our bloody shirt worth less than someone else? Are we the clay pigeons that can beat anyone's mind? Can any leprechaun who dares to take a mouse and shoot down the president of the parliamentary group, our Alexander Martinovic can come out and talk about democracy and freedom, and I don't know what? I tell my friends, there is no more democratic country in the world where you can attack the Assembly, threaten to burn, kill the president of the state, beat the MPs, beat the president of the assembly, attack MP Risticevic, lynch him in front of parliament and not answer for it. Where are you going to get more democracy, just don't let it go crazy? What they do and what they try to do is turn into madness. This will not allow any SNS, nor will the president of this country, Alexander Vukic, because we are responsible for the citizens, we want security and peace. We want security for every man in this country. If anyone needs to be sacrificed, we will, but no one will sacrifice Serbia anymore, nor will Serbia rob the future. Thank you. Long live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-12-0.u6467	Honorable Members of Parliament, in accordance with Article 87. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I now set a break of one hour. We'll be back to work at 3.05 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-12-0.u6468	We're going back to work. The word is by MP Viktor Jevtovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-12-0.u6469	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, a respected minister with a co-worker, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia, will talk about confirming a contract between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Argentina on extradition. In this turbulent time, encumbered by the pandemic of the Crown of the Virus, also faced with the devastating burden of crime, but primarily by the struggle launched and successfully conducted by President Aleksandar Vukic, to strike unwaveringly at the head of the mafia and the criminal group, without saving to endanger his own life in this struggle, which is one of the policy priorities and the basic principles of "Serbia 2025". The best example of this policy is the arrest of the most dangerous criminal group in this part of Europe, the Belivuk clan, because of the demarcation and danger of organised crime at global level, we must unite with all the countries of the world, which is pursued by the politics of Alexander Vukic and the Government of Serbia, because that is the only way to put this beast in chains of justice. The deal between the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Argentina, on extradition, was signed in Serbia, in Belgrade on 14 October 2019. This contract has taken a serious step towards establishing a legal framework and mechanism to counter the most difficult forms of trans-national crime that arises in modern society. The responsible policy and fantastic relations that Serbia has achieved with this South American republic, which is considered a regional force of South America, which has not recognised Kosovo and Metohija as an independent state, has shown that, not only a partner in bilateral relations, but a true friend of the Republic of Serbia is the efficiency of both countries in the investigation, criminal prosecution and crime prevention, through co-operation and mutual legal assistance in criminal matters and thus contributes to an effective fight against all types of crime and more effective processing of perpetrators. This crime-fighting campaign, launched by President Aleksandar Vukic at all levels, where there are no protected ones, is a boulder in the eye of Dragan Gilas and his consilers, who in panic, because they are aware of their thieving, by which they have turned into dust and ash the state register and devastationed the citizens of Serbia, do not go to the agony of their impotence, and are aware that their hand is a knock on the door, vandal, as only they know it, attack the family of President Alexander Vukic, but all those who carry out the policy of honesty, justice, the truth that is their side. That's why they're not foreign to exotic destinations where they hide huge amounts of money as a snake's feet. I'm referring specifically to 57 secret accounts owned by Dragan Gilas. While his followers, such as Dragan Solak, Marinika Tepic, Vuk Patrick Hoa Jeremic, do not choose funds to lower Serbia's successes in vaccinations in their tycoon media, foreign investment, roads, financial assistance to citizens in the pandemic era, the best results in the economy and everything they were unable to do, because they wasted it all during their government. But they were willing to do for their accounts in family relations that did not measure love, but currency deposited on accounts, and family tradition and culture in huge squares in Belgrade's most elite locations, but also in Serbia. All this is why the people of Serbia see them and place them on the sidelines of a political past that will never again govern Serbia by their yellow tycoons, the tycoon enterprises and decide on their lives, the lives of Serbian citizens. The security and security of the people, the co-operation with the world, are the policy choices we conduct, and we also confirm it by this agreement. Long live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-12-0.u6470	Thank you. The word has Professor Marko Atlagic.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-12-0.u6471	Dear President of the National Assembly, Mr Dacic, Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we have agreements between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and Argentina and other states. Since my colleagues have said a lot, allow only two sentences to say that every contract or agreement between the Government of the Republic of Serbia or any other country opens the door to the Republic of Serbia in co-operation with each individual and Serbia uses it, especially by coming to the power of the SNS and Alexander Vukic. That is how we strengthen our international reputation, Serbia so stronger throughout the world. However, this international reputation is also a reflection of our country's internal policies, internal stability, and each other is manifested internationally. I won't talk about it internally, because in internal politics, I say it here every day to all the MPs. This international reputation for Serbia strengthens from day to day thanks to the consistency of our policy, which is the policy of peace, number one, number two, the policy of meddling in the internal problems of certain countries. Whether or not some countries respect us, that's a big question. Of course they don't respect it. Let me say that in this sense, we have a neighbouring, formerly joint state of Yugoslavia, and today the neighbouring Croatia did not respect it. In recognition of Croatia, when Kosovo and Metohija were recognised, they interfered with our country's internal affairs. Please, did we react then? If the president of the state had said only one sentence then, Croatia would never recognise Kosovo and Metohija. You know what that is? I'll tell her. If he said – if you, gentlemen, recognise Kosovo and Metohija, which is a violation of our country's integrity and sovereignty, we will recognise the Republic of Serbia's Krajina. Do you know when the Croats would recognize Kosovo? Never. Now, that's the responsibility of the former government, the former president in that sense. Let us continue, we respect the territorial integrity and sovereignty of the countries, asking other countries to respect our territorial integrity and sovereignty. We've never attacked anyone else, we've always defended ourselves. When it comes to Croatia, I will especially say a little, excuse me, but since we had this theme of Jasenovac these days and I will not say anything out of my head. I'm doing research, as you know, and what the former president of Croatia Tudjman would say, I'll give a boost, I'll give resources for that. So, I'm spending solidarity policy, not just solidarity with our neighbours, but solidarity with the whole world. Serbia has always done that. Did the others do that to us? That's another question now, that's all for analysis. When it comes to Croatia and Jasenovac, let me say a few sentences though. Investigating as a historian, and I'd like to be denied by one of the Croatian historians, and also by ours, who, I see, really don't use historical sources. The creator of the independent sovereign state of Croatia from 1991 to 1995 is Franjo Tudjman. Now, we can't figure that out unless we know Tudjman's biography. Who's Franjo Tudjman? He was also a major in the Independent State of Croatia. I will not speak, not to quote all possible sources now, when he swore to create an independent Croatian state without Serbs. Now, that's the essence of genocide. And you who went to The Hague should have consulted someone who had that information before the war broke out in Croatia. There were hundreds of groups of threats. Let me compare it anyway, so I don't say it by heart, a few things. I will now say, respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia and the MPs, respected historians, to compare the NDH to the sovereign, as Croatians would say, the Independent State of Croatia. First, I ask you - is it true that Pavelic's Ustasha NDH, and Tudjman's sovereign, as he says, has expelled the democratic Croatia from the Constitution from 1991 to 1995? Is that what Pavelic was doing? Yes, it is. Is that what Tudjman was doing? Yes, it is. I was the one in the Croatian Parliament, I am glad that my colleagues from Croatia are looking at it now, one part, which first asked the question at the Second Session of the Croatian Labour Assembly. Do you know when I got the answer? Well, I didn't get it, of course I didn't. Secondly, Pavelic's Ustasha NDH from 1941 to 1945 and Tudjman's contemporary, sovereign, he says, and democratic Croatia from 1991 to 1995 have been expelled from the use of Serbian language and Serbian script - Cyrillic. Is that right, gentlemen of Croatian MPs in the Croatian Parliament, who these days are constantly spitting, especially the general, as they say, Major Prkacin, the Serbian Orthodox Church, calling it aggressor etc? Thirdly, is it true that Pavelic's Ustasha NDH from 1941 to 1945, as well as Tudjman's, independent, sovereign, as he says, used the same coin – Kuna from 1991 to 1995? Is it true or not? Of course it's true. Fourthly, Pavelic's Ustasha NDH from 1941 to 1945 and Tudjman's independent, sovereign, democratic Croatia from 1991 to 1995 persecuted Serbian intellectuals. Not to mention hundreds of intellectuals, especially from 1941 to 1945 and from 1991 to 1995. My smallness is one of those, and my colleagues in college know that I was in a third grade playing Ustasha songs for two hours. I gave that lecture. There was no war back then. So let's move on. And Pavelic's NDH Ustasha from 1941 and 1945 and Tudjman's own, as he would say, were firing Serbs from work. I don't have time to give you a list of Serbs who were fired before the conflict in 1988, 1989 and 1990. My smallness has asked direct questions in the Croatian Parliament. There's documentation in the records today, some, I see, there's one on the Internet. Let's move on. The sixth, and Pavelic's Ustasha NDH from 1941 to 1945 and Tudjman's independent, sovereign, democratic from 1991 to 1995 used the same and similar Ustasha large Croatian symbols. Now, let's stop here. Where is the error of a part of the Serbs, and where is the error of the Croats when they are symbols? And get the chess room issue off the agenda today. How? The chess room itself without ideological tags isn't Ustasha. It was used a thousand years earlier, not to list cultural historical monuments, whether the red field was first or white. It's somewhere else. What's a Ustasha? When the Ustashas came, they put one cube up the chess room and when the communists came to power, they took down that one cube up the chess room and put on a five-point star. And do you know how the Croats perceive us as Chetniks? When they see this two-headed eagle, you see it up in the coat of arms, as soon as they see it, it says -- Chetnic, and it's a thousand years older than the Chetniks used, besides, two of those bones, skulls, etc. Let's not do this to each other. We incriminate the people. That's what Croats abuse in one part. I'm not saying there are no Serbs to abuse that other part. So, when it comes to symbols, Tudjman put worse than Ustasha. Now it's time for me to explain. That's if you're looking at a Croatian coat of arms, the first one in a series of crowns is a half-moon with a six-pointed star. Allow me, Mr. President, to say four sentences about that. When they created the Croatian coat of arms, the union president came to his cabinet and asked – is there any symbol that includes BiH and Slovenia? He says, "No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Do you know what kind of symbol that is? A half-moon with a six-pointed star. It's a symbol of the great Croatia of Ritter's great Illyria. He said, "Illyria equals totius Croatius (the whole of Croatia)" and he limited – Slovenia, Croatia today, Serbia, Bulgaria, Greece, and the centre is Banja Luka. That's why they kidnapped in Banja Luka. Because the half-moon with a six-pointed star is one of the coat of arms of medieval Bosnia. Now, that's this big Croatian idea, not Ustasha, but even worse than Ustasha. Let's move on, I don't have time, that's what I wrote in several papers from my colleagues in Croatia know very well. We move on, and Pavelic's Ustasha NDH 1941 to 1945 and Tudjmanov, independently, he says, sovereign and democratic Croatia in 1991 to 1995 were catholic by Serbs, Pavelic, at least 350,000, and Tudjman 30.000. The source, Stipe Shuvar, Croatian Karusel not to quote the site, is now thousands of Serbian children, only while Shuvar wrote this book and is doing it today. And what Stipe Mesic is talking about the day before yesterday, he's going to come especially now on the agenda, asking him if it's true that he was doing what I'm about to say. Let's move on, under regular number eight. Pavelic's Ustasha NDH 1941 to 1945 and Tudjman's independent, sovereign democratic in 1991 to 1995, established camps for Serbs. I don't have time to list the camps for you now in 1991-1995, one of them is Maksimir and the colleagues from Croatia know it. These are all historical sources that I do not now quote them, I have them, they were processed in the last "Progress" of our magazine and in many of the papers that I and my colleague Martinovic wrote when we wrote about Jasenovac. We move on, and Pavelic's Ustasha NDH in 1941 until 1945 and this Franjo Tudjman in 1991 to 1995, which he created, alienated Serbian property, alienated the country, the houses, burned down, destroyed the apartments. Is it true that the respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia and the Republic of Croatia? Of course it's true. We move on, and Pavelic's Ustasha NDH 1941 to 1945 and Tudjman is an independent, sovereign democratic, as he said in 1991 to 1995, burned Serbian houses and Serbian churches. Well, you know how many churches there are, I don't speak numbers, just in western Slavonia, not to say in all of Croatia, and it manifests that I don't speak them. Eleventh and Pavelic's Ustasha NDH from 1941 to 1945 and Tudjman's independent, sovereign democratic Croatia founded a Croatian Orthodox Church in 1991 to 1995. Is it true that the Members of the People? The Croatian Orthodox Church exists today. Unfortunately, Milo Djukanovic is doing the same. Well, look. We move on, and Pavelic's Ustasha NDH 1941 to 1945 and Tudjman's independent, sovereign democratic in 1991 to 1995, carried out state terror on Serbs. State terror, in the Croatian Parliament, I was a representative in front of the Federation of Socialists of Croatia, three of them seem to me to be MPs and Gordana Aydukovic, who was here, who suffered as you know in Osijek, etc. Squished in that assembly and where I tell Gorici, here's what they do to me. He says - Atlagica grabbed my hand and I had to run away and sent a telegraph in the evening that there was no difference between Pavelic and these. They have that telegram over there. We speak based on historical facts, gentlemen of historians who are now engaged in the Croatian State. We move on, and Paveliceva, the 13th Ustasha NDH from 1941 to 1945 and Tudjman's independent, sovereign democratic in 1991 to 1995, rewarded Ustashas, paid attention to the honourable MPs, Ustasha official, Pavelić's NDH in Dubrovnik, Ivo Rojnica, wearing a necklace of Serbian nails in 1941. You know what the joy of the 1990s is? Tudjman appointed him a duty like Argentina. Is it true, gentlemen, the Croats? How did the Serbs feel then? It's a special story and what was done to the Serbs. So we go to a regular number of fourteen and Pavelic's Ustasha NDH from 1941 to 1945 and Tudjman's own, as he says, sovereign and democratic, how democratic it is for the Croats themselves to assess, from 1991 to 1995, they used the Ustasha greeting for home ready. Is that right? Well, that's what the whole world sees. Of course it's true. The 15th and chiefs of Ustasha NDH Antu Pavelic, I particularly underline this, received Pope Pija XII, 12 May 1941. You know why, honourable peoples MPs? Due to the clerical Catholic guidelines on NDH, but received the chief of HDZ of independent sovereign democratic Croatia on May 25, 1992, Pope Josip Paule II because of clerical Catholic guidelines, and Pope Paule II was fascist. Was he a chemist in one camp producing one of the gases, for destruction in Auschwitz campers and in Jasenovac. Well, here we are, gentlemen. That's right, Mr. Stipe Mesic, who you know very well. Now, allow me, Dr. Tudjman is the first forger of the Jasenovac camp. My childhood proved it in the 1980s, 19th century in the Croatian Vesnik. "Vjesnik" was called then, and for this I really admit, I was invited by CK Croatia Executive Secretary, Mr Celestin Sardalic, to congratulate. I had to write six letters to the editor's office. So I first proved that in 1963 the counterfeits ended. He is the creator of all, and not now what Stephen understands and these minimizes, they have taken his doctrine. Allow me a few sentences to say that. Dr Tudjman only surpassed Ante Pavelic in creating an independent and sovereign Croatian state without Serbs. Tudjman created without Serbs. With Pavelic, I am one of these, the remains of the Serb people slaughtered, those who live in Croatia today. And there's no dilemma. Dr. Tudjman performed a mass ethnic cleansing of Serbs by having more than 560 of them, do not mess with the number, please, the storm is only 250, 560 thousand is expelled from Croatia. There are only 130 thousand Shuvars left, not to mention the site. And sometimes we're wrong. In doing so, Tudjman realized what Franjo Josif, Benito Mussolini, Adolf Hitler and Dr Ante Pavelic and Josip Broz Tito could not realize. So, sir, MPs, Croatian MPs who are now watching this from the Croatian Parliament. Let's move on. If Dr. Tudjman wanted a war and created the Republic of the Serbian Krajina, Tudjman, I will now prove it to you in two, three sentences. Allow me, this quote. On 24 May 1995, Tudjman admitted to the citizens gathered, quoting the Croatian source – the war would not have been necessary for Croatia, but we estimated that only by war we could choose Croatia's independence. That is why, according to Tudjman, we have conducted political negotiations, and behind these talks we have formed our armed forces. If we hadn't done that, we wouldn't have gotten to the finish line, so Tudjman continues, the war could have been avoided only if we had given up our goal, that is, from an independent Croatia. Complete quote, Croatian Vesnik, 1995. Gentlemen of the Croats, is this true or not, gentlemen, the honourable MPs here in the Serbian Parliament? Of course Tudjman was fully aware of that. Now that we're at his place, let me say, however, because he created his dream, by criminal action of the 1995 Storm, when the greatest ethnic cleansing was carried out after World War II on Europe's soil. And that's what our president said, and they're attacking him for it. Well, everyone knows that, gentlemen of the Croatians know that, the whole world knows that. Dr. Tudjman, on the train, says freedom, on the route Zagreb-Knin-Split 26 August, said in 1996, he told the city and the world, as he says, I quote – there are no more Serbs who would threaten Croatia's future in the Croatian national body, this cannot be expressed by any money, but rather by this step the future of the Croatian people is guaranteed. Complete quote, Dr. Stipe Shuvar, Croatian Karusel, in 2003, page 358, that I do not quote others now. I didn't make this up. These are Croatian sources, not Serbian, but Croatian. Speaking of which, let me say, however, that Tudjman is not the only statesman who created an independent state of Croatia, Stipe Mesic, what I met with Borisa Jovic here the day before. You, who remember and who know, he's a great liar. It's called a cheater, or a lufti butt. Luftiguz means a fraud in translation, look at the dictionary, and if Stipe Mesic really was like that, he was sentenced back in 1971 to prison next to the rest and served in Leskovac, let him say how he was spent. Why was he wearing a beard then? I don't want to talk about it. Let him talk about it. While I was at his place, Marian spoke of his cousin, Mark Mesic, who was his cousin. He led 4,000 Ustashas in July 1941. Ustasha in Stalingrad, to assist Germany as part of German information against the Soviet Union. Part of those Mesic Ustashas, therefore part, was executed on the battlefield there, and a very small number, a small number, was captured, so of them Tito in 1944, none other than Tito in 1944 formed Mesic's Partisan squad. You know where they ended up? They almost all died at Cačka and Užica, but Marko Mesic remained in the fight against Germans and Mesic's cousin was alive, after the war he lived long, and what interestingly joined in 1945 in the KPJ, did Stipe Mesic do today? Well, he's the leader of anti-fascism today, and now you'll hear how the Ustress stood up. So, all the sources, I'm not talking to you. After the end of the war, his cousin shot from a rifle to the head of the icon of Jesus Christ at the Church of St. Andrew the First Named on Dedinj, one eye broke out today and his forehead and eye did not have that icon later joined the Communist alliance. Now, Mesic is one of the main SFRJ wreckers. Dear ladies and gentlemen, honourable citizens, Yugoslavia has not fallen apart, it has been broken. There's little time, I won't talk about it, but I hope in a number of magazines that's coming up, I think in three, four months you'll see who was the wrecker of that Yugoslavia. That Milosevic had nothing to do with it. Let's move on, Mesic told representatives of the Croatian Parliament at the meeting of the Croatian Parliament on 5 December 1991, this is a real original, quote – thank you for choosing me in the presidency of the SFRY Point, and I have fulfilled my task of fulfilling the point of Yugoslavia no longer has a point. Is it true, Mr Mesic, that you said that in the Croatian Parliament? What are you saying the day before yesterday, Mr. Mesic here at a meeting with Borislav Jovic and Turpovski. You're washing your biography. You're one cheater, you're a lufti butt, you can't do that to historians, no matter what the nation or religion. His stance towards Serbs, Mesic said, at a pre-election rally in Gospic on March 2nd 1999. Pay attention to the distinguished citizens of the Republic of Croatia and the respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia. In front of 1,000 Croats, who were under the umbrella, as it rained terrible, Mesic then told Serbs about Croatia, quote – when we Croats create the state, all Serbs in Croatia will stand under one umbrella, finished quote. Did Budak say that in 1941, before the war? Genocide means intent, this is the intention of the 1990s, and there are hundreds of quotes like this before the war. But if there's no such intention, and there's suicide, then it's homocid, it's not genocide, it's homocid - slaughter. Scientists know that, they don't know many, very few know these definitions, and I'm dealing with these issues a little bit. I won't talk about his concentration camp what he said, Stipe Mesic, it's beneath each level. So, honourable MPs, I was just trying to see what Croatia was doing. I will now quote you a letter originally to see who is responsible for the bombing of the SRJ and for the creation of an independent state of Kosovo. Let me say that this letter has been testified by William Wimmer, author of this letter, then vice president of the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly, you who go to the OSCE Assembly on May 2nd, pay attention, in 2000, to German Chancellor Gerhard Schrader, I will originally read it and finish it with the fact that I am no longer tired of you and it will all be clear to you. I will not interpret the original, you interpret the distinguished citizens of Croatia and Serbia and BiH. Here's that letter. Pay attention, I'll take five minutes, and I'll finish, because I'm boring you more. Berlin, May 2nd, during the 2000 bombing, very esteemed, Mr. Chancellor. At the end of last week, I was able to attend a conference organised jointly by the US Foreign Ministry and the US foreign-political institutes of the republican party in the Slovak capital Bratislava. The main topics were the Balkans and NATO enlargement. The conference was attended by very high political representatives, suggesting the presence of a large number of government presidents, as well as foreign ministers and defence ministers from the region. Among the many important points, which aside from Serbia, I would like to point out, you know, among the important points, the topics deserve to be particularly highlighted. First, the conference's organisers demanded that an international recognition of an independent state of Kosovo be made as quickly as possible within an Allied state. What do you say now? Secondly, organisers said, therefore, the Prime Minister, foreign ministers, that the SRJ is out of every legal order, and above all beyond the final document, from Helsinki. To clarify, it's that document, from 1975, which implies that the provinces can't perform the secession, and it's not worth it to us, for every other person, as you can see in this letter. The third, the European legal order, pay attention, poses an obstacle to the implementation of the NATO plan, and in that sense, it is much more suitable for the US legal order, for its application in Europe. There is no UN charter, international law has been violated. That's what Hitler was doing and the League of Nations fell apart. If the UN will fall apart, it remains to be seen. I hope they come to life and get more and more international reputation. Fourthly, this is special, the war against the SRJ, was led, what often Dr. Martinovic, we are discussing and one of the elements is here, the war is against the SRJ led to correct General Eisenhower's wrong decision of the Second World War. He continues, therefore, for strategic reasons, there must be stationed American soldiers, and in order to make up for what was missed in 1945. Do you understand now? Of course it's clear to everyone. Fifthly, the European Union took part in the war against Yugoslavia, in order to overcome the obstacle and dilemma created after the adoption of the concept of a new strategy, so-called. The NATO Pact. In April 1999, it is the new concept, the Europeans' insistence to get the mandate of the UN or Keps. Look what's done. The sixth -- not downplaying the importance of subsequent legalism, lawyers know what it means, the interpretation of the Europeans that in spreading NATO's tasks across the borders of the legally agreed area, and you know which, in the war against Yugoslavia, it was only clear, however, admits that it is a precedent that everyone can call at any time and so many will act in the future. There's no right. The force is above the law. As it was with the League of Peoples. The seventh -- it would be good for NATO to re-establish a territorial situation in space between the Baltic Sea and Anatolia, as it existed during the Roman Empire, at a time when it was at the peak of power and took up the greatest territorial space. I don't have time to interpret history. That's what we're interpreting to students that history that was a concept. Eight -- therefore Poland must be surrounded from the north and the south by democratic states as neighbours, and Romania and Bulgaria to ensure a land connection with Turkey. Serbia, in brackets, is likely due to the provision of an uninterrupted U.S. military presence of closed brackets, has to be permanently excluded from European development. The ninth - north of Poland should be fully controlled over the approaches of the Baltic Sea of Sanpeterburg. The 10th – in every process of the people's right to self-determination should be given, gentlemen lawyers know it well, an advantage over all other provisions or rights of international law, and I add it except for Serbs. There, the Serbs have no right. They only forbade Serbs to do so. And the eleventh last – please address the respected citizens this is very important – the claim that NATO has violated all international rules during the attack on the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, and in particular all relevant provisions of international law have not been disputed at this conference. Imagine. A conscious force of law. With a friendly greeting from Willy Wimmer, not to say the original which, enough for me, there are more, etc. Respected citizens of the Republic of Serbia and in the Yugoslav spaces, Serbia today leads a policy of peace, a policy of security for all citizens of the Republic of Serbia but not only here but also all citizens in this part, so if you want and beyond, it respects the sovereignty and integrity of all states, and it will take care of every Serb wherever he is, as Germany does, as Russia does, as does America or any other country. Our President Vukic is a very toleranceal man, a very smart man and often goes over the insults that are being directed to us daily from the region. They can't insult us, those who insult can only insult themselves. And we tell our neighbours to the Croats, I tell them myself – every country, they know it, historians who come from other people's costumes has never been in history for a long time. And what I wanted for Croatia wanted for myself. The Croats must face their history. They had a chance in the 1990s, not to kick out of the Constitution the Serbian people, to tell Stipe Mesic before yesterday to the journalist – perhaps we should have. So he did now say when he ethnically cleaned up what was not Pavelic. Maybe we should have, now let him put them down, put them down from 17% to 4.5%. So, peace and co-operation policy, but history and memory have no force to ban us, along with Croatian historians. Nothing's disputed. The document is on the table, historians and other scientists from other groups, not abuse. I have to say that some of our historians here are being abused. Imagine the doctor's professor at the institute working, the day before yesterday, for the academy we prepared for Victory Day, says - I wasn't watching, but condemns the president of the state. Mr. Kolyanin, I call you by your name. Is that how you read historical sources? Is that how you write books that you have correct books? Why are you doing this? This methodology does not allow. That's what our journalists do, part of the press, so-called The press, so they bend every line in this high house, they lie. The deception "N1", "The impression of the week" and that other impression. The liemaker, who I used to say in this House, you know who was first? One former commissioner from the former government, Prelevic one. After 15 days of what he says, don't attack Atlagic. I didn't say what they were saying at all. They have so much morality, here in stenographic notes, and then it revolves on their media, inventing and so on. That's not what Goebbels was doing. You saw one of their representatives last night. They're not interested in this country's programs. Let them come to power as of October 05th by force. This is not the time of Serbia in 2000, this is 2021. There is no coming to power in front of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia without elections. Nothing's wrong if they're not in power. You must learn that you are in opposition, that you are in power for the benefit of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia and the state of Serbia. Once again, to the neighbours of the Croats, to my former homeland, I also have Croatian citizenship next to Serbian, I say – gentlemen of the Croats, face your history. Discard what you need to reject, and then we'll go into the future together. We are now going towards the same goal, which is peace, security, freedom of all citizens, regardless of religion and nationality, but we cannot use lies. That is what some in the Republic of Serbia do. You cannot deny what the Croats in Vojvodina and Serbia have received. We are proud of what we have received, and Croatian and Croatian, so do Serbs in Croatia. That's not what Pavelic was giving. There's a part of it that doesn't work today. Let's get past it, turn to the future, study the common past, nothing is disputed. We're going to the table, we can't fake it. You can't say that the criminal Gabrielo Princip, as our dubrovka Stojanović, will especially get these days, especially one part... She's the only one who says in World War I 700,000. There is no source that does not say – at least 1,200,000. Why are you doing this, Mrs. Stojanovic? You wouldn't happen to have a shallow pocket, would you? Find me a source based on what he's doing. Don't do this to anyone else. I apologize to the citizens for taking more time for you, gentlemen of the People's Parliament. This is my profession, so we kind of want to get past some things, but to turn to the future, and we can't tell lies what we said. All my speeches in the Croatian Parliament are available to both Croats and Serbs, I do not give up any of them, which I was saying in the 1990s, I am saying today. I was the first debater to warn President Tudjman – that you do not mention Serbs at the first multiparty assembly. The MP's question-- do you think you can get them out of the Constitution or the lapus? You know when I got that answer? That's the only thing I didn't get at. One scientist says he got an answer when they were kicked out of the Constitution. Now Mesic says – maybe we should. So, when the rest of the slaughtered people from 1941 to 1945, ethnic cleansing was done. What I want for every Croat, that's what I want for myself, for my child and for anyone else. I love my Serbian people as much as I respect each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-12-0.u6472	I thank Professor Atlagic. The next word has the People's Messenger Adam Schucalo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-12-0.u6473	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister of Justice with an associate, the Honorable Chairman, honourable Members of the People, Honorable Professor Atlagic, at the very beginning to tell you there is no need to apologize for extending this speech that lasted as a school class. And I do not point it out as any objection, but I am happy and satisfied because in this House, in this conference that many people want to dirty, we had the opportunity to hear the discussion of both Dr Martinović and my colleagues Jovanovic and yours and Mr Risticevic yesterday, let not everyone else resent me, in the context of the topic we had yesterday, which today obviously comes from the need to say what could not be done yesterday, because there were many speakers, and today takes a good part of the time. But first of all, let me say why you shouldn't apologize. Well, you shouldn't apologize because, unfortunately, this Parliament has not listened to speeches like this for years and in different terms in decades. He listened to speeches that were distorted, he listened to speeches that were the place in the moment, the time in terms of what we as a people should do to apologize for some of the crimes that individuals in our name did in the premises of the former Yugoslavia. But these topics we're hearing today are on some other media, which we're not going to call today, retrograde, radical, dog. We don't want to talk about the past. Get something fresh for some new affair to throw out today. And we are so far away from ourselves, from our value system, from our history, that the very thought or length of speech or the topic in this House of the High causes in one part of the public not only wonder, but also condemnation. Well, if it were the public of the Republic of Croatia, I could kind of figure out, which has been indoctrination for years and decades, so he can't listen to such discussions as are brutally depicted. What am I here, as a descendant of Adam the Scarran, who died in 1944 in the release of Cazin, who was a majority Muslim then and died and there was no, no cross, no stone, no monument of any kind, nor do we know where he died, to say in this high house? I listened to a close colleague yesterday, like anyone else, John, who talked about it, about his descendants. Here's a picture, since everyone was showing photos, the only photograph I have of my grandfather. This is my grandfather Adam, by whom I have a name. And as you can see, he has a king's uniform, there's no cocardines or five-pointers on it. But there's his grave, which we've never seen before, and he fought for some houses, for some woods, for some meadows, where the nine-member family lived. Here, he and Milly gave birth to eight children. That's why I'm proud to hear you talk about it here in this house today, because it has to be not only today, but every time we talk about it and point out, because only then will we know that we're on the right track and that we're back to ourselves and to our values. That's why the Republic of Serbia today and these agreements on the diplomatic plan, on the economic plan, on the plan to fight organised crime, against the mafia, against the drug mafia, but above all, in terms of restoring the value system, the one most important, our peoples, writes the golden letters of history. We are in such a political environment, in such a historic environment, which thanks to the support of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia, the wise, dignified leadership of its President Alexander Vukic, we have come to the position that we can finally talk about this. We don't abuse this time, we finally came into a period in which in the coming years, in decades we can say what we couldn't say in the former state, and also in the good part, to say, the current states when they were other representatives of the government, when these topics were dogs, when they were retrograde, they were radical. These aren't radical issues, gentlemen. It's us, with our dignity, with our identity and with everything we are. I today, as Chairman of Zukorlic, as he just congratulated her, congratulate all the believers of the Muslim religion of Ramadan Bajram, but congratulating the Holy Vassili of the Great Ostrosko. Congratulations and the Day of the Republika Srpska Army or today of the Third Infantry regiment, an army of Republika Srpska that was created by a people who lived in BiH, most of today's Republika Srpska and who created Republika Srpska. And I am proud that I am here and that the President of the Republic of Serbia has said that no imaginary documents, but only these real contracts, here, which we are signing today, are some non-paipre documents in which my Republika Srpska, as well as my Serbia should be compensation for tomorrow's kidnapped Kosovo and Metohija. Our president said that this was out of the question and that such exchange would never come to the desk whether these congregations, governments or anyone else. So it's clear. It hurts me today and I'm very sad when I heard the Israeli ambassador this morning say, our friendly people, to say, who suffered, together with us, a terrible goal in the historical period that we talked about yesterday, when they can easily go over certain things, say certain nonsense, so they're getting better during the day, knowing what Kosovo and Metohija means to us, as we know how long they've been waiting to get into a position so that they can say something from Israel's position today. And that finger in the eye, in this case, it hurts a lot more because we know, for the simple reason, what it means in this kind of story. For that reason, I would like to say a few more things here, which are extremely important, and it seems to me that the respected Professor Atlagic has already talked about it a lot, but I would say only one thing that is very important to us, which is that we never again put ourselves in that position because of any policy, politicians, relations that we should, in any case, be relaxed politically, that we have a relationship of co-operation, joint appearance, connection, travel and everything else, that we are in a position to humiliate ourselves, that we ourselves cannot talk about our own history. Gentlemen, we were talking about the genocide museum yesterday. I am from the municipality of Gradiška, the third municipality by the number of victims in the former Yugoslavia, behind Kozarska Dubica and Belgrade. I know well that every year until 1991 we went and visited the Museum of Children's Camps in Stari Gradišca, the Museum of Children's Camp in Stari Gradišca who unfortunately no longer has any position, because the members of these modern Ustasha Kamaras, the first thing they did in Stari Gradišca, when they got there, destroyed that museum setup and tried to destroy the evidence and everything that the good people tried to collect, unfortunately, with their own hand, their boot, as well as 1941, 1942, 1943 and 1944, were doing, so they began to do in 1991 and every year, where these traces existed. And let what they have to listen to hurt them, but if they need to hear it somewhere, they should hear it right in the Serbian Parliament. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-12-0.u6474	Professor, there's no right to replicate the Rules of Procedure. I thank the People's MP. The word is made by Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-12-0.u6475	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have been patiently following the presentation of my colleagues these days, and I was hoping that someone else would condemn the phenomenon that happened in Sarajevo, sometimes to me dear Sarajevo who lived a multiethnic life, but who had some transformation that I could never understand. There was war, there was everything, but the transformation we're experiencing and these days I don't understand. This is Muhammad Bazdulj, a writer, journalist, columnist, repeatedly rewarded in Serbia. In order not to think that the ruling majority is politically expensive, here is his criticism from "N1" television, where roughly as a critic of the authorities says the government's duration is limited, that it is a sign of the boycott's success, etc. So it's not about a political like-minded person, it's not about someone who supports the ruling majority, so I would need to raise my voice. This is a photograph where Muhammad Bazdulj, along with Emir Kusturica and Handke the Nobel Prize, sings a song in Andric City, a song, means two Muslims sing a song by third Muslim Halid Beslic, "Hey if I were to come home early." Imagine that sin. The "Sarajevo Liberation" immediately the next day removes a column of writers, writers, journalists, columnists, Mr. Bazdulj and apologizes to readers for releasing news and photography about this event, which is by no means discriminatory, by no means directed against any nation, and especially against Muslim. It is proof that reconciliation in Bosnia will go hard, not because of Serbs, as Sarajevo politicians claim, but because Sarajevo politicians have transformed a nation that is no longer what it was, no matter what we claim, no matter what we say. That's why I expected those who were supposed to raise their voice against the conflict between Israel, Hamas and Palestine and Gaza asking us to react, and yesterday I expected these very people to raise their voices against this phenomenon, because this is almost incredible. This is to believe or not, that someone because of one song that is actually Halid Beslic, I think, lives in Sarajevo, because of one song sung by two Muslims, a song by third Muslims, they ban because there is a Nobel Prizer Peter Handke, in the city of another Nobel laureate Ivo Andric. It is almost amazing and I am amazed by this kind of transformation, the future is also working for the possible renewal of the conflict in me, dear BiH, especially because of Republika Srpska. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have agreements here with Argentina. If it had been once, that such an agreement existed in 1957, that it had been a little more up-to-date, that the CIA was more up-to-date to protect Ante Pavelic for a time, who helped him reach Buenos Aires and Sanchez Street, that we probably shouldn't have done that at the time. So, Blagoje Jovovic, that the partisans don't think it's just a Chetnik, is a person who's been in both partisans and the Yugoslav army of the country some call Chetniks. So it's about a person who's been in one anti-fascist movement and another. Since all the services failed, probably on purpose, he gave himself the right to seek revenge and punishment in some way, to avenge the victims of Jasenovac, the victims of Jadovna, etc., of all these camps, he found it appropriate that, with his own hand, I corrected the injustice and in that street Sanchez, he wounded with two bullets to death the greatest criminal in the history of the Balkans, Antu Pavelic, who, two years later, died in Frank's Spain, which proves enough and shows about the orientation of Pavelic himself, Frank himself, and, God, Argentina. So today I believe that we have an extradition agreement, that if any of these happen again that in that case a very fast criminal will be extradited to us or we will hand them over, if a criminal is theirs in Serbia's territory and if they ask for it. As far as the Agreement on Agriculture is concerned, I have already talked about it and the importance of agriculture is far more important than most of us think. Anyone who wants to eat delicious bread must support agriculture. If you are hungry between the smell of money, the smell of gold, the smell of silver, the smell of diamonds and food and fresh roasted bread, you will be identified for freshly baked bread. If you're hungry between the smell of money and the smell of mature sweet fruit you'll define yourself for this second. So the exact claim that I keep saying is that the importance of food is far greater than the importance of money, diamonds, gold, because when you're hungry you can't eat it, you can't survive, you can eat a bunch of paper, but you won't satisfy hunger. This country gives enough for everyone's needs, but not for everyone's greed. This country is basically robbed, and so is its agriculture, but we who consume food must return to agriculture if we want to have more food, if we want to have a bigger spoon, in which case we have to have a bigger hook. We need to invest more in agriculture in order to have more, and I constantly advocate that we join the EU as soon as possible, whose agrarian budget is 45% of the EU's total budget. When we get to the EU, our farmers will, under the same conditions when they do business, quickly threaten all other farmers in Europe and under these difficult conditions, deal in the region and with Croatia, with Bulgaria, regardless of their incentives being three to five times bigger than current incentives in Serbia. I advocate that agriculture is allocated in the incentives of a billion and more euros a year, but to be from European funds, to join the EU as soon as possible, or to strengthen our economy in the region enough, so that it can send such an amount to agriculture. We need to build sustainable agricultural production. In order to keep the population and small farmers, we have to reward them financially, stay to live in the country and prevent further migration from the village to the city, the cities, almost that Serbia will come down to three or four large cities, and that there will only be gaps and deserts around. We have to prevent it, and the easiest way to prevent it is by paying off agricultural production and because people will see the opportunity to earn money in agricultural production, through the price of agricultural products, which through incentives. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we have talked here enough about the conflicts we want to avoid in the future. It all came down to it in this region, and this government is running a proper policy that will benefit agriculture. The greater the market for agricultural products, the greater the chance for development. That is why I also support Schengen, because it is the EU's predecessor. Business in the region according to EU principles - good for our agriculture. We've always been, in Serbia, we've been slightly flammable. We often went into conflict, and instead of solving our problems, we solved other people's problems. We often went into conflict not to solve our own problem by force, but to participate in the problems of the greats that clashed with each other, and we ran into that conflict and instead of living for ourselves, we fought for others, and with that kind of politics, I hope, we broke up forever. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-12-0.u6476	Thank you. The next MP is Ilija Matejic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-12-0.u6477	Thank you, Chairman. The Honorable Minister with an associate, above all ladies, and then the People's MPs, and, of course, the peoples of the Republic of Serbia, we have agreements with the Commonwealth of Dominica, Argentina and Belarus, and I am very pleased to continue our co-operation with foreign countries, because only such co-operation can lead us to a better future. The areas in which we co-operate with these countries are improving co-operation in the area of agriculture, as well as the prevention of crime and extradition of criminals. I'm very glad that the fight against the mafia and organised crime is one of the six goals that our government has. As for that, I think my colleague Mrdić said a lot, I would say that yesterday we could read in the media, that in the house of Velja Belivuk in the hidden room of art in the meat grinding machine, the remains of human DNA were found, which is the fact that the blood in the veins, which reminds me more of some horror film than the reality. What's even scarier is that they had the support of someone from the state administration in all this and all these people have to be caught and convicted of it, and thank our police for making us feel a little safer today. What I also saw was that some new Viber and Telegram groups were found where some of the maniacs from Vranja and Leskovci began to share pictures of girls, neighbours and thus directly threatened their privacy and security. I really hope the police are onto these people, because those who do that to the better sex really deserve to be punished. What pleases me, as announced by President and Minister Vulin himself, in which you, a respected minister, will certainly be involved, is the fight against the football mafia. Although it seems completely harmless to someone, it doesn't matter if the ball went into the goal or not, there's something else behind it. Therefore, negotiating the outcome of the competition is a criminal offence from Article 208 of our Criminal Code, and this crime has two qualified, i.e. to make it easier for the people to understand the more difficult form. One is when the amount agreed by the competition crosses 450 thousand dinars, and another qualified form is when the amount exceeds 1.5 million dinars. It's a prison sentence of two to ten years. A million and a half dinar is nothing for football and football championships, and I'm very glad we're announcing a fight against the football mob, because behind that is the money, the money of our citizens, not the result of some game. What I want to point out is that in this process there can be no clubs that are untouchable, officials, players and judges. Let's take a look at what's been going on both this and last year, how is it that some 18-metre pens were played, how some goalies go back to the goalie's head, add opposing players, make a pen, how some players can almost break their feet to their opponents, and get a yellow card for that, so a pass from the ace to two, well, amazing sequences, so seven plus, etc. We, if we want to step up with Europe, must also take sport to step up with Europe, and we need these sports sites to create places where we can go with our family and enjoy sports peacefully and certainly have the support of the National Assembly for it. So Commonwealth Dominica withdrew Kosovo's recognition. It seems to me that she was the eighth country to withdraw recognition of an independent Kosovo, and Argentina and Belarus did not recognise them. Speaking of Kosovo, I must point out that I am from one small municipality, which is the municipality of Kovačica from which two giants come, and this is Mihajlo Pupin, and the other is Tibor Cerna. Tibor Cerna is from one place of Fatty, which is seven minutes away from mine, and he has become, unfortunately, a symbol of Serbian-Hungarian friendship with his death. I would like to point out that his friends who knew him said he was the greatest Serb they ever knew, even though he was Hungarian. I can do this from my head, but I want to quote to our people what happened the day he died. They say: “It was so terrible to support enemy chasers and day - to - day bombings from the plane, and the daily devastating use of artillery on the other side of the border that it was only missing that sniper, that sniper who killed him, that darkener he wanted and whenever he wanted. Serbian soldiers in shelters, smaller bunkers and trenches because of him could not even perform physiological needs, as it would otherwise seem, but all in some containers, so that when night falls, it is empty around here somewhere. On April 27th, after the fact of Sniper Tibor Cern, he said good-bye to his friends, and stood up and cried, "Let's shoot if you're a hero, I'm waiting for you." The trigger's been pulled. The bullet from the sniper rifle hit Tibor right in the chest, but Tibor didn't fall. “ Watch out how strong Tibor was. It's a 21-year-old gourd. "To create an opportunity for the enemy to act once again to be discovered by our snipers and finally eliminated by Tibor Cern has remained standing. Wounded, mortally wounded, he turned to his comrades in a trench who kept him from doing so and said these famous words – for this country it was worth dying for, when another shot came. The bullet hit Tibor Cern in the neck, killing him in place and moments later, Serbian snipers eliminated the enemy. “ So before he died he said those famous words – “For this country it is worth dying” and for that I have to say two things. First of all, for all of our basketball fighters to at least symbolically remind the Spartans of the Termopil because they fought a tenfold greater enemy. Ours was 200, while the enemy was two thousand. I must say that both Tibor Cern and the rest of the fallen fighters and others who fought and survived are not only more worthy than myself to do the duty of a MP, and if I ever do 3% of what they did for this country, I will be very pleased. When we discovered the Memorial to Tibor Cerni in Fatty, there was also the President of the Republic. There were also some members of the National Assembly now, and they were there, most importantly, his family, his friends, and we showed symbolically that we were no longer ashamed of our heroes, but rather proud of our heroes and that we would never forget them because we would forget them for the second time. About Tibor Cerna and Kosharam, and about Paštrik and Jasenovac and about Srebrenica and about Storm, Blestral, our students must learn from high schools, perhaps even elementary schools. Why? As my colleagues have already said, not to spread hatred among the nations, not to spread hatred, but because history must be well known not to repeat itself. He knows our people at KIM who's fighting for him. We're helping them now even in cash. We set aside four billion dinars to help them. They will receive two new hospitals, new schools, new kindergartens, and in the next year, 15 buildings will be built for people who are weaker social opportunities, for young couples and for those who have been forced to move to KiM, but our people also know that we must turn to the future and co-operation. Why? In the 21st century, you don't win when you spread hate, God forbid when you're going there for some war. In the 21st century, you win when you're economically strong, when your country is economically strong, and that's why we have to continue to build both roads and hospitals and railways and schools and kindergartens. We must continue to strengthen our army, which is a symbol of peace and stability, and we must continue to bring investors in order to be economically, I repeat economically, the strongest country in the Balkans in the next 20 years. Only by working together, only by knowing history and looking into the future can we have peace and stability in this country, we can have progress in this country and only such a strong Serbia is guaranteed to our people for a more peaceful future, our people regardless of their nationality and whether they live in Serbia or in the region. Thank you and live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-12-0.u6478	Thank you. The word has a folk MP, Veroljub Arsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-12-0.u6479	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we are discussing several international agreements, and that certainly means that Serbia enjoys great trust in the world and that many countries want the Republic of Serbia as a partner, regardless of whether it is an area of agriculture, because we have an agreement with Dominican about agriculture, whether in the area of judicial, police and prosecutor's laws. I would have devoted my exposure to these very laws, because I believe that much, much earlier, we should have had laws like this, that the former regime should have done everything possible to bring these laws to the National Assembly and in a certain way facilitate the position of the Republic of Serbia in the fight against organised crime, which does not know the borders. If we see what was happening during the former regime, it is clear why we did not even have such agreements in the congregation procedure and it is clear to whom it was in the interest that it would never happen. My younger colleagues do not know, but in 2008 and 2009, Serbia was shaken by a very big and serious affair, an affair in which Serbia was from international organisations, I cannot say unjustly, accused of even participating in money laundering. We were so responsible for certain developments that it even threatened the Republic of Serbia to lose the international code for payment traffic, so-called. Swift code, so somehow the former regime would cover it up. In order not to experience that international payment code being abolished, the then governor of the National Bank of Serbia had to resign. He was a scapegoat, he was not responsible for what was going on, but he certainly resigned and was later elected Governor. This bank that was used to launder money now only vegetates and is not present at all on the market. If we do a little more serious analysis of what's been going on right now, that money is empty and it comes from drug trafficking. If we also take the time period that the procedure, which the US authorities have launched against Saric, and in a certain way forced the Republic of Serbia to react, then it is clear why the Republic of Serbia has not yet had agreements with certain countries and related to the fight against organised crime, drug trafficking and arms. If you look at the countries where Darko Saric was hiding, you will have one statement that he was hiding in the countries of Latin America. I wouldn't be surprised if he was hiding in Argentina territory, which is our friendly country, favored by us, and in order to make our position easier, we have an agreement with her. As exotic drugs are called, so do these exotic narcotics come from these exotic countries. So, the base where they're real are the countries of Central America and the countries of Latin America. And Argentina, however successful it is in this fight, cannot be alone and it is necessary for all countries that are seriously engaged in fighting organised crime to participate. Why didn't Serbia participate? Just remember how Darko Saric built his empire here in Serbia. Money obtained by crime puts it here in legal flows, bribes economic operators, deals in construction, agriculture, and not counting on it anymore. Of course, someone had to cover it fat from the then government and the former regime. That is why they neither tried to find him nor to arrest him, nor bring him to justice, for they feared his reaction to what he would say in some court procedure. But that's their problem, not ours, and let them live in carrying part of the responsibility for something that unfortunately happened in Serbia as well. To have a basis for what I'm saying, it's enough to go back only a few years, not a decade and more, that, for example, Milan Dabovic, then the brother-in-law of the current representative of the former regime Dragan Gilas, was arrested with drugs and that it was even threatened by the officers who participated in the arrest, just the name and last name – do you know who Dragan Gilas is, which is certainly a shame. And he can't say that's not true and he can't say that he didn't even visit Dragan Gilas. I believe that's one of the reasons why we didn't have this agreement with Argentina ten years ago. Or Novak Filipovic, a close associate of Marina Tepic, has been funded for three years from the province's budget for alleged gyms or fitness centres that never existed. Marinika Tepic, a close associate of Dragan Dilas, spent three years paying money from the AP budget. When that money went missing, it seems he returned to the old trade, Novak Filipovic, and was arrested with drugs. We also have associates, former Minister Vuk Jeremic, Aleksandar Radojcic, etc., etc., so as not to list. These are all reasons why I have the right to doubt why the former regime did not have an agreement with Argentina. Now that we have another very interesting topic that is related to exotic destinations again and again some suspicious transactions, suspicious bank accounts, suspicious money on these accounts, suspiciously origin of that money, I have the right to think and ask the question – are there any exotic destinations where these accounts are located only money from the robbery of citizens of the Republic of Serbia that Dragan Gilas systematically carried out for almost a decade or is there money available again by Dragan Gilas, who is from organised crime? And I think that whatever we have more of these agreements, we're going to be closer and closer to the truth about what really happened to Serbia as Dragan Djilas, Vuk Jeremic and the team around them decided on its fate. It seems to me that all the hacks that are being conducted against President Aleksandar Vukic and the SNS are one part directed, of course, to try to return to power in any way, but it seems to me that the growing reason is that they never reveal what they were doing, what damage both Serbian citizens and the reputation of the Republic of Serbia in international relations. I do not see any reason why my fellow MPs would not accept and vote in favour of these laws and these international agreements, as by certainly by means of these agreements, Serbia will contribute to the fight against above all, organised crime, drug trafficking and increase the security of its citizens and security throughout the region.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-12-0.u6480	Thank you. The next is MP Boris Bursac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-12-0.u6481	Thank you. Dear President, honourable fellow MPs, respected Serbian citizens, Mrs Popovic, have come before us these days to find very important and constructive draft laws, and I would personally refer to the proposal for a bill to confirm the memorandum between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Commonwealth of Dominica on co-operation in the area of agriculture. First of all, I feel the need to express my gratitude to Dominica, who in 2018 froze the decision to recognise Kosovo's independence and thus showed that she respects Serbia's territorial integrity, but also the principles of international law. With this gesture, the government of the Commonwealth of Dominica has shown that there are no unilateral solutions, but that the issue of the status of the southern Serbian province is a matter that can only be resolved by dialogue between Belgrade and Pristina. If you ask me personally, I am the position of the president of Serbia and the citizens of Serbia, according to which Kosovo and Metohija are and will be the soul and heart of Serbia, they are and will be an inalienable part of Serbian territory, and for those who think otherwise and consider it, I would quote St. Lazarus - nothing gave birth to them, in the field of wheat, or in a mountain of vines. Speaking of the wheat of Whites and the vines, I'd like to return to the subject of this Agreement, which is agriculture. Agriculture is as old a business as human society. It came primarily from the tendency to meet the basic human needs, namely the need for food and self-preservation, in order to gain space through the development of human society to gradually transform from production of natural character into small goods production. In such conditions, the owners were given the opportunity to offer surpluses of their food products on the market in exchange for products and services of craft. In this way, the ownership or agricultural household on the one hand is treated as the bearer of production activity, but also as a consumer unit. Today, agriculture is an economic activity which, in addition to the product intended to feed the population, provides irreplaceable raw materials for the pharmaceutical industry and the textile industry, but also for construction. In addition, by-products of agriculture are becoming increasingly demanding as alternative sources of energy. As the Nobel Prize for Economics was received in 1979, Teodor Schulc uttered a brilliant sentence that reads – poverty of the country is an indicator of the ignorance of the agriculture economy. The essence of this statement is seen in the fact that the economies of all countries in the world are to a lesser or greater extent dependent on agriculture, i.e. that agriculture is undoubtedly an economic branch of vital importance for the survival of the human race. When we talk about Serbia, Serbia has extraordinary natural conditions for the development of agriculture. We used to be and should be again, above all, a agricultural country, which is the largest income that needs to be realised by this particular activity, of course with the development of industrial branches that consume raw materials from agriculture. As important as agriculture is, we saw just in the period of the Kovid 19 pandemic when many shelves across the region, Europe and the world were empty, Serbia had all its life supplies thanks to its responsible policy, thanks to its responsible investment in agriculture. And not only did she have those groceries on shelves in stores across Serbia, but she had supplies of all basic life supplies for a year in advance. In 2020, next to the pandemic of the Crown of the Virus, according to the Ministry of Agriculture, we made records about an external trade of $4.13 billion, which we have never had before. We made a surplus in agro-business for a $1.8 billion state and it's a very important thing for GDP. I'll remind you that that export only five years ago was $2.5 billion. We also need to note that agriculture and the food industry are precisely responsible for a lower GDP decline in Serbia. I sincerely hope that Mr. Nedimovic's forecasts will come true and that the share of GDP's agriculture will be recordable and over 9.5%. As regards the very Memorandum between the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Government of the Commonwealth of Dominika, the aim is quite clear, and this is certainly to cultivate friendly relations and improve co-operation in the area of agriculture through the exchange of scientific and technical information and achievements, the development and introduction of modern technologies in the area of agriculture,... technology, fostering joint programmes in the area of agriculture, promoting co-operation between enterprises in the area of agriculture and related sectors, cooperation in the veterinary and phytosanitary areas. Given everything, I will personally, I hope my colleagues support and vote in favour of this, as well as other bill proposals, in the hope that they will be the basis for a strong, modern and healthier Serbia. Long live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-12-0.u6482	Thank you. The next is National MP Prof. Dr. Vladimir Marinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-12-0.u6483	Thank you, Mr. Hardy. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, first of all a few good news when it comes to the Republic of Serbia and our progress and development, is that today the European Commission has estimated that Serbia will have an economic growth of 5.3% this year and will be in third place in Europe after Spain and France. But we're sure that according to the World Bank's assessment, the IMF can go over 6%, and I'm sure that's what we'll do. Of course, what is very important for our country and for our further foreign political positioning, these agreements that we are talking about today and are part of our country's foreign political doctrine, it is that Serbia is a stable country, that the government of the Republic of Serbia is stable and that what is for the citizens of the Republic of Serbia and for us here as a majority in parliament, the most significant thing is that Alexander Vucic, according to the latest public change studies, has about 60% of the support of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. It is during this time where we are at a time that is very turbulent, a time which is a lot of challenges, as far as we can see, caused by international terrorism, cyber terrorism, a major economic crisis, a pandemic, most important to the Republic of Serbia and the ship, so that I can compare it with our country, which is one of the main managements of President Aleksandar Vukic. It manages in this way that we are trying and successful at the joy and benefit of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia in this sense that through all these storms that cause global, geopolitical, geoeconomic conditions we are going through without some major damages and we are going as a country that succeeds and in these turbulent conditions to develop its economy, to create jobs, to attract investment, to encourage and to disrupt domestic businesses and domestic businesses to invest further and to develop economic and other ways our country. When I spoke of Serbia as a single ship that is located and which should go through very difficult weather conditions, I also talk about that Serbia and should behave as it is today, which is to try to bypass all these bad weather conditions, all those storms, all those big winds that are today beating up a world-wide ship, but our small Serbian ship should be so directed to our jobs, to deal with our citizens and to deal with only Serbian priorities. When we talk about major global crises today, we are witnessing that in every part of the globe there are major conflicts, there are great conflicts, what I want to do is tell citizens from this place that we will primarily look at our own interests and that we will not put ourselves on any side of any conflict because we want to open Serbia to all. Serbia wants to be a partner with everyone who sees it in an equal way, who sees one reliable partner, one friend in Serbia and who sees the possibility of their companies and their companies investing money, that they can fertilise it and that they can long-term count on stability, profitability and everything Serbia can offer when it comes to a good and quality business environment. This is why everything President Vukic did in the previous period is important, creating from Serbia a reliable partner and one country in which companies and the United States are very happy to invest, both from the People's Republic of China, and from the Russian Federation, South Korea, Japan, the Middle East countries. It is Serbia that we want for the next period, not from five or ten years, but for this whole century, that we have conditions that are predictable, that we have conditions and that we can offer citizens of the Republic of Serbia a future that can be predicted, good conditions for life and prosperity for our citizens. That's why I have to mention, it's never good for a country that by population is a small number of people to interfere in relations and in the conflicts of large countries and where large players are involved. We all want to stay in good relations and we want to send messages that it is of course very important that all sides in a particular conflict should find some compromise solution and talk, as Serbia does when it comes to the problem of Kosovo and Metohija, because our policy, the policy of President Aleksandr Vukic, is that dialogue and co-operation have absolutely no alternative. We are, of course, sorry for both the Jewish people in Israel and the Palestinian people living in the territory of the Middle East and everything that is going on there and, of course, with all our best wishes and full support to find a compromise solution and to put an end to any conflict, without desire, without the will to impose any solution and to put ourselves as a small state in this conflict on any side, as it is about our partners and it is about our friends. What Serbia is interested in is peace, what Serbia is interested in is co-operation. We show it at every moment, every day. I must mention that Serbia has been from the beginning, and that was our idea of "mini Schengen", we will continue to advocate the principle of free flow of goods, people and capital, as a key principle for the development of the entire Western Balkans region, but also of Southeast Europe. We continue to remain our priority as a strategic goal of full membership of our country in the European Union, but of course parallel to this compromise solution for Kosovo and Metohija. I think that Serbia has come to that stage in these few years, strengthening and strengthening its economy, its geopolitical position, so that we can defend our red lines, that we can defend our vital national interests. How successful we are in this shows the fact that indeed Serbia is considered in this part of Europe as a serious integration factor, that it is valid in this part of Europe as one economic leader of the entire region and the economic and political centre of this region that everyone wants to come to. Evidence of this is also the presence, following the signing of the Washington Agreement, of the US Development Agency which has opened its central office here in Belgrade, and that after the change in the US administration, the office will remain operational and plans with some billion dollars of projects and support for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises domestic in the Republic of Serbia, which means new employment, which means new development, which means new technologies, which means new management here in our country, which is a short term of prosperity for our citizens. In addition to DFC, she moved her office to our country from Zagreb, in fact, South Korea's Kotra, which is an organization that gathers and deals with promoting the economic potential and capacity of Korea and Korean companies and their investments. We in Serbia have more and more Korean investments, which, as far as we can see, are being followed by companies coming from Japan and all other strategically important countries and partners from the Far East, besides those contacts and communication that we made with countries and key players in the Middle East, such as the United Arab Emirates, who are our strategic partner, who make this beautiful "Belgrade on Water", who have completely changed their perception along with the Republic of Serbia, completely changed the appearance of not only Belgrade, but also the whole of Serbia and sent a message to the whole world that Serbia is a player that all those who are serious and all those who want to invest in this part of Europe should count. That is why, and I want to point out, it is important that we have changed the foreign policy strategy and an entirely one relationship in foreign policymaking compared to what the former regime was doing. With us, the government of the Republic of Serbia currently leading this country, with us, the majority in the SNS-led parliament, there are no countries in the first, second, third and fourth order of our President of the Republic. All countries are equal to us, all countries are important to us. And why is our approach like that? Our approach is because our country is run by people who know what the state is, who know what foreign policy is, who know what national interests are, and when it comes to international forums, when it comes to the United Nations, as the highest international forum, and the Commonwealth Dominicans and Argentina and Belarus and the United States of America and Israel and Saudi Arabia have the same voice and their vote counts equally. What better responsibility you will have and what better foreign policy organization than to expand cooperation with anyone with whom it is possible to expand. Speaking of which, colleagues from my party have already spoken about it, I don't want to repeat it, but I must say and of course thank you to the Commonwealth of Dominica who has withdrawn the recognition of independence so-called. Kosovo three years ago. Of course, along with 17 other countries that have done it next to that country, and it is important to us, and Argentina is important to us, which has never even recognised the false state of Kosovo, as well as Belarus. Unlike that time between 2000 and 2012, when the authorities at the time, the people who led the regime, and in particular foreign policy, destroyed the country's geopolitical position. And you know why? Because this Commonwealth Dominica didn't matter to them. They didn't care. They didn't care about some Argentina far away. They didn't care about Belarus, which is our friendly country, with which we can have and fulfill huge economic potentials, economic and trade exchanges. As is the case with the Russian Federation, where over the past few years we have been pressured many times by our specific Western partners to impose sanctions on them and we have not done so. And why didn't we do that? Because we're the country that has this, which has the cheek, because our president has the cheek. Because our president is leading one responsible policy and, most importantly, has strengthened this country so that it can sovereignly lead its own and internal and external policies. That is why Serbia, among other things, is interesting as a destination, is interesting to everyone for co-operation and you will all agree with me, when you have such a reliable partner who has, who is willing to defend his views, then it is much easier and to cooperate with him and it is much easier to deepen that co-operation. I will end by not being able to support co-operation on extradition with Argentina, agriculture co-operation with the Commonwealth of Dominicans and Belarus, while we have signed dozens of such agreements with different countries, countries of different political interests, ideology and province over the past few years. We are creating a position for ourselves to work towards the benefit of these citizens who live in our country and the benefit of the Republic of Serbia, both on the concept of co-operation and on the careful, sound foreign policy. All this thanks to the one who has established such foreign policy doctrine, wisdom, wise politics, a policy that will no longer, as much as you may be right at any time, will not cost this country and this people of human life. We saw it, we went over it, that's what my colleagues talked about, both in World War I and World War II. We got mixed up in a lot of things that didn't concern us. Now it is time to deal with our own backyard, now it is time to deal with Serbia, our citizens, to deal with the region, to see how we will sell more goods to our neighbours in Albania, in Montenegro, in BiH, it is up to us to fight for our Serbian people wherever they live. I have to mention that fact and one lesson about how foreign policy is conducted and what patriotism is. Patriotism is when you can and when you can and are able to allocate 10m euros to help four municipalities located in BiH and where the Serb people live. These are the municipalities of Kozarska Dubica, that is Kostanica, which is Drvar, in which we have already invested and have already given 2.5m euros for the opening of a wood-processing factory. Now, it defends the national interest, not by defending ourselves by defending ourselves here from Belgrade, from some cabinet or from some cafe, by drinking cappuccino and tobacco and pipe, saying, defending national interests, but by defending ourselves in Drvar, defending himself in Trebinj, defending himself in Nevesinj, defending Kozarska Dubica, defending himself in Kosovo Mitrovica, defending himself in Gora, defending himself in Partesh. Ask any of this boycott opposition if it has ever been in one such place in BiH or in KIM territory without talking about whether or not there are three clean ones in mind, how it is possible that this Republic of Serbia provides and affects that these people live a normal, safe and rich life, why not, as people in Belgrade do, in Surdulica, in Novi Sad, in Nis, in Kragujevac. So this is about a strategic good and well-designed foreign policy that is headed by President Aleksandar Vukic, which will only be its results, it cannot be shown very quickly, but it will show in a few years when we strengthen our people in all the territories and in all the countries where they live. Some of us, some of my colleagues, have named it “the Serbian world. ” I don't think we should be ashamed to say this, because we want through our minds, through our people, through our investments, through cooperation with others, to create a better region, an infrastructureized region with factories, with the construction of that infrastructure, with companies that come and pour capital from all over the world. This is Serbia's President Alexander Vukic, which is the hand given to all and this is Serbia's prosperity for both the benefit and the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Serbia led by the SNS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-12-0.u6484	I thank Professor Vladimir Marinkovitch. The next is MP Milimir Vujadinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-12-0.u6485	Thank you, Chairman. Here, I think, come on, I'm next, but I'm last for today, I'm right, right? Thank you in any case, dear colleagues, distinguished representatives of the government, respected citizens of Serbia, much has been said today and in the past days by discussing the legal solutions that were in front of this respected home, but I will do something a little different, and you will not mind the chairman. Today, 12 May is a date and day, also very important for Serbia, the Serbian people, but also for society in general. For example, Serbia was defended in the most difficult times by its most faithful, best sons, and the hardest times for Serbia were certainly wars. We talked about wars today and yesterday, whether we wanted it or not, although no one is happy to talk about wars, because they were in direct coordination with the laws that came before this respected home, and these laws are not something that has often been in recent decades, so in themselves, one such topic has itself been imposed. The wars were, they did not repeat themselves, they wanted to be in their home, but those who gave their lives in wars and who died for this country should never forget, as they should not forget the important dates of those periods. With that in mind, I'd like to congratulate the 12th of May on the Day of the Republika Srpska Army. On today 1992, the Serbian National Assembly in Bosnia and Herzegovina decided to form the Republika Srpska Army. In addition to making a decision to form a "Srna" Serbian news agency. The Republika Srpska Army will contribute to the survival of more than a million Serbs, through Drina, or those living in Bosnia and Herzegovina today, until the end of the war in Bosnia and Herzegovina, in the coming years. May 12th is the day of the Republika Srpska Army, but this day marks the Third Infantry regiment of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Armed Forces, which is the heritage of the Republika Srpska Army tradition. I would like to congratulate all members of the Republika Srpska Army and members of the Third Infantry regiment of the Armed Forces on 12 May their big holiday. Today, Serbia is defended by some others, not in wars, fortunately, but under no less difficult circumstances, in no less difficult battles, Serbia today is defended by medics, doctors, nurses, medical technicians from monsters that have hit the whole world, called the coronary virus. Many of the nurses have given their lives in the last year defending our right to life and defending the situation in which we can live and speak freely today, as far as possible under these circumstances. Today is May 12th, International Day of Paramedics. I will take advantage of the opportunity to congratulate them too, to note that their sacrifice for Serbia, for our people, is no less important than the sacrifices of those who gave their lives in wars. In addition, however, Serbia is defending both the president and the government today. The dam is both east and west. Where is more proof of this than these legislative proposals that you and the government have brought to this respected House? Serbia's president and government are today defending both east and west, with nothing to do but benefit Serbia. It is the only criterion in the fight between the president and the government for Serbia and its citizens. They are fighting for this country from the west, or the southwest, from Argentina with which we are making agreements today, to the east, or the northeast of Belarus, choosing only what is useful for Serbia. Supporting these laws, which will be unquestionable in the day of voting by me and my colleagues from the Serbian Progressive Party, is not only support for these legal solutions, nor a mere vote for them, it is the support of a policy headed today by the president of the state, support for the policy of neutrality, non-determination for anyone or for any party, except for Serbia and its citizens. We'll certainly support these laws with that. In the end, there is another big holiday for the Serbian people everywhere in the Balkans today. I will also take the opportunity to congratulate our greatest Orthodox saint in Montenegro on the glory, St. Vassili Ostroškoga, that each of the following will be welcomed in peace and in a better environment and condition than these and last year, when the existence of the SPC in Montenegro was questioned. Congratulations to all those who celebrate today. You and the Prime Minister and the President congratulate you on what you do for Serbia, including through these agreements, and in support of this parliament and Serbia, don't doubt it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-12-0.u6486	Thank you. Since no word has been reported on the list of MPs' groups. Before concluding a joint single search, I would like to ask if the President, or representatives of the parliamentary groups, or anyone else who has not used his right under Article 96. Rules of Procedure? Mr. Alexander Mirkovic. You have two minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-12-0.u6487	Thank you, chairman, respected minister, respected fellow Members of the People's Parliament and fellow MPs. Very short. I just want first of all to address the minister and thank you for having responded at the same time to what I said, as regards the threats addressed to Mr Vladimir Orlic. I'd also like to draw your attention to one more thing. So, as we worked here today, we discussed these bill proposals and as we talked, and you'll agree with me in these more than five hours of discussion, based on each proposal in particular, today the SNS activists at the Rakovica Municipality as they shared propaganda material physically attacked, were shot with stones. This is another indicator that rhetoric represented by part of the opposition, led primarily by Dragan Gilas, produces this state of society and from anyone who is part of the SNS supports or votes for us, or perhaps only looks forward to the success that our country, the Serbian government, has achieved, above all, to bring down President Aleksandr Vukic's policy seems to be a legitimate target. I don't know how many of these things will happen in our society, but I am convinced that as long as by violence, by calling for hate, by false lies, Dragan Gilas will try to cover up the affairs he's in, to cover up his wealth, that we will have such examples in the future. I'll remind you that in July, they tried to burn this house down, that hundreds of police officers were injured, and I'll remind you of those hangers they wore on the terraces. Here's the gallows today, I read the message, and thank you again for having responded to that, but when you now attack activists who just want to talk to their fellow citizens, hear what these suggestions are, suggestions, even those criticisms, when you come into the situation that these young people have become a target, then we are all aware that the danger we are in is simply because we don't think like Dragan Gilas or disagree with his policy is enormous. That's what I'm done with. Of course, in the voting day, we'll support all these bill proposals. As my colleagues said during the presentation of all that we heard today and all that we will vote for in the voting day is the general interest of the citizens of Serbia, but above all the security and security of our country. Thank you and live Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-12-0.u6488	Thank you. Minister Maja Popovic, final word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-12-0.u6489	As for what you have now stated, I assure you in front of the Serbian government that the competent state authorities, as well as the judicial authorities of this country, will not tolerate any illegal behaviour, any aggression, and I am telling everyone that the state is stronger than any form of crime and violence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2021-05-12-0.u6490	Thank you. I hereby conclude a joint single search on the drafts of the law from the 6th to the 10th agenda and inform you that we continue our work, as usual, at 10.00 p.m. tomorrow. I thank you all.
